Document of                 F      r  
The World Bank                       L    ~U
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2894-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 9, 1980
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1               =  Turkish Lira (TL 70.00) 1/
TL 1               =  US$0.014
TL 1,000,000       =  US$14,285
Previous rates were:
From June 1979 to January 1980        TL 47.1  = US$1.00
From April 1979 to June 1979          TL 26.33 = US$1.00
From March 1978 to April 1979         TL 25.25 = US$1.00
From September 1977 to March 1978   TL 19.44 = US$1.00
1/  Since January 1980, the rate is being adjusted for differential inflation
between Turkey and its major trading partners.  This report is based on
data as of November 1979 and therefore the exchange rate of TL 47.1 = US$1
has been applied.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                      =  2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (t)                     =  1,000 kilograms
1 metric ton (t)                     =  0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)                          =  1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)                     =  0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha) = 10,000 m2           =  2.47 acres
1 decare = 0.1 ha                    =  0.25 acres
1 square kilometer (km2) = 100 ha  =  0.386 square mile
1 liter (1)                          =  0.264 gallon
ABBREVIATIONS
AI        -  Artificial Insemination
CTSS      -  Center for Technical Support Services
EBK       -  Meat and Fish Organization
EDLD      -  Encouragement and Development Loan Division of TCZB
GDAA      -  General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs of MFAL
GDANB     -  General Directorate of Artificial Insemination, Natural Services
and Breed Improvement of MFAL
GDAR      -  General Directorate of Agricultural Research of MFAL
GDVS      -  General Directorate of Veterinary Services of MFAL
GOT       -  Government of Turkey
LDP       -  General Directorate for Livestock Development Projects of MFAL
MFAL      -  Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock
RPC       -  Regional Poultry Cooperative or Corporation
SEE       -  State Economic Enterprise
SOF       -  Speci.l Operational Fund
SPO       -  State Planning Organization
TCZB      -  Agricultural Bank of Turkey
TKV       -  Turkish Development Foundation
TSEK      -  Turkish Milk Industry Organization
TYT       -  Turkish Wool and Mohair Corporation
VBH       -  Village Broiler House
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Turkey      -  March 1 to February 28
EBK, TCZB and TYT       -  January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE LIVESTOCK SUBSECTOR ................................                    1
A.   Background ........................................                   1
B.   The Subsector in the Economy ......................                   2
-    General ......................................                  2
-    Livestock Productivity .......................                  3
-    Potential for Improvement ....................                  4
C.    Government Policy ...... ................                            7
- General.                                                           7
- Milk and Meat.                                                     7
- Mohair.                                                            8
-  Animal Health and Breeding.                                       9
-    Performance Under Previous Projects                            10
II.   THE PROJECT ............................................                   14
A.    Introduction ..... ........ ............                            14
B.   Brief Description .................. ...............                 14
C.   Detailed Features .................. ...............                 15
-    Livestock Production and Breed Improvement                     15
-  Village Poultry Development .17
- Animal Health .18
-  Artificial Breeding .20
- Meat Processing .21
- Mohair Processing .22
D.    Status of Design and Engineering ........ ..........                23
E.    Cost Estimates ....................................                 24
F.    Financing      ...................... ...................           25
G.   Procurement        ..................... ..................          27
H.   Disbursements .................... .................                 28
I.   Environmental and Nutritional Impacts .............                  29
J.   Role of Women .....................................                  30
III.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .................................                  31
A.   Organization and Management ........... .. ..........                31
-    Livestock Production and Breed Improvement                     31
-  Village Poultry Development .31
- Animal Health .32
-  Artificial Breeding .33
- Meat Processing .33
- Mohair Processing .33
This document has a rtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcil duties, Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents  (Continued)                                                         Page No.
B.    On-Lending Policies and Procedures  ....              ............      34
-     On-Lending Criteria ..........................                    35
-     On-Lending Terms and Conditions  ....             ..........      38
C.    Accounting and Auditing ...........................                     41
D.    Monitoring and Evaluation .........................                     41
IV.    PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS  ....              .......       42
A.    Production ........................................                     42
B.    Prices  ............................................                    43
C.    Marketing .........................................                     43
D.    Financial Analysis  ................................                    45
-     Producer Income  ..............................                   45
-     Financial Rate of Return .....................                    46
V.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .............................                      48
A.    Economic Return ...................................                     48
B.    Employment, Food Supply and Other Benefits  ........                    52
-     Employment Benefits  ..........................                   52
-     Indirect Consumption Benefits  ....             ............      53
-     Other Benefits  ...............................                   53
C.    Project Risks  ....... .............          .................         54
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  .................55
TEXT TABLES
4.1   Producers'  Benefits and Financial Rates of Return ....               .......       47
5.1  Economic Rate of Return .....................................                         51
ANNEXES
1.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements  .........................                      56
2.    Total Project Cost and Phasing ..............................                       57
3.    TCZB Cash Flow Forecast  .....................................                      58
4.    Technical Aspects of the Project  ............................                       59
5.    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File                           64
CHARTS
World Bank - 21398 Implementation Schedule
World Bank - 21399 Organization Chart
MAPS
IBRD 14841R - Areas Covered by Bank-Financed Projects in the Livestock Sector



TURKEY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE LIVESTOCK SUBSECTOR
A. Background
1.01      The Government of Turkey has requested a Bank Loan to assist in
financing a six-year livestock development project to consolidate and expand
the gains made under the four earlier livestock projects, and to initiate
Bank-assisted efforts in complementary activities in the livestock sub-sector
in animal health and artificial breeding, meat processing, mohair exports and
poultry production by small village producers. The project is expected to
comprise the main livestock activities during Turkev's Fourth Five-Year Plan
period (1979-1983). It seeks to assist Government , meet the increasing
demand of milk and meat, to provide a more balanced nutrition level, to
increase incomes in the lesser developed and poorer regions through animal
production and to expand the animal fiber processing subsector.
1.02      The Bank and IDA have previously made 11 loans and 7 credits to
Turkey for agriculture as follows: Grain Storage, Loan 27-TU (US3.9 million);
Seyhan Irrigation, Loan 63-TU (US$25.2 million), Credit 38-TU (US$20 mil-
lion); Fruit and Vegetable Export, Loan 762-TU (US$10 million), Credit 257-TU
(US$15 million); Intensive Dairy Production, Credit 236-TU (US$4.5 million);
Irrigation Rehabilitation Completion, Credit 281-TU (US$18 million); Second
Livestock Development, Credit 330-TU (US$16 million); Seyhan Irrigation,
Stage II, Loan 587-TU (US$12 million), Credit 143-TU (US$14.2 million);
Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose, Loan 883-TU (US$44 million), Credit 360-TU
(US$30 million); Corum-Cankiri Rural Development, Loan 1130-TU (US$75 mil-
lion); Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries, Loan 1248-TU (US$53.4 million);
Third Livestock Development Proiect, Loan 1265-TU, (US$21.5 million); Northern
Forestry Project, Loan 1585-TU (US$86 million); Fourth Livestock Development
Project, Loan 1586-TU (US$24 million); and Grain Storage, Loan 1742-TU (US$85
million).
1.03      The preparation of the project was undertaken by the General Direc-
torate of Livestock Development Projects (LDP) of the Ministry of Food,
Agriculture and Livestock (MFAL) assisted by two Bank missions and an FAO-CP
mission which visited Turkey between September 1978 and August 1979. This
report is based on the findings of a mission which visited Turkey to appraise
the project in October/November 1979 comprising Messrs. F.J. Tellez, R.
Burcroff II (Bank) and R.A. Ayre-Smith, C.J. Byrne, P.G. Franck, J.C. Gerring,
J.H. Hunt (Consultants).



- 2 -
B. The Subsector in the Economy
General
1.04      The significance of livestock is characterized by its importance
to Turkey's national economy and maintenance of national food balances. In
1979, livestock contributed about 26% of sectoral value-added in agriculture
(preliminary estimates) and about 8% of GNP. The livestock population is
among the highest in Europe and the Middle East. Current estimates indicate
the country has about 43.9 million sheep, 18.4 million goats, 16.0 million
cattle and buffalo, 2.5 million horse, donkeys and mules and 54.7 million
poultry. Despite this extensive resource, the number of grazing animals has
increased slowly at about 1.1% annually since the late 1960s, due mainly
to competition from crop farming and the inability of animal producers to
modernize and to increase their productivity, although this slow increase has
been partly offset by rapid growth in poultry numbers.
1.05      Principal livestock outputs include milk, meat, eggs, wool, mohair,
hides, draft power and transport. Manure is an important by-product for soil
nutrient and fuel. Swine and its byproducts are insignificant. The First
(1963-67), Second (1968-72) and Third (1973-77) Development Plans had targets
for the growth of livestock products of 5.6, 4.8 and 5% per annum, respec-
tively. In the Fourth Plan (1979-83), an annual growth of 5.5% was projected
but this may not be realized. Annual growth over the period 1974-79 was about
4.2% per annum, which is an improvement over annual rates experienced in the
1960s and early 1970s (2.5% between 1963-75).
1.06      Poultry production in 1975 accounted for 2% of all agricultural
production (gross value at farmgate prices). By 1977, its marketable value
had increased to 12% of all meat products (and 19% of all meat quantities).
The annual increase in the last decade averaged 9.2%, which is considerably
larger than the growth rate in other livestock activities. Current total
poultry meat production of 180,000 tons includes the output of both farm
flocks and the hybrid broiler sector, of which roughly one-sixth of the total
meat production is derived from imported hybrid stock.
1.07      Turkey is one of the three major mohair producing regions of the
world. Estimates of total production are unreliable, varying from 4,000
tons per annum to 5,500 tons.  An appreciable proportion of lower quality
Angora goat hair (about 1,000-1,200 tons) is used directly by producers
and village craft industries, whose production does not enter the marketing
channels. Forty-five hundred tons per annum is probably a realistic estimate
of current production, placing Turkey just behind South Africa (5,000 tons)
and ahead of the US (3,600 tons), which together account for about 87% of the
world's total annual output of some 15,000 tons.
1.08      External trade in livestock and livestock products is limited,
virtually all production being used domestically. Imports (mainly live
animals for slaughter and pedigree stock for breed improvement) averaged about
US$50.0 million per year over the years 1973-76. Major exports (principally



-3 -
live sheep and cattle, and mohair) averaged some US$79.9 million per year over
the same period, 1/ which places the current contribution of the subsector in
a favorable position vis-a-vis Turkey's generally weak balances on current
account.
1.09      Demand projections for livestock products made during the Bank's
latest Agricultural Sector Survey indicate that Turkey will move from its
present state of relative self-sufficiency to one where in 1985 it is esti-
mated it would need to import over 30% of its milk and meat and over 20% of
its wool and mohair requirements, unless there is a major change in historical
production and consumption trends. The importance of livestock products in
the national diet is demonstrated in rural food consumption patterns. About
26% of all expenditures 2/ (and 35% of all expenditures on food) are allocated
to milk and other livestock products, with hardly any variation across income
groups. The consumption of livestock products is equally as important to the
rural poor as to the more favored rural households in Turkey (Annex 5, C.14).
1.10      Apart from its important direct contribution to the value of agri-
cultural output and to the national food balances, the role of livestock in
village family life in Turkey is paramount. Livestock ownership is widespread
within rural families as most communities have access to common grazing lands.
Livestock products, notably milk and derivative products and raw fiber from
sheep and goats, comprise a main source of food and income for most small farm
families. Since the greatest number of livestock is owned by such families,
the development of the livestock subsector is a very important means of
raising incomes of this group as well as their standards of living and health.
Livestock Productivity
1.11      Livestock production throughout Turkey is largely characterized by
low productivity. Modernizing influences are limited mainly to innovations
introduced under the first four Bank-financed Livestock Projects (paras.
1.33-1.39). Animals usually subsist on residues of cereal crops or volunteer
growth on fallowed crop lands, and on natural grazing in the poorer, non-
cultivable areas. It is a rational system in that it utilizes feed resources
with no alternative use. Because of lack of access to technical services,
credit and other inputs, farmers make little attempt to supplement feeds or
to manipulate feed supplies to match animal requirements.
1/   The export figure probably underestimates the true situation due to
unrecorded exports to Iran and Syria which, although not quantified,
are thought to be appreciable.
2/   Both imputed home consumption and purchases.



1.12      Technical coefficients thus tend to be uniformly poor and output
exceptionally low. 1/ For example, low slaughter weights, combined with an
18-month calving interval and depressed weaning and offtake rates result in a
beef output of only some 143,000 tons annually from the national herd, equiv-
alent to one ton of carcass per 100 cattle.  In recent years, young cattle
have formed a steadily increasing proportion of total cattle slaughtered and
now represent almost one half of the total kill. Sheep and goats enjoy a
small comparative advantage over cattle as they can utilize low-quality feed
resources somewhat better.  There is still room for improvement, however, as
total sheep and goat meat production, currently estimated to be about 163,000
tons per year from 62.3 million head, is only 1 ton of carcass per 380 animals.
1.13      Milk production is non-specialized and tends to be an incidental
by-product of livestock keeping, even though milk and its products are tradi-
tional in the diet. 2/ The principal exceptions are the intensive dairy
units established under the Bank-assisted Livestock Projects.  Levels of
production are poor for all species although in line with the environment
where cattle are raised. Average output per lactation is some 580 kg for
cows, 48 kg for sheep and 70 kg for goats. The low productivity of cows
is of particular concern to village families who are heavily dependent on
cows, with their longer lactation characteristics, to supplement milk from
sheep and goats. It is also of concern as milk shortages in the main urban
centers are becoming increasingly acute, particularly in winter.
Potential fcr Improvement
1.14      Overall, the livestock subsector is presently operating at a fraction
of its potential. There is a general need for the genetic upgrading of all
classes of indigenous livestock in Turkey but highest priority needs to be
given to improving fertility, milk yield and growth rate in cattle, sheep and
goats--particularly in cattle, where the greater potential exists. Turkey
has for some years been importing pedigree stock of improved breeds such as
Holstein, Brown Swiss and Jersey cattle and Merino sheep to serve as a nucleus
for upgrading purposes.  The importation of pedigree cattle under the previous
four projects and the present project will form the nucleus stock for genetic
upgrading through natural breeding. There is also a large potential for
improving the national herd through artificial insemination, which has hardly
been exploited.
1.15      To manage existing animals better and to cater for an increasing
population of improved animals, the current levels of health care and feeding
need raising, through improved technical services. At present there are
1/   See Report No. 1933-TU (Staff Appraisal of the Fourth Livestock Develop-
ment), pp. 3-4 for a full discussion of national livestock coefficients.
2/   Annual per capita consumption of milk and milk products is estimated by
FAO at about 110 liters, considerably less than Ireland's annual consump-
tion of 218 liters per capita but more than Greece's 56 liters per capita
(FAO "World Dairy Economy in Figures").



- 5 -
several health and disease problems in the country (e.g., foot and mouth,
mastitis, brucellosis, theileriosis, anthrax, blackleg, etc.) which are
constraining livestock development. The adverse effects of these diseases
on production and export can be expected to increase as production is intensi-
fied, though, fortunately, most health and disease problems are defined and
are capable of being controlled with adequate drugs, vaccines and veterinary
staffing.
1.16      Important as veterinary problems are, poor nutrition is currently
an even more limiting constraint and it is therefore necessary to expand the
feed base significantly. There is some potential for making better use of
crop residues, although these have limited possibilities for expansion and
generally are efficiently utilized. A potential also exists for increased
yields from natural grass lands through fertilization, oversowing and better
grazing management. However, most of the natural pastureland (there are some
26 million ha in Turkey) is of relatively poor quality.
1.17      By far the best possibility for forage base expansion lies in
more efficient use of fallow lands, of which there are over 8 million ha
available annually. Fallowing is traditional, to conserve soil moisture
and build fertility. The integration of crop and livestock production on
a rotational basis would result in livestock and crop production becoming
complementary in Turkey rather than mainly competitive. This approach is
considered to be an essential long-term strategy (para. 2.08) for the con-
tinued development of the subsector.
1.18      Attempts to integrate forages into the crop rotation to reduce the
area under fallow have been limited, although a successful start has been made
under the four Bank-assisted livestock projects. 1/ A considerable quantity
of biological data has been accumulated in these projects, coordinate with
implementation of the animal production and land use enterprises involved.
In-depth studies are now required to determine the extent to which greater
efficiencies in land utilization and production methods can be achieved. Con-
tinued attention needs to be paid to means of broadening the forage base for
the herds and flocks involved in livestock development schemes. Investigation
is needed into the cultivation of triticale and legume-based pasturage prior
to a rotation with grain, and the use of strongly tillering wheat varieties
during the grain cycle which can provide residues for forage after harvest.
In this manner, not only will the nutritional intake of grazing animals and
soil fertility-be improved, but also, by relieving pressure on the natural
grasslands, the ranges will be allowed to recuperate from the deleterious
effects of continuous and heavy stocking.
1/   The possibilities of this approach are considerable because the areas
in fallow are extensive and the average duration of fallow is about 14
months.



1.19      The superior genetic base for the hybrid broiler and layer produc-
tion, which is imported, is one of the two important factors underlying its
recent growth in Turkey. The second factor has been the revolutionary advance
in animal nutrition, which has led to a greatly reduced food conversion ratio.
A grower, using the new hybrid stock and feed concentrates can now grow a
broiler "crop" five times a year instead of only three. Modern poultry pro-
duction started relatively late in Turkey in the 1960s, with specialized
broiler and layer production based on a variety of imported parent stock.
By 1977, the number of imported female parent stock had reached 586,000 per
year compared with only 18,000 annually in the first half of the 1970s.
1.20      The potential for village production of hybrid broilers in Turkey
has already been demonstrated at Tarsus, near the town of Adana. About 75
village growers collectively supply 750,000 broilers annually to a regional
processing center which also operates a parent stock layer house and hatchery
for starter chicks. The unit uses parent stock imported from England and has
experienced mortality rates, breakage losses and feed conversion ratios vastly
superior to those prevailing among the traditional farmers. The Tarsus
growers also enjoy a superior quality of feed and a regular supply of vaccines
and other biological products. The position of the small growers is secured
by contractual links between units, reinforced by ownership or managerial
control by the growers of the related processing units. This approach has
been particularly successful in marketing and is replicable in other parts
of Turkey since the operation is not particularly dependent upon the local
agricultural resource base for key inputs (chicks, concentrates and vaccines).
1.21      Turkish mohair is characterized by considerable quantities of
undesirable kemp fibre (a coarse, brittle dead hair which is resistant to
dyeing) and low fibre yields per animal. High yields of relatively kemp-free
fibre and two clips per year enable South Africa (4.5 kg per animal, 1.1
million goats) and Texas (3.0 kg per animal, 1.2 million goats) to obtain
equivalent shares of the world market and appreciably better fibre prices with
much smaller goat populations. 1/ Poor breeding and nutrition are principally
responsible for declines in the status of Turkish mohair production. However,
careful breeding at government stations in Turkey has produced goats capable
of yielding over 4 kg of good quality fibre.
1.22      Exports of Turkish mohair have averaged about 3,000 tons p.a. over
the past five years. A relatively small amount of mohair is already being
processed within Turkey to tops and yarn by private sector firms (approximately
300-500 tons per year) but not all of this is being exported directly. The
production of mohair fibre for export has a good long-term potential. How-
ever, an essential element is the successful implementation of Angora goat
breeding programs to provide an assured supply of raw fibre--of the quality
1/   Newer producers of mohair fibre such as Argentina, Australia and New
Zealand are also achieving much higher productivity and quality than
Turkey, which was the original source of all Angora goats.



-7-
and amount required--from domestic sources.  The development of further pro-
cessing capacity would, apart from its employment and foreign exchange bene-
fits, help to reduce fibre market vulnerability to competition from newer
international producers while continuing to provide incentives for domestic
improvements in raw fibre production.
C. Government Policy
General
1.23      The Government's (GOT) agricultural and livestock policies in the
four Five-Year Development Plans have emphasized increased production in
order to satisfy both rising domestic demands and to encourage exports and
thereby increased earnings of scarce foreign exchange. The GOT has also
become increasingly conscious of income inequities in the country, partic-
ularly between urban and rural dwellers and between the population of western
and eastern Turkey. This has led to an awareness of the need to provide
for greater development of rural resources, which in turn has focused atten-
tion in each of Turkey's four Five-Year Plans on the need to assist Turkey's
livestock producers. Attempts to stimulate livestock production have been
mainly through a strategy of:
(i) expanding outlets for incremental production through improved
processing/marketing facilities;
(ii) increasing the profitability of livestock production through
price incentives; and
(iii)  improving the efficiency of production by the introduction of
new technology at the farm level through the medium of invest-
ment credit linked with technical assistance.
Milk and Meat
1.24      Milk, meat and live animal marketing is currently being developed
by Government in areas lacking such facilities and with potential for develop-
ment. Under an extensive program to expand milk marketing, the Turkish Milk
Industry Organization (TSEK), a State Economic Enterprise (SEE), is currently
establishing a national milk grid which will include about 150 collection/
cooling centers and some 40 new processing plants upon completion. The plan
is well intentioned but has serious shortcomings, the most important of which
is the lack of supporting pre-investment and feasibility studies. Before
more of the program is implemented on a large scale, the GOT is awaiting the
results of an in-depth review of the entire milk industry sector which is
being carried out as a component of the Fourth Project and the results of
which are expected shortly.



- 8 -
1.25      An ambitious program to develop meat marketing is being undertaken
by the Meat and Fish Organization (EBK), another SEE. Under the program,
20 new slaughter facilities were completed by the end of 1979. A further
18 plants are scheduled for completion by 1985. Parallel with plant develop-
ment, livestock marketing facilities are also being developed. EBK's activi-
ties, in contrast with those of TSEK, appear to be technically sound and
better organized.
1.26      The structure of MFAL's pricing policies has the two-fold goal of
stimulating increases in milk and meat production, and of providing breeders
with incentive to make needed long-term invesments in their herds and flocks.
Floor prices paid by TSEK for milk and by EBK for meat have been increased
in excess of 25% in real terms since the early 1970s, which to some extent
determine the minimum price levels for these products.  As a result, keen
competition exists between the public and private sectors for most milk and
meat produced. In addition, TSEK pays specific price incentives for fat
content and bulk milk pickups from cooperatives, and extends feedstuff
advances for winter milk production. Farmers are thereby encouraged to
specialize in dairying, supply better quality milk and adopt a more even
seasonal spread of production. Similarly, incentive pricing for meat by EBK
has attempted to smoothen out seasonal swings in meat supplies. EBK pays
premiums for better-finished animals, by which means Government hopes to
gradually improve carcass quality and reduce the slaughter of young animals.
EBK also makes advances to fatteners.
Mohair
1.27      As a valuable earner of foreign exchange ($28 million in 1978),
mohair production and export has been encouraged by the Government for some
time. Each year a guaranteed floor price for each of the ten principal
qualities of mohair is announced; in recent years, these have tended to be
considerably below the realized values. The collection and export of the
raw fibre, which used to be handled by a large number of private merchants, is
now dominated by two SEEs, of which by far the larger is the Turkish Wool and
Mohair Corporation (TYT). The TYT has four regional centers and a network of
smaller agencies and collection stations which buy mohair as well as wool,
grade it to export standards, and transport it to Istanbul in readiness for
inspection and private sale. Treasury allocates short-term finance from TCZB
to enable TYT to purchase a proportion of the mohair clip at the predicted
market price level, or in periods of excess supply, at a guaranteed support
price. Although TYT is a profit-making organization, it redistributes fibre
sales revenue above a target profit level to the producers. A second agency,
the Mohair and Wool Cooperative which is responsible to the Ministry of Trade,
competes with TYT in the buying of mohair. Short-term finance is arranged
through the same channels as for TYT and through this, Government effectively
controls the relative importance of the two organizations, giving greater
emphasis to TYT because of its longer experience with mohair processing and
marketing.



-9-
Animal Health and Breeding
1.28      At present, Government policy towards the improvement of herd
productivity through disease control and preventative measures is in a period
of transition. The major control measures in force against the further spread
of such major diseases as anthrax, foot and mouth disease, blackleg, mastitis,
brucellosis, and theileriosis include very limited programs for inspection,
immunization and the culling of infected animals. The effectiveness of animal
disease control also is constrained by farmer ignorance, incomplete herd
registration, very spotty screening procedures, the limited mobility of
veterinary service staff in rural areas, and current Turkish regulations which
require full compensation for animals culled by agencies responsible for
disease control.
1.29      In the coming years, the Government intends to expand and improve
the effectiveness of its disease control programs by the following measures:
(i) intensive monitoring will be established in Eastern and South-
eastern Anatolia to inhibit the spread of anthrax and foot and
mouth disease from neighboring countries;
(ii) nationwide herd registration will be completed;
(iii) periodic surveys will be undertaken to detect the incidence and
spread of major diseases (with emphasis placed on diseases which
constrain production increases in meat and milk, but which can
be brought under control at relatively little cost);
(iv) field services and laboratories of the provincial directorates
of the General Directorate of Veterinary Services (GDVS) will be
equipped to permit better diagnostic work, greater mobility and
quicker response to local outbreaks; and
(v) the services will be further strengthened to provide better
extension assistance to farmers in matters of disease identifica-
tion and control and proper husbandry measures to limit the
further spread of disease.
Under the project, the systematic implementation of these measures will
commence in Turkey's major livestock producing provinces (paras. 2.15-2.22).
1.30      Since 1949, the Government has been top-crossing native animals with
frozen semen from proven sires. The operation has expanded and presently
about 200,000 cows are artificially bred each year. Some 15 livestock breeding
stations also have been established in Turkey, stocked with about 8,000 head of
cattle, mainly purebred exotic breeds, from which purebred bulls are distributed
to farmers in the more remote villages for natural cross-breeding with native
cattle. In Turkey, there are no official herd books for the registration of
pedigree cattle and no official recording organization. In consequence, none
of the bulls used in artificial insemination has been progeny tested and
none has a performance rating. The programs of the artificial insemination
service and natural breeding centers need to be systematized and record keeping
improved to prevent the dilution of top-crossing efforts after pedigree off-
spring are released to farmers.



- 10 -
1.31      The artificial and natural breeding operations have, until recently,
been carried out under the umbrella of the GDVS, which was overburdened.
In 1975, a new General Directorate of Artificial Insemination, Natural
Services and Breed Improvement (GDANB) of MFAL was established to accept
responsibility for these activities. However, the new directorate does not
have adequate numbers of trained personnel and facilities to permit effective
nationwide supervision and monitoring.
1.32      The Government recognizes that expanded use of AI is perhaps one
of the least costly ways to augment milk and meat production nationwide. In
future years, natural breeding will be de-emphasized in favor of AI, and the
provincial services of GDANB will be expanded and provided with necessary
training, equipment and vehicles to improve their effectiveness. The GOT
intends to rapidly increase its importation of frozen semen, and develop
adequate capacity for the storage and distribution of frozen semen to Turkish
livestock farmers. A recording organization will be established within the
GDANB which will establish a herd recording scheme through the registration
of pedigree cattle, and monitoring of on-farm performance of top-crossed
ruminants. In large measure, these policies will commence in the present
project (para. 2.22).
Performance Under Previous Projects
1.33      Turkey's main efforts to modernize livestock production have been
through the medium of the first four Bank-assisted projects (para. 1.02).
An essential feature of all four was the provision of credit to farmers for
on-farm development along with the necessary supervision, technical assistance
and veterinary health services to ensure successful project implementation.
This was achieved by close and continuous cooperation between the two principal
implementing agencies, LDP of MFAL, which was established by Government decree
in 1970 expressly for implementing the technical aspects of Bank-assisted
livestock projects, and the Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB), 1/ which
undertook responsibility for the credit aspects. LDP's field efforts were
also supported by veterinary health staff of the GDVS.
1.34      The First Livestock Project, 2/ which became effective in 1971
during Turkey's Second Plan, represented the first major attempt by Govern-
ment to modernize dairying. The strategy was to establish a nucleus of over
3,000 imported pedigree Holstein animals on private farms in and around the
four main milk consuming centers in western Turkey (Ankara, Istanbul, Izmir
and Adana), in order to provide a source of breeding stock for upgrading
indigenous herds. The project, which was completed in February 1978, 3/
1/   TCZB has acted as the credit channel in several Bank-financed projects.
Full details of TCZB appear in Appraisal Report 987-TU, Turkey: Appraisal
of an Agricultural and Agroindustries Project (April 12, 1976).
2/   Appraisal Report PA-36a, January 26, 1971.
3/   Full details of project implementation are presented in Completion
Report, Turkey: First Livestock Development Project (August 9, 1977),
and Project Performance Audit Report No. 2542 of June 12, 1979.



- 11 -
was successful in achieving this objective by setting up 159 demonstrations of
modern dairying, and in building up the institutional infrastructure of LDP,
TCZB and GDVS. The 159 farms established under the project fell short of the
250-300 projected at appraisal because the project was innovative, involving
the importation of improved dairy stock and the introduction of new technology.
The risks involved proved to be more acceptable to larger farmers, and con-
sequently subloans were on average larger than anticipated. Cattle imported
under the project from western Europe adapted extremely well to Turkish condi-
tions. Calving rates and milk production, on average, exceeded appraisal
estimated by a considerable margin. Animal diseases on individual farms were
well controlled and health problems were minor, except in a few cases where
farmers failed to follow recommendations. On the other hand, the GDVS tuber-
culosis and brucellosis control scheme, under which imported dairy animals on
Government farms and in Government-related projects were tested and reactors
compulsorily slaughtered (with compensation), caused problems for project
farmers and was heavily resisted. Some 700 surplus Holstein bulls are being
distributed each year to local farmers for herd improvement, and this number
is expected to increase at the rate of some 12-15% per year in the future.
Further, the question raised in the Project Performance Audit Report No. 2542
of June 12, 1979 on the First Livestock Project (Credit 236-TU)--of effectively
using the dairy cattle germ plasma imported under the project and thereby
making the country less dependent on cattle imports--is being tackled under
this project through the development of a more effective AI service in 20 of
the main dairy provincies, and animal health service over 13 of these. A
dairy herd registration scheme is also to be started under the project with a
view to the country becoming self-sufficient in dairy cattle germ plasma and
in the production of progeny tested bulls to feed the Al service.
1.35      The Second Livestock Project, 1/ which became effective in 1972
toward the end of the Second Plan period, comprises two subprojects, a fatten-
ing subproject (FSD) and a village development subproject (VSD). It was the
first attempt to encourage fattening on a wide scale in Turkey--the project
area is comprised of 20 provinces--and to initiate village livestock develop-
ment in three eastern provinces (Agri, Erzurum, Kars) which are economically
depressed. A lack of counterpart funds in the first two years of the project
impeded the hiring of three expatriates and other necessary technical staff.
Once this situation and the organization difficulties in eastern Turkey were
remedied, however, the project proceeded at the rate originally scheduled.
Technical coefficients projected at appraisal have been met on most farms and
even exceeded in some cases, and the demand for credit under the FSD sub-
project has exceeded all expectation. However, the evolution of a group
action concept as part of the project has not been successful. It was envis-
aged that some 430 groups--tractor/machinery irrigation, pasture improvement
and bull groups--would be formed, but only 20 were financed. Conceptually,
the group action approach is considered to be sound and also relevent to the
situation in eastern Turkey, but it will require more time and promotion to
gain acceptance by conservative farmers. Disbursements are virtually complete.
1/   Appraisal Report PA-122a, March 15, 1972.



- 12 -
1.36      The Third Livestock Project, 1/ which became effective in early
1977 during the Third Plan as a repeater to the First Project, aimed at
consolidating and expanding the progress made under that project and at
extending benefits to other areas of the country, notably Kayseri, Konya, and
Malatya. Over 10,000 pedigree Holstein and Brown Swiss heifers and bulls are
being imported for upgrading purposes. A particular feature of this project
is the small (5-cow) village farmer component, in which an attempt is being
made for the first time in Turkey to extend credit and technical assistance to
some 300 small village producers. The project is making satisfactory progress
in reaching the small farmer. About 65% of the farmers who have so far
received cattle under the project are in this category. The project is
expected to continue to develop without slippage and to close on schedule in
June 1981.
1.37      The Fourth Livestock Project, 2/ which became effective in
October 31, 1978, attempts to consolidate and expand the modernization of
village livestock development in eastern Turkey initiated under the Second
Project, and to extend to the eastern provinces the improved dairying concepts
developed in western and central Turkey under the First and Third Projects. A
special feature of the project is the emphasis given to small dairy producers
(50% of the total sub-borrowers) following the success of the Third Project.
Because of the harsh winter in eastern Turkey, the delay in recruitment of
consultants (which was a condition of effectiveness) and other staff from
early summer to the fall of 1978 caused a postponement of office construction
by about nine months 6id a delay in the inception of field work by one year.
1.38      This project (even more than the other livestock projects) is
particularly dependent on staffing and availability of field transportation
(paras. 2.09-2.10). In the past, Special Operating Funds (SOF) were created
for each livestock project to provide incentives (upgrading of per diem travel
allowances and staff salaries for short-term experts, special office equipment,
and such) to help LDP attract and retain qualified staff. 3/ Under loan
agreements, TCZB was required to contribute to the SOFs amounts equivalent to
0.5% of the total outstanding loans. Unfortunately, TCZB interpreted this to
mean that contributions should be based on the foreign exchange component only
of the loan balances, thus under-funding the SOFs. This matter was repeatedly
brought to the attention of TCZB which has recently agreed that, beginning
January 1, 1980, contributions to the SOFs will be computed on the total of
outstanding loan balances. Accordingly, problems of LDP's staffing are
expected to be alleviated in the future.
1.39      TCZB's contribution has been important to the success of the live-
stock projects. Branch office management is highly competent and loan applica-
tions have been processed with dispatch. Quarterly performance reports have
been furnished to the Bank on time. In general, TCZB and LDP have cooperated
satisfactorily.
1/   Appraisal Report 1027-TU, May 10, 1976.
2/   Appraisal Report 1933A-TU, May 12, 1978.
3/   The regular allowances for staff expenses and per diems are un-
realistically low.



- 13 -
1.40      The impact of the first four projects on participating farmers has
by and large been very favorable. Upon completion of Livestock IV, more
than 20,000 purebred cattle will have been imported and distributed to farmers
throughout Turkey through supervised credit programs. Further, the Government's
capacity to organize and manage this approach to livestock development has
steadily improved during the course of implementing Livestock I-IV. In view
of the size of the national herd (para. 1.04) it is still too early for the
Bank's efforts to have had nationwide impact at the farm level. However, the
nucleus breeding stock provided under these projects will have marked impact
on future generations through expanded numbers of improved offspring.



- 14 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
2.01      The Turkish Government has requested a Bank loan to assist in financ-
ing a 6-year livestock development project in Turkey in order to consolidate
and expand the gains made under four previous livestock projects, and to ini-
tiate Bank-assisted efforts in complementary activities in the fields of animal
health, artificial breeding, meat processing, mohair exports and poultry pro-
duction by small producers. The feasibility studies for the project were
undertaken by LDP assisted by two Bank missions and an FAO-CP mission which
visited Turkey between September 1978 and August 1979. The preparation report
was finalized by LDP and submitted to the Bank by Government in October 1979.
The project was appraised in October/November 1979.
B. Brief Description
2.02      The project, which is included in the country's Fourth Five-Year
Plan, seeks to encourage the integral development of Turkey's substantial
livestock resource. Dairy development, the genetic improvement of indigenous
grazing animals and development of a village based hybrid broiler industry
will be encouraged through the provision of investment credit to producers for
on-farm improvements. These components will be implemented simultaneously
with other complementary components related to artificial breeding, animal
disease control, meat and mohair processing. Specifically, the project
will:
(a) channel medium- and long-term supervised credits for on-farm
development to dairy, breed-improvement and poultry producers,
most of whom would be small farmers;
(b) control livestock diseases which are economically important
because of adverse effects on milk and meat production and
human health, and for which there are established means of
control;
(c) upgrade the genetic merit (and hence productivity) of cattle
through an expanded artificial insemination program;
(d) installation of two meat cutting facilities and twelve
intestine processing units in EBK slaughterhouses and the
provision of refrigerated rail transport to service demand
in the deficit meat markets of central and western Turkey
and export markets; and
(e) construction of a 1,000 ton per annum mohair processing
plant for the export of high-value mohair tops.



- 15 -
2.03      The project is divided into the six parts described in more detail
below.
C. Detailed Features
Livestock Production and Breed Improvement
2.04      This component comprises repeater dairy development and cattle
breed improvement activities to be located in eleven provinces (Amasya,
Burdur, Isparta, Kutahya, Mugla, Nevsehir, Nigde, Sivas, Tokat, Tunceli and
Usak); new Merino sheep production activities in Ankara, Kayseri and Konya;
and new Angora goat production activities in Afyon, Ankara, Eskisehir, Konya
and Siirt. The areas included are among the group of provinces classified by
the State Planning Organization as being depressed areas to be favored in
economic development. Implementation of the new sub-components will begin in
three provinces where LDP regional offices already exist (Ankara, Kayseri and
Konya).
2.05      The Livestock Production and Breed Improvement component of the
project will provide supervised credit for:
(a) dairy cattle improvements, based on the use of imported Holstein
or Brown Swiss cattle, on about 1,150 farms involving the estab-
lishment of:
5-cow units on about 600 farms;
12-cow units on about 400 farms;
20-cow units on about 100 farms;
30-cow units on about  50 farms;
(b)  breed improvement, based on the upgrading and culling of local
cross-bred Brown Swiss cattle, involving the establishment of
10-cow units on about 600 farms;
(c) Merino sheep improvement through systematic husbandry of high
quality local Merino ewes and rams, involving the establishment
of 50-ewe units on about 300 farms; and
(d) Angora goat improvement for mohair production, involving the
establishment of 100-doe units on about 250 farms.
2.06      Of the total 2,300 beneficiaries, 1,150 are expected to be small
farmers as defined (para 3.17). The small number of larger dairy enterprises
(100 20-cow and 50 30-cow subprojects) using imported pedigree stock will be
located in those provinces which currently are least-developed in dairy pro-
duction to stimulate the adoption of improved milk production and marketing
practices in villages among non-project farmers. All farmers will have
enough land to produce forage crops to meet the maintenance feed requirements
of their herds, and they will receive credit for livestock, forage crop
establishment, concentrates, machinery, hand tools, and barn renovations.



- 16 -
Emphasis will be given to credit and technical assistance to increase yields
from natural grasslands and, in particular, to promote the introduction
of appropriate forage crops and pastures in place of fallow in the normal
rotation.
2.07      As of April 15, 1980, the staff of LDP numbered 42 veterinarians,
56 agronomists and other professionals, 47 middle-level animal health techni-
cians, 90 middle-level agricultural technicians, 49 drivers and 122 other
support staff, making a total complement of 406. Approximately 90% were
employed in the field (staff allocations for each project are given in Annex
5, C16). There were 159 beneficiaries under the First Livestock Development
Project as of November 1979, 2,948 beneficiaries under the Second Project and
610 beneficiaries under the Third Project. LDP had available only 59 vehicles,
although a further 40 vehicles are presently being procured for use in the
Fourth Project.
2.08      For the livestock production component of the Fifth Livestock
Development Project, it is planned that 15 veterinarians, 15 agronomists, 16
middle-level animal health technicians and 17 middle-level agriculturalists
will also be hired, and 30 new vehicles will be procured. In view of the
geographical distribution of the sites for this component and LDP's experience
in the implementation and supervision of livestock production enterprises, the
number of staff planned for the new livestock component is considered adequate,
provided it obtains adequate management and receives sufficient incentives
and transport. To facilitate project management, LDP will create a new
division at headquartirs and appoint a divisional manager to handle the
livestock production enterprises of the proposed project. In addition,
assurances were obtained that LDP will employ an internationally-recruited
specialist under terms and conditions agreeable to Government and the Bank
by March 31, 1981, who will be associated primarily with the assembly and
dissemination of technical information related to the animal production and
land-use practices involved in the proposed livestock enterprises (para.
1.17).
2.09      The analysis of staffing requirements from appraisal estimates
and the staff available indicates that Livestock II and III are adequately
staffed at the professional levels (with a shortage of 4 agronomists) and
overstaffed at the middle-level technician level (with a surplus of 62). The
shortage of staff affecting project implementation occurs in the Livestock IV
project area where LDP has had difficulty in staffing due to inclement weather
and housing shortages. To offer additional incentives, Livestock IV provided
for housing to be constructed under the project, and supplemental per diem
payments for staff while on duty in the field, to be financed by the SOF
(para. 1.38). As a condition of disbursement for the dairy, sheep and goat
breeding aspects of the project, LDP shall have employed since April 15, 1980
an additional 6 veterinarians and 5 agronomists for service in the provinces
of eastern Turkey where it operates.
2.10      The lack and quality of transport was a problem contributing to
delayed implementation of the first four livestock projects, a problem which
is widespread in all government agencies as there is a general shortage of



- 17 -
vehicles in the country. LDP's current need for vehicles will be satisfied,
however, after the 80 vehicles presently being procured under Livestock IV
have arrived (about half will be assigned to LDP and half to TCZB), which will
supplement the 35 vehicles already available for Livestock III.
Village Poultry Development
2.11      This component is directed to small grower and grower-owned process-
ing and marketing units to be located in the Central, Eastern and Southern
regions and entails the integrated development of poultry meat production
and marketing. The subcomponent will finance a six-year time slice of a
ten-year program developed by MFAL and TCZB. It is based on a model success-
fully operating in the village of Tarsus in Southern Turkey, 1/ run and
operated with the assistance of the Turkish Development Foundation (TKV), a
private foundation deeply committed to rural development. Medium- and long-
term credit will finance the following facilities:
(a) individual Village Broiler Houses (VBH) with a capacity of
2,000 broilers per cycle (10,000 broilers annually) for about
600 producers;
(b) twelve Regional Processing Centers (RPC) each with a capacity
of 1,200 tons of dressed meat annually to serve the cold stor-
age and processing needs of and to supply mixed feed concentrates
and vaccines to about 100 individual producers;
(c) nine parent stock farms with an individual annual capacity of
1.1 million starter chicks to be supplied to the VBHs;
(d) a grandparent stock farm to produce presently imported
female parent stock with a capacity of producing 375,000
grandparent females annually; and
(e) a premix feed plant with six feed mixing units to supply the
premix concentrate needs of the VBHs.
2.12      Activities in each region will begin with clusters of 20 to 25
growers, with new farmers added annually until groups of about 100 growers
are formed. The processing and parent stock units are geared to the clusters
of producers (associated as cooperatives or other associative arrangements)
which permit taking advantage of economies of scale in the processing and
marketing stages.
1/   The model of integrated village broiler production was derived from
the experience of about 75 individual village growers collectively
supplying annually about 750,000 broilers to a regional processing
center which also operates a parent stock layer house and hatchery.



- 18 -
2.13      A further innovation in this component is the establishment of
the first Turkish grandparent stock center which aims to supply the project
as well as some of the national market, resulting in substantial and con-
tinuing foreign exchange savings while replacing the import of stnck (amount-
ing to US$1.2 million in 1977), in the face of steadily increasing demand for
poultry meat (para 4.05). All of the poultry growers are expected to be small
farmers and fall below the 1978 relative poverty level of US$275 per capita.
Eight sites have been selected where development should begin, namely, the
provinces of Ankara, Diyarbakir, Elazig, Erzurum, Eskisehir, Icel, Kayseri,
Konya and Urfa (details are in Annex 5, C5).
2.14      In order to assist the beneficiary of this project, the small
farmer, in the production and management tasks envisaged under the poultry
component, it will be necessary to set up a Center for Technical Support
Services (CTSS). The task of the CTSS will be to arouse interest among
potential growers, provide technical assistance to producers, and train and
help them to organize and set up the jointly-owned processing units. The CTSS
will operate under the supervision of LDP and operate in the field through
mobile field units. Consulting services will be recruited by LDP to provide
the necessary technical poultry expertise and training for the CTSS as out-
lined hereunder:
(a) selection and training of the professional and technical
staff for the mobile units in poultry technology, village
communication and social relations, organization of coopera-
tives and joint stock companies and related matters;
(b) assembly of mobile teams and selection of the potential
marketing and production areas where the VBHs could be
developed;
(c) organization and execution of the field work through orienta-
tion meetings, visits to existing units, drawing up the
preliminary finance plans, preparation of credit applica-
tions, etc.; and
(d) monitoring of the production and financial aspects of the
units in their early stages of operation.
LDP will engage at least two full time internationally-recruited consultants
by March 31, 1981, and part-time consultants as needed, under terms and
conditions acceptable to Government and the Bank, to procure goods and services
as required to carry out the above technical services for the duration of the
project.
Animal Health
2.15      Under the Animal Health component the project would focus on three
major disease control programs: mastitis in dairy herds, brucellosis in
cattle, sheep and goats, and theileriosis primarily in purebred exotic breeds
of cattle. Mastitis, an inflammation of the mammary gland, is an important



- 19 -
disease to dairy farmers; in fact, in many countries it is responsible for
greater financial losses than any other single disease. In Turkey its inci-
dence is quite severe. Brucellosis is a bacterial infection primarily of
cattle, sheep and goats, which commonly causes abortion followed by impaired
fertility. It is therefore an important cause of losses in both milk and meat
production. The disease can also affect dogs, horses and man. Brucellosis
in dairy cattle is recognized as a serious human health hazard as it can be
transmitted to humans causing serious illness commonly referred to as undulant
fever. Active campaigns to control and ultimately eradicate it are being or
have been taken in most developed countries. Theileriosis is a blood-borne
disease primarily of cattle, which is transmitted by ticks. It is a serious
cause of losses in imported exotic cattle and as such represents a major
threat to a successful upgrading cattle improvement program. Control measures
against these three diseases would be confined under the project to 16 central
and south central provinces of Turkey where it is estimated there are 3.9
million cattle (including 1.53 million milking cows), 13.4 million sheep and
5.3 million goats (Adana, Amasya, Ankara, Cankiri, Corum, Eskisehir, Hatay,
Icel, Kayseri, Kirsehir, Konya, Nevsehir, Nigde, Sivas, Tokat and Yozgat).
These provinces were selected because the activities of GDANB and LDP are
already concentrated there, and it is an area where there is a high proportion
of purebred and upgraded cattle (para 2.18).
2.16      The control programs would proceed in two stages:  a baseline
survey of the incidence of the three diseases concerned, followed by the
implementation of a four to five year health control program. The examination
of milk samples from a statistically selected, stratified sample of the
milking herds in the project area would be carried out involving no more than
a few thousand cows in a period of less than one year, supplemented by a field
survey of herds shown to be infected with brucellosis using a simple question-
naire to obtain information on the incidence of abortions as well as on the
herd fertility status. The information obtained from these surveys would
provide a benchmark against which to measure progress made with the control
programs. The control programs for all three diseases are detailed in Annex
5, C3. Enough supplies of freeze-dried Strain 19 and Rev 1 vaccines for
brucellosis will be available by expansion of the production being carried out
at the Pendik Veterinary Control and Research Institute (Turkey). Under the
UNDP "Control of Cattle Diseases" Project (TUR/74/024), five strains of
Theileria have been isolated and vaccine production is expected to begin in
early 1981 with 50,000 to 80,000 doses per year. While provision has been
made in the project to equip 15 field teams to launch and carry out an effec-
tive vaccination program for theileriosis, agreement was obtained that funds
for this purpose would not be disbursed until the Bank had received satis-
factory evidence that production of this vaccine at Pendik had reached an
annual level of at least 50,000 doses. The Government further agreed that
technical specialists, under terms and conditions agreeable to Government and
the Bank, will be engaged by GDVS to assist in the health surveys, mastitis
control program, and in the production of attenuated vaccine at Pendik.
2.17      Charges are currently being made for the vaccination of stock
against anthrax, foot and mouth disease, brucellosis in sheep and goats, and



- 20 -
charges are planned for vaccination against theileriosis in cattle. As
the law presently stands, however, the control of certain diseases (including
brucellosis in cattle) must be carried out free of charge to the farmer, and
a compulsory vaccination program against this disease is envisaged for the
future because of its endemic nature and effects on both animal and human
health. This type of compulsory national undertaking is not subject to cost
recovery. The mastitis control program is the only one to be carried out
on a voluntary basis and for which charges have not been set up. Each farm
would receive four visits in the first year and three per year thereafter.
For the first two years, herd owners will pay for any materials used, includ-
ing prescribed antibiotics as is present practice. From the third year,
owners would be expected also to contribute towards the cost of the service.
The Government has agreed to devise a scheme by December 31, 1983 (to be
discussed with the Bank) to recover from farmers as much of the cost of
Government services incurred on the mastitis control program as is permitted
by Turkish law.
Artificial Breeding
2.18      The project component would be located in 20 provinces of Central,
Southern and Western Anatolia where road conditions and communications are
fully developed and where most of the imported exotic cattle and their up-
graded progeny are located. In addition, many of the activities of the Bank-
assisted livestock projects have been located in these areas. Thirteen of
the 20 provirces are 'ncluded in the Animal Health component.
2.19      No performance-tested, proven sires have been used in the artificial
breeding activities of GDANB; yet, the major justification for such a program
is to enable the influence of superior bulls, especially selected for their
enhanced dairy merit, to be spread as widely as possible. The use of proven
sire semen, therefore, will be a key feature of the project. This would not
only increase production in the purebred exotic herds but, more importantly,
would result in an increasing supply of young bulls, sons of proven sires, for
use by AI or natural breeding on the national herd of native stock. In this
way more and more dairy cows would be bred which would be granddaughters of
proven sires.
2.20      In the 20 provinces comprising the project area, there are, accord-
ing to the 1978 census, some 4.4 million cattle, of which about 1.5 million
are breeding cows. At present, some 80,000 cows in this zone are being
inseminated each year. Under the project, it is proposed to increase the
number of cows inseminated to 795,000 annually at full development. To meet
this expanded demand for frozen semen, particularly from sires of proven dairy
merit, provision has been made to import three proven sires of the Holstein
breed to augment locally produced semen. In addition, a total of 80,000 doses
of proven sire frozen semen will be imported over six years under the project.
This is likely to be primarily of the Brown Swiss breed, a dual-purpose animal
popular in many parts of the project area. During the first two or three
years of the project, the frozen semen production centers at Senlikkoy
(Istanbul) and Bornova (Izmir) will be expanded to provide additional semen
production, and a new AI laboratory will be built at Uzunyayla (Sivas).



- 21 -
2.21      Most of the breeding stations have unused capacity and can handle
additional stock. To expand breeding herds, provision has been made to import
2,000 young purebred heifers over the first five years of the project for
distribution to seven of the State Farms in the project area, namely Karacabey,
Cukurova, Cifteler, Sultansuyu, Hafik, Konya and Gole. To strengthen the
horse-breeding activities of the breeding stations to meet an increasing
demand by farmers for draught animals, 30 stallions and 170 mares of the
Haflinger breed will be imported for distribution to five GDANB breeding
stations, namely, Karacabey (Bursa), Cifteler (Eskisehir), Hasirca (Eskisehir),
Uzunyayla (Sivas) and Cukurova (Adana).
2.22      In view of the expansion in artificial breeding activities, it will
become necessary to formulate a detailed National Livestock Improvement Plan
to, inter alia, determine the appropriate balance between artificial and
natural breeding activities, integrate the now independent activities of the
breeding stations under GDANB, and provide for the establishment of a herd
recording scheme (para. 1.32). Funds under the project will finance a sub-
stantial in-service and overseas training program of field and laboratory AI
technicians of GDANB staff to familiarize themselves with the record keeping
and organizational techniques, as well as employment on a part-time basis,
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Government and the Bank, of a
technical specialist in animal breeding to assist GDANB to formulate the
Plan. Assurances were obtained that Government will formulate a National
Livestock Improvement Plan which will be sent to the Bank for review by
December 31, 1982, and thereafter will implement it.
2.23      Under present law, artificial insemination services are provided
free of charge to farmers under the general Government policy of promoting
this approach to animal breeding. However, in view of the substantial finan-
cial benefits to farmers, charges are desirable. The Government has agreed
to explore the possibilities of recovering the operating costs within the
existing law (changing the law would be very difficult given the tradition
of the State Farms and the present political situation), and further agreed
to work out some proposals for recovery of these. Assurances were obtained
that Government will prepare a study on suitable charges, send it to the Bank
for review by December 31, 1981, promptly thereafter take all steps necessary
to introduce the charges, and recover its operating costs (exclusive of
government salaries, as the law does not permit such reimbursement) in any one
province, within three years of the introduction of the service there under
the project and taking into account the ability of farmers to pay.
Meat Processing
2.24      A meat-cutting facility will be built in EBK's existing slaughter-
house at Kars where a considerable volume of livestock (in carcass form) and
exports are handled and where 95% of all animals slaughtered come from indig-
enous pasture. In 1978 Kars supplied other centers (especially Istanbul,
which makes transportation over 1,500 km very costly) with 21% of the national
slaughter of cattle and 5% of that of sheep, and exported chilled carcass meat
to Iran at a rate of between 60-80 t/week. The proposed new cutting facility



- 22 -
will produce 5 t daily of primal beef cuts for transportation to the West
or for export, which would result in a weight and volume saving that would
virtually double the efficiency of existing transport. At the same time
bones and waste will be rendered at Kars without incurring further transport
costs, with the byproducts made available to farmers. The plant layout and
technical coefficients are shown in Annex 5, C6.
2.25      A further reduction in transportation costs will be realized by
shifting from trailers and ice-cooled lorries to refrigerated rail transport
for the transportation of meat from Kars to the West.  Twelve refrigerated
rail wagons will be supplied under the project, equivalent to the round-trip
capacity requirements between Kars and Istanbul, with extras to allow for
maintenance and downtime. The ice-cooled lorries (limited in their range
by the availability of ice) and trailers will be shifted by EBK to other
transport-deficit areas where shorter hauls are required. The wagons will be
owned and operated by EBK and run, through the payment of standard commercial
fees, on the track of the Turkish State Railways.
2.26      A second meat cutting facility will be built at EBK's existing
Sakarya slaughterhouse, 140 km east of Istanbul. Only the supply and instal-
lation of equipment for meat cutting is required to make this facility opera-
tional as a meat cutting room has already been constructed. The slaughter-
house also feeds the greater Istanbul area with cattle, mostly from Western
Turkey. The cutting facility will have a capacity of 10 t daily. Highway and
rail communications to Istanbul are good, which, coupled with the availability
of sufficient chilling and thawing space, would enable EBK to supply a large
proportion of Istanbul's butchers and retailers from the proposed facility.
2.27      Intestine processing is a valuable adjunct to the slaughtering of
stock for meat. Intestines from cattle and sheep, once treated, become
casings for sausage and salami. The casing itself is often exported to
Europe and commonly roasted as a local Turkish dish. Twelve sites have been
selected where the supply and installation of mechanical processing facilities
(300 casings/hr) should begin under the project, namely nine existing slaughter-
houses (Agri, Diyarbakir, Elazig, Erzurum, Kars, Kayseri, Tatvan, Urfa and
Van) and three slaughterhouses which are scheduled to begin slaughter in 1980
(Hakkari, Malatya and Sivas).
2.28      Internationally-recruited consulting services with expertise in the
field of on-the-rail deboning will be engaged by EBK under terms and conditions
acceptable to Government and the Bank to assist in the design and supervision
of works for all aspects of the component and to initially train EBK personnel
in the techniques of deboning and intestine processing (TORs and schedules are
shown in Annex 5, Cl and Cll). Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations.
Mohair Processing
2.29      The site proposed for the construction of the mohair processing
plant is Sincanli, 25 km west of Afyon. The province of Afyon is adjacent
to the four largest mohair producing provinces, Ankara, Eskisehir, Konya
and Kutahya, and close to the established wool textile centers of Bursa,



- 23 -
Izmir and Usak; it is also at the center of the road and rail communications
network linking several cities in the South and West to Ankara and Istanbul.
A factory building will be constructed on the proposed site in Sincanli with
a capacity to process up to 1,000 tons (in three shifts) of greasy mohair
annually to combed tops suitable for export, through machinery with a capacity
of 333 tons per shift-year. The building and mechanical/electrical services
will be so designed as to permit future expansion of the processing capacity
outside the project to 2,000 tons per annum.
2.30      Mohair has traditionally been processed (and largely still is) on
now obsolete machinery. The Noble and Lister combs most suitable for this
specialty fiber are no longer manufactured, and while it is still considered
possible that a few of the former will be available secondhand and suitable
for rehabilitation, it is extremely unlikely that any Lister machines can
be obtained for Turkey. The alternative is to use the modern French comb
which, while considered less satisfactory for mohair, is gradually coming into
use, especially with French and Italian producers. Considerable experience
of mohair processing is necessary to adapt and use the modern machinery, and
markets for its products in this still very traditional area are relatively
small and likely to develop slowly. In this project, it is intended to
purchase four Noble combs, if available in suitable condition, and to use
these in conjunction with three French combs in place of the traditional
Lister combs for the second combing operation. In the event of the unavail-
ability of the Noble combs, provision has been made for an equivalent number
of French combs.
2.31      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that internationally-
recruited consultants in the field of mohair processing will be engaged by
TYT by March 31, 1981 on terms and conditions acceptable to the Government and
the Bank, to advise upon and supervise factory design, machinery and specifica-
tion, purchase, installation and commissioning, management and operative
training, and supervision during the initial production. In order to ensure
optimum marketing of TYT's production in a competitive export market (para.
1.22), TYT will retain experts as needed to assist it in the export marketing
of mohair tops. Final machinery specifications, particularly in the combing
section, will depend upon a more detailed marketing forecast and strategy to
be drawn up at that time, and will be influenced by the results of enquiries
already initiated by TYT as to the availability of suitable Noble combs.
After commencement of production, specialist technical assistance will be
hired as appropriate from a number of private sector Turkish textile companies.
TYT have made considerable and apparently successful use of such sources of
technical help during the start-up periods of their two existing textile
factories in Yesilova and Urfa.
D. Status of Design and Engineering
2.32      Plans already available from the Tarsus poultry project will be
utilized by LDP for implementing the facilities under the poultry component.
The mohair processing plant was the subject of an FAO feasibility study in



- 24 -
1979, and final design of the plant, services and machinery must depend upon
the precise availability and selection of the mohair combing equipment. This
is intended to be the first task of the mohair project consultants who will
supervise certain stages of project preparation and implementation (para.
2.31). Other aspects of design are expected to be standard for textile mill
construction and equipment, and for the size of the present project, should be
largely completed two or three months after machinery selection. A preliminary
plant layout is available for the meat cutting plant at Kars (Annex 5, C6) and
final design will be carried out by EBK with assistance from internationally-
recruited consultants, who will also assist in the equipment selection and
installation. No major design work is required for the Sakarya meat facility
and the intestine facilities. Only minor work is required for designing
building and/or equipment connections.
E. Cost Estimates
2.33      The total cost of the project, including US$6.2 million in taxes,
is estimated at some US$125.0 million equivalent in November 1979 terms
(US$1 = TL 47.1), of which some US$51.0 million (about 41%) is foreign
exchange. The estimated foreign expenditure will be largely for imported
livestock, vehicles, farm machinery, equipment, technical studies, overseas
training and technical specialists. Price increases of US$36.3 million were
allowed over the six-'ear life of the project. They provide for price
contingencies between November 1979 and the end of the implementation period,
applied to both local and foreign costs at the following annual rates: 10.5%
in 1980, 9% in 1981, 8% in 1982, 7% in 1983-85 and 6% in 1986. Presenting
cost estimates and measuring both foreign and local prices contingencies in
US Dollar equivalents implies a certain relation between domestic and foreign
prices. Specifically, it has been assumed that the Lira exchange rate would
change so as to offset inflation differential between Turkey and its major
trading partners. The Lira has been devalued roughly in accordance with this
pattern since 1977 and it is expected that, during the project implementation
period, this would continue as necessary. It is assumed that disbursements
will commence in the first quarter of calendar year 1981. About 266 man-months
of consultant services will be required for the project, costing US$5.3
million in total, including the local services to be provided for technical
support and training under the village poultry component. Average direct
costs have been estimated at US$6,000 per man-month as of November 1979,
ranging from US$400/day for mohair specialists to US$1,500 per month for
local services under joint ventures to be provided under the village poultry
component. Travel and per diem expenses average US$3,000 per man-month.
Total project costs are summarized in the following table; a more detailed
breakdown is in Annex 2 and Annex 5, C8.



- 25 -
Total Project Costs
Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange
-----(US$ Million)-           %
Livestock Production and Breed
Improvement                                    14.6      15.0      29.6       50
Village Poultry Development                      10.3     10.0      20.3       49
Animal Health Program                             4.7       1.5      6.2       24
Artificial Breeding                              20.6       5.5     26.1       21
Meat Processing                                   0.8       2.3      3.1       74
Mohair Processing                                 1.0       2.4      3.4       71
Total Baseline Costs                             52.0     36.7      88.7       41
Price Increases (59%)                            22.0     14.3      36.3       _
Total Project Cost                               74.0     51.0    125.0        41
F. Financing
2.34      The Bank loan of US$51.0 million will finance the foreign exchange
cost, estimated at 41% of overall cost. TCZB will finance some US$22.6
million, or 18% of total cost, and farmer contributions would amount to about
US$5.9 million, or 5% of total cost. Government will contribute the remaining
US$45.5 million, or 36% of total cost. Financing of investment and technical
assistance costs will be shared as follows:



- 26 -
Project          Subborrower      TCZB      Government       IBRD         Total
Component /1    Amount   %   Amount   %   Amount   %   Amount   %   Amount   %
------------------------(Us$ Million)------------------------
Livestock
Production
and Breed
Improvement       3.4    8    10.2   24      7.3   17    21.9   51    42.8  100
Village
Poultry
Development       2.5    8    12.4   42      0.5    2    14.5   48    29.9  100
Animal Health
Program            -     -       -     -     6.8   78      1.9   22      8.7  100
Artificial
Breeding           -     -       -     -    28.9   80      7.2   20    36.1  100
Meat Pro-
cessing            -     -       -     -     0.9   25      2.6   75      3.5  100
Mohair Pro-
cessing            -     -       -     -     1.1   27      2.9   73      4.0  100
5.9    5    22.6   18    45.5   36    51.0   41   125.0  100
-=                                              -      =     
/1   Price increase added to each component.  Discrepancies are due to
rounding.
2.35      The Bank loan of US$51.0 million will be made to the Government of
Turkey, which will assume the foreign exchange risk (with the exception of
Loan monies on-lent to EBK and TYT, para. 2.36). The Loan will be for 17
years including a 4-year grace period with interest at 8.25 percent per annum.
Government will on-lend to TCZB in local currency the equivalent of US$30.9
million, at an interest rate which will leave TCZB with a spread of at least
2.5% which, together with a further US$22.6 million from TCZB's own resources,
will comprise the US$53.5 million for on-farm lending under the Livestock
Production and Village Poultry Development components. The project cash flows
indicate that a repayment period to Government by TCZB of 17 years including a
grace of 4 years is appropriate. These terms were agreed upon during negotia-
tions. A condition of effectiveness will be the signature of a subsidiary
loan agreement, acceptable to the Bank, between the Government and TCZB.
Government also has agreed to make available to LDP for technical services,
studies and training under the Livestock Production component US$1.2 million,
US$0.5 million under the Village Poultry Development component, US$1.9 million
to GDVS and US$7.2 million to GDANB.
2.36      Of the remainder of the Loan monies, Government will on-lend to EBK
US$2.6 million and to TYT US$2.9 million for the meat and mohair processing
components, respectively. EBK and TYT will assume the foreign exchange risk
and will borrow at not less than the prevailing rate for investment loans to
State Economic Enterprises (10%). The cash flows indicate that a repayment



- 27 -
period by EBK and TYT to Government of 10 years including a grace period of 2
years is appropriate, to which the Government has agreed. As EBK and TYT are
new borrowers using only small portions of the Bank loan, the signature of
subsidiary loan agreements between the Government and EBK and TYT will be
conditions of disbursement for the meat and mohair components respectively.
The recurrent costs which the Government will continue to bear after the
investment period will amount to US$6.7 million equivalent per year in constant
November 1979 US$, which is only a very small portion of total government
recurrent expenditure. They would be offset by tax revenues on increased
incomes and on the marketing of project output, which, while unquantified, are
expected to be substantial.
G. Procurement
2.37      Imported dairy and breeding cattle will be procured in bulk ship-
ments as orders for cattle from individual subborrowers are received by the
project manager through the regional or provincial offices. Because of the
nature of the cattle selection procedures, ICB is impracticable. Bulk ship-
ments will be procured on the basis of not less than three quotations from at
least two countries, and details of procurement will be advertised in the
local press and circulated to accredited representatives of those Bank member
countries able to supply them, and Switzerland. These same procedures will
be followed in the procurement of breeding horses, specialized laboratory
and field equipment for animal health and artificial insemination, semen and
mohair processing machinery. Disbursements under these procedures are esti-
mated at US$22 million. Locally procured livestock will be purchased by
individual farmers at livestock markets and by private treaty. These proce-
dures were satisfactorily followed under the earlier livestock projects. They
will also be followed in this project.
2.38      Procurement through ICB according to the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement of March 1977 will include tractors, major items of farm machinery,
processing equipment and plant, vehicles, and rail wagons. Bidding documents
will state that suppliers will guarantee adequate servicing and spare parts
within Turkey. A 15% domestic preference, or the level of import duties
(whichever is the lower) will be allowed local manufacturers bidding on
machinery and equipment. The estimated costs under ICB procedures amount to
US$17 million.
2.39      Because all farm construction is small-scale, dispersed and utilizes
to the maximum family labor, it is unsuitable for ICB. Purchase of the few
materials required for such construction will be by local shopping. Sufficient
competition exists to ensure fair pricing. Purchases of small tools and farm
inputs will be through normal commercial channels as is usual in credit
projects. Disbursements through normal commercial channels are estimated at
US$5 million equivalent and such procurement will not exceed US$12 million
equivalent in the aggregate. Supplies are generally freely available and
adequate competition exists for all times.



- 28 -
2.40      Houses for project staff, laboratory building or renovation and
buildings for poultry and mohair processing plants will be constructed of
local materials with local labor, and their modest unit cost (US$140,000)
and phasing do not warrant ICB. Bidding for their construction will be
through standard government procedures, which are satisfactory, with estimated
disbursements of about US$2 million equivalent.
H. Disbursements
2.41      The Bank loan of US$51.0 million will be disbursed over a six-year
calendar period (seven fiscal years) as follows:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures on imported livestock, semen and
training abroad;
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures, or 100% of local expenditures ex-factory
(less taxes and duties) on vehicles, laboratory, field and office
equipment and supplies, agricultural and processing machinery;
(c)  100% of total expenditures on consultant services;
(d)  (i) 20% of amounts disbursed by TCZB for pasture, forage crop
and feedstu'f production, farm buildings and purchase of supple-
mentary feeistuffs under the Livestock Production and Breed Improve-
ment component; (ii) 20% of amounts disbursed by TCZB for farm
buildings and feedstuffs under the Village Poultry component; and
(e) 15% of amounts disbursed against civil works by LDP and TYT.
2.42      Disbursements will be made against normal documentation except for
TCZB, which will be made against statements of expenditure as under the
previous projects. These statements will be audited and the supporting
documents will be retained by TCZB and be available for review by project
supervision missions. The anticipated phasing of commitments under the
project is detailed in Annex 1. Any savings in the Loan after project com-
pletion will be cancelled. Assuming project start-up by December 31, 1980,
the estimated annual disbursements of the Bank Loan are as follows:
Estimated Disbursements /1
Bank FY:                   1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
----------------------US$ Million-------------------
Annual                      1.0     4.3      7.0    11.0    15.0    10.0       2.7
Cumulative                  1.0     5.3    12.3    23.3    38.3    48.3    51.0
/1   A quarterly schedule is shown in Annex 1.



- 29 -
I. Environmental and Nutritional Impacts
2.43      Chemical fertilizers, pesticides and herbicides to be used under the
project are not anticipated to have any appreciable adverse effect on local
ecology. They will be utilized in a small proportion of total farms in the
project area under the supervision of project technicians at the normally
recommended dosage levels. Effluent from project barns will be scattered and
the solid residues will be beneficial as they will be spread back on the
land.
2.44      Meat cutting machinery will be installed within existing plants to
process existing input and no significant additional waste would be generated.
Excess fat will be rendered at the existing rendering facilities in the
processing areas instead of at remote plants. Intestine processing will cause
no change in the local environment as the throughput is governed by the number
of animals slaughtered. Simple gravity settling of the effluent in sludge
lagoons is proposed for the mohair plant which will effect a 75% reduction in
suspended solids and a 40% in biological oxygen demand, levels which are in
line with local standards. During the final selection of the plant site,
account will be taken of the odor and drainage factors.
2.45      The impact on the environment of the waste products from the small-
scale poultry processing plants would have a negligible effect on the local
environment as the project will be located over 7-8 regions of Anatolia. It
will be in later years, if an expansion of this first undertaking takes place,
when modest investments for the installation of a waste-processing unit for
each four poultry processing centers will be required (at a unit cost of
US$180,000). Broiler house waste is beneficial to neighboring farmers and is
a steady source of farmers' incomes.
2.46      There is no evidence of general protein calorie malnutrition in
rural Turkey, though specific iodine and vitamin A deficiencies have been
found in eastern Turkey where levels of fish and vegetable consumption are
low. Animals and animal products are the main source of protein in daily
Turkish diets. In 1973, the national average intake of animal protein was
about 67 grams/capita/day of which 61% originated from milk and milk products,
29% from red meat intake and 7% from poultry and eggs. Fish and crustacea
are the main other source of animal protein. Although the rural poor consume
less protein per day than their wealthier neighbors, the pattern of relative
intake is fairly consistent across income groups (Annex 5, C14) with the
exception of red meat, which is more prominent in the consumption patterns of
high income groups. The bulk of project investment will encourage the produc-
tion of milk and red and white meat, largely for rural consumption. Thus it
will contribute in a modest way to an increase in the daily availability of
protein from these important sources, and for all income groups.



- 30 -
J. Role of Women
2.47      Village women are an active rural labor force in rough;:y equal
shares to men, in terms of active employment, according to Turkish labor
statisticians. In the context of the livestock development and village
broiler houses, at least one-half of the manpower will be supplied by female
members of the individual producer's family. In these cases, the women, in
addition to working alone on the farm (as the husband often commutes to a job
in the city to supplement family income), will often make important decisions
and judgments affecting farm operations. In the poultry processing, as well
as in the fibre processing units, most of the operating chores are ideally
suited for female employment. Women are already employed in various positions
in EBK (especially as veterinarians), but because of the customary nature of
meat processing in Turkey, it is doubtful if women would choose to be employed
in these activities.



- 31 -
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
Livestock Production and Breed Improvement
3.01      Overall coordination of all components will be the responsibility
of the General-Director of LDP, through which each executing agency for the
individual components will submit its respective accounts and communicate
formally with the Bank, except TCZB which will communicate directly with the
Bank. The project administration for the livestock production component will
be similar to that of earlier projects, which was satisfactory. Project
implementation and technical and economic aspects will be the responsibility
of LDP, while the Encouragement and Development Loan Division (EDLD) of TCZB
will handle the credit aspects (paras. 3.17-3.23). LDP will create a new
division and appoint a project manager to be located in Ankara. Regional
control will be through the three existing offices at Ankara, Kayseri and
Konya and from one to be set up at Amasya. Provincial control will operate
from two existing offices (Sivas and Tokat) and from five new ones (Burdur,
Isparta, Mugla, Siirt, Tunceli and Usak (para. 2.04). About eleven project
group offices will be established under the provincial offices as demand for
credit and related project activities arises. The establishment of the new
provincial offices will probably occur in the third and fourth years of the
project. A total of 63 new project staff and 30 drivers will be required in
addition to the existing staff strength in the project area (para. 2.08).
3.02      One internationally recruited specialist will be associated with
the livestock production and breeding component over its six year period, and
be responsible to the General Director of LDP. In view of the expertise and
experience developed during the previous dairy production projects, the
specialist also should be widely experienced in sheep, goat and fiber as well
as cattle production and have a background of investigational work in a
Mediterranean climate (para 2.08). Terms of reference for the specialist are
in Annex 5, Cl.
Village Poultry Development
3.03      The organizational arrangements proposed for this component are
designed to secure the smooth functioning of the business relations between
the production and service units of the integrated scheme, and have worked
satisfactorily in a pilot scheme in Turkey (para. 2.11). At the base of the
project are some 600 village broiler houses (VBH); these villagers constitute
the largest single group of beneficiaries. On the procurement side of their
business, they secure starter chicks from the parent stock farms, mixed feed
from the feed units attached to the regional processing centers (also owned by
villagers), as well as vaccines, and other supplies from market channels. For
the initial training and technical guidance, the VBHs will draw on services to
be rendered by the CTSS (para. 2.14). On the marketing side, the VBHs sell
mature broilers to their processing centers. At the second tier, the parent



- 32 -
stock farms purchase their inputs from the feed units and their stock from the
grandparent stock farm, and sell chicks to the VBHs. The regional processing
centers buy broilers from the individual producers and sell in the open
market. The grandparent stock unit procures its stock in foreign markets and
sells its output to participating parent stock farms and to the open market.
3.04      Ownership of the village broiler houses lies exclusively with
individual villagers. Title to the processing centers and parent stock farms
is divided among clusters of villagers so that members of a cluster share
the benefits accruing to the regional processing centers (RPCs), while main-
taining continuity and control over the individual RPC's marketing and input
supply octivities. The grandparent stock and parent stock farms, and the
pre-mix feed unit are in turn owned by the processing centers. Thus a pattern
of interlocking ownership overlays the business relations between the units
(Annex 5, C5).
3.05      GOT has in the past used private institutions successfully and in
conjunction with government agencies to perform specific functions in devel-
oping rural agriculture (industry surveys, credit to poultry growers and
beekeepers, village water supply and health, earthquake reconstruction, etc.).
Because the poultry component entails the introduction of new (but tested)
technology and commercial ownership patterns in rural economies, GOT intends
to establish collaborations with suitable private institutions for the initial
start-up and training of growers and processors. These activities will
gradually be assumed by the technical and managerial staff of the cooperatives
and processir,g centers. LDP will engage a suitable institution to carry out
the training program and technical services required, which include the field
preparation of the financing plans, to be approved by, and submitted through,
LDP to TCZB (paras. 2.14, 3.20).
Animal Health
3.06      The General Directorate of Veterinary Services of MFAL will be
responsible for the animal health component through a new division created
in headquarters. A project manager will be appointed and will be assisted by
the 16 existing Provincial Veterinary directorates and the 25 teams appointed
to assist in carrying out the surveys on disease incidence, and for implementa-
tion of the mastitis, brucellosis and theileriosis Control Programs, under the
guidance of the technical specialists referred to in para 2.16. For the first
stage of the component, five teams will be appointed to carry out the survey
on the incidence of mastitis and brucellosis, and two or three study teams will
proceed to the Central Veterinary Laboratory at Weybridge (United Kingdom) for
an intensive course of training in mastitis control. Ten additional teams
each will be appointed in 1982 and 1983 to join the five survey teams to begin
implementation of the mastitis control program.
3.07      Adequate supplies of Strain 19 and Rev 1 vaccines for brucellosis
are expected to be available in 1983. The 25 teams provided for in the
second phase of the brucellosis control program (1983-86) and the 15 teams
for the theileriosis control program (1982-86) will carry out the vaccination,
branding and eartagging of the livestock.



- 33 -
Artificial Breeding
3.08      A new division will be created in the executing agency of this
component (GDANB) of MFAL. A project manager will be appointed to coordinate
the six existing regional offices at Ankara, Bursa, Istanbul, Izmir, Konya and
Sivas, the three additional regional offices which will be opened at Adana,
Eskisehir And Kayseri, and the eleven existing provincial offices in Amasya,
Aydin, Cankiri, Corum, Icel, Kirklareli, Kutahya, Manisa, Nigde, Tokat and
Yozgat; thus each of the 20 provinces will be serviced through an office
located within its boundaries (para. 2.18). Additional veterinary, technical
and non-technical staff (amounting to some 190) will be recruited to operate
the project (paras. 2.19-2.21), and these will be supported by the specialists
working at the 5 AI laboratories and 15 breeding stations. The Government
will construct three additional units to house essential project staff.
Meat Processing
3.09      The overall management of the component will be the responsibility
of EBK. A project manager will be appointed to oversee the component, while
the actual operation of the facilities for production purposes will be handled
through the existing EBK staff and plants, aided by the design and training
specialists for the new equipment (para. 2.28).
3.10      The Government intends to examine the organization and structure of
the public and private meat sectors, with Bank assistance, under the coordi-
nation of the State Planning Organization with the participation of a wide
spectrum of government departments, private institutions, and local and
international consultants. The expansion program planned by GOT in the meat
sector has been reviewed in general terms during appraisal with the conclusion
that the facilities and transport system included in this component (paras.
2.24-2.27) would be priority investments to be carried out in any reorga-
nization scheme which might result from the meat study.
Mohair Processing
3.11      TYT will be responsible for the construction and operation of the
mohair processing plant. The General Director of TYT will appoint a project
manager who will oversee the selection of equipment, final design of the plant
and start-up of operations, as well as coordinate the training program (para.
2.31). Internationally recruited consultants will assist the manager (terms
of reference are in Annex 5, Cl).
3.12      There is within Turkey an as yet undeveloped potential for mohair
processing within the state textile organization (Sumerbank) and in the
Mohair and Wool Cooperative responsible to the Ministry of Trade (para.
1.27). Sumerbank's interest in developing some processing capability is
limited to meeting its own clothing manufacturing needs. The Cooperative has
a proposal for a mohair processing plant to process the output of raw fibre
from its member cooperatives. The Cooperative and TYT compete for financing



- 34 -
for the purchase of fibre stocks through credits controlled by the Ministry of
Agriculture and TCZB. Given the current export demand for mohair tops and
Turkey's difficult resource position, it is understood that construction of
further capacity for processing mohair tops for export will not 4-alify for
public investment or public sector financing during the start-up of the
project facilities. Private competition exists, mostly fcr processing mohair
into garments, and TYT's role in the export sector for fiber will not impair
the private sector.
B. On-Lending Policies and Procedures
3.13      TCZB will be responsible for on-lending to farmers for livestock
production and village poultry development. TCZB is wholly owned by the
Government and is the principal channel for financing the Government's agricul-
tural program. TCZB's management is competent. It has been better able to
attract and retain qualified personnel than other government entities because
of its higher pay scales and benefits.
3.14      TCZB has expanded its financial assistance to the agricultural
sector rapidly. During 1964-1973 its loan portfolio increased from about
TL 5 billion to TL 24.5 billion, and from 1974-1978 to more than TL 75 bil-
lion. This growth in lending was in conformity with the Government's program
of increased assistance to agriculture, and was made possible mainly by
increases in total deposits, from TL 4 billion in 1964 to more than TL 65
billion in 1978, and by rediscounts and advances from the Central Bank (TL 0.8
billion in 1963-1964 to almost TL 36 billion in 1978, equivalent to US$1.4
billion) (see Annex 5, C16). Total lending to farmers by TCZB will be about
US$53.5 million equivalent, derived from US$30.9 million equivalent of the
Bank Loan on-lent to TCZB by Government and US$22.6 million equivalent from
TCZB's own resources (para. 2.35). A cash flow forecast for TCZB in the
project is shown in Annex 3.
3.15      TCZB is in good financial condition; its net worth in 1978, consist-
ing of unimpaired paid-in capital of TL 1.5 billion and accumulated earnings
of about 0.5 billion. The compound annual growth rate of its net banking
income has been more than 20% p.a.; it has been profitable every year since
1964. In large measure this has been possible because TCZB has continued
to be an official depository for non-interest earning government deposits and
has access to the Central Bank for rediscount and advances at 8-1/2% p.a. In
April 1979 the Government authorized an increase in TCZB's capital to TL 15
billion, of which TL 3.5 billion has now been paid-in.
3.16      With a network of around 1,000 branches and field offices to be co-
ordinated, the submission to the Bank of TCZB's audited financial statements
has generally been 15 months late. However, it is expected that this problem
will soon be overcome. A study of, among other things, improvements for TCZB's
accounting system is now in progress under Loan 1248-TU. Computerization of
the system has begun enabling the preparation and submission in 1979 of
up-to-date financial statements.



- 35 -
On-Lending Criteria
3.17      The new Agricultural Credit Law of April 17, 1979 (Annex B5 - amend-
ing the Credit Law of 1937) together with the Agricultural Credit Guidelines
issued by TCZB (Annex to Circular 4770, June 1979) have liberalized lending
policies towards small farmers and cooperatives (Annex 5, B6). The new law
and guidelines incorporate some of the suggestions made by the Bank to TCZB
and Government over the last few years, and extend the credit arrangements
agreed under earlier livestock projects to all TCZB activities. Basically,
they make lending based on projects or farm plans the main vehicle for credit
to agriculture; they define farmers in three income classes; they have
liberalized collateral requirements; and they permit SEEs, private corpora-
tions and local administrations to be themselves borrowers for agricultural
purposes. Under the Fourth Livestock Project, a small farmer definition was
agreed upon. 1/ The new law defines it as one whose net annual predevelop-
mental family income does not exceed the national minimum wage level (TL 64,800
in April 1979, equivalent to US$1,376 at the time). 2/ Both definitions are
very close to each other in constant Turkish Lira terms. The TCZB definition
will be applied nationwide and will be updated as Government periodically
updates the minimum wage level by decree. It will be used also in this project.
3.18      In the livestock production and breed improvement component, any
farmer owning livestock with experience in livestock production and with a
sound development plan for livestock improvement (except the purchase of
livestock for fattening), and who could meet the creditworthiness criteria of
TCZB, is eligible for a loan.  Potential sub-borrowers stould occupy, or have
access to, an area of tillable land which, in the opinior. of the LDP techni-
cian preparing the farm plan, is adequate to produce the incremental feed-
stuffs necessary to implement the plan. In addition to the above criteria,
to be eligible for a subloan, small farmers must be known to LDP staff as bona
fide farmers of good charater, for whom viable farm development plans can be
prepared. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that only farmers
meeting the above criteria will qualify for loans. Livestock farmers will
apply for a loan to the nearest office of TCZB or LDP. After determination
of the farmer's creditworthiness and credit limit by TCZB, an appropriate
development plan will be prepared by an LDP technician who will submit the
plan to the regional manager for review. In accordance with TCZB's recently
extended delegation of authority, plans for less than TL 300,000 ($6,400
equivalent) credit will be approved on the authority of the LDP regional
manager and sent to the local TCZB manager for credit approval and funding,
with copies to the LDP and TCZB head offices. Plans for credit in excess of
TL 300,000 but less than TL 750,000 ($15,900 equivalent) will be reviewed by
1/   A small farmer is defined as one whose net annual pre-development family
income at December 1977 prices does not exceed TL 35,000 (US$1,820), at
least 75% of which is derived from farm activity.
2/   The new law further defines a medium-sized farmer as one whose family
income is not more than four times the small farmer ceiling.



- 36 -
LDP's regional technical specialist and LDP's regional manager, and will be
forwarded by the latter to the local TCZB manager. Applications in excess of
TL 750,000 will further need the approval of the Project Manager and will be
submitted by him through EDLD to the Board of TCZB for credit approval. In
recent years, these credit limits have been periodically increased by TCZB to
adjust for domestic inflation. The existing protocol between LDP and TCZB will
be appropriately amended with respect to dates, areas of implementation, etc.
of the proposed project. The signing of an amended protocol acceptable to the
Bank will be a condition of disbursement for the on-lending components.
3.19      The basic procedure outlined above was followed in four earlier
projects and was satisfactory. In this project, the review and approval
requirements have been more decentralized than before, to provide needed
flexibility in reaching and meeting the needs of small borrowers. This is
considered to be a significant improvement in livestock project design for
Turkey, and will more efficiently utilize the increasing capabilities of LDP
and TCZB's technical and administrative personnel in their local and regional
offices.
3.20      The same basic procedures will apply to poultry growers, who will
apply to the nearest TCZB office for a loan covering the broiler house invest-
ment plan previously prepared by a technician of the CTSS operating in the
region and approved by LDP's Coordinating Unit. Since loans to poultry growers
are limited to a maximum of TL 300,000 for fixed assets (and TL 150,000 -
$3,200 equi'alent - for working capital) under TCZB regulations, approval only
by the local TCZB offices will be required. In order to qualify for the
approval of an individual subloan for village broiler house construction, the
first 20 individual applicants in any one region will meet TCZB creditworthi-
ness criteria, and TCZB will disburse up to two-thirds of the subloan approved
for each individual applicant. The remaining one-third will be disbursed
after the individual has demonstrated to TCZB evidence of his membership in an
association or group established under the project to implement and operate a
regional processing center. Additional individual applicants above and beyond
the initial 20 applicants and in any one region served by an existing regional
processing center will have to demonstrate to TCZB evidence of membership in a
regional processing center prior to approval of their subloans but will then
be eligible for full disbursement of the subloans. Each RPC will require
substantially larger financing (some US$234,000 in 1979 prices), the finan-
cing for which must be reviewed by EDLD and approved by TCZB's board. In
order to qualify for the financing of an RPC, individual applicants will have
to demonstrate to TCZB that a legal association has been formed to own and
operate a processing center composed of at least 20 individual farmer appli-
cants. The processing of loans for parent stock farms and grandparent stock
farms also will conform to this pattern, whereas financing of the pre-mix
plant would conform to TCZB's procedures applicable to agroindustry loans
which have been found to be satisfactory. As the ownership and management
of these investments will ultimately be vested in the regional processing
centers, but other parties may initially own and operate them, assurances were
obtained that TCZB may approve, in consultation with the LDP and the Bank,
subloans submitted by other parties under TCZB guidelines. It will be a
condition of eligibility for such subloans that such parties agree that assets



- 37 -
created and obligations assumed by the original owners will be transferred to
the regional processing centers, at the appraised market value at the time of
transfer and as soon as the financial viability of the RPCs is demonstrated to
TCZB, LDP and the Bank.
3.21      Individual farmer contributions to investment plans will be at least
10% in the case of small and medium size farmers and at least 20% in the case
of large farmers excepting special cases wherein specific incentives are
enjoyed by producers holding government encouragement certificates in which
case TCZB regulations establish a higher percentage. Farm family labor
expected to be utilized during the improvement of on-farm facilities in the
project, including buildings and forage crop development, also constitutes
part of the equity requirement. TCZB only requires 10% farmer's equity for
on-lending to regional poultry centers, parent and grandparent stock farms
and the pre-mix facility if a cooperative is formed. Should farmers choose a
corporation as the collective unit, the equity requirements may increase to
30% or 40% depending upon the area's relative affluence and state of develop-
ment. For purposes of assessing small farmer creditworthiness, a portion of
the collateral requirement may be satisfied by chattel mortgage to TCZB on
farm assets and the equity itself can be paid in over several years.
3.22      As under earlier projects, most livestock farm development plans
will provide for only renovations and/or extension of existing structures,
financing of new structures being limited to the larger units which will be
built at minimum cost by the farmer using a maximum of family labor. Poultry
development plans will generally provide for new construction of village
broiler houses. Cost of renovations and new construction will be financed
at the percentage applicable to other on-farm improvements. Credit will also
be provided for the initial purchase of chicks, concentrates and other supple-
mentary feed, and for forage crop development in the first project year only
as an investment cost. Most farmers will be expected to provide family labor
(possibly supplemented by hired labor in the case of the larger farmers) as
part of their contribution. Incremental labor costs associated with expand-
ing livestock numbers are expected to be minor, as utilization of labor for
livestock breeding and dairying is now relatively inefficient. However, a
considerable diversion of family labor away from marginal activities will
result from village broiler house operations. With technical assistance and
improved planning, it is considered that the productivity of labor could be
considerably increased at negligible additional cost. Credit will be provided
for incremental costs of labor only in special cases where, in the written
opinion of the technician preparing the plan and the concerned TCZB manager,
it is considered necessary. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
on the acceptability of these conditions.
3.23      In the first two livestock projects and initially in the third one,
TCZB's stringent collateral requirements have impeded the flow of investment
credits of any magnitude to small farmers. Land was preferred as collateral.
Under the Fourth Project, arrangements were formulated to expand lending to
qualified small farmers through increased use of chattel mortgage on livestock
and machinery, and markedly liberalized use of creditworthy cosignatories. In
June 1979, TCZB institutionalized these procedures nationwide, with further
liberalization, to govern its overall lending operation to small farmers. In



- 38 -
the project, funds for such lending from Bank sources will amount to US$13.7
million, or about 44% of total Bank funds for on-lending to all project
farmers. Additional encouragement to TCZB to develop small farmer lending
under relaxed security conditions has also been provided by Gov_nment which
has undertaken to allow TCZB a 2.5% net spread on Bank funds under the project
to enable it to meet the additional expenses involved in such lending and
to create reserves against bad debts.
On-Lending Terms and Conditions
3.24      The interest rate mechanism in Turkey has traditionally played a
relatively minor role as an instrument of either maintaining monetary sta-
bility or influencing resource mobilization.  Rather, its main role has been
in medium- and long-term development management, as a tool for stimulating
investment and directing it into those sectors, for example agriculture, which
the Government has determined have priority for development. As a result,
interest rates do not necessarily reflect current market demand for credit
or the availability of capital. The interest rate structure is centrally
controlled, and rates for all types and all but the longest maturities of
deposits and credits are established by Cabinet decision. Both bank lending
and customer borrowing at medium term for priority investment are encouraged
by minimum quotas in relation to portfolio, differential reserve requirements,
Central Bank rediscounting facilities, and in many cases by interest subsidies
to both bank and borrower. However, recent government policy measures have
placed more emphasis on the use of interest rates as a flexible tool to in-
crease financial savings and ensure their flow into the most productive fields.
3.25      Resources for lending in agriculture are rationed according to the
annual program approved by the Higher Committee on Credit Regulation, to which
TCZB's management submits recommendations for productive investments. Funds
are rationed on the basis of present performance and loan demand projections.
For normal agricultural credit, resources are allocated among branch offices
on the basis of the branch managers' yearly reports indicating the area of
agricultural land classified by land types and crop production in the branch
territory, agricultural development potential, number of livestock, and number
of potential borrowers and their estimated credit requirements.
3.26      As inflation has accelerated in the last few years, all interest
rates have become negative in real terms. The Government therefore raised
both lending and deposit rates, slightly in April 1978 and drastically across
the board in May 1979. On January 25, 1980, lending rates have again been
increased by 2% over the levels prevailing since May 1979, i.e. from the 16%
applicable to most medium- and long-term agricultural lending, and 20%
prevailing for agroindustries, industry and commercial purposes. 1/
1/   Subloans under the First Project were made at 9% per annum for 12 years
with 4 years grace; under the Second Project at 9% per annum for 7
to 12 years with 1 to 4 years grace; and under the Third and Fourth
Projects (the latter as recently as 1978) at 11% per annum for 10 to
12 years with 2 to 4 years grace.



- 39 -
In addition, most borrowers are charged a transaction tax equivalent to
25% of the applicable interest rate, with the exception of TCZB's lending
to individuals, groups, farmer associations and cooperatives, for farm
investment purposes, including livestock development. There are also some
commissions on collateral held, stamp taxes and, in the case of agriculture,
contributions of subborrowers under Bank-financed projects to the SOF which
increase the cost of capital to borrowers by 1-2% per annum. On the other
hand, Government rebates are applicable on interest paid by individual subbor-
rowers amounting to 1% of interest for subborrowers located in a developed
region, and for those located in undeveloped regions according to the follow-
ing schedule: for loans under TL 150,000, 4%; TL 150,000-500,000, 3%; over
TL 500,000, 1%.
3.27      A significant start has been made by Government in relating the
real cost of lending to the cost of funds, as suggested in the recent economic
report (2657a-TU, dated December 12, 1979). Effective May 1, 1979, deposit
interest rates range from 0% on government deposits, 8.5% on Central Bank
borrowings and 12% on savings deposits up to one year, to 24% in the case of
fixed term deposits of three to four years. Deposit rates over four years are
to be negotiated between the saver and the bank. In any one institution, the
portfolio of loans with maturity of five years or more at negotiated rates
cannot be more than the total of deposits received at negotiated rates.
3.28          Under the project, medium and long-term subloans will be made at
the new basic rate of 18% per annum to individual farmers, groups, farmer
associations and cooperatives for subloans for livestock production, breed
improvement, broiler production and poultry parent and grandparent stock
farms. Corporations will pay in addition a transactions tax on interest, for
a total of 22.5%. For the regional processing centers and premix feed plant
under the poultry component, which are classified as agroindustries, the rate
to all subborrowers will be 22% plus transactions tax, for a total of 27.5%.
The rebate to individual subborrowers in developed regions, the commissions
and duties, and the contributions to the SOF, result in an effective cost
of TCZB loans to individuals of 18.5%. Given Government's policy to reduce
income inequities throughout Turkey, the rebates to individual borrowers
located in undeveloped regions would reduce the effective interest rates in
these cases to 17.5% for loans over US$7,000, or to 15.5% for loans under
that amount. The effective cost for agroindustries will be 28.5%. Maturities
will be 10 to 12 years, with 2 to 4 years grace, depending on the cash flow
generated by the farm plan. While these rates remain negative in real terms
in the short run, the actual cost should be measured over the commitment
period and expected life of the loans. Inflation has accelerated to 24% in
1977, 53% in 1978 and 64% in 1979. Because of uncertainties associated with
changes in economic structure expected in response to recent government policy
initiatives, it is difficult to forecast the rate of inflation with any
accuracy. However, if the Government's policies are effectively implemented,
inflation may decline to 50% in 1980, to 45% in 1981, 35% in 1982, before
reaching a much lower and tolerable level in the mid-1980s. As a result, the
effective charges of 18.5% and 28.5% per annum may be expected to imply posi-
tive real rates of about 1% and 8% respectively over the life of the loans.



- 40 -
Further, 60% of project beneficiaries will be small farmers with per capita
family incomes at or below the relative poverty level of US$275 per capita.
Nevertheless, they will pay progressive income taxes, since only family
incomes up to US$1,275 per annum are exempt. 1/
3.29      Debt service of subborrowers will be in equal installments.  Grace
periods for small farmers will be generally more favorable than for larger
farmers, but each case will be evaluated individually by project technicians,
depending on net income generated in the investment plan. No subloans to
a project farmer in excess of US$140,000 equivalent, individually or in total,
for dairy development and animal breed improvement, and no subloan exceeding
US$225,000 equivalent for poultry development will be made without prior
approval of the Bank. The appropriateness of the interest rates charged by
TCZB for project subloans and other terms and conditions will be reviewed in
the liYi' of changing conditions by TCZB, the Government and the Bank at
intervals not exceeding two years from loan effectiveness. The agreements
reached will thereafter be implemented. Assurances on these terms and condi-
tions were obtained at negotiations.
3.30      The Government will charge EBK and TYT the standard interest rate
for on-lending external official funds to SEEs (currently 10%). EBK and TYT
will bear the foreign exchange risk on both principal and interest. Govern-
ment policy, as stated to the IMF and the Bank, is to maintain Turkey's
competitiveness through exchange rate adjustments reflecting, in the medium
term, the difference between domestic and international inflation levels.
Therefore, the effective cost of the proposed foreign currency loans at 10%
with the full exchange risk is likely to be positive in real terms over the
life of the subsidiary loans and is acceptable. The cash flows indicate that
a repayment period by EBK and TYT to Government of 10 years including 2 years
grace is appropriate. Assurances on these relending terms were obtained during
negotiations.
3.31      As in earlier projects, a SOF will be established to be made avail-
able to LDP for partial payment of miscellaneous expenditures incurred in the
technical services provided to farmers under the project, and to provide
incentives to staff undertaking field work through increases in per diem, but
it will not be used to maintain and operate project vehicles. Expenditures
from this fund will be authorized by the General Director of LDP or any other
person duly designated by him for such purpose. TCZB will place in a SOF each
February 1 and August 1, out of the part of the interest received from sub-
borrowers and due to the Government, an amount equivalent to 0.5% per annum of
the total outstanding amount of TCZB's sub-loan to a sub-borrower, as and when
TCZB receives interest from the sub-borrower. Assurances to this effect were
obtained during negotiations. Agreed uses of the SOF are in Annex 5, Cl.
1/   A tax bill was submitted to the Turkish Parliament in March 1980 which
would, if passed, increase the exempted income limit to allow for
recent inflation.



- 41 -
C. Accounting and Auditing
3.32      EDLD will open separate accounts for the livestock and village
poultry components, as it did for the previous four projects. Each six
months, a summary of the accounts will be included in the semi-annual project
reports prepared by the project managers and submitted to the Bank through
TCZB (para. 3.35). The accounts will be audited annually by the Sworn Bank
Examiners of the Ministry of Finance, which procedure is satisfactory (para.
3.33). Copies of the certified accounts and and audit report in English will
be sent to the Bank within seven months of the end of TCZB's financial year.
Assurances on these matters were obtained during negotiations.
3.33      The project managers of the components of livestock production,
animal health, artificial breeding, meat and mohair processing, and the head
of LDP's coordinating unit for the poultry component will maintain accounts of
their respective expenditures on plant, equipment and technical services and
details will be included in the reports prepared by LDP for the Bank (para.
3.36). This arrangement worked satisfactorily in the four earlier projects.
These accounts will be subject to annual audit by the Financial Inspectors of
the Ministry of Finance in the case of government departments, and by the
Supreme Auditing Board in the case of EBK and TYT. Copies of the certified
accounts and audit reports in English will be sent to the bank within seven
months of the Government's fiscal year (ending February 28). Assurances on
these procedures were obtained during negotiations. These procedures were
the subject of a review by a Bank mission in October 1979 for the purpose of
determining whether existing Government auditing procedures in the agricul-
tural sector were satisfactory; they were found to be so.
3.34      The accounts of the SOF will be maintained by the General Director
of LDP who will be responsible for providing the Bank with a detailed account-
ing of expenditures from the Fund by March 31 of each project year. Assur-
ances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.35      Routine records will be kept by all project managers for their
respective components and their staff will collect and analyze sufficient
technical and financial data to evaluate the effects of the project and to
follow its progress against the project implementation schedule (Chart 21398).
Individual implementation schedules are shown in Annex 5, Cll.  LDP's project
manager of the livestock component and the head of the coordinating unit for
the poultry component will submit six-monthly progress reports to the Bank
through TCZB who will include a summary of the component accounts (para. 3.32)
and forward the report to the Bank within two months from the end of each
six-month period. LDP will monitor the progress of not less than 20% of all
farm plans in the livestock component and all plans in the poultry component
in the course of their implementation.



- 42 -
3.36      The project managers for the remaining components will submit six-
monthly progress reports to the Bank through the General Director of LDP,
overall coordinator of the project (para. 3.01). In addition, all project
managers will prepare contributions to a draft completion report   LDP will
coordinate the individual submissions as it is already familiar with comple-
tion report requirements and it satisfactorily assumed major responsibility
for the completion report of the First Livestock Project. The draft completion
report will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the Closing Date.
Assurances to this effect were received during negotiations.
3.37      GDVS, with the guidance of the technical specialist on mastitis
control, will keep records on at least 20% of the herds involved for the
purpose of evaluating progress made in controlling the disease.  Routine
records will also be kept of the number of animals vaccinated against
brucellosis and theileriosis, sufficient to determine the effectiveness in
controlling these disease when compared with the initial survey data (para.
2.16). GDANB will keep up-to-date records on insemination and pregnancy
coefficients, as well as milk production records on a representative sample
of herds to enable an estimate to be made of the average increases in produc-
tion obtained between generations.
IV. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Production
4.01      Substantial production increases are expected in liquid milk, red
and white meat and meat products, ruminants and poultry for breeding, raw
and processed fibre and forage crops. The increases at the farm level will
result from improved livestock, better husbandry and general farm management
through the application of supervised credit and technical assistance as in
prior livestock projects, and the development of input supplies and poultry
marketing channels for poultry producers. The productive capacity of native
livestock-at the national level will be increased through artificial insemina-
tion and natural cross-breeding with purebred stock, and the establishment of
disease identification and control programs. Increases in the production of
processed meat, meat by-products and fibre will be realized through the estab-
lishment of plant and facilities in regional poultry centers, the re-equipping
and expansion of two meat and 12 intestine processing facilities operated by
EBK, additional refrigerated railwagons, and the construction of TYT's mohair
processing plant at Afyon. A detailed discussion of the project's technical
aspects, and the assumed technical coefficients, is contained in Annex 4.
4.02      The key to production increases of large and small ruminants through
on-farm development is an expanded forage base, principally through better
utilization of fallow lands which currently produce very little useful feed
between successive cereal crops. More efficient land use and the resulting
additional forage should allow farmers to increase their overall feeding
efficiency and become less dependent on overgrazed communal pasture and



- 43 -
purchased feeds, particularly concentrates. Seven models--a cattle improve-
ment, a sheep and a goat improvement, and four dairy improvement models--
have been used to illustrate project impact. Each has its individual mix of
cropping, livestock and physical impacts (Annex 5, C2). The key to increased
poultry production is provision of higher grade chicks and enriched feed to
village broiler house operators, supplemented by guaranteed access to pro-
cessing and marketing facilities at reasonable cost. A village broiler house
model is utilized to examine project impact (Annex 5, C5) at the farm level.
At full development, incremental annual production for major project outputs
is estimated to be:
Without       Incremental           %
Product                    Units           Project       Production        Increase
Cows Milk /1              million 1          7.2              41.7             572
Sheep's Milk              million 1          0.11              0.7             645
Goat's Milk               million 1          0.05              0.15            300
Dairy Cattle               '000 hd.          3.80              2.20              58
Breeding Cattle            '000 hd.          0.60              1.20             100
Wool                       t                 6.6              66.8           1,012
Mohair                     t                18.3              70.5              385
Broilers                  million             -                5.5              -
Poultry Meat               t                  -            6,700                -
Starter Chicks            million             -                7.2              -
Layers                    million             -                0.4              -
Premix                     t                  -            7,000                -
Cut Meat (red)             t/day             3.0              12.0             400
Intestines                 '000 sets       180.0             283.0              57
Mohair Tops                t                  -              675.0               -
/1   Figure quoted derives from on-farm development.  Incremental milk produc-
tion resulting from artificial insemination and livestock disease control
activities is estimated to be 1,158.9 million litres.
B. Prices
4.03      Project input and output prices are based upon local, farmgate
and ex-factory prices as of November 1979 gathered in the project area from
producers, LDP technicians, the State Institute of Statistics, commercial
houses and foreign bidders.
C. Marketing
4.04      The project is expected to stimulate milk supplies in the project
area where there currently is a chronic shortage of milk (which is a charac-
teristic of the entire country). Demand projections indicate, furthermore,



- 44 -
that due to current increases in the demand for milk of 5.4% annually, deficits
in milk are expected to amount to 2.6 and 4.8 million tons nationally in 1985
and 1990 respectively. 1/ Incremental milk production from the project,
totalling some i.2 million tons per annum 2/ at full development, should
be readily absorbed, as buyers from both private and public sector plants and
private dealers are active throughout the project areas. Part of the milk
currently produced in the project area is consumed as milk products such as
cheese, butter, yoghurt and ayran; the remainder is consumed as liquid milk.
Most of the milk produced is either processed in the home or by village milk
traders. Currently, only 6% of total milk produced in the project area
reaches milk processing plants. It is expected that the large bulk of milk
output from the project will be consumed on the farm or sold locally. The
existing transport and storage capacity is considered adequate to handle the
small portion which will enter formal marketing channels during the project's
early years. In later years, after a substantial build-up of national milk
production occurs as a result of AI and animal disease control services
in the project, additional marketing facilities and capacity may be required.
It is expected that TSEK and private traders will continue to receive budget,
credits and other government incentives to enable them to respond as marketing
needs arise.
4.05       Supplies of red and white meat also are short; the country and the
project area face increasing deficits. In recent years the country has moved
from a comfortable surolus position in beef, veal, mutton and lamb to marginal
self-sufficiency as a result of incomes growth and population increase.
Rapid consumption grow.h of the order of 6-7% p.a. will outstrip the likely
growth in annual production of 2-2.5%. By 1985, Turkey will have become
import dependent for 23% of domestic demand for beef and veal, 36% for mutton
and lamb, and 27% for poultry meat, with further increases by 1990. 3/ Total
red meat production in 1978 is estimated to be 326,000 tons. About 60% is
processed by municipal and state slaughterhouses. The remainder is processed
by the farmers themselves or local butchers and consumed locally.
4.06      The current total poultry meat production of 180,000 tons includes
the output of farm flocks and the hybrid broiler sector. Hybrid stock,
operated by wholly integrated companies for large urban markets, presently
accounts for about 18% of total poultry meat production. The bulk of the
remainder is consumed in the village and on the farms. As there is a large
unsatisfied demand in local markets for fattening and breeding stock, no
1/   Turkey Agricultural Sector Survey (1976) estimates.  FAO, through the
International Scheme for Meat and Dairy Development (1976), indicates
a somewhat lower increase in demand annually (4%) - Fourth Livestock
Development Project (1977), Annex 4, B2.
2/   Figure quoted includes incremental production from AI and animal health
activities.
3/   Turkey Agriculture Sector Survey (1976) estimates.



- 45 -
difficulties in marketing the incremental outputs of these are foreseen. The
demand for boned beef and cut meat in Turkey is such that virtually all meat
produced by EBK would be consumed locally. The bulk of the finished intestine
product is used within its own processed meat departments. However, a small
but consistent export demand for both sheep and cattle intestines from Turkey
has developed in Europe. The use of the new equipment in the project would
markedly improve the quality of finished intestines to service this demand.
At present price levels, the export of processed mohair top will produce a
27.5% increase in its value as well as increased foreign exchange earnings.
D. Financial Analysis
Producer Income
4.07       Increases in income for the various subborrowers participating are
estimated to be as follows:
Per Capita
Annual Income
Without    With
Farm Size        No. of Sub-   Project   Project
(head)   (decares      borrowers            US> 
Dairy Improvement            5 cows       34           600          227         775
Dairy Improvement           12 cows       90           400          410       1,284
Dairy Improvement           20 cows      106           100          582       2,517
Dairy Improvement           30 cows      165            50          675       4,048
Breed Improvement           10 cows       35           600          346         707
Sheep Improvement           50 ewes       59           300          123         368
Goat Improvement           100 does       35           250          173         671
Village Broiler House    10,000 chicks /2              600          115         461
/1   For purposes of this analysis, it is assumed that there is a shift away
from some cropping to 100% livestock-related activity under with-project
conditions. Thus, at full development, all household income of project
farmers will derive from husbandry of large or small ruminants. In the
without project situation, the share of income from livestock activities
alone, would be much lower. Roughly 75% of the village broiler house
operator's with-project income will be derived from poultry. Under
pre-project conditions, seasonal jobs in the agricultural work force
constitutes his family's main source of income.
/2   Annual throughput.



- 46 -
Financial Rate of Return
4.08      Producers' benefits, classified for each farm category, and the
financial rates of return derived from the models, are summarized in Table
4.1. Incomes from dairy and breed improvement are expected to at least double
as a result of the growing demand for livestock products in markets to be
served by the project. All financial rates of return indicate that it should
be financially rewarding for livestock farmers to undertake the investments
and to introduce the supporting technology. Sensitivity tests are in general
satisfactory.  The analysis indicates that in the most adverse general situa-
tion which can be reasonably anticipated (a two-year lag in all revenue
producing activities under the with-project situation as a result of a one-
year lag in the completion of on-farm investments), no financial rate of
return will fall below 13.0% except for the 20-cow dairy model which becomes
12.6%. For the 12-cow and 20-cow dairy models the worst particular situation
(a 10% reduction in gross returns coupled with a 10% increase in costs)
will result in financial rates of return of 12.1% and 11.2%, respectively.
Detailed sensitivity analyses are in Annex 5, C2 and C13.   The trends in
prices paid to farmers and in the technical coefficients indicate that the
best estimate of the basic rate of return is more likely to be the case than
the lower values indicated by the sensitivity tests. The financial rate of
return for the village broiler house operators also is high. However, it is
very sensitive to adverse movement in benefits, costs and lags. As one of
five links in an integrated poultry operation, the VBH is not intended to
stand by itself in the face of marketing and procurement difficulties and
implementation problems. The entire poultry operation also is quite sensitive,
particularly to implementation lags, however it is considerably less sensitive
than the VBH taken separately (see Annex 5, C5 and C13), and more represen-
tative of actual risks facing the VBH operator (see para. 5.10).



- 47 -
Table 4.1: PRODUCERS' BENEFITS AND FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURN
Estimated Net Operating Income
from all Farming Activities       Financial
Without Project   With Project    Rate of3                         A
Unit Size ay,Full   Before  After/2  Before  After/2  Return'    Sensitivity Tests-
Development -        Taxes   Taxes    Taxes   Taxes  --       -----------------------
-- ---(us$T- -- - -- -
5-Cow Dairy        1,592   1,543      5,425   5,094       44.5      37.0  37.7  28.1
12-Cow Dairy        2,873   2,741      8,987   8,307       21.8      16.5  16.9  13.5
20-Cow Dairy        4,076   3,853    17,622  15,943        18.5      14.6  15.0  12.6
30-Cow Dairy        4,726   4,453    28,337  25,332        20.2      16.6  16.9  14.3
10-Cow Breeding    2,420   2,292       4,947   4,577       19.5      16.5  16.8  13.0
50-Ewe Breeding       860      860      2,577   2,487      19.3      17.2  17.4  15.0
100-Doe Breeding    1,214   1,214       4,696   4,427       30.5      27.1  27.5  23.2
Village Broiler
House                  -        -       2,420   2,292      29.7      15.7  16.3  -9.8
Integrated Poultry
Component                                 -       -        35.1      21.8  22.5   8.3
/1   Full development is reached in year 3 for the village broiler houses, year 9
for 50-ewe breeding and year 8 for all other models.
/2   Farm income under US$1,275 equivalent is exempt from tax.  A portion of all
farm income in excess of this amount is subject to per;onal income tax, the
applicable proportion being determined with reference to principal agricultural
activity.
/3   Calculated on incremental income from all farming activities before taxes (with
exception of village broiler houses).
/4   For the dairy and livestock breeding models, these columns represent the finan-
cial rates of return as benefits decrease 10%; investment and operating costs
increase 10%; or there exists a one-year lag in start-up and a two-year delay
in benefits. For the village broiler house model and the integrated poultry
operation (below the dashed line), these columns indicate sensitivity to a 5%
decrease in benefits; 5% increase in all costs; and a one-year delay in start-
up with a two-year delay in revenue generation.
4.09      Financial rates of return for the meat and mohair processing facili-
ties in the project are summarized below:
Financial Rate
Activity/Component                            of Return (%)
Meat Processing:
Kars Meat Cutting Plant                        33.6
Sakarya Meat Cutting Plant                     Over 100
Intestine Processing Facilities                Over 100
Mohair Processing                                45.8



- 48 -
The sensitivity analyses and cash flows for all of these facilities are
satisfactory (Annex 5, C6-C7 and C13) and can withstand a reasonable
decrease in incremental net benefits without imperiling their financial
viability.
4.10      The breakdown of the number of subborrowers and their income levels
with comparisons to the poverty level is shown in Annex 5, C14. It is
estimated that 60% of the subborrowers are expected to be at or below the
relative poverty level, which includes all of the 5-cow, sheep and goat
farmers, and village broiler house operators. Of the total funds on-lent
under the project for on-farm investments amounting to about US$53.5 million,
funds for such lending from Bank sources will amount to some US$13.7 million,
or about 44% of total funds from Bank sources for on-lending to all farmers.
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Economic Return
5.01      The principal annual benefits at full development in November 1979
prices will arise from the incremental production of poultry meat and ancillary
products (US$67 million) and other livestock products, principally milk, meat
and raw fibre (US$18 million from the livestock credit component and US$236
million from the AI and animal health components in year 11 of project incep-
tion). The benefit from cut meat and casings would be US$13 million, and that
of mohair about US$15 million. Approximately US$1.5 million in crop sales
will be foregone each year as a result of conversion of irrigated land to
intensive fodder production. Production of forage crops will increase, how-
ever, through modest increases in fertilization. 1/
5.02      The rate of return to the economy has been calculated on the basis
of seven livestock farm models assumed to be representative of different sub-
borrowers, a poultry farm model (VBH), as well as models for regional poultry
centers, parent and grandparent stock farms and the pre-mix feed, meat cutting
and mohair processing facilities (para. 4.02, Annex 4). The joint return to
AI and animal disease control was determined separately from a herd develop-
ment model for those components (Annex 4). No benefits have been imputed for
the breeding stock of the state farms (para. 2.21) and the refrigerated rail
wagons (para. 2.25). The following assumptions underlie the rate of return
calculations:
(a) Border prices of tradeables were applied and further adjusted on the
basis of projections in real terms provided in the list of the
Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections Department. For economic
1/   Details are contained in Table 5.1 and Annex 5, C12.



- 49 -
analysis, the domestic prices of non-traded goods and labor (para.
4.03) were adjusted, as appropriate, by standard conversion factors
for capital, intermediate and consumption goods (these were estimated
by staff to be 0.75, 0.80 and 0.86, respectively, for Turkey) to
translate them into border prices. The conversion factor for
consumption goods was applied to the value of farm labor under the
assumption that most labor income would be expended on wage goods.
(b) All livestock farms and poultry activities have been phased in
at the rate at which the individual farm or activity enters the
project. Annex 5, C2 and C5 show the expected number of farmers
and activities being phased in, classified by category and type.
The joint benefits to AI and animal health were phased in as addi-
tional teams are mobilized and equipped (Annex 5, C3 and C4).
Costs of training and studies, establishment of field offices and
laboratories, procurement of vehicles and equipment were phased
in according to the implementation schedules and investment tables,
as was also done for the meat and mohair processing facilities.
(c) Investment and operating costs were calculated using November
1979 prices, adjusted to represent costs at the farm or plant
level as appropriate.
(d) It is assumed that periodic nominal devaluation of the Turkish
Lira will continue until domestic inflation has been brought under
control. 1/
(e) The technical coefficients (Annex 4) for each farm model or
component, and farm- or factory-gate and procurement prices have
been applied in calculating the returns. For major commodities,
the trends in future prices have been based on Bank commodity price
projections. Benefits and costs were adjusted for all apparent
transfer payments such as taxes, duties, tariffs and subsidies. In
the case of EBK's operations, administered prices were replaced by
local market or border prices, as appropriate.
(f) For livestock farms, family labor was costed at the same vale as
that of its nearest alternative, which is US$1,910 equivalent
annually for a semi-skilled livestock farmhand in rural areas,
equivalent to employment of 300 days at US$6.37/day. Family labor
in the village broiler houses was costed at the daily wage for
unskilled farm hands of US$4.58. It is assumed that the annual
labor requirement of the village broiler houses would consume 75%
1!   Because non-tradeables weigh more heavily in the economics of the project
on the benefits side than on the cost side, the ERR would decrease if
future devaluations are not sufficient to offset domestic inflation (i.e.
if the currency becomes overvalued). The ERR will increase if an over-
adjustment occurs and the currency becomes undervalued.



- 50 -
of the operator's work-day. Thus their effective annual wage is
US$1,030 equivalent. Wages of skilled workers, managerial and
administrative personnel were costed at the market rate.
(g) A project life of 20 years was assumed in the analysis of all
components. Residual herd values and scrap values for machinery
were credited to the benefit stream of the farm models at the
end of the project life, foregone crop sales from the pre-project
situation were deducted throughout the project life.
5.03      Based upon these criteria and data in Table 5.1, the economic
rate of return of the project is estimated to be 71.1%. The joing net bene-
fits of AI and animal health are very high. When estimates of the AI and
animal health components are excluded from the calculation, the ERR of the
entire project decreases to 29.7%. The ERR of individual components and
relevant switching values are listed below and detailed in Annex 5, C12.
Switching Values/1
Percent Change -
% of
Inve 72ment
ERR     Benefits      Costs      Cost-
Entire Project                        71.1      -42.3        73.2          100
Entire Project w/o AI and
Animal Health                       29.7     -11.5        13.0            64
By Component:
AI and Animal Health               111.9     -59.3       145.8            36
Livestock Production and
Breed Improvement                19.5      -22.5        29.1            34
Poultry Production                  32.2      -7.5          8.1           24
Meat Processing                     71.5     -13.8         16.0            3
Mohair Processing                   39.1     -13.2         15.2            3
Total                                                                100
/1   Percentage change required in benefits or costs to reduce the ERR of
the project to the opportunity cost of capital (assumed to be 12%).
/2   Financial costs.



- Si
TURKEY                                                        T&ble 5.1
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVT PROJECIT
SUMM1ARY ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(LUS$ MILLION)
YEAR         1981     1982     1983      1984     1985      1986     1987      1988     1989     1990      1991     19y? .      6
INUR PENEIIrS
LIVISrOCK PIP4              0.34    0.84       1.36     2.38    4.60       7,07     8.83.  11,28    1.4.40   14.86   .17.97?  1H,0  0 If.Io
AI & VET                    0.00    5.84   15.61   29.94   57.90   88.8J5  120.00  149,96 ,11,0.96  209.67  2,36.32  258,-20  ', /
F'OULfRY                    0.00  ,2.45        7.39    14.70   24.89   39.32   49.38   57,36   63.21   66.22   66.64   66.64   66.64
MEAT F9)ZOCESSING           0.00    12.42    12.49    12.54   12.60    12.65    12.65    12,65    12.65   12.65   12,65    t 2. 6,   12.'65,
MOHAIR PROCESSING           0,00     0.76      4.57    8.89   13,98   15.25   15.25    15.25    15.25   15,25   15 .251    I,2              15.I;25
*           f~~~~~~OTAL 1NCR B4ENEFITS    0.34   22.30   41,42   68.46  113.97  163.14  206.11  246.50  2R6.47  318.65  348.84  3/0.81)   919.:?7
TNCR COSTS
LIVESTOCK PlSr              3.53     3,65      4.04     5.50    9.89    12.10       7.30      8.28'   8,85    9.29        9.53     9.66      9.42
Al I VEr                    4.08     7.46   14.94   22.67   34.95   45.77   54.62   61,45   68.63   7b,51   82.55   89.35   96.,o:
FoujIrRY                    0.36     5.78      9.02    16.63   26.51   40.6?    44.12   50,26   55,.25   57,73   518.05   58.9.1  5,R,42
MEAIT PROCESSING            2.40   11.35   10,35    10.36   10.38    10,40   101.40   10.40   101.40   10.40    10, 40   1 1.0(5    1 0, 4(
MOHAIR PROCESSINO           1.09     3.13      4.18     8,29   12,40    12.40    12.40    12.40   12.40   12.40   12,40    12.40    12.40
TOTAL INCR COSTS             11.47   31,36   42,54   63.46   94,13  121.34  128.83  142.78  155,53  165.33  172.93  .181.37  186.e69
INCR NET I4ENEFI TS
INCR NET BENEFITS           -11.13   -9.06   -1.12        4,99   19.84   41,79   77.28  103,71  t30.94  153.33  175.91  189.42  205,59
YEAR         1994     1995     1996      1997     1998      1999    2000      2001    2002    2003         2004     200(1
1NCR B4ENEFITS
LIVESTOCK PIG              18,32   18,32    18.32    18,32   18.32   18.32   38.99   35.6')   32.1?   27.98   22.61    11,90
AI & VET                 298.38  314.58  329.53  343.22  356,69  370.16  383.62               0.00     0.00    0.00       0.00     (1,00
POULTRY                   66.64   66.64   66,64   66,64   66.64   66.64   66.64   50.12   41.95   30,80    16.52                   0.1)0
MEAT PROCESSING            12.65   12,65    12.65    12.65   12.65    12.65   12,78           0.00    0.1)0    0.00       0,00     0.00
MOHAIR PROCESSING          15.29    15,25    15.25    15.25   15.25    15.25    19.28         0,00    0.00    0.00        0.00     0.00
TOTAL 1NCR BENEFITS         411.24  427,45  442.40  456.09  469,56  483.03  521.32   85.72   74.12   58,78   39.13    11.90
INCR COSTS
LIVESTOCK P&B               9.43     9.44      9.72     9,82    9,57       9,86     9.90      9.27    8.02    6.82    5.61         3.16
Al A VET                 102.77  109.45  116.22  122.85  129.44  136.04  142,62               0,00     0.00    0.00    0.00        0,00
POULTRY                    58.50   58.65   58.73   58.38   58.05   58.05   58.05   42,56   35.62   26,98    14.29                  0.00
MEAT PROCESSING            10.40   10.40    10,40    10.40   10.40   10.40    10.40           0.00     0.011    0.00      0.00     0.01)
MOHAIR PROCESSING          12.40    12.40   12.40    12,40   12.40   12.40    12,40           0.00     0.00    0.00    0,00        (1.00
TOTAL INCR COSTS            193.50  200.34  207.46  213.85  219.86  226.75  233.38   51,83   43,65   33.79   19.89                   3.16
INCR NET GENEFITS
I8CR NET BENEFITS           217.74  227.12  234.94  242.24  249,70  256.28  287.94   33.89   30.48   24.99   18.24                   8.75
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 12.0OX    670.                               NET PRESENT VALUE AT 12%= 66.
INTERNAL RATE OF RETUJRN    71.1X                                  INT.ERNAL, RATE OF RETURN WITHOUT A I & V E T= 29.7%
LIVESTOCK P114= LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION II BREEDING
Al I VET   ARTIFICIAL INSEMINATION A ANIMAL HEALTH



- 52 -
5.04      The analysis of switching values shows that relatively large varia-
tions in benefits and costs are required to reduce the project's ERR to 12%
and thereby imperil its viability. A decrease in real terms of total benefits
by 42.3% would be required to do so. Similarly, a respective real increase of
combined total investment and operating costs of the order of 73.2%, is
required. Thus, even higher percentage overruns on investment would have to
occur in order to make the project marginal. 1/ In concrete terms the switch-
ing values indicate that poultry yields would have to decrease from 1.6 kg to
about 0.8 kg/bird, which is well below the average weight of native stock,
before the economic return would fall to 12%.  If net cow milk yields at full
development declined by half, the ERR of the project would fall to 36.2%.
Production data from the Tarsus poultry project and from previous livestock
projects indicate a high likelihood of higher poultry and milk yields being
obtained than lower. Further, the probability of meat and milk prices decreas-
ing appreciably is very unlikely given the overall milk and meat shortages.
An analysis of switching values by component, indicates that the AI, animal
health and livestock credit components, when estimated separately, are fairly
insensitive to risk. These account for 70% of total project costs. The meat
and mohair processing investments are moderately insensitive; however, the
poultry component can only tolerate a 7.5% decline in benefits or an 8.1%
increase in costs. Since the poultry investments will undertake most of the
investment in processing facilities required for a nationwide poultry develop-
ment program, but only the first phase of an implementation plan for village
broiler houses, many of the benefits which will ultimately accrue have not
been included in the calculation. This, coupled with the small farmer orienta-
tion of the componenc, make the economic risk acceptable (para. 5.10).
B. Employment, Food Supply and Other Benefits
Employment Benefits
5.05      The quantified direct beneficiaries of the project are the approx-
imately 2,900 farm families (about 20,300 persons) who increase their farm
income, mostly from livestock and poultry sources. They will have not only a
higher income but a more even annual distribution of revenues. Employment in
livestock activities will be provided for these farm families plus about 650
families providing labor, benefitting a population of some 24,800 persons. 2/
An additional 2,130 jobs would be created in the artificial insemination and
animal health services, in upstream and downstream poultry activities, and in
the meat and mohair processing activities. Better utilization will be made
of the labor directly involved.
1/   Plots of benefit and cost curves vis-a-vis the opportunity cost of
capital and loci of switching values (component by component, and for
the entire project) are presented in Annex 5, C12.
2/   Many more families which cannot be quantified will benefit from the
provision of AI and animal health services.



- 53 -
5.06      Indirect beneficiaries include the suppliers of goods and services
widely scattered throughout the project area, especially those dealing with
machinery services, building construction and feedstuff supplies.
Indirect Consumption Benefits
5.07      The incremental milk production of over 42,500 tons annually at full
development will provide milk for the equivalent of an additional 387,000
indirect beneficiaries at the present level of per capita national consumption
(110 liters annually). This contribution is considered particularly important
since the major part of this production is expected to be marketed in small
urban clusters within rural areas where milk is scarce. The annual incre-
mental production of dressed red meat of 511 tons and of poultry meat of 6,700
tons will provide animal protein for an additional 1 million indirect bene-
ficiaries (per capita national consumption being 21.8 kg of red meat and 6.6
kg of white meat per year). 1/ Household expenditure data indicate that the
poor in rural Turkey spend as large a share of their incomes on meat and milk
as do the relatively better-off (Annex 5, C14). By helping to relieve
upwards pressure on milk and meat prices in the project area, a sizable share
of the indirect benefits could accrue to low-income households.
Other Benefits
5.08      The annual incremental sales of livestock and hybrid chicks (2,200
head of dairy cattle, 1,200 head of breeding cattle, 5,750 head of breeding
goats, and 7.2 million parent chicks) 2/ at full development will assist to
meet the scarcity of high quality stock in Turkey needed for herd and flock
development. The utilization of fallow for intensified fodder crop production
will demonstrate the value of this agricultural practice which is new to many
parts of the project area and relieve pressures from overgrazing on natural
pasture. The manufacture of premix concentrate and ultimate mixing with
bulk ingredients will demonstrate the viability of producing feed for hybrid
chickens using local materials. Other significant benefits include the
following:
(a) quantified foreign exchange savings of $17.2 million per year
at full development will result from the export of mohair tops
and meat casings, and the substitution of parent stock chick
production for imported chicks. If the expected meat deficit
1/   Estimates of milk and red meat production exclude benefits from the AI
and Animal Health components. Although the number of additional con-
sumers who would thereby benefit cannot be quantified because of the long
gestation period for the AI and Animal Health services in the project,
these beneficiaries will run into the millions.
2/   These estimates exclude incremental cattle sales resulting from AI, which
are unquantified, but will be extremely large in amount.



- 54 -
materializes in Turkey, substantial additional foreign exchange
savings would be realized by augmented domestic supplies of
red and white meat from the project;
(b) genetic improvement of the national herd through top-crossing
indigenous livestock with imported semen and improved exotic
breeds;
(c) reduction of mortality and increased milk and meat yields as a
result of systematic control of mastititis, brucellosis, and
theileriosis;
(d) introduction of newer methods of husbandry and management result-
ing in better land utilization and overall higher herd and flock
productivity;
(e) establishment of infrastructure at the national level, providing
trained manpower, technical studies and services directed to devel-
opment of the project area; for the AI and animal health services,
such institution building will be nationwide;
(f) institutionalization of credit facilities in some of Turkey's rural
areas, especially by giving small farmers access to medium-and
long-term investment credits which currently are not readily avail-
able;
(g) increased supplies of milk and meat for processing by Government
plants which currently are operating under capacity, thereby
increasing their efficiency of operation; and
(h)  establishment of facilities and procedures to produce export quality
mohair and casings, which could be utilized in other similar facili-
ties to develop important new avenues of foreign exchange earning.
C. Project Risks
5.09      A risk which could affect project viability concerns possible delays
in the implementation of the package of investments and on-farm activities on
each individual farm. There are examples in the earlier livestock projects in
which a farm plan was started and commitments were made by the sub-borrower
and a key input (foreign shipments of livestock or machinery) was delayed.
Fortunately, such examples were few, but, for reasons often beyond the control
of the project implementing agency, this situation could still occur and it
could have serious consequences in individual cases. The financial analysis
(paras 4.07-4.08 and Table 4.1) has taken into account, under the sensitivity
tests, the conservative alternative of a one-year lag in the implementation
of the package, with resultant satisfactory financial viability. With the
accumulated experiences of LDP in purchases of foreign livestock, tractors
and machinery in the four earlier projects, delays in arrivals of foreign
shipments are expected to be minor.



- 55 -
5.10      The small villager, owning perhaps no more than two hectares of land,
is the principal target of the poultry component. The sensitivity analysis
indicates that the viability of the broiler house operation depends upon
timely and coordinated implementation of the processing centers, premix
facility, and parent and grandparent stock farms. The efficient operation of
each is required to service marketing channels and prevent shortages in the
availability of breeding chicks and feed. In particular, establishment of
regional poultry centers and associated clusters of village broiler houses
will have to proceed simultaneously. For this reason, at project start-up in
any new region TCZB will require that loan applications for VBH financing be
accompanied by evidence that an RPC cooperative has been formed by groups of
at least 20 farmer applicants including the applicant in question, and that
an application for financing the RPC's facilities be received in parallel.
In regions where an RPC has already been established under the project, new
applicants for VBH financing will be required to submit evidence of membership
in the respective RPC cooperative. Strong emphasis has been placed on train-
ing during the year prior to commencement of operation (para 2.14).
5.11.     Turkey's current economic problems--the shortage of GOT counterpart
funds and the general scarcity of foreign exchange--has hampered the imple-
mentation of on-going projects in the livestock subsector (see paras 2.09-
2.10). The impact has been most acute on the level of government salaries
and allowances which are generally too low to attract sufficient numbers of
qualified staff for service in hardship areas, and on procurement of project
vehicles, spares and petroleum products for their operation and maintenance.
It is considered that staffing will not pose particular difficulties in the
present project, which will be mainly located in Central, Southern and Western
Turkey. The experience of the First and Third Projects, also located there,
in contrast with the Second and Fourth Projects which were located in Eastern
Turkey, tends to bear this out.  Vehicle procurement was slow under previous
projects because GOT regulations required that most be procured locally--
sufficient local budget was not forthcoming.  The policy was changed during
negotiations for the Fourth Project, and Bank finance was provided for inter-
national tender. The same procedure has been negotiated in the proposed
project, including provision for importation of adequate spare parts as part
of each procurement package. The resolution of shortages in gasoline and
automobile lubricants is beyond the scope of the project, though it is
expected that the strong fiscal and financial measures recently adopted by
GOT in consultation with the IMF, will strengthen Turkey's balance of payments
position and lead to increased availability of these items.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      Agreement having been reached on the principal issues referred to
in Chapters II and III, and subject to the conditions of effectiveness and
disbursement referred to in paras 2.09, 2.16, 2.35-2.36 and 3.18, the project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$51.0 million to the Government of Turkey
for a term of 17 years at 8.25% interest per annum with a grace period
of 4 years.



- 56 -
ANNEX 1
TURKEY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year           Disbursed During Quarter       Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter              -----------------------US$'000----------------------
1981
March 31                                200                             200
June 30                                 800                           1,000
1982
September 30                          1,000                           2,000
December 31                           1,800                           3,800
March 31                                500                           4,300
June 30                               1,000                           5,300
1983
September 30                          1,500                           6,800
December 31                           2,000                           8,800
March 31                              1,500                          10,300
June 30                               2,000                          12,300
1984
September 30                          2,500                          14,800
December 31                           3,000                          17,800
March 31                              2,000                          19,800
June 30                               3,500                          23,300
1985
September 30                          5,000                          28,300
December 31                           6,500                          34,800
March 31                              1,500                          36,300
June 30                               2,000                          38,300
1986
September 30                          3,000                          41,300
December 31                           3,500                          44,800
March 31                              1,500                          46,300
June 30                               2,000                          48,300
1987
September 30                          1,000                          49,300
December 31                           1,700                          51,000



TURKEY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Total Project Cost and Phasing
(us$ Million)
------- 1981 -------        ------- 1982 -------         ------- 1983 ------    -      ------ 1984 ----     -       ------ 1985 -------    -    ------ 1986 ----              ------- TOTAL ------
L      F       T            L       F       T            L       F       T            L      F       T             L              T           L      [        T             _        F       I
Livestock Production
and Breed Iporoesient                                                                                                                                                                                        6     46      96
Base Cost                 2.23   1.76    3.99          2.04   1.44    3.48          1.69   1.50    3.19          1.93   1.98    3.91          3.21   4.11    7.22         3.56   4.17    7.73           14.66   14.66   29.62
Price  ncreases           0.33   0.26    0.29          0.51   0.36    0.87          0.59   0.53    1.12          0.85   0.87    1.72          1.73   2.22    3.95         2.28   2.67    4.95           6.29    6.91   12.90
Subtotal                  2.56   2.02    4.58          2.55   1.80    4.35          2.28   2.03    4.31          2.78   2.85    5.63          4.94   6.33   11.27         5.84   6.84   12.68          20.95   21.87   42.82
Villase Poultry
Devsloe t0ent
Base Cost                 0.04   0.33    0.37          1.58   1.90    3.48          1.20   1,27    2.47          1.83   1.80    3.63          2.40   2.11    4.51         3.26   2.61    5.87           10.31   10.02   20.33
Price Increases           0.01   0.05    0.06          0.40   0.48    0.88          0.42   0.44    0.86          0.80   0.79    1.59          1.30   1.14    2.44         2.09   1.67    3.76           5.01    4.57    9.58
Subtotal                  0.03   0.38    0.43          1.98   2.38    4.36          1.62   1.71    3.33          2.63   2.59    5.22          3.70   3.25    6.95         5.35   4.28    9.63           15.32   14.59   29.91
Animal Health
Bass Cost                 0.35   0.47    0.82          0.47   0.24    0.71          1.20   0.35    1.55          0.90   0.14    1.04          0.90   0.14    1.04         0.90   0.13    1.03           4.72    1.47    6.19
Price Increase           90.05   0.07    0.12          0.12   0.06    0.18          0.42   0.12    0.54          0.40   0.06    0.46          0.49   0.08    0.57         0.58   0.08    0.66            2.06    0.47    2.53
Subtotal                  0.40   0.54    0.94         .0.59   0.30    0.89          1.62   0.47    2.09          1.30   0.20    1.50          1.39   0.22    1.61         1.48   0.21    1.69           6.78    1.94    8.72
Ease Cost                 3.08   1.87    4.95          3.32   0.85    4.17          3.60   1.28    4.88          3.43   0.45    3.88          3.67   0.95    4.62         3.56   0.12    3.68          20.66    5.52   26.18
Price Increases           0.46   0.28    0.74          0.83   0.21    1.04          1.26   0.45    1.71          1.51   0.20    1.71          1.98   0.51    2.49         2.28   0.08    2.36            8.32    1.73   10.05
subtotal                  3.54   2.15    5.69          4.15   1.06    5.21          4.86   1.73    6.59          4.94   0.65    5.59          5.65   1.46    7.11         5.84   0.20    6.04           28.98    7.25   36.23
Mest Processing
BaSe Cost                 0.81   2.31    3.12           -    0.02    0.02                           -      -       -                           -      -        -           -       -       -             0.81    2.33    3.14
Price Increases           L.1    G.35    L.4             -    L.0    OI.0            -       -       -            -      -        -            -       -       -           -       -       -             0.12    0.36    0.48
Subtot.s                  0.93   2.66    3.59            -     0.03    0.03          -      -0.93    2.69    3.62
Mobsir Proc55slOne-                                                                                                                                                                  -       -a                    2.0     38
oase Cost                 0.67   0.66    1.33          0.29   1.74    2.03          0.01    -       0.01         0.01    -       0.01          -       -       -.Q8    2.40    3.38
Price Increases           0.10   0.10    0.20          0.07   0.44    0.51          0.00    -       0.00         -                              -            -       -       - __.1    0.54    0.71
Subtotal                  0.77   0.76    1.53          0.36   2.18    2.54          0.01    -       0.01         0.01    -      0.01           -       -       -           -       -       -             1.15    2.94    4.09
Total
Base Cost                 7.18   7.40   14.58          7.70   6.19   13.89          7.70   4.40   12.10          8.10   4.37   12.47         10.18   7.31   17.49        11.28   7.03   18.31           52.14   36.70   88.84
Price Increases           L.7   1.11    2.18           1.93   1,56    3.49          2.69   1.54    4.23          3.56   1.92    5.48          5.50   3.95    9.45         7.23   4.50   11.73           21.97   14.58   36.55
Grand Total               L       8.5   16.76          9.63      75z  17.38        10.39   5.94   16.33         11.66   6,29   17_95         15.68  11.26   26.94        18.51  11.53   30.04           74.11   51.28  125.39
March 3, 1980



-  0   0    0    0    0    0                 -           -      -   0~ ss 
o          4                             0 g             0      0n  4   g       0   0  s 
0 s           0    0          4                  O          s 0       0s
0                     4                      4                  0           4   S   00
0                 0                          0                  0          0   _   00
0                 4             S                              0 f             0    00  s
0               -        a                                                    -    r   ~q
0o                4                          4 _o                          4   0   04I
0u                0                          0                  4          0   0   4
0                 4                          4,  '                         4   0   004    
g       N                 S             v~0  0  0 S                     0   0      0   0s  00r
0                      4             00       0   0         D        0          4   0   00a
- ,   a                              4                               0          0 0a   04 =       S
a ~ ~   ~                           00      0   0          -            0      0        00
0       0              00       0   0                  le         0   0    00e
a           i     4             00 0l     ;                                4   0        _
0                      S 2          E  a               2                   00 4S 
a 0                       a      0      0S  0                2                 0   00 Oa
0C          -                   00 O  a        1 1 2            _          0   0   44m
_                     0 ;  a         oi                     000;0_
4                 0a            00      0                          0      0   0   00  ^ a _ 
0               00       0   -                        00040.s - -          *7 < t   
0             0             00       0   0X  0                        4   0   00  >,
0             4      f      04       4   s           9          -      S   02af .c
u             0             00       0   0                             0   0    00      c >9~~ 



- 59 -                           ANNEX 4
Page 1
TURKEY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Aspects of the Project
1.        The project is designed to relieve several technical constraints
to greater productivity in Turkey's livestock subsector, through further
diffusion of production, breeding and processing methods which have been
successfully adapted elsewhere in Turkey under four previous Bank-assisted
projects and in other countries. These include:
(a) pasture, feedstuff and concentrate production;
(b) dairy development and cattle breed improvement;
(c) breed improvement for sheep, goats and poultry;
(d) upgrading and expansion of animal health, and artificial
insemination services;
(e) more efficient processing of project and related outputs,
including mohair, red and white meat and by-p-oducts; and
(f) refrigerated transport of meat products.
2.        Farms to be developed under the project are represented by seven
livestock models and a village broiler house model (para. 4.02, Annex 5, C2
and C5).  All livestock farms will have in common some dairy or livestock
production activity at the preproject stage including access to irrigated land
and sufficient pasture to provide for necessary forage. Many will have devel-
oped improved management through government technical services.
Pasture and Feedstuff Production
3.        Under the project, emphasis will be given to increased fodder corn,
alfalfa, sainfoin, vetch and oat production, in the form of silage, green feed
and hay. These forages will supplement straw and native pasture and, in
combination with them, are expected to provide the principal nutrient intake
of large and small ruminant production. Concentrates will be used sparingly
to complement these feeds, usually only during the winter months and seasonal
dry spells. The greater use of urea and molasses in conjunction with straw
will also be explored in order to minimize the use of concentrates for winter
feeding. Increases in pasture, forage crop and feedgrain production will be
achieved mainly by more effective use of fallow lands in rotation with wheat
and other crops, but some reduction in the output of cash crops, such as
sugar beet and wheat will be inevitable and this has been allowed for in the
analysis. Forage production is continued, with modest intensification through



- 60 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 2
fertilization and some weed and pest control. Emphasis on fallow development
in forage will also mitigate pressures on meadowlands and pasture from over-
grazing.  Assumed forage crop yields at full development are as follows:
Annual Yield (T/ha)
Without Project    With
Crop                                   Years 0-20       Project
Wheat:  non-irrigated                       1.0
Wheat:  irrigated                          1.5               -
Corn silage                                 -              50.0
Green corn                                  -              40.0
Alfalfa (hay)                              8.5             12.0
Meadow grass (hay)                         3.0              3.0
Sanfoin (hay)                               -               4.0
Wilted oat and vetch                       3.0              3.5
Fodder beet                                 -              16.4
Sugar beet                                30.0               -
4.        The concentrate requirement of broiler production in the project
will be satisfied through the processing of pre-mix and distribution to
village broiler houses by the farmer-owned regional processing centers.
Feedstock for mixed concentrate will be obtained from the pre-mix feed plant
to be implemented in parallel. The formula underlying the production of
mixed concentrate relies on one ton of pre-mix concentrate for every 9 tons
of bulk ingredients. Each ton of pre-mix will consist of meat and bone
meal (500 kg), fish meal (450 kg), vitamins and chemicals (40 kg), and other
(10 kg). The bulk ingredients are available in local markets and include
corn, wheat, wheat seedlings, sunflower and cotton seed meal, oil and others.
The requirement was determined from comparable broiler production activities
which exist in Turkey (Tarsus), with allowance for less efficient utilization
of pre-mix during the project's early years.
Livestock and Poultry Development Models
5.        Production and other technical coefficients for dairy and ruminant
breed improvement are based mainly on the performance of beneficiaries under
previous and on-going projects, the exceptions being improvement of goat
herds, which were determined from LDP's field experience. Net sales of
cow milk is expected to increase from 700 to 4,000 kg per lactation as a
result of crossbreeding with purebred cows to be imported under the project.
Annual sales of sheep milk is expected to increase from 50 kg to 60 kg per
ewe while goat yields remain constant at 30 kg per year. Lower yields mainly
reflect the smaller genetic improvement which is expected in sheep and goats
and emphasis on raw fiber production; merino wool and mohair yields respec-
tively increase from 3.0 to 3.5 kg and from 2 to 2.6 kg per annum. Liveweight
and carcass sale prices of ruminant livestock increase at full development.
With cattle and goats it is assumed that the pre-project herd is sold during
the first year of the project. For sheep, the pre-project herd provides the
initial stock which will be crossbred with merinos. The residual herd values
are credited tc the last year in the financial and economic analyses.



- 61 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 3
6.        Technical coefficients for poultry (broiler) production were derived
from the ongoing smallholder poultry project at Tarsus under the guidance of
TKV. Net production of finished birds is expected to increase from a negli-
gible amount to about 5.5 million per year as a result of the facilities and
technical services in the project. The finished yield is expected to be 1.6
kg liveweight as a result of introducing hybrid stock, raised under a con-
trolled environment with reduced mortality, compared with average yields of
1.2 kg for unimproved local stock. A further benefit of hybridization is a
shorter maturation period per bird. As a result, each village broiler house
(with capacity of 2,000 chicks) can produce 12.2 tons of white meat per year
whereas annual production with local stock would only be 5.1 tons.
7.        Selected coefficients for cattle, sheep, goats and poultry produc-
tion are as follows (detailed models are shown in Annex 5, C2 and C5).
Without                    Year
Coefficient                       Project        1      2       3       4     5-20
Dairy Improvement
Calving rate (%                      60       100     90      90     90        90
Calf mortality (%)                   15        10     10       9       9        9
Cow mortality (%)                    10         5      5       5       5        5
Lactation yield (kg/cow)            700     3000   3200   3500   4000        4000
Net milk sales (kg/cow/year)        600     2700   2900   3200   3700        3700
Beef Cattle Improvement
Calving rate (%)                     60        70     70      70     70        70
Calf mortality (%)                   15        10     10      10     10        10
Cow mortality (7)                    10        15      5       4      4         4
Lactation yield (kg/cow)            800      1200   1500   1500   2000       2000
Net milk sales (kg/cow/year)        680      1000   1000   1100   1200       1400
Sheep Improvement
Lambing rate (%                      70        80     80      90     90        90
Lamb mortality (%)                   20        15     15      10      10       10
Ewe mortality (X)                    15        10     10       7       7        7
Lactation yield (kg/ewe/yr)          50        50     50      60     60        60
Wool yield (kg/head)                   3         3      3       3.5    3.5       3.5
Angora Goat Improvement
Kidding rate (%)                     60        60     70      80     80        80
Kid mortality (%)                    25        20     15      15     10        10
Doe mortality (%)                     8         8      8       6       6        6
Lactation yield (kg/doe/yr)          30        30     30      30     30        30
Mohair yield (kg/head)                2         2      2.2    2.2    2.6        2.6



- 62 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 4
Poultry (Broiler) Coefficients
Growing period:                        56 days
Starter chicks/batch:                  2130
Feed conversion ratio:                 2.1
Liveweight/finished broiler:           1.6 kg
Batches completed/year:                5 (4 in year 1)
Mortality:                             6%
Dressing ratio:                        0.76
Artificial Insemination and Animal Health
8.        In the project, AI and animal health services will be provided in
parallel to up to 13 provinces. 1/ The two activities are mutually suppor-
tive, particularly AI and mastititis control, thus the main quantifiable bene-
fits from AI are treated as joint products of improved artificial insemination
services and mastitis, brucellosis and theileriosis control. Based on detailed
livestock census data the proportion of native cows which would be inseminated
under the project is conservatively estimated at 50%. It is assumed that
farmers using the service would be above average and their pre-project milk
yields are 700 kg per year. Meat production also will increase due to the
increased growth rate of larger crossbred animals. As a result of further top-
crossing with semen of pure-bred sires, milk and meat yields would increase as
follows (Annex 5, C3-C4):
Incremental Yields
Generation                                 Milk (kg/yr)  Meat
F1 (first cross)                            800              90
F2 (second cross)                           600              10
F  (third cross)                            500              10
F4 (fourth cross)                           400              10
Purebred                                    300               -
The additional feed requirement to realize these increments is assumed to be
1 kg. of concentrates for each 3.5 kg. of additional milk, 2 kg. of feed dry
matter to maintain each additional kg of liveweight gain for meat production.
1/   AI also would cover 7 additional provinces, for a total of 20; the animal
health services would be extended to 3 additional provinces, for a total
of 16.



- 63 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 5
Processing and Transport
9.        The designs and size of the project's meat processing, transporta-
tion and mohair components were determined from an analysis of markets served,
existing capacity and management, and the availability of production inputs and
raw materials. The Kars facility would handle a throughput of 1,500 sheep and
200 cattle per day, representing the composition of demand in Eastern Anatolia
and nearby Soviet and Iranian markets. The Sakarya facility is designed to
process a relatively larger number of cattle to service demand from Istanbul.
The strippers/crushers and finishing machines with trolleys and tanks will be
installed for intestine processing of export quality in 12 existing plants.
These will be designed to handle a maximum of 2,200 sheep and 400 cattle per
day. Throughput for all of these facilities would originate in part from
on-farm beneficiaries of this and previous livestock projects in Turkey. The
transport of processed meat and by-products from the Kars plant to markets in
the West of Turkey would be improved by provision of 12 refrigerated rail
wagons. At present, shipment of meat and intestines from EBK's processing
facilities is mostly by road and costly; the provision of additional rail
wagons provides an economical alternative on longer hauls (paras. 2.24-2.25).
10.       A factory with capacity of processing 1,000 tons per year of high
valued greasy mohair suitable for export will be located in Afyon adjacent to
the four largest mohair producing provinces in Turkey. Initially, machinery
will be installed capable of processing 333 tons (greasy weight) per single
shift year, which will later be expanded by adding production shifts. Tech-
nical parameters of the meat and mohair capacity are set forth below and
detailed in Annex 5, C6 and C7.
Facility             Coefficient                        Kars          Sakarya
Meat Cutting         Design throughput (boned)           5 t/day      10 t/day
Equivalent carcass throughput    7000 kg/day  13000 kg/day
Dressed cattle (quarters)          200/day       360/day
No. boners required                6             12
Boned meat per 8 hr day/bones    833 kg          833 kg
Intestines
Processing          No. of facilities:                12
Intestine yield/animal:
Cattle - large intestine          5 m
- small intestine        25 m
Sheep                            28 m
Maximum machine capacity:        300 sets/hr
Mohair Processing   Designed throughput:              333 tons greasy
per shift year
Yields:
Cleaned mohair top              0.675
Comber Noil                     0.075



- 64 -                             ANNEX 5
Page 1
TURKEY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   SELECTED REPORTS AND STUDIES RELATING TO THE SECTOR OR THE SUBSECTOR
Al.  IBRD, Turkey Agricultural Sector Survey
Report No. 1684-TU, June 23, 1978
A2.  IBRD, Memorandum on Turkey's Agricultural Sector
Report No. 2267a-TU, draft yellow cover, December 14, 1978
A3.  IBRD, Turkey from Crisis to Growth
Report No. 2657-TU, draft green cover, August 30, 1979
A4.  IBRD, "Shadow Prices for Project Appraisal in Turkey,"
Draft paper by Afsaneh Mashayekhi (EMENA-CPII), August 31, 1979
A5. Fourth Five-Year Development Plan: 1979-1983, reprinted in "T.C. Resmi
Gazette" (in Turkish), 30 November 1978
A6. Fourth Five-Year Development Plan (1979-1983): Livestock, SPO, Pub. 1662,
March 1979
A7. Census of Population by Administrative Division: 1975, State Institute of
Statistics, Ankara, 1977
A8. "Househo1d and Personal Income Tax Schedules" (pamphlet - in Turkish);
Government (f Turkey, 5 January 1968
A9. Agricultural Structure and Production: 1974-1976, State Institute of
Statistics, Ankara, 1978
AIO. Income Distribution and Consumption Expenditures in Rural Areas: 1973-74,
State Institute of Statistics, Ankara, 1979
All. 1977 Statistical Yearbook of Turkey, State Institute of Statistics,
Ankara, 1977
A12. 1978 Summary of Agricultural Statistics, State Institute of Statistics,
Ankara, 1979
A13. 1977 Prices Received by Farmers, State Institute of Statistics, Ankara,
1979
A14. "Monthly Bulletin of Price Indexes (September 1979)," State of Institute
of Statistics, Ankara
B.   SELECTED REPORTS AND STUDIES RELATING TO THE PROJECT
Bl.  IBRD, Turkey Appraisal of Third Livestock Development Project,
Report No. 1027-TU, May 10, 1976
B2.  IBRD, Turkey, Fourth Livestock Development Project-Staff Appraisal Report,
Report No. 1933a-TU, May 12, 1978
B3.  IBRD, Turkey, Appraisal of an Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries
Project, Report No. 987-TU, April 12, 1976
B4. General Directorate of Livestock Development Project, MFAL, Preparation
Reports for the Fifth Livestock Development Project, August, 1979



- 65 -                             ANNEX 5
Page 2
a.   Livestock Production and Breed Improvement Component
b.   Artificial Insemination and Breeding Component (with GDANB)
c.   Veterinary Development and Animal Health Component (with GDVS)
d.   Poultry Component - Broiler Production
e.   Apiculture Component
f.   Meat Packing and Processing Component (with EBK)
g.   Mohair Processing Component (with TYT)
B5. TCZB, "The New Law Governing the Agricultural Bank of Turkey and Recent
Developments in Turkish Agriculture and the Credit System"
(pamphlet - in Turkish), Ankara, 1979
B6.  TCZB "Agricultural Credit Guidelines:  Annex to Circular No. 4770"
(translation), Ankara, 1979
C.   SELECTED WORKING PAPERS
Cl. Terms of Reference
C2. Livestock Production and Breed Improvement
C3. Animal Health
C4. Artificial Breeding
C5. Village Poultry Development
C6. Meat Processing
G7. Mohair Processing
C8. Project Cost Estimates
C9. Tax Rates and Customs Duties
C10. Credit, Repayment and Financing, Procurement and Disbursement
CIl. Implementation and Organization
C12. Economic Analysis
C13. Financial Analysis
C14. Relative Poverty and Other Quality of Life Indicators
C15. Selected Sectoral Data
C16. Miscellaneous






TURKEY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Calendar Year        1981               1982              1983               1984               1985               1986
Implementation of Farm
Development Plans by
Sub-borrowers (No.)
Dairy                            (100)              (105)              (120)               165)             (330                (330)
Cattle Improvemet               (150)              (50)              (70)                (80)              (180)              (200)
Cattle Improvement         _              _   _             _   _              _    _      _      _   _              _   _              _ 
(28)(5 3)                                               (40)               (78)              (10'0)
Merino Sheep               _          5   _   _     1            _    _  T     _    _      T                                           -
Angora Goat                      ((20)               (20)              (30)               ( 35)              (60)               (85)
(28)               (68)              (108)              (162)              (234)
Village Broiler Houses     _I                               -- _                                           . . 1             _ _
Poultry Processing Centers                               2)   _         (2)                (2)                 )    _   _       (3)
Parent Stock Farms                                            _ (1_ _a 12 ---  (3) 
Animal Health (No. of
Teams)                                                 j                                     I
Disease Survey                 _i)
Control Programs                                    (25)               165)               (65)               (6)               (65
Artificial Insemination             (108)             (165)               1224)             (275)               (285)             (300)
(No. of Teams)                                                                       a _   _    _  _ ___ _                       _
Meat Processing
Construction of Meat
Cutting Plants                  -       r7
Installation of Intestine
Processing Equipment
Delivery of Rail Wagons
Mohair Processing
Order of Machinery
Machine Installation
and Commissioning
Reporting
Semi-annual Reports
Audit Reports: TCZB
(ED LD( EBK, TYT
Audit Reports: LDP,
GDANB, GDVS
World Bank - 21398






TURKEY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organiztimn Chart
TMFAL                                       MFAL                                          MFAL                                 MFAL                                   MI.TRADE
TO ZIRAAT.
BANCASI                                    GELS?O                                                                                    GDNA.
SNAI   ..... ....^LIVESTDCK PRODUCT ION ....................._.  G v.........................            .................. RIIILW..............  TY .................                      ................... .    M EATPRCSSN
LIVESTOCEPRSSVCTI~~N .      I LIVESTOCK PRSUCSION.GD.vSARTIFICIAL                                                                                                    TT1MEATHCR SN
AND BREEDING                              AND EREEDINC                                   ANIMAL HEALTH                                 INSEMI-ATIGN                       MOHAIR PROCESSING                        2 RAILIVAGONS
2 POULTRYPRODUCTION                        2 POULTRYF PDUCTION                                                                           AND BREEDING
ENCOURGRETLIVESTOCK V                                                                                                                                                        PLANNINGDRCOAEP
AND| ....................                                                                                                                                                            |                            PLANT INSTUATION
| DIVISION                                            J  l  UNITN _-
PROJECT                  CENTER FOR                               DISEASE CONTROL                                                              
MANAGER                    TECHNICAL             PROJECT                 AND                   PROJECT                Al
IL:estoREEROdREERti        SUPPORTSERVICES          MANAGER               RESEARCH                MANAGER              CENTERS
andt;H dglAS             IPouIRy REOARTIon                           LABORATORIES__                             I       | 
REGIONAL AND                                 REQIDNAL AND
REGISSNALANO                  REGIONAIL              PROVINCIAL                                   PROVINCIALTIN 
RE O    A                                                                                          VACC I NLT-E OE F I CE        |FI                                      AFYON FACILITY            C    A              N ES|NERAIL
ERN-CAFIE                      OF FICES                    CENTERS                                        VGERNRYFCIIIE                                                                                                  AcILITIES
| ~~~~~& .. .  ... ...............
FIELD STAFF                 FIELD TEAMS                    FIELD TEAMS                                   FIELD TEAMS
H      o Aq-  R-osblsto-Oael O-d-od,I.ton
-Ad-,-.- CorlEI
........ ........World RBnk - 2139N






IBRD 14841R
25  t   30w                                         35                                         ;        :' #              S                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAY 1980
BULGARIA   *- .*               ,                                          B  Ila c k                               Sea a                                                                     U           .  R            M  IYYOj
(.-FIRNEi                                                                                      - ,-SINP                                                                           u    S    S.  R.
) :   IKKLARtLI  /   ;, 
ui           r J KIRDA6   ZvrONGUL,A                                                         DN---,U
V     o   0ADAPAZARI    BOLU                                                     ORU .ARSt
0A                                                                                                                                4 '
-40CC7 CANAKKALE                         BU         I        OE;     AKRSA  ''-       (4                                 S                'JOL GMUSHANE K ~-XeOtW<4
I BALIKESIR                                            __ f  -S                                   bLATAS                ERZIAN0             -w         U                    A                      4 r 
K.2-              /A                                        HIR                                                                                                                  I R 0  ( w  AN    ;
ULJ *I   L / c/SK SY                                                            A     U E              0                        SIVAS            ,
K C11 %                      {H MUGLTAH ' ' Y t % A,  K '                                                    T,ENHC AmELA                                                    RARN A,
Uw ;L( b MANA                                          A                   '-                   A                        .-                                              BOL ,  RNA A  ,    .Y
S            P ,               o4   s-                                                                A (---         o    V                '!-                             O  /R 
IZMIR                                           \~~~~~~~~~~~-  NEV~~~~~~~~EHE~~~ 6i              MALATYA0<       ATAI                                              A
t k                                                                                                                                                       : *               __\
S                                                                                            0 ,>: $r.=   ::  T U                   ;YAR T UR                           IT E Y  J
STAYDIN          DEYASP  TA                                                    E  i                         AXOS FIT
7~~1                PEN ZLI~~~ t_., ~        ~    ~    [ TA                                          /                      DIYAMAN                A
MLGec RAA                                                                  /F                           LyE5TcK sf, 267 0                            M;:t  ;A:  tVXKDVLM ROJIC
0  ~~I
AL
T U RKEY
APPRAISAL OF FIF TH                                              3'
PROJECT AREA Of L VESTOCKE I IC, 236-Td
PROJECT AREA OF LIY$TC( I X   IA- 
LIVEST K T7 (F, 33180LIVESTOC
PROJEECT ARKEA 8FF LIVVESTOCK CI (Ln TTE-TTJ       .     C Y P RU s                           S Yl R        A          :E
PROJECT AREA 0F IVESTOCK IZ (La ITA-
LIVESTOCK L CREDIT AREAS                                                                                                                     b40
A    EXISTING EBK SLAUGHTERHOUSES
A     EBK SLAUGHTERHOUSES TO BE OPERATIONAL DURBNG 1980                                                                               POLAID?
*    PRIORITY REGIONS FOR POULTRY PROJECTS                                                                                                              U.         S.        S
*    ARTIFICIAL INSEMINATtON COMPONENT             /4  c,  err an e an
A     ANIMAL HEALTH COMPONENT
[@    MOHAIR PROCESSING COMPONENT                                                                         TOS          200 ,L.palerS  ;,  ROMANIA                                                C'
*    MEAT CUTTING COMPONENT                                 Sea                                _____:__'_
*    INTESTINE PROCESSING UNITS                                                               -         5s0       lO0       ISM10iIeo               '          $'     S
_ DAIRY AND CATTLE BREEDING                                                                                                                    LGARIA
1    MERINO                                                                                         ABk... L                          tIk
l oGOA      0                                                                  EC T  U  R KEYC<i
-   PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                           P - -  *. .t,RAN
-   -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                            I A Qa,a,  B
3,0-  X i S   l A S   ; , : . ?]saBtaqrR' O



