LOAN NUMBER / 44TU
Loan Agreement
(Fifth Livestock Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                            , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER IN2-TU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated sm-. 4 , 1980, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
(hereinafter called the Borrower or Turkey) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Bank and the Turkiye Cumhuriyeti Ziraat Bankasi (hereinafter
referred to as TCZB), certain obligations in respect of the
carrying out of Part A of the Project have been undertaken by
TCZB;
(C) the Borrower is willing to make part of the proceeds
of the Loan available to TCZB, Et ve Balik Kurumu (hereinafter
referred to as EBK) and Turkiye Yapagi ve Tiftik A.S. (hereinafter
referred to as TYT) for the carrying out of Parts A, E and F of
the Project, respectivel-, as hereinafter set forth; and
(D) the Bank is willing to make the Loan available upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and TCZB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:


﻿- 2 -
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank and TCZB, as such agreement may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes the Schedules to
the Project Agreement.
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements to
be entered into between the Borrower and TCZB, EBK and TYT pur-
suant to Section 3.02 (a) (i), (ii), and (iii), of this Agreement,
respectively, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all agreements supplemental to, and all sched-
ules to, such agreements.
(c) "Subsidiary Loans" means the loans made by the Borrower
to TCZB, EBK and TYT under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
(d) "MFAL" means the Borrower's ministry responsible
for food, agriculture and livestock.
(e) "GDVS" means the General Directorate of Veterinary
Services of MEAL.
(f) "GDANB" means the General Directorate of MFAL respon-
sible for Artificial Insemination, Natural Services and Breed
Improvement.
(g) "LDP" means the General Directorate for Livestock
Development Projects of MFAL.
(h) "EDLD" means the Encouragement and Development Loan
Division of TCZB.
(i) "Project area" means the area referred to in the pre-
amble of Schedule 2 hereto.
(j) "Project Manager" means the person employed as head
of the division of LDP referred to in Sections 3.01 (b) (ii) and
3.05 (a) of this Agreement.
(k) "Sub-loan" means a loan made by TCZB in accordance
w-ith the procedures and the lending and operating policies
provided for in the Schedule to the Project Agreement and util-
izing inter alia funds provided to TCZB under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(1) "Sub-loan Contract" means the contract for any Sub-loan.


﻿- 3 -
(m) "Farm Development Plan" means a specific development
plan of an investor qualifying for a Sub-loan under Part A.1 of
the Project for investment in forage production, farm buildings,
livestock, farm machinery and equipment, tractors and other
related items, or any combination thereof.
(n) "Financing Plan" means a specific development plan for
an investor qualifying for a Sub-loan under Part A.2 of the
Project for investment in buildings, machinery and equipment,
vehicles, inventories of starter chicks, vaccines, bulk and
concentrate feeds and other reiated items, or any combination
thereof.
(o) "Beneficiary" means the recipient of a Sub-loan.
(p) "Liras" and the letters "TL" mean the currency of
the Borrower.
(q) "Special Operational Fund" means the fund established
pursuant to the provisions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement of
May 18, 1971 between the Borrower and TCZB entered into pursuant
to the Development Credit Agreement of February 22, 1971 between
the Borrower and the Association.
(r) "Small farmer" means a farmer as defined in Article 3 of
the Borrower's Law No. 3202, as amended, whose net annual pre-
development family income, will not exceed the minimum wage in the
Republic of Turkey (TL64,800, as of April 30, 1979) as re-vised
from time to time.
(s) "Farmer Association" means an association of at least 20
poultry farmers under the Project;
(t) "Agricultural Credit Guidelines" means the administra-
tive directive of TCZB set forth in the Annex to Circular No. 4770
dated September 24, 1979, as such directive may be amended, and
the "Rules and Regulations of TCZB on Agricultural Credits",
promulgated in the Official Gazette, No. 16674, dated June 22,
1979.
(u) "CTSS" means the "Center for Technical Support Services"
referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement.
(v) "State Economic Enterprise" means an enterprise estab-
lished pursuant to Law No. 440 of the Borrower dated March 21,
1964 as amended from time to time.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifty-one million dollars ($51,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or of any Sub-loan,
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Borrower hereby designates the General
Director of TCZB for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken in respect of Part A of the Project under


﻿-5-
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts B, C and
D of the Project and cause TCZB, EBK and TYT to carry out Parts A,
E and F of the Project, respectively, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, economic and agricultural practices and in accordance
with the provisions set forth in Schedule 2 hereto, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources   required for the pur-
pose. In particular the Borrower shall    provide, or cause to be
provided, all vehicles required to carry out Part B of the Pro-
ject, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) For the purpose of carrying out the Project the Borrower
shall, except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
(i) cause the General Director of LDP to coordinate all
Parts of the Project; and
(ii) employ or continue to employ on a full-time basis,
a Project Manager for Part A of the Project duly
qualified and experienced.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend (i) $30,900,000
equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn on account of
expenditures under Part A of the Project to TCZB under a Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
TCZB, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii) $2,600,000 equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn
on account of expenditures under Part E of the Project to EBK
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and EBK, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank; and (iii) $2,900,000 equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan
withdrawn on account of expenditures under Part F of the Project
to TYT under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and TYT, under terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank.


﻿-6-
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights and fulfill its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive said Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision
thereof.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligqtions under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(i) cause TCZB, EBK and TYT to perform in accordance
with the  provisions of the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ments, and the Project Agreement in case of TCZB,
and all the obligations therein set forth; and
(ii) take and cause all its agencies and departments to
take all action which shall be necessary or appro-
priate on their part to enable TCZB, EBK and TYT to
perform all such obligations (including those
related to terms and conditions applicable to Small
farmer lending) and shall not take or permit io be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
Section 3.03. (a) Until completion of the Project, the
Borrower shall as and when needed:
(i) provide not less than $45,500,000 equivalent out of
resources other than the proceeds of this Loan for
carrying out the Project;
(ii) cause TCZB to provide not less than $22,600,000
equivalent out of resources other than the proceeds
of this Loan under Part A of the Project; and
(b) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall maintain in LDP the Special Operational
Fund to be utilized for the purpose of supplementing the funds
otherwise available for the Project. Such Fund shall be credited
with the amounts made available by TCZB to LDP in accordance with
Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement. Expenditures out of such
Fund shall be authorized only by the General Director of LDP, or
any other person duly designated by him for such purpose.


﻿- 7 -
Section 3.04. For purposes of carrying out Part A of the
Project:
(a) The Borrower shall, through LDP, enter into the arrange-
ments referred to in Section 2.01 (d) of the Project Agreement.
(b) The lending and operating policies and procedures shall
be as set forth in the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time by Agreement between the
Borrower, the Bank and TCZB.
(c) The Borrower shall, through GDVS, provide veterinary
assistance required for carrying out Part A of the Project under
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.05. For purposes of carrying out Part A.1 of the
Project the Borrower shall:
(a) Establish within LDP's headquarters and, thereafter,
maintain a separate division responsible for matters with respect
to livestock production enterprises which are Beneficiaries .under
the Project, with adequate authority and with qualified and
experienced staff in sufficient numbers including a division
manager and with adequate facilities;
(b) (i) employ for the division referred to in paragraph
(a) above not less than 15 veterinarians, 15
agronomists, 16 middle-level animal health tech-
nicians and 17 middle-level agriculturalists, all
with suitable qualifications and experience;
(ii) continue to employ not less than 30 professionals
and 33 middle-level technicians for carrying out
the Project; and
(iii) through LDP employ by March 31, 1981 an inter-
nationally recruited technical specialist to assist
in carrying out Part B.3 of the Project whose
qualifications and experience and terms and con-
ditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 3.06. For purposes of carrying out Part A.2 of the
Project, the Borrower shall through LDP:


﻿- 8 -
(a) establish CTSS for technical assistance to farmers or
groups of farmers with respect to poultry development, with
sufficient authority and responsibilities and qualified and
experienced staff in sufficient numbers, and adequate facilities
in order inter alia to promote poultry development among village
farmers, train and assist such farmers in preparing Financing
Plans for Sub-loan applications and carrying out of Sub-projects;
(b) employ by March 31, 1981 until completion of the Project
not less than 2 full-time and, as and when needed, part-time
internationally-recruited consultants to establish and operate
CTSS, and prepare and carry out a training program with rripect to
Part A.2 of the Project, whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 3.07. For purposes of carrying out Part C of the
Project, the Borrower shall through GDVS:
(a) conduct surveys on the basis of examination of milk
samples from a statistically selected, stratified sample of
milking herds of a few thousand cows and requiring not more
than 1 year for implementation, a field survey of herds infected
with Brucellosis and base-line survey of :he incidence of
Theileriosis;
(b) prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1983, a detailed plan for recovering to the extent
permitted by the Borrower's applicable laws, the cost to the
Borrower in cArrying out its Mastitis control program, and
exchange views with the Bank on such plan; and
(c) employ specialists to assist with the implementation
of Part C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank.
Section 3.08. For the purposes of carrying out Part D of the
Project, the Borrower shall through GDANB:
(a) prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1982, a plan for national livestock improvement, exchange


﻿views with the Bank on such plan, and promptly thereafter imple-
ment such plan;
(b) employ a specialist in animal breeding whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions shall be satisfactory
to the Bank, to assist in preparing the plan referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section; and
(c) (i) prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review not
later than December 31, 1981, a study for the Borrower to levy
suitable charges for its artificial insemination services; (ii)
promptly thereafter take all necessary steps to introduce such
charges; and (iii) recover through such charges the operating cost
of the Borrower (excluding salaries) for the breeding program in
any province under Part D of the Project not later than 3 years
after introduction in such province of said program (taking into
account the ability of farmers to pay).
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause EBK to employ inter-
nationally recruited consultants, whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank, to assist in the design and supervision of the facili-
ties under Parts E (i), (ii) and (iii) and carrying out the
training program under Part E (v) of the Project.
Section 3.10. For purposes of carrying out Part F of the
Project the Borrower shall cause TYT to:
(a) employ, not later than March 31, 1981, internationally-
recruited consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, to
assist in the design, tpecification and selection of machinery,
and initial operation of the facilities under Part F.1 and the
carrying out of the training program under Part F.2 of the
Project; and
(b) retain, as and when needed, an expert or experts to
assist in the export marketing of mohair tops produced under the
Project, whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards


﻿- 10 -
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall issue, as and when needed, any
import and other licenses including any foreign exchange authori-
zation required for the importation of goods or the supply of
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or for
the replacement or repair of such goods.
(d) The Borrower shall ensure that the entry into the
Borrower's territory of the imported livestock required for the
Project is handled expeditiously at border stations.
Section 3.12. (a) The Borrower shall, with respect to the
Project, furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, programs and reports of LDP
and TCZB, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall, with the assistance of TCZB,
GDVS, GDANB, EBK and TYT, maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited repre-
sentatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in the Project and to see the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall, with the assistance of TCZB, GDVS, GDANB, EBK and TYT
furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(c) Without limiting the generality of the provisions in
paragraph (b) above and in order to monitor and/or evaluate the
progress of the whole Project, the effects of the whole Project
and the expenditures therefor, the Borrower shall (A) through the
General Director of LDP: (i) maintain detailed records, as
required for monitoring purposes, on the implementation of not


﻿- 11 -
less than 20% of the Farm Development Plans with respect to
livestock development and all Financing Plans with respect to
poultry davelopment; (ii) prepare each semester, with the assis-
tance of TCZB, GDVS, GDNAB, EBK and TYT, progress and evaluation
reports on all Parts of the Project; and (iii) furnish such
reports to the Bank through LDP, within two months after the end
of each semester; and (B) (i) through GDVS, maintain detailed
records, as required for purposes of monitoring and evaluating the
progress and effectiveness of the programs included in Part C of
the Project, on the implementation of the Mastititis control
program with respect to not less than 20% of the herds included in
said program and adequate records with respect to the Brucellosis
and Theileriosis control programs; and (ii) through GDANB, main-
tain records on a representative sample of inseminated cattle and
their progeny with retpect to insemination and pregnancy coeffi-
cients and milk production.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall, through the General Director of
LDP and with the assistance of TCZB, GDVS, GDANB, EBK and TYT,
prepare and furnish to the Bank a completion repori, of such scope
and in such detail- as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operation of the  Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower, the Bank, TCZB, GDVS, GDANB, EBK and TYT of their
respective obligations under the Loan, Project and Subsidiary Loan
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the


﻿- 12 -
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its-political or adminis-
trative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including assets held by the T.C. Merkez Bankasi or
any other institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. Without limitation upon its obligations con-
tained in Section 4.02 above, the Borrower shall:
(a) cause LDP, GDVS, GDANB, EBK and TYT to establish and
maintain separate accounts on its :ecords to be used exclusively
for those Parts of the Project for which they are responsible
and the Special Operational Fund to be maintained by the General
Director of LP and to register in such accounts all its receipts
and payments f,r or in connection with such Parts of the Project,
in accordance with appropriate accounting principles consistently
applied; and


﻿- 13 -
(b) cause LDP, GDVS, GDANB, EBK and TYT to: (i) have the
accounts referred to in (a) hereof and related statements for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank, in the English lan-
guage, as soon as available, but in any case not later than
March 31 of every year until completion of the Project with
respect to accounts of the Special Operational Fund and in all
other cases seven months after the end of the fiscal year of LDP,
EBK and TYT, (A) certified copies of such related statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning such accounts and related statements of
such agency and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) TCZB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b) TCZB, EBK or TYT shall have failed to perform any of
their obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
(c) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that TCZB will be able to perform any of
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that TCZB, EBK or TYT will be able to
perform any of their obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements.
(e) Any legal provision governing or applicable to the
organization or operations of TCZB shall have been amended,
suspended or abrogated so as to threaten the ability of TCZB to
carry out any of its obligations under the Project Agreement or
the efficiency of its operations.


﻿- 14 -
(f) The Agricultural Credit Guidelines shall have been
amended, suspended or abrogated so as to threaten the ability of
TCZB to carry out any of its obligations under the Project Agree-
ment or the efficiency of its operations.
(g) TCZB shall be unable to pay its debts as they mature
or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by TCZB or by
others whereby any of the property of TCZB shall or may be distri-
buted among its creditors.
(h) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of TCZB, EBK or TYT or for the suspension of operations of
TCZB, EBK or TYT.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following.additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, any of the events specified in
paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower or any event specified
in paragraphs (c), (d), (e), (f), (g) and (h)    of said Section
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement
on behalf of TCZB have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary administrative and governmental action.
(b) The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and TCZB has been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary administrative and
governmental action.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:


﻿- 15 -
(a) That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, TCZB, and
is legally binding upon TCZB in accordance with its terms.
(b) That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and TCZB and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and TCZB in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date Oc64t' e     , 199o, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Maliye Bakanligi
Hazine Genel Mudurlugu ve
Milletlerarasi Iktisadi
Isbirligi Teskilati Genel
Sekreterligi
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:               Telex:
MALIYE                      821-42285 (MLYE-TR) or
Hazine                      821-42689 (ANK-TR)
Ankara
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 16 -
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category-
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Livestock and             12,310,000        100% of foreign
Semen                                      expenditures
(2) Machinery,                18,980,000        100% of foreign
equipment                                  expenditures and
and vehicles                               100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory
(3) Civil works:
(a) Under Part B.2(c)       225,000        15%
(b) Under Part F            120,000        15%
(4) Inputs for livestock
and poultry product-
tion:
(a) Under Part A.1          725,000        20% of amounts
disbursed by TCZB
(b) Under Part A.2        3,370,000        20% of amounts
disbursed by TCZB
(5) Consultants'               4,235,000        100%
Services
(6) Training                     1,035,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(7) Unallocated                 10,000,000
51,000,000


﻿- 18 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed oit of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) with respect to expenditures under Part A of the Pro-
ject, unless LDP and TCZB shall have executed the protocol re-
ferred to in Section 2.01 (d) of the Project Agreement in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) with respect to expenditures under Part A.1 of the
Project, unless LDP shall have employed since April 15, 1980 not
less than 6 additional veterinarians and 5 additional agronomists
in eastern Turkey; and
(c) with respect to expenditures for the equipping of about
15 teams for the carrying out of disease control programs for
Theileriosis under Part C of the Project, unless tha Bank has
received satisfactory evidence that the production of attenuated
Theileriosis vaccine at the Veterinary Control and Research


﻿- 19 -
Institute at Pendik shall have reached at least 50,000 doses per
year.
(d) with respect to expenditures under Parts E and F of the
Project, unless the Bank has received satisfactory evidence that
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements on behalf of the Borrower, EBK and
TYT, referred to in Section 3.02 (a)(ii) and (iii) have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary administrative and govern-
mental action.
6.   Each request for withdrawal from the Loan Account in respect
of payments for expenditures in respect of Part A shall be accom-
panied by a certificate issued by TCZB by which TCZB certifies
that the disbursement on account of which the withdrawal is
requested has been made for an Investment Project; the certificate
shall be in such form as shall have been agreed between the Bank,
the Borrower and TCZB.
7.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
8.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project covers the whole of 32 provinces and selected
sites in 3 others, as specified in the Annex to this Sechedule;
it being understood that the list of provinces and sites in said
Annex may be changed from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank.
The Project is part of a program of the Borrower for live-
stock development in the Project area (i) to upgrade animal
quality, increase the production of feedstuffs, livestock and
livestock products (including milk and poultry meat), (ii) en-
courage related on-farm development, mainly through the provision
of investment credit to livestock producers (including Small
farmers) for on-farm improvements and of technical services,
technical studies and training, and (iii) establish facilities for
the production of poultry inputs and broiler, meat and mohair
processing.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Lending Program
1.   The provision through TCZB of Sub-loans to an estimated
2,900 farmers for the financing of Farm Development Plans in
the Project area, prepared and implemented with the assistance
referred to in Part B.1 hereof, such plans to include:
(a) with respect to dairy farm development, about 600
5-cow units, 400 12 cow-units, 100 20-cow units, and 50 30 cow-
units;
(b) with respect to the breeding of improved dairy cattle,
about 600 10-cow units;
(c) with respect to the breeding of improved Merino sheep
about 300 50-ewe units; and
(d) wil-h respect to the breeding of improved Angora goats,
about 250 100-doe units.
2.   The provision through TCZB of sub-loans to an estimated
600 poultry farmers and 23 Farmer Associations for Financing Plans


﻿- 21 -
in the Project area, prepared and implemented with the assistance
referred to in Part B.1 hereof, such plans to include about 600
village broiler house units, 12 regional processing centers, 9
parent and 1 grandparent stock farms, and 1 premix feed plant.
Part B:   Technical Services
1.   Provision, through A.1 and 2 hereof, of LDP and with the
assistance of GDVS with respect to Part A.1 and 2 hereof, of
technical services to farmers and Farmer Associations benefiting
from Part A hereof, such technical services to be provided in
cooperation with TCZB and to include, inter alia, (i) the promo-
tion of the Project among farmers; (ii) the initial selection of
farmers and Farmer Associations applying for Sub-loans; (iii) the
preparation and approval of Farm Development and Financing
Plans; (iv) the procurement of goods and services required to
carry out such plans; (v) the supervision of such plans; and (vi)
the maintenance of records -for the Project.
2.   (a) Training: (i) for farmers benefiting under Part A.1
hereof in animal husbandry, and land and credit management; (ii)
for village poultry farmers and supervisory staff and workers in
facilities to be provided under Part A.2 hereof; and (iii) on-the-
job and abroad, for LDP and TCZB staff engaged in carrying out
Parts A.1 and 2 hereof and staff of CTSS including its field
teams; (b) rehabilitation of the poultry training center for Part
A.2 of the Project; and (c) constructing about 9 houses for field
staff of LDP carrying out Parts B.1 and 2 (a) of the Project.
3.   Carrying out of studies by LDP on land use practices
for forage crop and cereal intercropping production, and dissemi-
nation to farmers of technical information with respect to animal
production and land use practices.
Part C:   Disease Control Program
The Equipping of about 8 laboratories and establishing and
equipping of about 65 survey and control teams of GDVS and the
conducting of surveys by such teams on the incidence of Mastitis
in cattle, Brucellosis in cattle, sheep and goats and Theileriosis
in cattle, and the carrying out of disease control programs for
these diseases over a 4-5 year period.
Part D:   Breeding Program
The expansion by GDANB of its artificial (AI) and natural
breeding program, through (i) expansion and reequipping of semen


﻿- 22 -
production centers at Senlikkoy and Bornova; (ii) construction and
equipping of a new AI laboratory at Uzunyayla; (iii) the increas-
ing of GDANB's mobile AI field teams to about 300 teams and
equipping of such teams over a six-year period; (iv) the carrying
out of an AI program to increase the number of cows inseminated in
the Project area to about 800,000 per year, through inter alia
distributi.on to the field reams of about 80,000 doses of imported
frozen semen from proven purebred sires to augment locally pro-
duced semen, and importation of about 3 proven purebred cattle
sires; (v) provision of about 2,000 young purebred heifers for
distribution to about 7 breeding stations, and about 200 Haflinger
breeding horses to be distributed to about 5 breeding stations;
(vi) the preparation of a plan for national livestock improvement
inter alia integrating activities of breeding stations and esta-
blishing a herd recording scheme to register purebred and top-
crossed offspring and monitor their performance; and (vii) the
carrying out of a training program in recording and organization
techniques with respect to artificial and natural breeding for
GDANB staff implementing the Project.
Part E:   Meat Processing
1.   (i) Construction by EBK of an extension to its slaugh-
terhouse at Kars, (ii) installation of meat-cutting equipment at
EBK's slaughterhouses at Kars and Sakarya with capacities of about
5 and 10 metric tons per day, respectively, and (iii) installation
of intestine processing equipment at about 12 EBK slaughterhouses
in the eastern part of Turkey, each with a capacity of about 300
sets of casings per hour.
2.    The provision and operation of about 12 refrigerated
rail wagons for use on shipments between Kars and destinations in
the western part of Turkey.
3.    Training of EBK plant workers in on-the-rail deboning
and mechanical processing of intestines.
Part F:   Mohair Processing
1.   Constructing and equipping by TYT of a mohair processing
plant at Sincanli (Afyon Province) with capacity to process about
1,000 metric tons per year greasy mohair on a three-shift basis to
combed tops suitable for export.
2.   Training of TYT staff in operating the plant.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1986.


﻿- 23 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Tfie Project will be implemented in the following provinces or
parts thereof:
1.   Part A.1: Afyon, Amasya, Ankara, Burdur, Eskisehir, Isparta,
Kayseri, Konya, Kutahya, Mugla, Nevsehir, Nigde, Siirt,
Sivas, Tokat, Tunceli and Usak.
2.   (a)  Part A.2: the regions of Ankara (composed of parts of
the provinces of Ankara, Eskisehir and Konya) and Diyarbakir
(composed of parts of the provinces of Diyarbakir, Elazig and
Urfa) and the provinces of Erzurum, Icel and Kayseri.
(b) Part A.2: grandparent stock farm: a location to be
selected by the Borrower.
3.   Part C: Adana, Amasya, Ankara, Cankiri, Corum, Eskisehir,
Hatay, Icel, Kayseri, Kirsehir, Konya, Nevsehir, Nigde,
Sivas, Tokat and Yozgat.
4.   Part D: Adana, Amasya, Ankara, Aydin, Bursa, Cankiri, Corum,
Eskisehir, Icel, Istanbul, Izmir, Kayseri, Kirklareli, Konya,
Kutahya, Manisa, Nigde, Sivas, Tokat and Yozgat.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 1985
through   February 15, 1997                  1,960,000
On August 15, 1997                                2,000,000
*    To the extent that any portion et the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 25 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                             Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                      1.45%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                             2.90%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                      5.351
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                                      7.30%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                      8.25%


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender documents relating thereto, a general procure-
ment notice, in such form and detail and containing such infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   (i) Orders for individual Sub-borrowers will be grouped
by local LDP staff and, then, sent to the Project
Manager who will organize bulk procurement.
(ii) Invitations to bid will require bidders to guaran-
tee adequate servicing and spare parts for vehicles,
tractors, machinery and equipment in the main centers
of the Project area.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall


﻿- 27 -
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Turkey may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Turkey if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Turkey equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Turkey.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domesLically, to determine the lowes;
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported


﻿- 28 -
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f- bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   On-farm construction materials, tools and farm and
poultry processing inputs may be purchased through normal commer-
cial channels; provided, however, that goods so procured shall not
exceed $12,000,000 equivalent in the aggregate.
2.   Civil works under Parts B.2 and F of the Project,
and laboratory buildings and renovation under Parts C and D of the
Project may be procured through the Borrower's usual procedures.
3.   Laboratory, office and field equipment and materials and
visual aids needed for Parts C and D, and machinery and equipment
required for Part F of the Project, may be procured through
international shopping on the basis of not less than three price
quotations based on invitations from at least two different member
countries of the Bank and Switzerland.
4.   Frozen semen to be imported for Part D of the Project
may be procured through international shopping on the basis of not
less than three price quotations based on invitations from at
least two different member countries of the Bank and Switzerland.
Frozen semen so procured will be from purebred bulls:
(a) registered in the national herd book of the country
of origin;
(b) out of dams which have a certified average milk produc-
tion record of at least 5,000 kg per year;
(c) progeny tested and proven, viz. whose progeny have
a positive rating (above average) in the milk production testing
program of the country bf origin.


﻿- 29 -
5.    Purchases of livestock required for Part D of the
Project will be handled by GDANB in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank:
(a) on the basis of:
(i) not less than three price quotations from at
least two different member countries of the
Bank and Switzerland; and
(ii) the individual selection to be undertaken in
the supplier country by at least two professional
staff members of GDANB and one professional staff
member of GDVS.
(b) the Borrower will take all necessary action to expedite
livestock purchases and veterinary clearances and to assure prompt
and adequate deliveries of such livestock to purchasers thereof;
(c) (i) cattle imported for the Project will be:
(A) predominantly of Friesian and Brown Swiss
breeds;
(B) in good general health;
(C) free of tuberculosis, brucellosis,  leptospi-
rosis, trichomoniasis and vibriosis; and
(D) vaccinated against foot and mouth disease
(Types A and C) and brucellosis.
(ii) Imported heifers for the Project will be:
(A) two-year pregnant or yearling (6 to 15
months animals);
(B) purebred animals, i.e., registered in the
national pedigree herd book of the country of
origin;
(C) out of dams with a certified lifetime average
milk production record of at least 4,000
kg/year;


﻿- 30 -
(D) in the case of pregnant heifers, be certified
incalf to registered sires (or sons of regis-
tered sires) of the same breed whose progeny
have a positive rating (above average) in the
milk    production testing program of the
country of origin.
(iii) Imported bulls for the Project will be:
(A) registered in the national pedigree herd book
of the country of origin;
(B) out of dams which have a certified average
milk production record of at least 5,000
kg/year;
(C) progeny tested and proven, viz., whose
progeny have a positive rating (above average)
in the milk production testing program of the
country of origin;
(D) aged 12-24 months; and
(E) sired by proven sires whose progeny have
a positive rating (above average) in the
milk production testing program of the
country of origin.
6.   Horses to be imported will be:
(a) registered as of Haflinger breed in the national
herd book of the country of origin; and
(b) certified to be sound and free of disease by the
veterinary authorities of the country of origin.
7.   Purchases by farmers of livestock required to carry
out Farm Development Plans and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Sub-loans will be handled by LDP's Project Manager in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank:
(a) on the basis of:
(i) individual orders collected from such farmers
by local LDP technicians and, then sent to the


﻿- 31 -
Project Manager through the regional or provincial
managers of LDP;
(ii) not less than three price quotations based on
invitations from at least two different member
countries of the Bank and Switzerland; and
(iii) the individual selection to be undertaken in
the supplier country by two professional staff
members of LDP and by one professional staff
member of GDVS.
(b) Contracts with suppliers for the purchase of livestock
will contain provisions regarding the reception and delivery of
live,stock satisfactory to the Project Manager and will provide
that title to such livestock will pass to the farmer only upon
delivery at his farm.
(c) The Borrower will take all necessary action to expedite
livestock purchases and veterinary clearances and to assure prompt
and adequate deliveries of such livestock to purchasers thereof.
(d) Cat,le, heifers and bulls imported for the Project
shall reet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5 (c) (i), (ii)
and (iii) hereof.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts included in Parts A and C.3
through 7 of this Schedule:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.


﻿- 32 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report (by the General Director of LDP for
contracts included in Part A of this Schedule and the Project
Manager for contracts included in Part C.3 through 7 (b) of this
Schedule) on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
together with the recommendations for award of LDP or the Project
Manager, as the case may be, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an
extension of the stipulated time for performance of such contract,
or issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases
of extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract
by more than 30% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  64    -day of         198 1.
FOR SECRETARY


