LOAN NUMBER        TU
Project Agreement
(Fifth Livestock Developmant Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
TURKIYE CUMHURIYETI ZIRAAT BANKASI
Dated                          , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1/2-TU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated -SuneC, 1980, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank) and
TURKIYE CUMHURIYETI ZIRAAT BANKASI (hereinafter called TCZB).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Turkey (hereinafter called the Borrower or
Turkey) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-one
million dollars ($51,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that TCZB agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter
set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and
TCZB, part of the aggregate proceeds of the loan provided for
under the Loan Agreement will be made available to TCZB on the
terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS TCZB, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the General Conditions (as so defined) and
in the Preamble hereof have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution uf the Project
Section 2.01. (a) TCZB shall: (i) carry out Part A of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, economic and agricultural practices
and in accordance with the provisions set out in such Schedule,


﻿- 2 -
and provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose; and (ii) acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises as shall be, from time to time, neces-
sary or useful in the conduct of its business in the carrying out
of Part A of the Project; it is further specified that the funds
to be made available by TCZB from its own resources for the
purpose of Part A of the Project shall not be less than
$22,600,000 equivalent in the aggregate.
(b) In carrying out Part A of the Project, TCZB undertakes
that it shall at all times follow lending and operating policies
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank including those set
forth in the Schedule to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be
modified from time to time by agreement among the Borrower,
the Bank and TCZB.
(c) TCZB undertakes that it shall not finance any invest-
ments in farm development proposed by an investor eligible for
a Sub-loan, on terms more favorable than the terms and conditions
applicable to Sub-loans.
(d) TCZB shall enter into arrangements, satisfactory to
the Bank, with the Borrower, through LDP, to define in detail the
responsibilities, functions and administrative procedures of TCZB
and LDP for the carrying out of Part A of the Project.
Section 2.02. At such time as the Borrower, the Bank and TCZB
may request, in any event at intervals not exceeding 2 years after
effectiveness of this Agreement, the appropriateness of interest
rates and other applicable Sub-loan terms and conditions will be
reviewed by TCZB with the Borrower and the Bank in the light of
the conditions prevailing at the time of such review and any
resulting changes shall be made applicable to Sub-loan contracts
entered into thereafter.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods required for the Project to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, TCZB
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds


﻿- 3 -
of any Sub-loan to be used exclusively in carrying out the Farm
Development Plan and Financing Plan for which such Sub-loan was
made.
Section 2.05. TCZB undertakes to insure or cause to be
insured the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
any Sub-loan against marine, transit and other hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation.
Section 2.06. (a) TCZB: (i) shall, in cooperation with the
Borrower, maintain records and procedures adequate to record and
monitor the progress of Part A of the Project (including its cost
and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by
the Borrower and to disclose thereof in Part A of the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in Part A of the
Project and to see the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan relent to it by the Borrower and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall, in cooperation with the Borrower,
furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part A of the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
relent to it by the Borrower and the goods and sei ices financed
out of such proceeds.
(b)   Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between TCZB and the
Bank, TCZB shall, in cooperation with the Borrower, prepare and
furnish to the Bank a completion report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of Part A of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
TCZB and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
Section 2.07. TCZB   shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, TCZB shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. (a) TCZB shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to tne progress of Part
A of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) TCZB shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by TCZB of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of TCZB
Section 3.01. TCZB shall, with respect to Part A of the
Project, at all times manage its affairs, maintain its financial
position, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations,
all in accordance with appropriate business, financial and agri-
cultural practices and under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by qualified and experienced staff
in adequate numbers.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. TCZB shall through EDLD:
(a) establish and maintain separate accounts on its records
to be used exclusively for Part A of the Project;
(b) register in such accounts all its receipts and payments
for or in connection with its lending operations under Part A
of the Project, in accordance with appropriate accounting princi-
ples consistently applied, including the following: (i) amounts
received from and payments made to the Borrower under the Subsid-
iary Loan; (ii) amounts disbursed to and received from each farmer
under a Sub-loan; and (iii) amounts provided by the Borrower or
TCZB from their own resources to finance Sub-loans;
(c) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing the expenditures on account of which withdrawals


﻿- 5 -
are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of certificates
of expenditure, and shall enable the Bank's accredited representa-
tives to see such records;
(d) submit to the Bank, on a semestral basis, a summary
of such accounts, such summary to be submitted to the Bank within
a two-month period after the end of the semester concerned;
and
(e) (i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
hereof and related statements and its records supporting cer-
tificates of expenditures referred to in Section 4.01 (c) hereof
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank, in the English
language, as soon as available, but in any case not later than
seven months after the end of TCZB's fiscal year, (A) certified
copies of such related statements for such year as so audited,
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested
including a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of such
certificates of expenditure showing whether the proceeds of the
Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of certificates
of expenditure have be;n used for the purpose for which they
were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other informa-
tion concerning such accounts and related statements of TCZB and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.02. TCZB shall deposit in a Special Operational
Fund, on the Borrower's behalf and out of the interest payments
to the Borrower on the proceeds of the Loan relent under Part A
of the Project to TCZB and on-lent by TCZB to Beneficiaries,
an amount calculated on the basis of a rate of interest of one
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the total outstanding
amount of TCZB Sub-loans. Deposits in the Special Operational
Fund shall be made semi-annually on February 1 and August I
in each year.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.


﻿- 6 -
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of TCZB thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions or the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For TCZB:
T. C. Ziraat Bankasi
Genel Mudurlugu
Bankalar Caddesi
Ankara, Turkey


﻿-7-
Cable address:                     Telex:
ZERBANK                              42 333 ZBA TR
Ankara
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of TCZB or by TCZB on behalf of the
Borrower under Section 2.09 of the Loan Agreement, may be taken or
executed by the Director General or such other person or persons
as he shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. TCZB shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of TCZB, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by TCZB pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement or Section 2.09 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By///\
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
TURKIYE CUMHURIYETI ZIRAAT BANKASI
By ASu toizer P            re      na
Authorized Representative


﻿- 8-
SCHEDULE
Lending and Operating Policies and Procedures
for Part A of the Project
Request for and Approvals of Sub-loans
1.1 TCZB will make Sub-loans only to Beneficiaries meeting
the eligibility tests specified hereunder in the Project area and
only following the procedures and approvals stipulated below.
1.2 Sub-loan applications will be submitted to the nearest
branch of either TCZB or LDP, after which an initial credit
evaluation of the applicant will be made by TCZB.
1.3 If the applicant's creditworthiness is found to be satisfac-
tory by TCZB, the local technician of LDP in case of applicants
under Part A.1 of the Project, and the staff of CTSS in case of
applicants under Part A.2 of the Project will prepare a Farm
Development Plan or Financing Plan with the applicant, which plan
will include detailed technical and financial projections and the
amount of the proposed Sub-loan, and will form the basis for any
Sub-loan by TCZB financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. The
Farm Development Plan will be prepared in such format and include
such information as may be required by LPD's Project Manager.
1.4 Copies of the Farm Development Plan as approved by the
local technician of LPD or CTSS, as appropriate, will be submitted
to the local TCZB branch and to LDP's Project Manager.
1.5 Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each Farm Develop-
ment Plan and Financing Plan will, in order to qualify for a
Sub-loan, have endorsed thereon the recommendation for approval of
the local technician who has prepared the plan, and of the Project
Manager, or his authorized representative. Final approval of
Sub-loans will be in accordance with normal procedures of TCZB.
1.6 The approval or rejection of a Sub-loan by TCZB will be based
solely on the creditworthiness of the applicant.
Eligibility of Beneficiaries/Procedures
2.1 In order to qualify for the granting of a Sub-loan under Part
A.1 of the Project, each applicant will:


﻿-9-
(a) own livestock and have previous experience in livestock
production;
(b) have use of adequate tillable land suitable to produce
the incremental feedingstuffs necessary to implement the Farm
Development Plans;
(c) meet all creditworthiness criteria as will be reasonably
established from time to time by TCZB; and
(d) for Small farmers only, have to be known to LDP staff
as bona fide farmeii of good character and of recognized farming
competence.
2.2 In order to qualify for the approval of a Sub-loan under
Part A.2 of the Project, the first 20 individual applicants
in any one region will meet all creditworthiness criteria as will
be reasonably established from time to time by TCZB.     TCZB can
disburse up to two-thirds of the Sub-loan approved for each
individual applicant, with the remaining one-third to be disbursed
after the individual has demonstrated to TCZB evidence of his
membership in a Farmer Association, established under the Project
to implement and operate a regional processing center.
2.3 Additional individual applicants in any one region above
and beyond the initial 20 individual applicants referred to in
paragraph 2.2 above, will meet all creditworthiness criteria as
will be reasonably established from time to time by TCZB and,
prior to the approval of their individual applications by TCZB,
will demonstrate to TCZB evidence of membership in a Farmer
Association established under the Project to implement and operate
a regional processing center, it being understood that these
individual applicants will be eligible for full disbursement of
their individual Sub-loans in accordance with TCZB's regulations.
2.4 In order to qualify for the approval of a Sub-loan under
Part A.2 of the Project for the financing of a regional process-
ing center, Farmer Association applicants will demonstrate to TCZB
that a legal association has been formed, the membership of which
consists of at least 20 individuals who have submitted applica-
tions under Part A.2 and who satIsfy the eligibility criteria
established under paragraph 2.2 of this schedule.
2.5 It is intended that ownership and management of the paren'
and grandparent stock farms and the premix feed plant under


﻿- 10 -
Part A.2 of the Project will ultimately be vested in the regional
processing centers to be established under Part A.2. It is under-
stood, however, that TCZB may approve, in consultation with LDP
and the Bank, Financing Plans submitted by other parties for these
facilities. In such circumstances, it will be a condition of
eligibility for a Sub-loan that the other parties agree that the
assets created and obligations assumed by such other parties will
be transferred to the Farmer Associations at the appraised market
value at the time of transfer and as soon as the financial via-
bility of the regional processing centers is demonstrated to the
satisfaction of TCZB, LDP and the Bank.
2.6 -TCZB will accept security in accordance with the Agricultural
Credit Guidelines, provided, however, that TCZB shall not change,
amend or waive such Guidelines with respect to security provisions
related to Sub-loans under the Project without the Bank's prior
approval.
3.1 (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, under Part A.1
of the Project TCZB will not make to any single Beneficiary any
Sub-loan which by itself, or aggregated with any other Sub-loan to
any such Beneficiary, exceeds the equivalent of $140,000.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, under Part
A.2 of the Project TCZB will not make any Sub-loan exceeding the
equivalent of $225,000.
3.2 TCZB will not make Sub-loans under Part A.1 of the Project to
cover incremental costs of labor, forage cropping and purchase of
concentrates and other supplementary feeds unless specifically
recommended in writing by the local technician who prepared the
Farm Development Plan and with the written approval of LPD's
Project Manager. In special cases where financing of purchase of
concentrates and other supplementary feeds has been recommended as
provided above, the amount allocated for such financing will not
exceed the cost incurred for concentrates and feeds during the
first year of the Farm Development Plan.
Terms and Conditions to be included in Sub-loan Contracts
4.1 Sub-loan contracts will include, inter alia, the following
terms and conditions:
(a) Sub-loans will be made and be repayable in liras;


﻿- 11 -
(b) interest on the outstanding principal of each Sub-loar
will be payable at rates not less than those specified in the
Annex to this Schedule but exclusive of any other charges, or at
such other rates as shall be agreed among the Borrower, the Bank
and TCZB;
(c) the repayment periods and repayment schedules will
reflect the capacity of the Beneficiary to repay and the cash flow
position described in the Farm Development Plan and will be
between ten and twelve years, including two to four years of
grace;
(d) the amount of an individual Sub-loan will not exceed
the equivalent of approximately the percentage of Lhe estimated
total cost of the Farm Development or Financing Plans as set forth
in the Agricultural Credit. Guidelines, provided, however, that
TCZB shall not change, amend or waive such Guidelines relative to
the limits of individual Sub-Loans under the Project without
the Bank's prior consent.
(e) the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Sub-loan will be used exclusively for the purposes approved by
TCZB;
(f) the Bank and TCZB will have the right to see the prem-
ises, the improvement of which is financed by the Sub-loan, any
equipment, materials or inputs financed by the Sub-loan, the
business of the Beneficiary, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents;
(g) the Bank and TCZB will have the right to obtain all
such information as they may reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the operations and financial condition of the
Beneficiary;
Ch) TCZB will have the right to deny the use of the proceeds
of the Sub-loan for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than Switzer-
land);
(i) the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-
loan will be procured in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 4 to the Loan Agreement;


﻿- 12 -
(j) the Beneficiary will carry out his Farm Development or
Financing Plan, as approved, and will carry on his business, with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate
technical, agricultural, commercial and financial practices and
standards, and will maintain adequate records; and
(k) TCZB will have the right to suspend or terminate access
by the Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon
failure by him to perform his obligations under the Sub-loan
contract and, in appropriate cases, to premature the Sub-loan.
Disbursements and Records
5.1 TCZB will promptly inform the Beneficiaries of the amounts
charged to their respective Sub-loan accounts on account of goods
and services procured and financed under Sub-loans, such informi-
tion to be supported with copies of the receipts for such goods
and services in the amounts so charged.
5.2 TCZB will furnish semiannual statements to each Beneficiary
showing the amounts drawn on the Beneficiary's Sub-loan account,
including interest, payments made and the outstanding balance of
the respective Sub-loan.
Supervision
6.1 TCZB will ensure that amounts drawn on Sub-loan accounts
are applied exclusively to expenditures on the Farm Develop-
ment Plan for which such Sub-loan was granted.
6.2 The staff of LDP, CTSS and TCZB will regularly visit the
farms and poultry units where Farm Development and Financing Plans
financed with Sub-loans are being carried out, to ensure that
Beneficiaries are effectively and punctually carrying out such
plans and complying with the provisions of their respective
Sub-loan contracts with TCZB.


﻿-13 -                 ANNEX
TURKEY
Interest Rates Applicable to Sub-loans
Under Part A of the Project
Interest Rate per Annum (%)
Coopera-
tives,
Associa-
tions,
I.   Agricultural Purposes: Individuals Groups    Corporations
(a)  Sub-loans under       18.0     18.0   18.0 + tax* = 22.5
Part A.1
(b)  Sub-loans under
Part A.2
-   village broiler           18.0    18.0
houses
-   parent stock      18.0    18.0    18.0 + tax* = 22.5
farms
-   grandparent stock
farms           18.0    18.0    18.0 + tax* = 22.5
II. Agroindustrial Purposes:
Sub-loans under Part A.2
-   regionol processing       22.0 +  22.0 + tax* = 27.5
center                  tax
27.5
-   premix feed plant         22.0 +  22.0 + tax* = 27.5
tax
27.5
*    Transactions tax on interest.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this   fL     day of  4      , 198  .
FOR SECRETARY


