AAs~ dj'2c fo- 5
The World Bank
FM1 OFRCAL U SE ONLY
Rpt No. P-6403-BUL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE-
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$125 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
TO
SUPPORT THE DEBT AND DEBT RtEDUCTION PROGRAM
OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
SEPTEMBER 7, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P-    6403 BUL
Thi document has a restricted distribution and mav Type: PR
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise



CURRENCY UNrr - Blgarian LEV Yplural Lw a)
Average Value of US$1.Q in Leva
1989                 0.84
1990                 2.19
1991                17.79
1992      .         23.34
1993             -28.0Q
January  1994                 36.78
Febnruy 1994                  36.88
March   1994                  38.70
April    1994                 58.08
May      1994                56.15
June     1994                 55.42
ABDREVYLA2QNM
BAC      -      Bank Advisory Committee
BFTB    -       Bulgaria Foreign Trade Bank
BNB      -      Bulgarian National Bank
CAS      -      Country Assistance Stategy
CMEA   -        Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
DDSR    -       Debt and Debt Service Reduction
DRE      -      Debt Reduction Equivalent
EBRD    -       European Bank for Reconsructon and Development
EFTA    -       European Free Trade Association
FIB      -      European Investment Bank
EU       -      European Union
FESAL   -       Financial and Enteprise Sector Adjustment Loan
FLIRB   -       Front-Loaded Interest Reduction Bond
PRY      -      Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
0-24     -      Group of 24 Countries
GDP      -      Gross Domestic Product
GOB      -      Government of Bulgaia
IBEC    -       Interational Bank for Economic Coopertion
IIB      -      International Investnent Bank
LIBOR   -       London Inter-Bank Offer Rate
NDA      -      Net Domestic Assets
PDI      -      Past Due Interest
SAL      -      Structal Adjustment Loan
SBA      -      Stand-by Agreement
SOE      -      State-Owned Enterprise
STF      -      Systemic Tansformation Facility
TAL      -      Technical Assistance Loan
VAT      -      Value-Added Tax



FOR OF1ICUL USE ONLY
TABLDEO CONTEN=
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAm SUMMARY  . ......... .......                                   i-i
I.  INT1ODUClION .....               ............  ..........                     2
. BULGARIA'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM AND EXTERNAL
DEBT STRATEGY  .............               ........... .                  2
A. Bakground  .. .......               . * * *.* .. .    *.*                      2
B.  Macrecononic Stabilization        ..........................                  3
C.  StructuraiRdoronis  . . . . . . . . . . ..                         .4
D.  Extnl Debt and Debt Strtegy ............... .............                     6
m. THE DDSR AGREEMAENT   .............................    8
A.  Main Provisions..   ................................    8
B.  Soures ofOfficiaSupport  .....              ............   12
C.  DebtSercexnplications              .....         .......................  *   13
TV. EVALUATION OFTHE DDSR AGREEMENT  ........ ..........    14
A.  Fiancial Analysis  ..............................  .. .    14
B.  MoateriBenefits  ........           . ........................... .   15
C. Miacrcwonomic Oudook . .......................... . ....   19
D. ImpatonExternd FinncingRequirements andSources  .............    23
E. Impact on Creditworthiness      .................................   24
V. PROPOSED BANK LOAN  . .......... .                    ...............     25
A. Eligibility for DDSR Support  ... ....................... .                   25
B. DDSRILoan  .............................  .                             .     25
C. Set Asides  ......................                 .      ..      ....    25
D.   )ibursmne       .*.*. .........         ......... .. .   .......            26
E. Riskmand             .     .efits  ...  . .. ... .........   26
VI. THE BANK OPERATIONS AND ASSISTANCE STRATEGY IN BULGARIA  27
A. Peformance under the SAL   . ............... . .......... ..    28
B. Relions withtheFund  ......................................   29
C. 1FC andMIGA Actvities ...........................            . .... ...    29
D. AidCoordination   ........                               .     ..........  30
V]I.RECOhIMDNIATIONS   .... ....................                                 30
ANNEXES
This docaum  has a esicted disruton and my be used by feceronly in fth  _ofteir
lofficalmduties.w tt other   be disclosed wit  JIorld ;, _



IomemL         - Republic of Bulgaria
AMM=t -            US$125 milion equivalent
I'enms   -         Repayable in 20 years, icluding five years grace, at the standard
variable intet rate on an annuity basis.
Tne proposed loan and related measures woud rimbure the
Govenment of Bulgaria for a portion of the upfrnt costs of the
recent debt and debt service reduction (DDSR) agremet on the
restructurg of about US$8.1 billion in pubic exten  debt-
including about US$1.9 billion in past due interest (PDI). The DDSR
agreement closed on July 28, 1994. It involved three i ments for
Bulgaria's eligible original debt: (i) a buyback option
(including assodated interest) at 25 3/16 cents; (i) a 30-year discount
bond at a discount of 50 percent, bearing a floating interest rate of
UBOR plus 13/16 percent, with a single bullet payment at the end of
30 years; and (Mi) an 18-year Front-Loaded Inter  Reducion Bond
(FLIRB) bearing interest rates according to a predtrind schedule
beginning at two percent, rising to three percent in the sevent-h year
and trafter, with LUBOR plus 13/16 and a maturity of 18 years
with eight years grace. Past due interest was subject to a thre
percent downpayment and the remainder was exchanged for PDI
bonds, bearing an interest rate of LIBOR plus 13/16th and a maturity
of 17 years with sven years grae.
The Bank's supo would be part of a joint effort with the IMF to
replenish partially Bulgaia's intnatinal reserves used to inace the
upfront costs of me DDSR agrement. Por to closing, the Wod
Bank's Executive Dectos approved a limted wiver of the negative
pledge clauses in loan and guaate agreements between the Republic
of Bugaria and the Bank to allow the pledge of collatera for the
insuments under the DDSR agrment.  ohe proposed measur  are:
(O) a Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan to the Republic of
Bulgria for US$125 millon to rimburs a portion of the cost of the
pricipal and interest colatera of the instrents and/or the debt
buybacdr and ODi) set asde of US$75 million out of a proposed
Fiancial and Enrpise Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL), which the
Bak intends to submit to the Executive Diecos  for approval in the
second or third quarter of FY95. The Agreemet was implemented
without direct official support by drawing down Bulgaia's
intematonal reserves to less than two months of mrandise
impor. Bank and IMP support for the DDSR agrement wfil hep
replenish Bugia's reserves to a level more appropiate for a smal
open economy.



-i-
DOCAU" and Risks:   At tfie closing, the DDSR agreement resulted in a commercial debt
reduction equivalent (DRE) of about US$3.8 billion-46 percent of
eligible debt. -The DDSR operation wi}l materially improve
Bulgari's development prosects by deinating the uncertainty
surounding extemal payments on commercial debt, plabing fte
Govenmet's relationship with the international financi communit
on a firmer basis, contributing to confidence in the susibityof
the Government's economic program, and eventualy, contributing
towards inflows of private extenal capital.
Bank and Fund suppo for the DDSR agreement, in combination with
other official lending since the transition- began, will increas the
preferred creditors' exposure ratio past Bank's guidines.
Combining debt to prefered creditors with the new bond inastruments
created by the DDSR agreement will make Bulgaria's remaining debt
service less flexible, increasing the risk to the Bank in case of debt
servcing difficulties. The major source of such difficulties would be:
(a) a failure to control the fiscal deficit, especially in light of the
sipificantly higher foreign interest payments resulting from the
DDSR agreement; and (b) a failure to maintain the momentum on
Structural reforms, leading to further declines in output and an
inadequate export effort. Regarding the first, the Government is
taking decisive measures to control the fiscal deficit in 1994. It iS
also strengthening its revuiue effort through a new set of modern tax
laws and improved tax administration, particularly for the VAT.
Progress in reducing the fiscal deficit through end-June 1994 has been
impressive. Regarding structural reforms, recent changes in the
Privaion Law have been deigned to accelerate privation;
measures are being taken to control the largest loss makers; and
attention is being given to the current situation in the financial sector.
The Govenmment's quick and forceful reation to the foreign exchange
crisis in March indicate it's commitnent to its adjustment program.
Disbursenent       'MThe proposed Loan would be disbursed in one tranche upon loan
effectiveness to reimburse the Republic of Bulgaria for a portion of
collateral for the instruments and/or the cash buyback. The set asides
would be disbursed upon loan effectiveness of the proposed FESAL
operation. If that loan does not materiaze for any reason at all, the
proposed set asides would be canceled.
Rate of Return:    The intal rate of return on the financial resources allocated to the
Ageement, based on the savings in payments to commercial baos,
would be 43 percent.
Ml Rgp=:     Not Applicable.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DICTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION LOAN TO
THE REPUBIIC OP BULGARIA TO SUPPORT
THE l)EBT REDUC=lQ  PROGRAb OF  fiM  REPUBLIC OF.B Ig
1..   I submit the following report and recommendation for proposed measures to
reimburse tie Republic of Bulgaiia for a portion of the cost of its recent Debt and Debt
Service Reduction (DDSR) agreement with its westen commeial bank creditors.' The
DDSR agreement, as implemented ith commnercial bank creditors, involved: (i) an
exchange of origiral debt for one of three options (a discount bond, a front-loaded interest
reduction bond (FLIRB) and a debt buyback); and (ii) a regularzaon of interest arrears
through a down payment at the closing of the agreement and a past due interest (PDI) bond.
The DDSR opration closed on July 28, 1994. A limited waiver of the negadve pledge
clauses in loan and guarmtee agreements between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Bank to
allow the pledge of collateral for the new instruments under the DDSR agreement was
granted on a no-objection basis by the Executive Directors on July 26, 1994.2 The proposed
Bank measures involve the following:
-     A Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan to the Republic of Bulgai for
US$125 million to reimburse a portion of the cost of the principal and interest
colateral of the instruments and/or the debt buyback; and
-     Set asides of US$75 million from a future adjustment opeaons in Bulgaria.
As discussed below, the Bank would set aside an amount of US$75 million out
of the proposed Financial and Enterprse Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL),
which the Bank intends to submit to the Executive Directors for Wpval in
the second or third quarter of PY95.
See, Bulgai Cmma Bak De and Debt Servie edcon Opead-BRfing Note (Mac
11, 1994, SecM94-250).
2 Sem, Blgaria Debt and Debt Service Reducion Opomt-Requet for a Limited Waivew of t
NeVeti Pled. Cla   Juy 19,1994, R94-150).



-2 -
2.   Bulgara declared a debt moratorinum in 1990. Negodadons between he Repblic of
Bulgaria and its commercial creditors began in 1992. The commrcial banks wae
represented in these negotations by a Bank Advisory Committee (BAC).. Discussions
between the Govemment of Bulgana and the BAC were difficult and protacted. A first
major step was accomplished in 1992, when Bulgaria aeed to make part  iterest
payments beginning in October 1992, and the BAC and the Government agreed on the
options to be included in the menu. These negotiations eventualy reulted in a preliminary
agreement-on a DDSR opeton on November-24, 1993. A fial term sheet was issued on
March 11, 1994 and the DDSR agreement closed on July 28, 1994.
3.   This report provides an assessment of Bulgaria's adjustment program and exenal
debt sategy (Section Il); a description of the DDSR agreement (Section E); an evaluation
of the DDSR Agreement in terms of its financial implications, matri benefits, the
macroeconomic outlook and its implications on  tenal financing requirements,
creditworthiness and the Bank's exposure risk (Section IV). The report also describes
proposed Bank spt (Section V); summarizes the Bank Group opations and cunt
assstance strategy in Bulgaria (Section VI); and presents recommendations about the use of
Bank resources (Section VII).
H. BULGARUIS ADJULSTMENTZ QGR&M
AND EXTEBNAL DEBT STRATEGY
A. Backgrond
4.    Since 1991, Bulgaria has launched a program of economic reform that has included
stabilization, lbealization and gradual prvatization of the economy. This program has been
sported by the World Bank and the DIe. Economic reforms are beginning to show
positive effects. In particular, a private sector has begun to develop and now accounts for
about one third of all economic activity.
5.    Considerable success was achieved in stabilization, 1lbeaition and struchtal
reforms in the first 18 months of the reform program. However, in late 1992 and 1993,
political unnties and an adverse external enviment complicated economic
management. Implementation of the adjustment program slowed considerably. The
implications of the slippages in economic reform-a worsening extemal balance, a resurgence
of inflationary pressures, pressures in the foreign exchange market and continuing declines in
output, incomes and employment-have prompted the Government to re-inia  strong
adjustment measures. The Government is, therefore, taldng actions in three areas: (1) to
regain the momentum on m oomic stabilization; (ii) to accerte the  nplemi
of structual reforms; and (ii) to resolve Bulgaria's extemnal debt situation.



-3-
B. Macroeonowni Stablition
6.   A key component of the Govenment's adjustment effort has been to put in place a
c,w,k macroeconomi stabi  aion program. This program- incorporated in th  1994
Budget that passed Parliament on March 1, 1994, envisages a reduction in inflationary
pressures by end year and a substantial improvement in the non-interest current account
deficit. Thne progm has three basic components. The first component is a significant
-tighening of fiscal policy-the budget deficit is projected to decline from about 14 perct of
GOP In 1993 to about 65 percent in 1994, witi a large swing in the pimary balance from a
deficit to a substantial surplus. Ile second component of the stablization program is an
AUStere monety policy designed to supportthe-program's ifation ojectdve and rebuild
interaional reserves after the completion of the DDSR agreement. The final component of
the macroeconomic stabilization program for 1994 is an incomes policy based on projected
inflation, reversing the policy of 1993 that indexed wages almost fully to past inflaion. The
Govemment has also proposed differenated wage bill ceilings with sux categories according
to each fim's recent profitability record. The Government's macroeconomic progam is
being supported by the IMF through a third Standby Arrangement, supplemented by a
Structural Transformation Facilit. The IMP program was approved by its Board on April
11, 1994.
7.   Only weeks after the Budget was approved, the Govenment's adjustment program
came under intense pressure. The Lev experienced a sharp deprecation reaching Leva 65
per U.S. Dollar at end-March compared to Leva 37 at the end of the previous month-a
nominal depreciation of nearly 75 percent. While domestic political events and perceived
delays in mobilizing international support for the Government's adjustment program couled
with market realization of the prospective costs of the rcently-annonced DDSR operation
were the immediate causes, it was clea that macroeconomic uncerlainties stemming from
policy sipges in 1993, when the budget deficit surged to about 14 percent of GDP, were
the underlying cause. Inflationary pressures increased substantially and were exacerbated by
the introduction of a VAT on April 1, 1994. Inflation in April exceeded a monthy rate of
20 percent. In addition to near panic on the foreign exchange market, the authorities faced
considerable pressures to relax monetary, fiscal and incomes policies.
8.   The authorities reacted swiftly and forcefully, tlng the measures necessay to keep
the macmeconomic stabiliion program on track. Monetary policy was tightened to the
extent possible especialy given the fralWty of the fiaci sector and the limited
istruments at the diposl of the monetary authonrtes Fiscal policy was also tightened to
ensure that domestic financing of the budget deficit did not exceed the progrm's original
targets. This was made more difficult given that interest payments rose considerably due to
the depredated exchange rate and higher domestic interest rates resulting from thu monety
tightening. Real expenditures declined as wages and salares and opertng and main
expenditures were contaned. Higher revenues also contributed, as VAT revenues have been
higher than expected and profit taxes, excises, custom duties and non-tax revenues were
abov program projections. Incomes policy, executed primarily through wage ceigs, was
not alteed, despite the substantial rise in inflation above that projected in tie macroeonomic
program. These actions have stabilzed the macroeconomic situaton-the Lev appreaed



4 -
from its end-March level and has stabilized aroxud 53-55 per U. S. Dollar in August;
inftion, which was about 60 percent for the first six months of 1994, slowed in June to
below the monthly average for 1993; and, international reserves rose (until these reserves
were drawn down to finance the DDSR agreement).
9.    A recent IMB  mission reviewed performance through end-June. The mision
concluded that the macreconomic program is on track and that the authorities are committed
to maintaining appropiae policies for the remainder of the prgram. ID   staff are
therefore r  m    ng to its Board of Directors a waiver of the perfce criterion on
net domestic assets and proposng augmentation of the presnt arangement to support the
rect DDSR agreement.
C. Structural Reforms
10.  Since the onset of the transition, Bulgaria has made progress in initiating stuctual
rfoms, particularly in price and trde liberalization. Key actions have been taken in
establishing the legal and isttutional framework for privatizon, in urban and agricultbual
land resttution, and on financial sector reform. In particular, urban restitution has reumned
sigificant amounts of urban properties to private owners, leading to a floudshing retil and
trade sector. In aggregate, the progress on structral reforms has been sufficient to satis
all conditions for release of the second tranche of the World Bank's SAL; the second tranche
was released on March 31, 1994.
11.  However, the pace of structu  reforms slowed and fell short of the Goverment's
intentions in le 1992 and 1993. Most disappointing was privatization. The Government's
strong, initial acdons to put in place the legal and institutional fmunework for prition
were only slowly being taslated into measurable progress on ptivatzation. At end 1993,
only 116 privaizaion deals had tamen place; about 90 percent of tese were auctions of small
enterprises by line ministries or municipalities. Only a few large enterprises have been sold
by the Prvatiation Agency.
12.  A second area of concern has been the worsening financial performance of stae
owned enterpres (SO13). During 1993, enterpr  losses reached about Lea 30 billion
(about 10 percent of GDP)-a substantial deteriortion from 1992. Slow progress on
pratizain and liquidation certainly contributed to this loss of financial discipline. This
deteriorating financial peormanc eroded budgetary revenues through tax and soci secuity
arrears, contributing to a widening of the budget deficit in 1993 and a decaitaliion of the
banldng system through bad loans.
13.  Rgardin the banng sector, seventy state banks have been consolidated into 11
banks; prudential regulations have been enacted; and, external audits have begun on the
consoldated state banks. But, a significant agenda remained. Banks have inadequate, and in
many cases, negative equity. While new prudential regulations have been enacted in sx key
areas, the regulations are too ambitious in some areas and are being modified. Banking
supervision is still in an embtyonic stage. Some limited supevisions have been initated,
mostly as a tmining exercise for central bank supevnisors. Little progress has been made in



pnivatzing banks and in this aa, further legisation may be required.
14. : Tr.c Govemment recognizes that the slow progress on structural reform is making it
difficult to sustain stbilization and contributing to thfe continued decline in output, incomes
and employment. In the 1994 adjustment program it has, therefore, committed itself to
accelerte progress in pnvatization, enterprise reform and finmcial sector refonn. Regarding
privaization, the Government has already taken two important steps:
*    amendments to the Pvatzation Law have been approved by the Parliament,
wbich should speed market-based privatizations and which introduce a mas
privatization scheme hat would involve some 300-400 enterprises; and,
*    an annual market-based privatization program was enacted for 1994, involving
about 320 firms. As a consequence, about 139 privatization deals have been
concluded so far in 1994, exceeding the total for al such privatization prior to
1994.
15.  Measurs are also being tamen to improve financial discipline in SOEs. A modern
bankruptcy law has been recently adopted by the Parliament to strengthen and systematize
creditor imposition of financial discipline on enterprises. Under the BIF program, 100 of
the largest loss makers, which account for about half of all enterpnse losses, have been
identified and beginning July 1994, the Government has agreed to impose limits on credit
extended to these enterprises. Furthermore, the 1994 Budget identifies a number of firms for
liquidation, and contains additional allowances for unemployment benefits to accommodate
those workers displaced by the liquidations.
16. In the banking sector, Parliament has approved a law permitting the Government to
substitute long-term government bonds in state bank portfolios for nonperfonning, policy-
directed, pre-1991 loans granted to state entepises. Special procedures have been put in
place to restict new credit to enterises whose loans have been transfered to the Ministry
of Finance under the bad loan operation, except i the context of satidsfactory restructuring
plans. BNB is preparing amendments to the new prudential regulations to make them more
realistc and to set a feasible schedule for compliance. BNB is also committed to intensifying
bankng supervision during 1994. However, recent developments have resulted in
considerable stress in the financial sector. The bad loan opaion, higher domestic interest
rates and adverse developments in the real economy have resulted in a severe deteioration in
the porfdolios of the state banks. In July, the Government effected a rescue of the most
insolvent state bank and is putting mto place a set of measures to strengthen the other state
banks. The situation in the domestic banldng system remains a key area of concern for the
Govemment's adjustment program.
17.  Further reforms in the enterprise and financial sector, particularly the situation in the
banking sector, will be supported by a Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
(FESAL) being prepared by the World Bank. This loan will suo Govetnment efforts to
acceeate market-based prvatzations, implement the mass privaiation program, impose
financ  discipline on the entepse sector, and reform the banking sector. A FESAL



-6 -
appraisal mission is curtly pogammed for Seember/October 1994 with the loan
expected to be presented for approval to the Executive Directrs in the second or  rd
qua   of FY95. This wil be a key component of the Bank's sWort for the Govemuent'S
adjustment program.
D. ExtelDebt and Debt Strategy
18. is Backnd. During the-late 1980's, in the waning yeas of the communis -egime,
Bugaria's total debt outstanding increased significanty, nearly trpling between 1985 and
1989. By end 1989, Bulgaria's total hard currency debt was US$ 9.2 billion. This
accumulaion of debt occurred against a backdrop ot decinig eco-nomnic pefrmance and
stgnant export emings in convertible currency markets. Beween 1985 and 1989 exprs of
goods to convertible currency markets declined from US$3.3 billion to US$3.1 billion in
nominal terms, before falling to US$2.6 billion in 1990. As a result, the ratio of Bulgari's
hard currency debt to hard currency exports of goods reached nearly 300 percent by end-
1989.
19.  Bulgaria's wosening credit situation led fte authoxities to contract more short-tem
debt in 1988-1989, which exacerbated the bunching of amortizaton payments. About 40
percent of outstanding debt was scheduled to be paid in 1990. In the first quarter of 1990,
aUl debt payments were made on schedule, including an estimated US$1 billion of principal
repayments. Part of these repayments were met from official foreign exchange reserves,
which fell from over US$1 billion (4 months' import cover) to less than US$200 millon in
the secoiwd quarter of 1990. Faced with dwmdling international eserves and very large debt
sevice obliains, the Bulgarian Foreign Trade Bank WM) declared its inability to mabe
prncipal payments in March 1990. This moratorium was extended to include interest
obligtions from June 1990 onwards.
20.   From mid-1990 until the closing of the DDSR agreement, Bulgaria obtained a series
of 90-day rollovers of the principal payments on all commercial obligations. Interest aes
accumulated rapidly. As a consequence of the moratorium, Bulgaria had no access to
commercial finance, including viraly no trade credits, durng its difficult trmnition to a
market economy.
21.  Strcte  Of External Debt.3 Bulgaria's debt is heavily concened in frei
commeial ban  (see Table 1). Official debt, both biateral and multi al, accounted for
only 24 percent of debt outstnding at end-1993. Multilatal debt includes two CMEA
banks-the Iteational Bank for Economic Cooperation (BEC) and the International
Investment Bank (IIB)-that account for about five pert of debt outstanding. The
renainder of mulitiaal debt is from the World Bank, the DO, the EBRD and the EIB, and
it has been contcted since 1991. Bilatral debt is mainly composed of debt contcted pr
to the moratorium that is being rescheduled through the Paris Club and balanceoof-payments
'  This diucon excludes debt ouctstang in caring accountswith fomu CMEA t   phues,
which is being sted sparty.



-7-
Table 1: BLGARLA - DEBT OUTSANDING"'
(I_-t993, USS blUo)
Bitimt       Proporion of
.  d-1993      tTotl (S)
Muli ou inatittons"                   1.5              12.0
0ilhtetal-                         1.5              12.0
Bonds                                 0.4 -3.2
Commeial banks                        9.1              72.8
(o/w DDSR efigible)                  (8.0)            (64.0)
Total                                 12.5            100.0
i    i_Bdne bsed on debt dt pdor to te DDSR moolia
bade IMP. Wodd Bak, CMEA isUS adB IDEC), BIRD n BB.
o   bnlde Pad Club debt an U/024 bahno ofpaymet mppoet
adbn   debt inluhded in DDSR agreement, comme  ddb to Plis ad Rlana bas coaatetd by tw F, and
comnria debt oanted by her Bulgaia beaks.
Sowoe: Miniuy of Fhnce, Debt nora_to Grop, and Woed Bak stff stima_s
support provded tough the EU/G-24.
22.   Commercial debt, included under the DDSR agreement, accounted for the larpst
prportion of debt outstanding, about 64 percent at end-1993. The DDSR agreement cover
US$8.1 billion of exteal commercial debt, after accounting for inters accrual in the first
seven months of 1994, partal intrest payments by Bulgaria during 1994, and some intest
adjustments associated with the operaon itself. The remaining commal debt is held by
Russian and Polsh banks (about US$812 million) and other Bulgarian commeri bank that
were not included in the DDSR opeAto. Regarding the Russian and Polish banks, diey
were origiay expected to participate in the DDSR agreement, but they have decided to
sete their commercial debt outside of the DDSR agreement and in conjuncton with the
resolution of other bilateal balances associated with the old CMEA trading ystem.
23.   Eteral Debt Strategy. Relieving Bulgaria's substantidal extnal debt burden has
been key objective of the Government's strategy to integrte Bulgaria into int
financial marbets and to help restore long-term growth. Since the decaration of the debt
moratorium in 1990, successve governments had worked to resolve Bulgara's extenal debt
situation. Negotiations were held with Bulgaria's official Western creditors through the Pais
Club, vnth its commercil creditors through the London Club and with CM A insttuti
(the atter discussions are still at a very early stage):



-8 -
*     Paris Club debt has been rescheduled three imes: fte latest rescheduling was
on April 13, 1994, and covered al obligations failing due from the previous
rescheduling untl Apri 30, 1995. Bulgaria is also in the process of settling
all non-reschedulable arrears;
*     Negoliations between the Bank Advisory Committee (BAC) and Bulgaria
began in 1992. Discussions were difficult and protracted. A first major step
was accomplished in 1992, when Bulria agreed to make paxal interest
payments, and the BAC and the Government agreed on the menu of options.
These negodations eventually resulted in the DDSR agreement that closed on
July 28, 1994. -Discussions have also been intiated with the Russian
Government to restrucure Bulgaria's outstanding commercial debt with banks
of the Russian Federation and discussions are anticipated wit Poland; and
*     Since 1990, Bulgaria has also been in arears to both CMEA institutions, the
IBEC and IIB. The Govemment recently initiated discussions to restrctr its
debt with these two institutions. Bulgaria is seeking relief from these banks.
These negotiations are still ongoing, but the Government hopes to conclude
them in 1994.
HI. THE DDSR AGREEMEN
A. Main Provisions
24. The DDSR agreement for Bulgaria was comprehensive in restructuring all eligible
commercial debt of western commercial banks, including interest arrears. This represents
almost two-thirds of Bulgaria's public and publicly guaranteed debt. The DDSR agreement
provided debt and debt service reduction through a menu of options for orgial debt
outstanding. Past due interest was treated separately, with the agreement providing for a
favorable arrangement on calculating interest arrears since September 1992, a partial
downpayment on outstanding interest arrears and a par exchange of the remainder for bonds
bearing interest at market rates. Details of  the DDSR agreement are summarzed in Table 2.
The remainder of this section discusses the main provisions of the agreement, the sources of
official support for the agreement and the agreement's cash flow implications.
25. Eligible Debt Outstanding. The DDSR agreement applied to virtually all debt
outstanding from western commercial bans with the Bulgarian Foreign Trade Bank (ErB)-
-about US$8.1 billon.4 Original debt in the DDSR agreement totalled about US$6.2 billion,
of which about US$2.0 billion was short term. Past due interest was US$1.9 billion.
4  As discussed enter, several Rusan and Polish bans with original debt of about US$607 mUilo
wiw fiom fte DDSR agreement deciding to settle their outsding credits in the contex of othr
ou_sading balances remaining from the old CMEA trading systm.



Table 2: BULGARIA - SUMMARY TERMS OF DVSR AGREEMENT
Iutrumuzts~~      MatuWiy[trt                               Colatva                  Comment
MmuLQtm
1. Boy-hck  -  -5- 1-                                                 -             Sf3eltc per US
-o sr of oalw deft p
rdeatedupi a4$id '
2. Front Loaded   18 years           Yr. 1: 2.00%            On, years ImMwst      Bearer bonds. Limied to
Interest Redu  o      grace)      Yr. 2:2.00%              nitaly at 2.6%,       no more _  30% of
Bonds (par                        Yr. 3:2.5%               rIsing to 3.0%.       orial deb.
exchange)                         Yr. 4:2.25%              No prindpal           30% of bonds tuned fbr
Yr. 5: 2.50%            colateraL             short-tem  debt wM carty a
Yr. 6: 2.75%                                   0    idghperi _ted rate.
Yr. 7: 3.00%
Yr. & LIBOR + 13116
tomatuft
3. Dbc_n Boods        30 yr. bule    LIBOR + 13116           Pincpa secwred by    Registered bonds.
(50% sdona on                                             aer coupon Us.        30% of boods bused for
wce value)                                                Treusway bonds;       short-erm debt wM carey a
Tw-ve moth nteres   0% b          iterest rate.
guaratee at 7%.
1. Cuabpaymeat              -                  --                                  3% of iwterreas, pad
I  %                                                                               onhemigdte
estiatd at USS51 m_.
2. PDB Bonds           17years       LIBOR + 13116           Nam                   Beaw baouh
(Wpr Weh )          (7 ace)                                                      Amortxzai  is payab
seaM-annua  on tbe
.                                                            f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ooib*    schw
tahoeuds 16, 1%; 7-1I,
3%; 12l1, 6%M ad 17421,
9.3%.
'Denomine In US Dola.
2 Payable _ueilan y.
Soue:  1994 FawAzt  PAopodsa, Th. Republ¢ of biglpti, Mah 11, 1994.
26.   Menu of Options. The menu of DDSR options offered three instruments for
restructuring Bulgaria's eligible original debt:
*       a buyback option;
* a 30-year discount bond at a discount of 50 percent and bearing a floating
interest rate of IIBOR plus 13/16 percent, with a single bullet payment at the
end of 30 years; and



*        to -10-
*    an 18-yea Front-Loaded Interest Reducdon Bond (FLIB) bearing interest
rates according to a predetrmined schedule beginniing at two percent, rising to
te pement in the seventh year and-theafter, starting in the eighth year..
-LBOR plus 13/16. The FLI has a maturity of 18 years and a grace period
of eight years.
27. The buyback option included original debt and related unpaid interest. The
Government set a buyback pice of 25 3/16 cents on a Dollar of original debt and rlated
unpaid adjusted interest. The purchase of debt under the buyback option took place on the
closing date.
28. The FPURs have an interest schedule, which in the early years is below LIBOR, but
which nses to LIBOR plus 13/16ths after the seventh year, thereby providing interest relief
in the early years. The interest schedule is shown in Table 2. The FLlRBs have a maturity
of 18 years, with eight years' grace and are in bearer fonn. Thirty percent of the FLRBs
exchanged for short-term debt formed a separate issue and cary a 0.5 percent higher interest
rate. The pnincipal of the FIRBs was not collateized. At the beginning, interest payments
ae colateized at a level of 2.6 percent, and earnings on the interest coLateral wil be
retained unti the interest collatal reaches three percet of the outstanding amount of the
FLIRBs. After that, earnings on the interest collateral in excess of three percent will be
retuned to the Government of Bulgaria. Interest colateral is required for only the first
sven years.
29.  The discount bonds were issued at a discount of 50 percent. The applicable interest
rate is LIBOR plus 13/16ths. The US Dollar discowt bonds are in registered form. The
principal of the US Dollar discount bonds were collazed by US Treasury zero coupon
bonds, which mature on or before the maturity date of the discount bonds. The discount
bonds have one-year's interest collateal calculated at an intert rate of seven percent As
with the FLIRBs, 30 percent of the discount bonds exchanged for short term debt formed a
separate issue and carry a 0.5 percent higher interest re.
30. A DM option for both the FLRBs and the discount bonds was available only on DM
debt held by German and Austian banks. A milnimum subscrption to the DM instruments
was reqired: for the FLIRBs, the rminimum subscripton amount was DM 500 million; and,
for the discount bonds, it was DM one bilhon. The minimum subscription amounts were not
committed for either instrument and no DM bonds were included in the opertion.
31.  Severa other aspects of the DDSR opraion deserve mention. First, both the
FURBs and the discount bonds will be eligible for a debt conversion program, when and if
such a progam is established. The Govemment has indicated its wilingess to establish
such a program, linked to its privaizauon efforts through the Privatzaton Agency and line
minsties and agencies. The discount bonds would be exchngeable in such a program at
face value, and the FLURBs will be exchangeable at a 50 percent discount of their face value.
Finaly, credo  were required to reverse set-offs or recveres aginst the BFIB for such
debt to be eligible for the DDSR agment.



-v  -11.-
32.  Pat Due Interes (PDI). PDI included all unpaid interest n the eligible commercia
debt since the declaron of the debt mortorium in 1990. Bulgria agred with the BAC in
September 1992 to resume para intes payments. Interest arrears, which accumulated
since the resumption of partal intes-payments, were acorded favorable treatment.
hnterest on the principal outstanding and -accumulated interest aears (from the beging of
the moratorium until August 31, 1992) were calculated according to a single, fixed interest
rate for the period from September 1, 1992 until the closing date; for US Doars, the fixed
intenest rate was 3.5 percent- Thus, the DDSR agreement contained some reducdon on
accrued interest for the period in which partial intemst payments were made.
33.  PDI, calculated as discussed above, was subject to a downpayment and the remainder
were exchanged for PDI bonds. PDI was about US$1.9 billion, after the interest adjustment
for the period that partial interest payments were made. At the closing, the Govenment of
Bulgana paid a downpayment of three percent of outstanding interest aras on the closing
date-US$56.7 million. Interest arrears associated with the debt tedered under the buyback
aangement were required to be surrendered with the buybacL The remaining interet
arrears were exchanged for PDI bonds. The bonds have a marity of 17 years with a grace
period of seven years. They were not collaterized. Ihe PDI bonds are in beaer form.
34.  AR bonds issued with respect totheDDSR opwation can be redemed in whole or in
part and without premium or penalty at par. In addihton, Bulgaria can, through a public
offering or an open market trnsacdon, purche any outstanding bonds.
35.  Value Recovery Clause. The discount bonds have a value recovery clause ied to
GDP. The value recovery mechanism would be stuctured as follows: if, for a given
caendar year (the *fIrst* year), the GDP of Bulgaria equals or exceeds 125 perceat of its
GDP for 1993, and its GDP for the following year (the "second' year) is greater than the
first year, additonal interest would be payable on the discount bonds. The amount of the
additional interest would be equal to 0.5 percent of the outstading principal of the discount
bonds for each one percent real GDP growth, between the 'firstW and the *second" year.
The additional interest would be payable in the Wthird' year at the same time as the regular
interest payments are made. The same calcuation is made for subsequent years, with the
additional intest depending on the rate of growth in the previous two years.
36.  Allocalon of Debt. All debt elgible for the DDSR ageement was committed
(excluding the Russian and Polish banks which withdrew): 12.9 pect was allocad to the
cash buyback, 60.3 percent was committed to the discount bond, and 26.8 percent was
committed to the FLRBs (see Table 3). Of past due inters, US$223 miLion were
exchanged for the buyback option along with the conespding original debt, and the
remainder of about US$1.6 billion was committed to the PDI bonds. The favorable
treatment of accrued, unpaid inters reduced interest arrears by about US$179 million, prior
to the alloctin among instruments. In addifion, Bulgia was required to pay about US$30
minion for revaluation payments in connection with multi-rency loan fclties. Of these
charges, 20 percent or about US$7.1 million were paid at the dosing and the-rainder was
included in the original debt.



- 12 -
Table 3: ALLOCATION OF DEBT AMONG OPTIONS
(IJs$n1illions)
Amount Allocated
Origina debt"-                                               618C62
Buyback                                                     798.3
Discount bonds                                             3730.4
FLIRBs                                                      1657.5
Past due interest"                                           1901.8
Interest dowapayment e                                       63.8
Buyback dI                                                  223.3
PDI bonds                                                   1614.7
Total Debt in DDSR Agreenent                                 8088.0
;1/ Icludes of evalaion payment not paid at closing.
bl Exclu  US$179 mlion intert reducton fom th favorable treatmnet of iet since Sept 1992.
el Includes both 3 percent inte downpsyment US$S6.7 million, and dowapaynmt of US7.1 mlon of revauati
payment requietd under multi-uncy loan facili.
d/ Pat due interet, cornding to odginal debt tended under the buyback opidon, wa required to b excnged for the
buyback.
Soue: iniury of FInnce, Word Bank gaff estmes.
37.   Up-front Costs. The up-front costs of the DDSR operation included the cost of the
buyback, interest and principal collateal on the discount bonds, interest colateral on the
FLIRBs, the interest downpayment, and 20 percent of the revaluation charge. The up-front
costs for the operation were US$715 million (see Table 4). The Government met these
upfront costs entirely from its own resources. At the time of closing, Blgaria's official
international reserves were about US$1.3 billion, excluding monetary gold. With up-front
costs of US$715 million, official reserves (excluding monetary gold) have fallen to about
US$600 million, or about one and a half months of merchandise imports-a low level for a
small open economy.
B. Sources of Official Support
38.   Direct financial support for Bulgaria's DDSR agreement is expected from the World
Bank, the BEF and the Government of the Netherlands. Through this proposed DDSR Loan,
the Bank will provide US$125 million in additional funds and US$75 million would be
provided in the future from potentidal set asides from the proposed FESAL opeaon. The



- 13 -
Table 4: BULGAI - UPFRONT COSTS OF DDM    O ATION
(USMlion)
Discount           Clouin. Date
______ __   nBuybak   PDI Bonds  Bonds  FLIRB    Total
Down payment                                            3216w 
Principal Coliata       .   =           220             220
ineest Collatel                         131       43    174.
.                                                                       .~~~~~~
a/ Includes wevaluation payments of US$7.1 million.
Source: Mmistry of Fiunce; World Bank Staff Estimates.
IMP is also expected to provide augmentation for the DDSR agreement in the amount of 15
percent of quota-SDR 69.74 million or about US$101 million at cunrent exchange ates.
IMP support for the DDSR agreement in 1994 would be in addition to the existing SBA of
15 percent of quota and the STF of 50 percent of quota. The Government of the Netherlands
is also expected to provide NLG 15 million (about US$8.6 million) as cofinancing of the
Bank's proposed DDSR Loan. Official fnacial support for the DDSR agreement thus
would total about US$241 million, which will be used to reimburse partiy the Republic of
Bulgaria for the upfront costs of the DDSR agreement. The remain  US$474 million wil
be financed from Bulgaria's reserves. Bulgaria will benefit from the recent decision by the
Bank and Fund Boards not to segment DDSR support, as otherwise support from the Fund
and Bank would have been reduced. Official support from the G-24 totalling about US$260
million, including ECU 150 million from the EU and US$50 million from Japan's Export-
Import Bank as cofinancing of the World Bank's FESAL operdion, has also been committed
to help close the balance of payments' gap in 1994.
C. Debt Service Implications
39.  The debt service implications of the DDSR agreement, including the augmention
fom the Bank and the Fund, is shown on Table S. There are tree distinctphases of debt
payments: (a) The first seven years, when only interest payments are due on the three
instruments (the PDI bond, the FUtRBs and the discount bonds); (b) The period from year
eight to year eighteen, when amorftizaon payments on both the PDI bonds and the FIRBS
are made; (c) Year 19 until year 30, when only interest payments are due on the discount
bonds, as both the FLIBS and the PDI bonds are retred.



- 14-
TAk§: WUWARIA 0M AM N - OM SON=  PUCAIION a-
Iugs Milaon, auwd a wap
Dont A:e
Y_s    01         FIRlb   Bond   Offeil    TotaW
.                      ,~~~___  LendingbI
118        53    1I8        30      3
Q~401 27*       -20      181      14      71
0         14    158        0
a  Intet raft pro        based on th Oied ouvo prvailing at the tim the DDSR agreentr
was flnefze.
bt ISRD and IMF au_entatIon udy.
Soure: Would Snk Stff Estime.
IV.                             .  .                             !
A. Fnana AIalyis
40. Th DDSR aeement rtructr  naly two thrds of Bulgar's external debt. In
additim, t  DDSR agreeamt:
*     reduces the face value of digible commercial debt thrugh the discount bond
and the buyback;
*     postns amorttn  on the rema          debt untl seven years afte the
closing date;
*     regulaiz  inteest arre  through a downyment of about US$57 million
and an exchange of the rem    past due interest for wventeen year bods;
*     effectively prepays the bullet amorizain of 43 pecn of Bulgaria's
remainig debt (the debt exchanged for the discount bond) and one year's
interest by placing collaterl beyond Bulgar's control;
*     iraes indebtedness to official creditors by funding collatral purchases and
the debt buyback through addidonal borrowing from the IFIs; and
*     reduces flexility in the case of futre debt servi  diff:culties by e nging
exising commercial bak debt for bonds.



- 1J -
These effects of the DDSR agrement are analyzed with regard to their financ
implications, their debt reduction and their potental cash flow relief in the following
paragraphsL
41.  Evatatio of the DDSR Agreemt. In order to assess the size of the debt
reductionthroh a DDSR operation coning of more than one aption, one approach is to
estimatebthe Debt Redci  Eie  (DR. This measum  ks itO accont the
reduction in fAce value of the elgble debt net of new money and the prepayment equivalen
Of collateral. For the Bulgaian DDSR agreement, the DRE calculatio also includs the
estimated value of the interest adjustment (descrbed iL paa 32) and of the value recovey-
lause (descibed in para. 35) based on a projection of the long-term growth ate of the
economy (four pecnt per year. O(erall, -the PDSR areeent reduces Bulgaria's eligible
commerca debt by about US$3.8 billion, which is 46 percent of the eligible debt, at a net
cost of US$715 million (see Table 6). TiEs compares favorably to DREs for oher DDSR
operations. Because of the large proportion of Bulgaria's debt covered by th DDSR
opeAton-almost two thirds-total DRE as a proportic    otal debt outstanding is estimated
at about 29 percent. Thisis higher than previous DDSR opadons. Thus, when the DDSR
ageement is viewed In the context of Bulgara's overall debt suation, It provies
Bulgaria with a significant reducton In Its total debt burden.
42.   Comprehensivene of DDSR Operation. Table 7 depicts the break-even pices and
the post-deal pric  for the unolaalized portion of the maWning debt for pat DDSR
Operations. (e calculation is explaned in the footnotes to the Table.) For Bulgaria the
Table shows a break-even buyback price of 24 cents on the doldr, about 20 percent lower
than the post-deal price. This reduction is the average of the DDSR agreements to date.
Due to the comprehensive naure of the Bulgaria DDSR, it achieved significant saving
rltve to the cost of an open-market debt reducdon opation (n the form of a buybacl.
B. Material Beneits
43.  Material Beeits. Evaluating debt service reef from the DDSR agreement-the
diret cash flow implications and the indict development effect-require e3plicit
assumptions about the course of acdon that the Govenment of Bulgaria and the creditors
would have tWmnin the absence of the DDSR opertion. It is clear that when the DDSR
agreement is com     to the cmrent situation, where Bulgaria makes only partal interest
payments and no principal payments, the effect on cash flow is negative. Comparing hfe
effect of the DDSR agreement to scheduled prnchal and interest payments is not a 'good'
counterfactul, since much of Bulgari's debt was of a short maturit or short term, and
therefore, under normal iwrmstances the debt would have already be  refired. There,
in esimatng the projected debt service relief from the DDSR agreemnt, we have
constructed a  u        which assumes that Bulgaria's alternave was to reshedule its
debt on the same    as the PDI bond, which provides no debt reducto  ITe debt service
Id   aitodolog i dwie in do rpot  t Aalyc Apet of Dek .4 DSb2 Swvi,9
Reductio Opeaidon,' SecM92-96 dated Marcb 9, 1992



- 16-
Tabs 6   WAE  - DBT RFUCITN EQUVE  MM
on U   mom =I=   au                            ..Iberwi_                           .
Fa, ceValues" e                                              Atm .
pac        Fa          New       Net Fae       Ee Va       P n               aya      Net           o                           . TOal Debt o
Valueef   V     of   My          Va   Of       ot New      Value Of      Equivaln    Adu-         Redtion                         St  (USS    % O Toalt -.
Egbl       Debt                  Cmm           Colmmia  Int              Of           mts         Equva                           b , 
Debt          dutn               Dek           Deft        Sel      c   Collatea                  (DRE:
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  Reduction  Reduction   ai  . ,  '-/    '       . :
(t)   )   ~~~() -           (4)           (5          (6)           (7           *               )iZ >.1                                . ::
._____________                                         1(3)[)1      ((1-4)                            _    t(6)+Q )       1(4)+Ml       (9)    .,.
fuga& DDSR
IZ~~Ib/  ~~~       B     UN              iSu                                     62.        31J% 42
Duback (12.6%)      1022      1022            0     1022               0          0             0             0         1022          ::Ot0      :
Dis. Bod(60.6%)   3730         1              0     16S            1865       - 163 d/        351           188        2053              .0.
FRB C6.8")          1657         0            0        0           1657         463            43           SW6          506
DIBonod             1858b      243c/          0      343 /         1615           0             0             0          243            1       i.'
SI Reat  to moet rt previg a  tne ef ohe DD8R do*$.
bl 1Ilu: USS179.3    o-b etbad v   of t  f              blet mt of pa dueo le   dug te peod Sept. 992W M        e 1994.
.f Ibdes US$1793 mlon(   foon bote b) ad USS63.8 meto of Wr  dowgpymn an   valu  dowupayme.
41 Bd wAt d  e vaof do e valu  mooy cse (ee pa. 35).  b clculation asin     a long-trm gSos re of fu percen pec yea.
of  t the begin of    year tht the DDSR aeme cloed (1994).
Vi DIE Ia rducedby aMdodit  officialwlening  ..  ol  akan          umnain
SRRe  Wold Ban Staff E      "a.                                                                                                      ..



- 17-
flow  relief under this assumption is shown in Table 8.' Exccluding the initial year, when the
upfront costs of the DDSR operation are paid, the DDSR agreement yields considerable debt
service relief. This relief is greatest at the end of the 1990s, when Bulgaria is most in need
of it. During 2000-2004, the yearly cash flow saviAgs from the DDSR agreement compared
to the counterfactual equal about 10 percent of merchandise exports.
Table.0O8 O-ATO  - URAAK4VEMMI
hlaikt Vale at Aenkt Vlu    Bmlta-Even    POst-Dea  Savlna      Re-Dea     Pc4a
Enharnceme  tl of New         Rice 3/    PRie 41         rea   to   Poe St    u?        a
USt bIllMn      Inatmt 2/  oent per    cents per         buy-back    cents pe   en Rieoh
US# bilon     doaBr       dolar          poecent     dolar
--W
.._____ ______ _____  1)         121 _3_                    (4)      - f14. 3Jl4;   (5)   f"3)l -4.
MEXICO                      5252         20206            0.41           0.52   0:22            036        71%
PHIUPPINES flit phase)       670          3749            0.46           0.52     11     -      0.40       46%
COSTA RICA                   210           383            0.24           0.39     *8            0.12   -    66
VENEZUELA                    1819         10678           0.50           0.61   ;               0.37        46s%:
URUGUAY                      423           1048           0.60           Q.74      go6 0.56                 82%-
NIGERA                       1623         2131            0.40           0.45     12%           0.21        22%
FHIUPPINES (2nd phse)        98S          2604            0.62           0.76     32#           0.62      1100%
ARGENTINA                   3086          13426           0.46           0.56  :a               0.18        27%
^ ; -   .- - ?er.S
TOTAL              14697         66101            0.43           0.54       %           0.31       48%
1/ P"payment equivaent of colaeral plus downpgemnt on PDI1 evaluatd at I mnus the post-deal econdary
mawket pdces.
2/ Madct v"a of the sw Inbtrunft in the month folowing buane or conlauion of the agrewmnd.
3/ Break-Even Puce - nauet value of new  _ebunnnt./slgbI deft.
4/ Post-Deal Pice - (market value of new Isumewts - maet valu of enhancmmts)/¢(Ellgbe debt - DRE).
U/ PeDa Price  the price in the honth befen the rady deal woo announced, eept for the PhilIpne Phas 2 whee It is
the Phase 1 pos-deal pdoe and B bulge, where It lathe prie befoe netatIon atwtad.
Source Woed Bank Staf Estate.
44.    Bulgaria will also receive several indirect benefits from  the DDSR operadon which
are likely to more than offset the direct financial costs. The DDSR agreement reduces
umcertainty regarding Bulgaria's balance-of-payments and fiscal situation by regularizing debt
service obligations. In the balance of payments, the I)DSR agreement will help Bulgaria
regain access to intemational financial markets. Since the moratorium, Bulgaria has had no
6   This calculation only measures the dRirec debt service relief from the DDSR indstmn. The cash
relief would be considenbly higher if the costs of financing the additional debt payments under the
counterfactul  were callated.



*   -18.
Tale 8: BULGARIA - DEBT SERVICE REIJEF FROM DDSR AGREEMENT
(Us$ MWons)
(annual averages _      _
l __________________________              1994            1995-99     2000-2004
DDSR Agreemt af.1
Upfront costs                            716                 0                0
Amortization                                0                0              108
Interest payments                         99               336              463
AddWond Offda Lending
(Worid Bank. IMf augmentation)
Loan amount                              236                 .
Amortization                                                16               1
Interest payments                          1                17                9
Countufactul 
Upfront costs                               0                0                0
Amortization                                0                0              539
Interest payments                        191               687              756
Interest Relef bf                           91              334              291
Amortzation Relief bl                        0               -16             415
is <\: 4";tt =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ....'.........'.. .......~..........,..... ..:f= S * ;
D.bpt mitstUea            7'..........;
a/ Includes upfront costs.
bf Debt service on official additional lending is inctuded.
Source: World Bank Staff Estimates.
access to international financial markets, including virtually no trade credits. Thus, the
restoration of access to trade credits, which is lkey to occur in a relatively short-time
frame, is a major benefit of the DDSR agreement. In addition, the resolution of Bulgaria's
debt situation, in tandem with Bulgaria's Liberal environment for foreign investment, is likely
to lead to higher foreign investment, which would help improve the long-tenn gmw
prospects of the economy. Access to medium- and long-term commercial credit will also be
an important benefit, but this is likely to occur only in the medium term.
45.   An estimate of the indirect benefits to Bulgaria from the DDSR agreement can be
obtained by comparing the pe-deal price (the pnce before a DDSR agreement was
anticipated by the market) with the post-deal and break-even prices. The difference between
the post-deal and the pre-deal prices is an estimate of the overall benefits that resulted from
the DDSR agreement. Tbe difference between the break-even and the post-deal prices is an
estimate of the benefits which accrued to the country, while the difference between the
break-even and the pre-deal prices is an esdmate of the benefits which accmued to the



19-
commercial creditors. As can be observed from the last column of Table 7, on average,
countries obtained about half of the gains of the DDSR operations. On this measure,
Bulgaria compares favotably to the average as it obtained 60 percent of the overall benefits
of its DDSR agreement.
C. Macroeconomic Outlook
46.   Te development effect of the DDSR agreement is highly dependent on the successfiu
implementation of an adjustment progam to stabilize the economy and to accelerate
structural reforms. These measures can return the economy to a sustainable long-run growth
path guided by private activity. The DDSR agreement will facilitate and speed the
economy's return to sustinable growth by normalizing Bulgaria's relations with interaional.
fimncial markets. In the near term, the DDSR agreement in combination with the credible
adjustment program now under implementation, will help clear the way for direct foreign
investment flows; this will be assisted by the debt conversion program included under the
DDSR agreement, which will permit the DDSR bonds to be exchanged for enterprises
included in fte Government's privadtzaion program. Over the medium tern, Bulgaria's
access to commercial markets can also be restored, initially in the form of trade credits and
then, eventually, commercial credits.
47.  This section discusses an ilustrative macroeconomic scenario for the medium term.
First, it assumes that the Government implements its macroeconomic stabilization program.
Second, the medium-term macroeconomic projections also assume the Government continues
to implement structural reforms in the areas of privatization, financial sector reform and
agriculture. The macroeconomic projections also incorporate the recent Paris Club and
DDSR agreement, as well as a resolution of debt with CMEA institutions in the near future.
48.  Real GDP is projected to be flat in 1994, then slowly rising to four percent by the
end of the decade (see Table 9). Services are projected to continue to lead the output
recovery, as has been the experience in the past two years. Tourism, which has grown
rapidly in 1993, will continue to play an important role. The Black Sea areas and the
mountain skd resorts are expected to be the primary growth areas. Moreover, there is
considerable interest among foreign investors in this subsector and growth will be propelled
by higher investment outlays. Agriculture is also expected to provide some growth
momentum, especially with the exected completion of land restitution in 1994. Within
agrculture, the greatest supply response is projected from grains (primarily wheat),
vegetables and wine. Industry is expected to lag the recovery in GDP, as considerable
restructuring and downsizing of state-owned industrial enterprises is likly to continue into
the medium term. Therefore, in the near term, the decline in public enterprise performance
will more than offset growth from the private sector, especily given the small size of the
private manufactring subsector.
49.   The DDSR agreement raises significantly the level of debt service payments that
Bulgaria will be required to pay over the medium term. This has important implications for
both the balance of payments and the budget. For the balance of payments, therefore, a key
objective of the Government's macroeconomic stabiizatLion program is to reverse the recent



*20-
.kgh 9: 3ULGAAIA KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS. 199342001
1 1992    j  1993          1994     1995-98    | 1997?
.._______                            _  _    :    .    ..2001
Average real growth rates (%p.a.)                          - annual averages -
GOP                                      -6.0       -4.2         0.0         2.6        3.7
Agriculture                            -7.7       .9.0         4.0         3.0        3.1
Industry                               -7.0        -8.5       -4.0         1.3        3.3
Service                                -3.3         5.3        2.8         2.7         4.5
Fixed Investment                         -1.5        3.5         5.0         4.2        3.1
Total consumption                        -1.7       -0.7        -7.2         1.5        3.4
Government                             -8.9        0.0       -13.0         0.1         2.5
Non-govemment                           1.0       .0.9        -S.2         1.9        3.6
Structure of the economy t% of GDP)
Fixed investumnt                        19.4        21.0        22.0        22.6       22.4
Total consumptlon-                      81.2        83.3        77.8        76.3       74.1
Government consumption                 16.5        17.2       15.0        14.4        13.9
Non-gov't. consumption                 64.7       66.0        62.8        61.9       80.2
Gross domoestc savings                  18.8        16.7        22.2        23.8       25.9
Prices
GOP deflator (% change p.a.)            64.7        47.2        62.0        22.5        4.9
Ave. exchange rato (Leva/USS)           23.3        28.0  1    55.0  1    73.8  1   85.4
Source: Wodd Bank Staff Estimates and National Statistical lnstitutes.
deteioration in the trade balance and achieve a positive primary balnce over the medium
term (see Table 10). Exports decreased in real terms in 1993; this was due to the UN
sanctions against FRY, the increase in domestic demand due to expansionary fiscal policy,
the appreciation of the real exchange rate and a recession in Westem Europe. Imports rose
in 1993, reflecting in particular the expansion in domestic demand fueled by the budget
deficit and the appreciation of real effective exchange rate. Recent developments portend
well for a resumption of export-led growth and a slowdown in import growth. Several
fictors are expected to maintain these trends. First, trade agreements with both the EU and
EFrA will be fully in force during 1994, allowing an expansion of trade into these markets.
Second, reoent exchange rate movements have almost fully offset the appreciation of the real
exchange rate, thus providing a strong incentive for exporters and depressing import demand.
Third, the revival of agricultural output in 1994 will raise agricultural exports. Finally, the
substantial fiscal adjustment in 1994 will depress domestic demand. Early indications from
1994 reinforce this projection, as exports are recovering and import has moderated in early
1994. After a large real expansion of imports in 1993, about nine percent, import demand is
expected to slow in 1994 and 1995 and then, slowly rise over the medium term consistent
with the growth in GDP and exports.



-21 -
Tabb10. BULGIA * 3AL4NCE OF PAYMEM. 199 - 2003 SI
met boloms)
1993          1994         1995         1996         2000        2003
E=ports                             8  .2          5.4          5.7          6.2          8.3        10.3
Expot qof Goods                    4.0           4.2           4A           4.8          4.4         7.9
Exports of NFS                     12             1.2          1.3          1.4          1.9         24
-mports                             5.5            5.8         6..8          8.2          8.0        90.
Import of good                     4.3           4.4           4.6          4.8          8.2         7.1
(norts of NFS                      1.2            1.2          1.2          1.4          1.8         2.1
Resourco BSlance                   -0.3            0.2         -0.1          0.0          0.3         0.7
Not Factor Incoew                  -0.2           -0.3         -0.6         -0.7         .0.81
Factor Receipts                    0.1           0.1          0.1           0.1          Q.2        0.2
Factor Payments                    0.3           0.4           0.7          0.8          1.0         1.2
Net Transfers                       0.0            0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1         0.2
Current Account Balance            -0.5          -0.4         6.0          -006          .4         -0.2
1% GOP)                           (-5.1)        (-6.1)       4-7.3)        -6 9)        (-3 51     (-1 4)
Primary Balance                     -0.3          -0.1          0.0          0.0          0.2         0.6
1% GOP)                           1-3.2)        t-1.1)        (0.0)        (0.0)        (2.0)       (3.9)
Direct Foreign Investmwnt           0.1           0.1           0.2          0.3         0o3          0.3
Capital Inflows                     0.1           0.6           0.6          0.4          0.2        -0.3
Disbursements                      0.2           0.7          0.8           0.7          0.8        0.
Amordzation                        0.1           0.1          0.2           0.3          0.6         1.1
Other Capital n.ei. b/              0.1           0.2           0.3          0.3          0.3        0.4
Net IMF Purchases                   0.0           0.4    =      0.2         -0.2     _    0.1     _0.1
Buyback Cost                        0.0           -0.3          0.0          0.0          0.0        0.0
Overall Balance                     -0.3          0.7           0.2          0.1          0.3        0.2
Change in Reseres (-inor.)          0.3           0.7          -0.2         -0.1         -0.3        .0.2
Resevesr
Offlasd Resenies                   1.0           1.2           1 A          1.8          2.1        2.5
Escrow Accounts                    0.0           0.4          0.4          0.4          0.8         06.
Total Offical Reserves             1.0            1.6          1.8          1.           2.6         3.1
Memno items:
Official Reserve Cover c/           2.1            2.7          2.9          2.9          3.1         3.2
Debt Indicators
Debt (US billion)                 12.5          10.8          11.3         11.5         12.0       11.4
Debt Servic Reto (ash) d/          8.3           9.8          19.5         19.9         17.7        1960
Debt/GDP                         122.1         128.4        127.6         122.3        100.5       78.6
Debt/Exports e                   242.1         199.1         195.9        185.9        145.6      110.7
el Cah bass only.
ti hInlds not export credkt eho*ftm debt and oth capitd no.l.
el Exclin ecow account..
dl hiclue ML? debt anid IP.
l Goods and non4ftr sevice.
Soum: Wud Bak Sta Estmate.



-22 -
Ija. 11: BULGARIA - BUDGET OUTLOOK, 1993 - -2001- at
nf of ODP-
1993        1994        199G        1996     1997-2001
.(. iest.)               .                .   an. ave.
Current revenues            37.4        37.9        38.4        38.8        38.7
Tax revenues bf            30.7        32.2        32.9        33.4        33.8
Non-tax revenues            6.7         5.7         54          5.4         4.9
Curnt expenditures          49.6        42.9        41.7        39.6        36.6
Non-Interest expenditures  39.2        30.9        29.8        29.7        28.8
Interest expenditures      10.4        12.0        11.9         9.8         7.8
Foreign                    1.8         1.9         5.4         6.8         5.7
Domestc                    8.6        10.1         6.5         4.0         2.1
Capital expenditure          1.9         1.5         3.1         3.5         4.9
Budget balance             -14.1        -6.5        -6.4        -4.2        -2.8
Primary balance            -3.6         5.6         5.5         5.6         5.0
a3 Interest payments for 1993 and 1994 are on a cash basis.
bl Includes unemployment fund.
Soume: World Bank Staff Estimates.
50.   For the budget, feign interest payments will ise shaply due to the DDSR
agreement and other officia borrowing (see Table 11). Throughout tie medium term,
fore-interest payments will average 5-6 percent of GDP. Mreover, domestic interest
payments are also expected to rise significantly in the near term as a result of past budget
deficits, the current high inflaton, and the intrest costs of the Government's bad loan
opeao. Maintaining m       economic stability will, teefore, require stringent budgetay
mansgement over the next several years  The Govemment's fiscal policy stance for 1994
aims at a substantial improvement in the primary balance through measures to raise revenues
mplementation of the VAT and inreases in ese duties) and a reducfion in discretinay
xpenditures. Progrs in 1994 has been very good with VAT revenues  ceeding
expcttionns and tight contl being maintned over current expenditures. The Government
is alo taking measures now to imppwve the medium term fiscal outlook: a white paper is
being ppared on social scurity reform to better target socl security ep enditumes; the
incomes policy stne is  taining wage and salary increases in the Govemment ector;, tax
admbInstration capacity is being improved; and, a new corporate and income tax system is
expected to be enacted and put into place beginning in 1995. Expenditure and revenue
managment will, however, remain the citical issue for macreconomic stbity in the
medium term, particulaly in the area of social seurity expenditure. But, given the
ignificant progress being achieved under the Government's 1994 program, the effect of the
DDSR agreement on the budget can be managed over the medium term.



23 -
TalW 12: BULGARIA - EXTERAIAL FINANCING RECUIREMENT
AND SOURCE, 1993 - 2005 al
(US$ bUflnI
1993       1994       1995     1996-2000  2001-2005
inancinI mquirements      OA-4_ I..                         1.2         $
Current account deficit   0.5        0.4        0.7         0.5        0.2
Amortkation due   .2
Official                 0.0        0.0        0.0         0.3        0.5
Paris Club               0.0        0.0        0.1         0.1        0.1
London Club              0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.2
CMEA                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.1
Private                  0.2        0.0        0.1        0.1         0.1
Increase in reserves b/  -0.3        0.7        0.2         0.2        0.3
Debt buyback              0.0        0.3         0.0        0.0        0.0
Financing sources                     1.4      I- i1.2                 15
Foreign direct Investment  0.1       0.1         0.2        0.3        0.3
Disbursement                        I0.   _                             a
Official                 0.1        0.7        0.6         0.7        0.6
Private                  0.?        0.0        0.2        0.1         0.2
IMF net purchases         0.0        0.4       -0.2        -0.1        0.0
Short-term debt           0.0        0.0         0.1        0.1        0.2
Othe capital              0.1        0.2         0.2        0.1        0.2
a/ Cash basis.
bI Includes escrow accounts.
Source: World Bank Staff Estimates.
D. Impact oi Etenal    ng  Requ             ad Sourc
51.  Bulgar faces exemely high financing req  nts    1994, as a result of the
DDSR agreement (see Table 12). Bank and Fund augmention will play a key role in
restoring Bulgaria's international reserves in the wake of the completon of the DDSR
agreement. Blgia's external financing requirements are expected to decline shaWly in
1995 to over US$ one billion, slowly rising to avea  about US$1.2 billon duing 1996-
2000.  hen, during 2001-2005, eten  financing requirements rise to US$1.5 billion per
year, as amotzaton payments on the DDSR bonds begin.



-24 -
52.  Over the medium term, the gradual increase in extea financing reqirements can be-
met, but it wil require continued official support and renewed access to commercial markets.
The required level of official support will be high, but much lower tian in 1994.
Tbroughout tie projecdon period, official support is projected to be constant at roughly
US$700 million per year. However, the compostion of official support is expected to
change gradually over the projection period. In the near term, blce of payments support
is needed. Over time, as commitments of project finance from the Bank, other international
financial institutions and bilaterl donors begn to disburse, balance of- payments support can
diminish. - No further support from the IM  is projected, but, as the adjustment process is
still incomplete, it is not unreasonable to expect tht further BE support would be available.
53.  The success of the DDSR operation is expected to provide an important stimulus to
private capital. Access to commercial markets can be expected to increase gradualy over
time. First, trade credits are expected to begin shordy after the deal is concluded, beginning
modesdy in 1995. This is consistent with donor intentions as several countries have
indicated a willingness to provide trade credits, albeit at modest amounts. As Bulgaria has
had virtually no access to trade credits since 1990, the assumption of a modest increase of
Utade credit is  anable.  The resumption of limited amounts of commercial credits is
assumed in the medium term, as Bulgaria establishes a track record of payments under the
DDSR agreement. However, the need to re-establish Bulgaria's reputation in credit markets
is a key objective of the Government. Achieving this will depend not only on the DDSR
agreement, but also on the strength of Bulgaria's adjustment progam.
E. Impact on Creditworthness
54. Wilth a strong adjustment program which underlies the Government's 1994
macroeconomic program and the conclusion of the DDSR agreement, as well as other official
rescheduling there would be gradual improvement in country creditworthiness. By 2003, the
debt-eport  io is prqected to be reduced to about 111 percent; the debt service ratio to
about 20 percent; and, the debttGDP ratio to around 79 percent, all of which would be
consistent with restored creditwortiness. The Bank's debt sevice as a share of public and
publicly-guaranteed debt service remains below the 20 percent threshold throughout the
projection period. Given Bulgaria's reliance on preferred creditors in the early 1990s and
substantidal preferred creditor support for the 1994 adjustment program, the exposure of
preferred creditors will increase in the near term, exceeding the Bank's guideline of 35
percent through the end of the decade. Combining the prefered creditors share of debt
service with debt service on bonds - a measure of the inflexibility of debt service - a
whighly inflexiblew debt service profile is indicated over the medium term. Prefered
ceditors plus bond debt service reaches ftree quarters of total public debt service by 1996,
but declines to 50-60 percent by the beginning of the next decade. This is a charateistc of
most DDSR operations and, to a certain extent, it is unavoidable. However, two points
should be noted. First, the principal of the discount bonds is coLateralized, as is one year's
interest payments on both the FLIRBs and the discount bonds. Therefore, the "inflexibility'
of debt service may be somewhat overstd by this measure. Furthermore, the nse in fte
preferred creditors' ratio coincides with a steady improvement in Bulgaria's creditworthiness,
lessening the risk to all creditors, including the Bank. As discussed in the CAS, increases in



-25 -
Bank exposurewill be closely linked to the Government's adjustment progrm, thereby
closely calibrating tihe Bank's exposr risk to debt sercing capacty.
V. aQP1&?ILAN
A. Eligibility for DDSR Support
55.  Since the onset of the transition, Bulgaria has made progress in macroeonomic
tabiliation, price and trade lieralization, privation and balking reforn, which,have laid
the basis for the development of an economy guided lrgely by private activity. Good
progress is being made in implemening a macromeconomic stabilization program for 1994 and
the program is being supported by an IMF standby arangement. Performance under this
arrangement has been good. The DDSR agreement tha has been voluntarily reached
between Bulgaria and its creditors reduces Bulgaria's commercial debt by US$3.8 billion.
Tlis reduction is necessary as filly servcing such debt would substantially ipai Bulgria's
proects for achieving sustnable growth and prevent growth in per capita consumpton
over the medium term. As discussed above, the DDSR agreement is likely to yield a number
of benefits to the economy, including contributing in the medium term to an increase in
extera  capital flows, particulaly through trade credits and foreign direct investment. Bank
support for the DDSR agreement, therefore, meets the eligibility criteria established in the
guidelines for the use of Bank resources to support DDSR opadons.
56. This Loan will reimburse the Government for a portion of the costs of the interest and
principal collatral and/or the debt buyback under the DDSR agreement and is fuly
consistent with the Country Assistance Stategy (CAS) discussed at the World Bank Board on
March 9, 1993, in which resolving Bulgaria's exten  debt situadon was cited as a key
factor for achieving sustainable growth. It was also noted in the CAS that the Bank intended
to support the DDSR operaon.
B. DDSR Loan
57. The Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan to support the DDSR agreement would
include a loan of $125 million to help finance principal and interest collata of the
instruments and/or a debt buyback This amount is within the gudelines established for such
support. The Implementaton Agreement includes provisions entitling the Bank to request
prepayment of the full amount of the DDSR Loan in cerin circumstances if the collateral is
released to the borower or shall have ceased to be a valid security interest.
C. Set Asides
Set asides of US$75 mion from the Bank's next adjustment lending opeaon in Bulgaria-
the FESAL-are also proposed. This is the only vehicle under which set asides can be
provided, as set asides were not included in the SAL since it was approved before DDSR
egotations began in eamest Set-asides from the FESAL will not be advanced, but will be



-26 -
provided when dtat loan becomes effective. This is considered appropriate, given the size of
the proposed operation and the priority attached to measures to be supported by the IESAL.
In the event that the FESAL does not maei ize at all for any reason, the Government
would not be reimbursed for this portion of the DDSR costs. Under the Implemenion
Agreement, the Bank would have similar rights to demand prepayments of the set asides.
D. Disbursemuts
58.  Loan proceeds, upon effectiveness, would be made available to the borrower against
evidence of payments made for the cost of the principal and intst collateral of the DDSR
instrments andtor the debt buyback. Similady for the set asides, upon effeciveness of the
proposed FESAL opeation, the set asides would be made available againt similar evidence
of additional payments made for the cost of the principal and interest colateral of the DDSR
instruments and/or the debt buyback.
E. Risks and Benefits
59.  Bank support of the DDSR agreement with the proposed DDSR Loan has a number of
risks. As has been the case with other DDSR agreements, Bulgana's DDSR agreement will
only be successfil, if it is combined with a strong economic adjustment program, involving
both macoeconomic stabilization and forceful implementation of structural reforms. After
implementing a strong adjustment program in the early years of the transition, political
uncertainties led to a weakening of the adjustment effort in 1993. The primary risk to the
DDSR agreement is, therefore, domestic policy slippage. This could be manifested through
a inability to reduce the budget deficit to a level consistent with nuacoeconomic stability or
a slippage in the implementation of stuchurl reforms.
60.   Fiscal policy slippage is a key concern. The DDSR agreement wil have a strng
negtive effect on the budget, because Bulgaria must rsume payments to the commercial
banks and service the additional official loans assocated with the DDSR arment itself, as
well as other official financing. After the conclusion of the opeaon, freign interest
payments wil rise from 1.7 percent of GDP in 1993 to an average of about S.5 percent
during 1997-2001. Moreover, in 1994, the Government's macroeconomic program is
ambitious, requring a substantal improvement in the primay balance. This has been
complicated by the recent rapid deeciation of the Lev, which has revived inflationary
momentum in the economy and has created pressures on public expenditures, particularly
wages and socal benefits. An inability to control expenditures in the near term could
accelrt inflation and lead to a further deterioration in the balance of payments. Such a
scenaio could result i a situaon where Bulga    woud be unable to service its external
obligations.
61.  Several fators mitigate the risks associated with such a scenario. First, recent events
have senstzed the Government to the dangers inerent in not reducing the budget deficit to a
level conistent with lower inflation. As the past sveral months have shown, the
Goermment is committed to meeting the targets in its macmoeconomic program and is takig
a tough stance against grows advotng a loosening of economic policies, pariculady the



-27-
trade unions. Second the DDSR agreement is structured to alleviate its immediate burden
on the lwcdget, so that the Government has adequate brting space in the near term to put
In place an improved tax system and restructure budgeuary expenditures. Finally, Bulgaria
has worked hard to re-integrate its economy into the i tional  omy and thereore, it
iS teasonable to eect that Bulgaria will strive to honor its extrna obligations.
62.  lhe rsk of a coninuing lack of progrem on structural rdorms could also adversely
affect Bugrs abilty to service its external obligations, as the eport efo nessay to
repay Bulgara's extena obligations would not matriali. However, the  -stctu
measures recently taken, together with the measues beig discussed under the FESAL,
would lend considerle momentum to the Govenment's stutura reform progrm. In
particular, the initon of the mass privatzaton progrm  is expected to invigorate the
privatizafion effort by privazing a significant proporton of medium-sized state enterpries.
NTe Fund arrangement is also supportive by establishing a set of strucual benchmarks for
its progam. Wile these steps do not guarantee that an appropiate adjustme  progm  will
be maintained, they are deemed sufficient to justfy support of the proposed DDSR loan.
63.  There is also polca risk. The present Government anounced on September 2,
1994 its intention to submit its rsgation to the Parliament. The political parties spporting
the present Government may now decide that it is politically oppone to hold new electons
or a new Govemnment could be formed with the exsng Parliament. However, any
incoming Government can be exected to comply with the DDSR agrmnt. It was recendy
ratified by the Bulgarian Parliament Furtiermore, there is a broad consensus on the
fundamental directon of the economic reform program, among political groups, although
there could be change in the pace and sequencng of reforms.
64.  The DDSR ageement also offers opportunites. Tbe DDSR agrement goes a
considerle distance twmards noIrmizing Bulgaria's relations with commecial creditors. In
the near term, through the debt conversion program, it can contribute to the Government's
privatizaton program. It will also help to ease the  ac  uncertinty inhibifting
foreign direct investment. Ih the next several years, it can lead to a re-inion of trade
credits, which would facilitate intenatdonal tade flows. Over the medium term, with a
forcefd implementaion of the adjustment program in conjunction with the DDSR agreement,
Bulgaria can regain access to financial markets. In ftis regard, it is imporant to note that
many counties that sussfully completed a DDSR agreement regained access to finanial
market mxoe rapidly than anticipated.
VI. TEBANK QPZATXNS AND ASSISTANCE, STRAEY IN BMGARI
65.  The Bank has played an important role in assisting the country in its difficuit
trnsidon from a centrally planned to a market economy. Through July 31, 1994, World
Bank commitment totl  US$593 mio for sv  opeations. Under is firs two lomns,
he Bank provided poli advice and instituton-building support A Struchual Adjustment
Lan for US$250  milion, apped in August 1991, was the centerpiece of the Bank's iniat



-28 -
activities in Bulgaria, and a Technical Assistac Loan for US$17 million, approved in June
1991, was intended to lay the groundwork for the reform program in the SAL.
66.   Since the appoval of th SAL, five projects have been approved by the Executive
Directors: an eeg project for US$93 million on Mach 9, 1993; a telecommunicaions
project for US$30 million on April 13, 1993; a private investment and export finance project
for US$55 million on June 24, 1993; a water companies res   and  rnion
project for US$98 million on May 26, 1994; and an agricultre development project for
US$50 million on June 29, 1994. Total cumulative disbursements   all Bank loans as of
June 30, 1994 were about US$230 mlliUon.
67. The current Bank assistance strategy is designed to: (a) support market reforms,
macoecoomic and strca policies and insdtutions thmugh analytical inputs, policy
dialogue and adjustment lending; (b) restore external creditworthiness; (c) define a
comprehensive strategy to protect vunerable groups by assisting in the development of a
sustinable social safety net and effective social sector policies; (d) help create and maintain
infrastructure to support economic growth; (e) foster a supply response by financing private
investment; and, (f) help mobilize and coordinate official assistance through Consutative
Group meetings. The strategy remains largely unchanged from the one contained in the
Country Assistance Strategy discussed with the Executive Directors on March 9, 1993.
68.   Stuctural reforms in the enterprise and financial sectors constitute the core elements
of Bugaia's development strategy. Therefore, the heart of the Bank's assistance srategy in
support of economic reforms is a proposed Finad and Enteprise Sector Adjustment Loan
(FESAL). The FESAL would build on the progress achieved in the SAL progam. It would
include measures to stengthen the financial system, combined with those that support and
advance the liquidation, restrcring and privatization of stae entepises. It woud also
support Govenmment efforts to enforce financial disipline on the enterprses and discourage
renewed growth of bad debts in the bankdng system. Set asides from the DDSR loan will be
made available from this operation, thus linking further DDSR support to progress on
structur reforms. If the FESAL opeation does not mateialize for any reason at all, these
set asides would not be available.
69.  The objectives of investment lending are to help assure adequate inf
semvices for economic growth by financing energy, telecommunication and transport projects;
and help establsh an effective social safety net by proviig financing for a sctrng of
the health and education sectors, employment services and social security and insurance.
A. Perfonnance under the SAL
70.  The SAL was approved in August 1991 and became effective in September 1991.
The primary objective of the SAL was to support the Government's economic reform
program which aimed to reduce macroeconomic imbalances as well as lay the foundations for
sustained growth and the restoration of creditworthiness. This was to be achieved by
initlating a fundamental transformation of the economy away from central planning towards a
market economy. The SAL also supported the development of an approprate social safety



-29 -
net to help vulnerable member of society. Performce under the SAL was fiully
ubsatcry, although the second tranche was delayed.
71. The first tranche of $150 million was released on effectiveness and it is fuiy
disbursed. The secod tanche was released on March 31,  .?  As of July 31, 1994,
US$89 million had been disbursed. The procurement of all elgible goods has been carried
out in accordance with Bank guidelines. The loan agment for $100 million cofinancing by
the Japan EXIMBANK is also effetve and about US$50.5 milion was disbursed in August
B. Retlons- with the Fmd
72.  The Government's 1994 mcronomic program is being supported by a ffird
Standby Arrangement (SBA) with the IF (SDR69.7 million) and a first drwing under the
Systemic Transformation Facility (SDR116.2 million). The SBA was approved on April 11,
1994. The IMF is also proposing to augment its SBA in the amount of SDR69.7 million to
reimburse the Government for a portion of the upfront costs of the DDSR agreement. A
mission to rview performance under the SBA and to prepare the DDSR augmentation was
completed in July 1994. Monetary, fiscal and incomes policies were largely consistent with
program targets at end-June 1994, with the exception of the performance criteia for net
domestic asets (NDA) which was exceeded. IMP staff are satisfied with the performance
under the esting arangement and the authorities commitment to its adjustment progam.
BF staff are, therefore, recommending to the Fund's Board of Directors that the NDA
criteria be waived. A request for such a waiver and for the DDSR augmentton has been
sent to the IMF Board of Directors for consideration in September. Bank and IMF staff have
collaborated closely in their respective activities in Bulgaria.
C. IFC and MIGA Acdvities
73.   The recent refoms of the regulatory framework and approval of new foreign
investment and privadzation laws, along with prospective financial sector refoms, have
substantally improved the environment for private sctor activity. IFC's stat  is to
provide a broad range of technical and financial support for the future development of the
private sector by: (1) exploring the potential for investment in geenfield projects in line with
Bulgara's compaive advantages; (ii) advancing foreign direct invesument seeing out joint
ventures, including the privatization of statowned entprises; and (iii) asisting the
financial sctor through financing and technical assistance. The IFC has provided advisory
services on privatzation and promotion work on investment prposals. The IFC invested in
an investment fund (EuroMerchant Balkan Fund) in May 1994.
74.  Bulgaria signed the MIGA convention in July 1991, and it became a ful member on
September 23, 1992. Although MIGA has not inred any investments in Bugaria to date,
ther are several applications waitng to be considered. There are also some investors who
7  SUe SAL Seoond Tnache Relase Men dated Mch 31, 1994; Report No. SocM94-338.



-30 -
havreg stered proects in Bulgaria, for which MIGA insune might be sought in the
future.
D. Aid Coordination
75.   The activities of the World Bank group and the   1 am part of a broader aid
coordination effort in Bulgria The World Bank chaired a Consultative Meeting on Bulgai
-in June 1994. Balance of payments assstance is also being provided by the G-24 under the
coordination of the EU. At a meeting in March 1994, the EU/G-24 committed about US$
260 million in balame of payments assistance for 1994. A substantial amount of balance of
payments assistance was also provided in 1991. This effort has been closely coordinated
with the- Banks adjustment lending and DM assistance. The G-24 Coordinaton Unit also
organized a high level meeting on Bulgaria in May 1994 to update economic developments
and discuss the short term balance of payments situation. The World Bank particpated in
tfis meetng. EC Phare has a substantal program of technical assistance in Bulgaria to help
in areas reated to the economic transtion. Both the EBRD and the EIB have significant
lending activities in Bulgaria, particularly in the area of physical infrastu . Throughout
the economic transition, the World Bank has also collaborated closely with these two
international financial institutions.
VII. RECOrMMDATQIDN
76.  I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreemt of
the Bank and would be consistent with the a ed guidelines for Bank support of DDSR
Programs. I therefore recommend that the Executive Directors approve tie Debt and Debt
Service Reduction Loan on the tenns and conditions proposed (paa. 57).
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington, D. C.
September, 7, 1994



pp I of 7:
htu 1: TS  14  6mu'wdI.s0s_
1900       1      19921    19931    1994    INS                               - l  1030 I
Red 0rQW  PaRet
D.0IS aiho"mm                               4.1    .11.7       4.0       .2      0.0      2.0       .       3.3                        4. 0              4.0
ae" D4tsm__m  MVla"                        .11.6    .17.0      4.6     .4.4      4l2       19      23s               3.        .0      3.         * 
Red P. Cqlte 6uwU6 Ratt
(&msem.                                     .9.1    411        .1.7  Q01                  1D       3.0      3.1       .4       3.       3o                39
TetdC _tAn                                   5.1    -24.9      1.1      1.9      -7.3     0.5      2.4      2.6       2*      3.4       $            3A
C      __v eCuAqim                         -10.3    .26.1      3a       1.7      5.3      1.1      2.6      2.4      3A                 3       4.        .7
Odbt mi DObt 8.*. IL4+Wf+SIUn
TetdDODW2 SJS2 O                           O16      11970    12074    12479    10924    11266    11476    11757   1S17    11933    12026    12005    11761
OKX016PP1%                                   52.4    162.5    138.9    122.1    123.4    127.0    122.3    119.1    112.3    106.3    0obs       64.1    66s
Debtu8 sVSPO4-                              503.5    351.6    444.4    429.2    535.0   1124.9   1230.1   105363   14U1.1   1617.5   1405.0   1082J   1302.1
Dot 3wvIorb ofes %)                           6S      98        9.6      6.3      9.6      19.5    19.9     1*        20.6     2t.1     17.7    10t       1ii
Cdbt bndbafPnil                               2.0      4A       6.1      4.2      6.3      12.7    13.1    t10A       13.      14.4     12.2     13.2    14
uar"ee Iwrde n Lt*W4SF+EI:
htwne Pd 1   4                                52       104      221      266      392      665      746      770      762      79?      014      951      me
htsmtibp.t II I)4                             0.3      2.5      4.4      6.0      7.2     11.6      12.1     11.6     1.1      10.3      3       10.7     1t
bduu~t(P%I                                    0.3      1.4      2.5      2.0      4.6      7.7      7.6      7.7      7i        7.0      6.0      75       7.1
Gnum bmwban~mIP                              256       7.1     22.S     20.1     23.6     24.2      24.4     24.4     241      24.1     23.9     U.       23*
CFO3 (5 "asaiftye.mwd#                       19.6    -16.5      4.6      -S3      .3.4    -4.9   .19.6       26.0     3J7       7.5      .7       6.       6.1
Damst seuhI MPIO                             22.0     3.       16.       16.7     22.2     23.4     24.1     24.      25A      260      a.       "*       V-3
4IN4ow                 1u_ P  l.3                      7.7     .3.5       3.4     .1.5    .0.6    .0.2        0.       1.       1*       2.5      3.2      3*
Ndsu kq PI%S                                15.      26.0      17.4     15.0     16.1     16.      174      12       191.0    1.       20.A     20.3      1.0
9WOPCm"ntAm      dtIdm DPISIG %               4        0.0   o4.9        4.1      4.1      .7.      4*       42       4.3      43       4.5        A      .2.4
allohDo          swsbeP P9.6                           8.3      0.2       0.4      0.3  40.3         0.2      1.4      0.6      0.       0.4      OA       0.
Al  iNdWNOW"duwkiw *ai                       .10.7       5       02       0.4      0.3     .04      -1        0.0      0A       0.,      0.4          0     4
OReW,vnigitIWuIltoMOP N                       6.0      2.0      2.6       1.8      1.7       2       2.5       3       3.        4        4        4        4
Gevswms_/ lI o MOPIS%)                        1.2     .1.3      *2.3    *12.2     4.0       3.3    .0         0.2      IS       2A4      31       3.1 
PWte.tmbwmlnIsiGOPIMPl                       23J      22.       16.5  18           Io       1         6 t              10 lo             18 to    1to       l
PWIvaS.hwgpmOPl%3                            20*      37.1      21.1    2a"       27.1     20.7     24.      24.0     41       26       211.4     J       233
G_oveimt RPawwsu       1%)                   52.3     42.3     30.3      37.4     37*      3A.4    3L.I    39.7        .7      36.      3.       39.0     30
Owe -- nt EvwAiwggMr                         61.3     45.6     43A      51.4     44.4      44.      43.0    42A       41.7     41.4     405t    40.6      40.2
Oudw De" o bHwOwGSO rODP     %)               4eA        3      4.1    -14.0      0.4       .4      4.2      43       .3.0     *2.7    .23        2.      . -1.6
AcbvyDs1OW    ubaW0WI%rAt                   4.%       3U4S     1.3%     4.6%     5.6%     5.5%     L.O%     4DS%     4%       4.7%     4%       o.4A%    Le%
C_mesw fts bI m .lwd of Pus   1PAL             ...   430       70.4     63*
SlOPId"ts%        wo                         26.2    2)6*      64.7     47.2     620       30.0     15o      10.0     65n       3a       $4       3.2      3
hlbu Itmm_ bte 1i-l1                       ....        100      116      170             ...      . ,. ...               ...          ...       .
TwmTuorubiW11mOutON                         100    *2412    4064    *2064   ...        ...          ...      ...       . ...        .,.      -.



pop 2 * O7
1990     1991     19921    19931    1994      1995      199w     1097     1096      I99               2001     200
E    lms,t fNF6I Vckme4 lboa R6 b             58.0      39.6     3.80    10.0        4.0      96.0     0.0       .0      10.0     100       10.0     10.0     10.0
bpt(Gp3NFla   lP(%j                           36L7      41.5     01.3     53.9    @0.0    60.0        66.0      66.1     @6.3     @6.5    6K.5       66.5     OOA
O Cirwnt Aesnm          s 17 IUO             -1231       1.6    .424      .525      .429      4049     440      415      460      Ant5      X20      436      -327
Nbt bs.we.,    1q                              886      0an       to      1620     1M26      1900     2049     2107    *20        205      2630     2908      3126
Gram FWV" tmnow  hiutta        ,               0.4       1.0      2.6      2.1       2.7      2.0      2.9       2         80;   2.0        61        32       .L2
Sosea Nol XW Wi a* Sts   w
tIL  isae _ . _4m  dgb. ST dso. dut.tii d**t
21Dbt s   n   aW dkbweed
_hmnut e_lteSeu          -h cOS wOi * 0    pedd
430duin t  3Uu,W of P".mnts.
sfOirant awcoxe Sims. c dbfih d In SeF.1
W0od.andwat  Amis
7l       4  mfsn    S.



Ami 1: Tab 2- 3dm  of Puwnt*
199      1991     1d92     1        19  19      95      96      I97      1998     190                200_         I
A. e   of OVt                                4436     35        5026      1       572                125               7130     76       65       69
IAM*W_FoW WM                               3743     3141     39        3971     419      4439     4756     6103    6So2       o191     SW       6647    736
ZJGsnb.tauil.gs                             661      416     1070      114      1        1324     141      1522    t1n        1706     1667     22t
IL swfet of GlFS                                      2991    6534       5    U 501        5637     6192         2     "es      7461      95      941       9036
Itd _. aF                                  4801     2491     4199    4310       4353     459      447    5153       5479      5641     67       Gm        07
2AMmNAMftIsso                               504      500     116       1204     1206     1267     1346     142       15m0     1J20     l7       1641      96
CRuawosdm..                                  .731      56       .306     .350     -124       -74      419      43       130      212      305      46        o2
DJOt Fag*     .                               413      437      .169     .212     .5        429      4610  724          705     -76       426      "6       499
1.fwflhua9't                                110       62       62       93        55       66      101      120       133      136      156      194       197
2.Ptw pon M                                 723      6        221       304      410      710      792      8"4      4         924      002     1144      1180
&T4tbhmotMPW ~U2                          723      699      221      26        se2      66       74       770 7n2            77       16       J01      9o6
'bms IAims                                  0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0
GAOIIwFe"tsywn_                             0        0        0       18        1s       29       46       74      106      137       106      193      220
Lug  uuurT,nsN#                               113       70       4J        37       50       Go       61       67        77   n           101     1i1        13"
1.Cmmmthhmlpts                              200      124      114        37       00        s       61       67                 S 6     101      116       154
&Wkdme R -W                                 0         0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0                 0         0        0
b.OUiwCmtTe.wfs                            2C0      124      114       37       50       es        61       67       7        9        101    I116       134
2.Cui.3Pw                                    97       54       11         0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0       0
F.um t Aos.t Odm
lIefs.OIEjdCqpIW                          .1231       1.6     424      455      .429      68       44       4156              .46      420       .435     327
2.OflI1d C. grt                               0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0         0
SAW OQUid Cqd    t                         .1231      1. A    424      -525  *429         448    -44        4015     40        465      420      .435     .327
(AnTumCewltdhlho3;                                    .1217      34        70      717      767      050       694      591      473      465       us       118
l.Dh_ww                                       4       so       42        60   too         150      260      300       300      Soo      300      300       300
2RAd ttmMIi           &_                     .       27       322        10      017      017      400      394       297     ,l72      165       36      .15
.Okbwnts                                675.       391      461       156      69       9)       68       59        66       68      9813      608      810
bJ.pspemtt                               372.4    114.4      139      143       78      219      283       192      "a       '        648      77        M
3.OtimLTiSowo(r,O                           -2.1   O1549        0         0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0
H.Told O _lWM ht                           -223.7    1462       466      140      200      2         392      176      244      27       312      411      ;400
lINd66T.m et?Csldn"                       435.2      2"       146         0        0       71       92       0t1      163      161      212       M66     241
*Jaws A- a
LOW Ro ST Cwfld
Lqkd Rhw"                                     0        0       3Q0      347      2C0      200      20D        75       Os 8el           10       145       15S
hmlvwandibm                                   0        0      306      *207        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0
WswqshNqbsuwsg(.&dus kwoooI                   Soo      .247     402       m   * 1067   * 7            133      40        12 It           .flS      -1I9      .70
lIGstClmt*6mt                                 0      3         197       44      428      4191     -213  *113        -136     .156   * 72         45      .5
2.JbInwChi      AN                         9so       442      40        37      -65       .199      40      -143     .14      4102      -18      254      4129
3.bsowAsusi                                   0        0        0         0      3O4      413      4)4      463       47n      45       Is6 O    "3       w6



*N91m0~epsreqpsssp wiaf - " PFsAa GM  U s"" xqmSm Po "WW&i
mmw VW *
#u      -tme    GM                     et"             Om      Om      Ott"                 is mm gusiw  p. qpu    wu
wse    wea    wen    we,    WCe    Liee        ee WC    ee     u      weso    $It     ll       in                              WA
-       -       -V  c          - 1                                  U¢ OWl a W1             CT                      WUmpqpqmpqq
GM      Om     Om    -u         Mt    LM       G       0t 01   91 "    9      Itt    so        t o
po0 W MAV _1W4
10      ru     Ws      VV      Ce      rsWAs    wLLo    es     we      wal     ta     wet    s-                        upus"NAasuwu
ri ~      t weWI                   et      ri      CAWC                   2       ra      n                  U+m x  wob  wa__
au      us      was    wet   ,s&i    we         LtI   titi   ,es       weW    01      Ut       15                 Sg5mmemuqq
we      ng     5g      It      Ls              we      ce      we      La     s 8 tW  r-    we-                   b.E-umleqp.T,
63      re     3       ri      Ii      to      so      rw      It-      *  9-g        CL      re-                         .sshsmsu
Mt    lo     Mt     "s    o&        "t let let               w       u
I~~~~~~~~~~ l   1l £661                                 1tt 16  '  661l  166           01               iei un       sa    y{
L F P 



AmIs Ta    fts im," ftadIr mid  Ms4 11564 m  at oawrmataku
Is o i      Im       199I     19 93    1i 1" 0_   19               11907  -          it"                  1       002
Mft aA"*  SWr. LThO                        676       31       461      15       03o       an       403      in       on       on       is        on       0
I .$bWGam                                  60      272      2"        so      6n0       0        4U       on       7          6      Me        an       61
M d,                                     44     2*I        92       27       32       421       2       416      SW       400     a40        440      a0
at"""di                               0        0         0        0        0      *0~         0        0        0        6                 0         0
atulsht                               0       56        62        0      x25      221       206        s      2go      S'    no          2o
b.Uliwh..suI,                          26        10      172       32t  82           215f     145       7         5      36       103       103      IN
bAli"WmmOr            *         7        1        10      112         l           t 10          I"       in  Oso           sao      SOS      ISO
2.Pdva    00                              70       lie      in        N          5        0        0        0 N             too      no       2no      200
1*_l                   n         b       6    t    0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0        6
b.Cmwwuidd.*57 106,1,b$                           e       10?       so        5         0        0        0      100      Sao       an       200      20
.@Ohfrvli                              too5       t4        0        0        0         0        0        0        a        0        0         0        0
*ASm Oa4IwUN OLT                              0         0        0        0        0         0        a   O         0        0        0        0             0
T.td LT Okmw"mtm                             GM       391      461      15       05        630      4"       $6       S        Sn       01J       so       MO
w  purd"doo                                    0      306      282       44      49        232      200        0        0        O        0         0        0
noht-lTomC  ISd                                0        0         0        0        0       it       02       10"      163      11       212      an        "I
TOM Dbm            O.T*4+W+f               on        7        743      20*     1166       3        7        65      1n$      to"      1025      1074     105t
A" baA*    *Wr. LtOrN                       672      114      3713  t226          3       2tO      2a3  -             02      6043      so        0        0
OffIdd  uIs 0                              31        so       e7      205        0       77       01       110      do   Ot         tt         SU'       76
&MAdtrd                                  30       24       75      131        0         0                34                116     too      203      415
of    IDA                             0         0        0        0        0        a         0        0        0        0        0        0 O
otf hL OM                             0         0        0        a        a        0        19       34       es       e       113       136      163
b    lA l _d                             I        1       22       74        6         7       02      #0       402      40        3"       443      3
*1PivabCONtOW                             042       N      221       102       02       142      202       lB       5         is       25   * 4          202
G,ad.                                     0        0        0        0         0       20      176       la       52       32        to       l6      III
b6cmuW"ICSe*1                           24        tO1     3121  t02St    26   t 22  20                   24        7         7        7       20      151
. Olhw pdv                              OOt       70        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0
PWEavmorUWU    LT                              0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0
Toiben LUt_ tYr                              072      114     3716     1229       O34      21a      2        12       on       d43        N       70      1026
IIFlhsd_s                                      0        0       N1        0         s      22       213       t13     126      174       120      132  1.    2
TdflqPm                   t72                        114     3004     122        M        442      406      304      0t4        7       66       o3      l1
CMat *kwomuds
M% APV*Idrkw. LTDO                            4      277      326     .1070     .129      417       200      34       337      X5       2        1ot      -216
1.04W Cotus                                40       24?      tO7      -140     06"      6         402      40       goN      13e       70        44     .154
Miihs"ud                                14       M3        17     .104      26       421       313      "02       M0      M3        6        22        26
torAsdnd
of w" DA                    ~~0       0        0        0         0        0        0                          a0                 o 
_IuNAUW0                                      5U       n       O        253       221      16n      S17      106      I10       10*      I5       141
b.3lgedOk*C.wm*4                         0        0      150       42       222     122        a t                .7t     41      -IN"     -3 2 176



a- s
1980     1991     1992     19903'    1904     1995     1990     1097     I9       1990  
2.P CvuwXa .ue                            . 46      80    43425 ' 925         423      -142     .702      .76       41      e1       176       140      42
*Jksnd                                  65         0        a        0        0       .20     *l76      42       452      4|2      .16       .6      .111
b.CUmIUSNd4r&*                          335       67    43425      4025     423      .122      .26      .24       63                193      162       49
eUO_w Pku1                            .446       46         0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0 O                0
PloawtsNen4mrmw dLT                           0         0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0         0        0
totd *"n LTLumn                               4       27     4250    .1070       .139     417       200      294      S37      22       246       10      4210
"w  Ctdlt                                     0       396      197       44      428        9       -13      113     -1360     474      426      412      .182
OJntstsOus
PAND 8Pu*hkIv sw.                           452      104      081       742      767      575      660       60      t12       707      725      839      as7
I )tfIdCttWitr                             14       60       170      150      161      243      264       313      341     S37       $36      324       so
.idlhrdbd                                13       49       95       49       46       *7       128     10       178      IRS      213       221      227
01bWDA                                0        0         0        0        0        0        0         0        0       . o                0         0
N-_
Ofwf  d, a                            0        0         6       22       20       4a       6s       .n        S       101      1M1       121     1s3
uktw d"an.CemuuIgWn4                    0         1       75      101      116       146     16       164      166      142       122      103       is
2.PdOMb,dteft                             436       54      701      692       605      332      3*6      370      371      370       360      161      US2
*Ibnde                                   10       10       15       22       185      323      346      336      336      331      347       460      466
b.ConvoMiS *In                          337       25      776      570       420        9       21        o       365      39        43      e6        66
.Olw oripule                             B5       19        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0
PHAiV  N Uw .IUd LT                           O 0           0         0        0        0        0             0        0        0         a        0        0
ToW on LT two                               1014      104      Dal      742       767      576      65o      608      712      707       72s      "39      637
UF *wo.                                        0        6       35       6f1       00      1ce       84       s0       46       .31       20       16       10
tbthu.T nC.pd                                 66s      49         0        0        0        2        12       21       35       49,      71        a7      11e
Todi btwesfLT+OWU+86l                       1072      156     1017      603       632     065       740      m        7a2      767       610      951       666
Lbftun Dow 000
pf4t &at*d  buS.ALT                         9613     9969    11465   11t46       9763    10416    10616    11212    11509    11661    11646    1184    11699
1.Ofi*dCd"fto                              1602     2013     2248      23t4     3106     3703     4106     4570    4072       6063     6133     506      4035
Miftistei                                   1et     652       773      639     1240     1669     2019     2401      2704     2166     3252     3469      3514
Cnmadesd A of dc IDA                        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0
Nwnm.edsn.fwitdd Ip                         0       61     162       161      420      641      626     1046      1212     1372     1534     1666      1930
b.61t.       -1k                          1046     1161      1475     1625     1666     2004     2067     2176      2106     2070     1661     1S99      1420
2. PFdvts eio                               B151     7974     9237     9482      on6      6714    6712    O63        687 o610'   OJ13            n95      gm04
skAfd                                      327      340      351       351     0131     0111     G035     G86      5631       79a     OM       1765      645
b.ccnnnie"                                6660     7054     6966      9131      525      603      777      75         o       11s      932     1030      1110
#OOw Pd"ve                                1104     5s0          0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0
Pilo *MweOwuuutoWdogt                          0        0         0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        a        a         0
totOUL DD                                   *813     O660    11465    11646      G763    10416    1018    11212    1150      11661    11646    1t1$4   1l1d9
Uh f UON Cet                                   0      414       669      033     1061      670       57       64       408      262      180       121       62
NethuottmnC cp                              1055     1569         0        0        0       71       183      264      427     c0m       620      106     1327
Toudf t Id 'td                             l066     11970    12074    12478    10824    11359    11636    12020    12346    1254t    12640    1309n   13ce8



OW-W  VW *  KWMPW Wmt *d WMS
0'001   rOeQ   @001Z   #1       @010   @001    0001   0'001    0001   @001   0.01    0001    0001                          115w   SUS p
ro     re      wos    rot   9v s         t      ti       s      0'0     OV      00      nwo      L'                      inlUppuas am sl
*s   9r          i      0W    r         v et   sr    t          re      i        1'9    r                                 it         w  on
vt   roe         t'   W         ru      rte    Fu        e      we      is      rae     we       roe                           i*1ooam  w."
00       0      00      0'0     00       '0     0'0    0'0      0'      00        0     0'0      0@0                  Mmopme"00auwewAm
#0      @0   0          fW      @0      @0      00      0 0     @0  ' 00    0.0          ft      4LO                           SPANA"s,*
9V      fL  I L         f       we      Vs      co @9    9      rt      ruL     OtL     r9       rim                     fl S PPMAaaoq
gut    **t1    *ue 1't,       clOC    OUt    wig       t9a    ole    0'9       WC      WC      Ole                             111 BOOM
4`0     rio     Ile    well    oleo    Clio    CLs    nlsa    slag    rat      re rot    woo                               15 e*Pe  S.I4i.
Oa    tiut    eti    n- eLi    Lsi    e3                  II,    Il    tiLt rr    LBs            a's                ti  _
WK1    flu      li      @01     "       L'0    l-L    s9    wt          t-l     t'l      s'0     OO              aWmin mAp p"PObs04m
0O0     00      00      Ole    0'0       0      0'0     00      00      00      0u0      0'      010                 M VWa*s.P ms.sm
Su   , L9Z    tat    lWg        Wlr     o       t' LI    0t91   9 ll    cO      re       l-L     L-9                           1giWPrVw
vLi     rot     otZ  rot    v9e    nlet    VW           wt      veg    rso       etu   ro        t`9                       I OMPNOppwol
tee     roS     rUe    ru       rue     ru e    rue     vi          oe  ne0    rae    -sue       roe                  (%UPU'd
XOOg    ro    t 9"000viasee               ll -   L Ol    666    966l  61    el"  161t  l         V1661    06 61   ASw                   W
£50 £                  1      ,e,



*1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
'aaN
I~ ~~~ -I 9iS
0 -l
l    ~i i t  jAi 
8 8 X ejX j    N



Annex 3
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BULGARIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of Jne30, 1994)
AmountinUSSmilin
Lown       Fica                                                   -(Loss mcacelation).
No.        Year      BOnowr                   UPOSe                Bank     UndiSbuuied
3384-BUL  1991      Republi of Bulgaia      Techna Assistance         17.00       14.18
3397-BUL  1992      Republic of Bulgatia    SAL I                    250.00      35.95
3563-BUL  1993      Nstional Electric Co.   EnetVy/Esvitu_            93.00      86.70
3592-BUL  1993      Bul4rian Tecom. Co.   Telcmmunications            30.00      28.00
3631-BUL  1993      Republc of Bulgaria     Priv.lmv. & Exp. Fim.     55.00      50.70
3739-BUL  1994      Republic of Bulgria     Water Copanies Rest.    98.00        98.00
3771-BUL  1994      Republic of Bulgaria    Agricutural Dcv.          50.00      50.00
TOtal                                           593.00
Total Undisbursed                                          363.53
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BULGARIA
B. STATEMET OF IFC INVESTMESM
(Asof June 30, 1994)
There are no IFC invesms in Bulgaria as of this date.
iUL%OTHES8GO.wk1
uw  18, 1994)



