Report No. PIC568
Project Name              Bulgaria-Debt and Debt Service Reduction (DDSR)
Region                    Europe and Central Asia
Sector                    Non-sectoral
Project ID                BGPA8320
Implementing Agency       Ministry of Finance
Contact: Mr. Dimitar Kostov
102 Rakovsky Street
1000 Sofia, Bulgaria
Tel: 3592 870 622
Fax: 3592 881 207
Estimated Loan Amount     $1 million (set asides of $90 million)
Date Prepared             April 6, 1994
Tentative Board Date      June 1994
Country Background: In the waning years of the communist regime,
Bulgaria's total debt outstanding rose rapidly. By the end of 1989,
total hard currency debt was $9.2 billion. This accumulation of debt
occurred hand in hand with declining economic performance and stagnant
export earnings in convertible currency markets. Between 1985 and 1989,
exports of goods to convertible currency markets declined from $3.3
billion to $3.1 billion, in nominal terms. Consequently, the ratio of
hard currency debt to hard currency exports of goods reached nearly 300
percent by end 1989.
This worsening credit situation led the Government to contract more
short-term debt in 1988-1989, which exacerbated the bunching of
amortization payments. About 40 percent of outstanding debt was
scheduled to be paid in 1990. In the first quarter of 1990, all debt
payments were made on schedule, including an estimated $1 billion of
principal repayments. Part of these repayments were met from official
foreign exchange reserves which fell from over $1 billion (4 months'
import cover) to less than $200 million in the second quarter of 1990.
Faced with dwindling international reserves and very large debt service
obligations, the Bulgarian Foreign Trade Bank (BFTB) declared its
inability to make principal payments in March 1990. This moratorium was
extended to include interest obligations from June 1990 onwards.
Country's Adjustment Program: Since 1991, Bulgaria has launched a
program of economic reform that has included stabilization,
liberalization and gradual privatization of the economy. This program
has been supported by the World Bank and the IMF. Economic reforms are
beginning to show positive effects: inflation has slowed dramatically;
and, the private sector which now accounts for about one third of all
economic activity, has developed rapidly.
The Government has recently taken steps to strengthen its
stabilization efforts. The macroeconomic framework for 1994 includes
coordinated fiscal, monetary and incomes policy aimed at lowering
inflationary pressures in the economy and substantially improving the



non- interest current account deficit.    This program is being supported
by the IMF with a third Standby Arrangement, supplemented by a
Structural Transformation Facility.
The Government is also sustaining the structural reform agenda.
The structural measures required for release of the second tranche of
the World Bank's Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) have been taken and it
has been released. The structural measures under the SAL have had
several broad thrusts: (i) liberalizing domestic prices and opening the
economy to external trade; (ii) developing a legal framework conducive
to private sector activity; (iii) privatizing state-owned assets,
including agricultural land; (iv) reforming the financial sector; and
(v) improving the social safety net. While progress on structural
reforms has slowed recently, the Government is taking steps to
re-energize structural reforms. Most significantly, the Government has
submitted to Parliament amendments of the Privatization Law to
accelerate its privatization program, including through the introduction
of a mass privatization scheme.
Relieving Bulgaria's substantial external debt burden is another
critical step toward integrating Bulgaria into the international
financial markets and in restoring long-term growth. Since the
declaration of the debt moratorium in 1990, successive governments have
worked to resolve Bulgaria's external debt situation. Bulgaria has
initiated negotiations with its official Western creditors through the
Paris Club, with its commercial creditors through the London Club and
with CMEA institutions. The DDSR agreement between Bulgaria and its
commercial bank creditors, to be supported by this World Bank loan, is
a crucial step in resolving Bulgaria's external debt situation.
Project Objectives: To support the proposed debt and debt service
reduction operation of the Government as part of a coordinated effort
with other international financial institutions.
Project Description. The debt and debt service reduction (DDSR)
operation, as agreed with commercial bank creditors involves (i) an
exchange of original debt for one of three options - - a discount bond,
a front-loaded interest reduction bond (FLIRB) and a debt buyback; and
(ii) a regularization of interest arrears through a down payment at the
closing of the deal and a past due interest (PDI) bond. The proposed
Bank measures to support this operation would include (a) a DDSR loan of
$1 million to the Republic of Bulgaria to help finance principal and
interest collateral of the instruments and/or a debt buyback; (b) Set
asides of up to $90 million from the Bank's adjustment lending
operations in Bulgaria; (c) A limited waiver of the negative pledge
clauses in loan and guarantee agreements between the Republic of
Bulgaria and the Bank to permit a pledge of collateral for the new
instruments under the DDSR operation.
Project Financing:    The upfront costs of the DDSR operation,
including the buyback and interest and principal collateral, will depend
on the selections among the options by participating banks. Preliminary
estimates are for upfront costs between US$ 600-900 million. The Bank is
considering providing a total of $215 million, of which $1 million
would be additional funds and $90 million would be set asides. The IMF
-2 -



is considering support in accordance with IMF guidelines for such
operations. Other sources of official support from bilateral donors is
also being sought.
Program Objective Categories: The program objective category of
this project is economic management (100%) and private sector
development (20%).
Project Implementation: The loan will be disbursed in full upon
effectiveness.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note:   This is information based on an evolving project.    Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



