Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15717
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BULGARIA
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION LOAN
(LOAN NO. 3800-BUL)
JUNE 12, 1996
Country Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribufion and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Bulgarian Lev (plural Leva)
Average Value of US$1.00 in Leva
1989                     0.84
1990                     2.19
1991                     17.79
1992                    23.34
1993                    28.00
1994                    53.73
1995                    67.18
January       1996                    72.58
February     1996                     74.58
March        1996                     77.96
April        1996                     81.55
May          1996                    110.73
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAC          -      Bank Advisory Committee
BFTB         -      Bulgarian Foreign Trade Bank
BNB          -      Bulgarian National Bank
BSP          -      Bulgarian Socialist Party
CAS          -      Country Assistance Strategy
CMEA         -      Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
DDSR         -      Debt and Debt Service Reduction
EBRD         -      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EFTA         -      European Free Trade Association
EIB          -      European Investment Bank
EU           -      European Union
FESAL        -      Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
FLIRB        -      Front-Loaded Interest Reduction Bond
G-24         -      Group of 24 Countries
GDP          -      Gross Domestic Product
IBEC         -      International Bank for Economic Cooperation
ICR          -      Implementation Completion Report
IFIs         -      International Financial Institutions
IIB          -      International Investment Bank
LIBOR        -      London Inter-Bank Offer Rate
PDI          -      Past Due Interest
SAL          -      Structural Adjustment Loan
SBA          -      Stand-By Agreement (IMF)
SOE          -      State-Owned Enterprise
STF          -      Systemic Transformation Facility (IMF)
TAL          -      Technical Assistance Loan
VAT          -      Value-Added Tax



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BULGARIA
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION LOAN
[Loan no. 3800-BUL]
CONTENTS
Preface  ...............
Evaluation Summary ................................. ii
PART I. Project Implementation Assessment ...............1.................. 
A  Introduction .................................1
B. Project Objectives ................................. 2
C. Achievement of Project Objectives .................................  3
D. Implementation Record . ................................. 6
E. Project Sustainability  ...........             ...................... 7
F. Bank Performance ................................. 9
G. Borrower's Performance . ................................. 9
H. Assessment of Outcome .................................. 10
I.  Future Operation .................................  10
J. Key Lessons Learned . ................................. 11
PART II. Statistical Tables    ................                 .................  13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .15
Table 3: Project Timetable .16
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .17
Table 5: Project Financing .18
Table 6: Status of Legal Covenants .19
Table 7: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .20
Table 8: Bank Resources: Missions .21
Appendixes:
A. Mission's aide-memoire
B. Borrower contribution to the ICR
C. Analysis of Debt Sustainability Memorandum
D. Map
T|is document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients on]y in the performance of their
officia] duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed whLhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BULGARIA
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION LOAN
[Loan no. 3800-BUL]
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Debt and Debt Service
Reduction (DDSR) Loan in Bulgaria, for which a loan in the amount of US$125 million
equivalent was approved on September 22, 1994, and made effective on September 30, 1994.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1994, the original closing date. The loan was
fully disbursed in one tranche on October 19, 1994. Cofinancing for the operation was
provided by the IMF for US$101 million and the Government of the Netherlands for
US$8.6 million.
The ICR was prepared by Fareed M. A. Hassan (Consultant, EClCO) of the Europe
and Central Asia Region, and reviewed within the Country Department 1 of that Region. It
is based on material in the project file. The Borrower provided comments on the draft ICR
that are included as Appendix B to the ICR.






- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BULGARIA
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION LOAN
[Loan no. 3800-BUL]
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.   In July 1994, the Government of Bulgaria reached an agreement with the country's
westem commercial bank creditors to restructure about US$8.1 billion of external debt,
including about US$1.9 billion in Past Due Interest (PDI). The Bank's DDSR loan was
designed to assist the Government finance a portion of the upfront costs of US$715 million
of the DDSR agreement. The Bank's support--US$125 million through the DDSR loan--was
part of a joint effort with the IMF and the Government of the Netherlands. The IMF
provided an additional US$101 million to the DDSR agreement. The Government of the
Netherlands also provided 15 million Guilders (about US$ 8.6 million). Official support for
the DDSR agreement totalled about US$241 million, leaving US$474 million to be financed
from Bulgaria's international reserves. The DDSR was the second Bank adjustment
operation in Bulgaria in support of economic policy reform, as the Bank had already
approved a Structural Adjustment Loan--SAL (Loan 3379-BUL in the amount of US$250
million). The SAL was designed to help initiate the transition from a command economy to
a market economy. Adjustment measures supported by the SAL were in four areas:
liberalization of prices, trade and exchange rate; stabilization of external and internal
balances; structural reforms, including privatization and banking reform; and a strengthening
of the social safety net.
Project Objectives, Achievements and Sustainability
2.    The primary objective of the DDSR was to reduce Bulgaria's debt overhang through a
significant reduction in its total debt burden. This was achieved through three instruments:
(i) a buyback option (including associated interest) at 25 3/16 cents per US dollar; (ii) a 30-
year discount bond at a discount of 50 percent and bearing a floating interest rate of LIBOR
plus 3/16 percent, with a single bullet payment at the end of 30 years; and (iii) an 18-year
Front-Loaded Interest Reduction Bond (FLIRB) bearing interest rates according to a
predetermined schedule beginning at two percent, rising to three percent in the seventh year;
and thereafter, starting in the eighth year, LIBOR plus 13/16 percent. The FLIRB has a
maturity of 18 years and a grace period of eight years. PDI was subject to a three percent
downpayment and the remainder was exchanged for PDI bonds, bearing an interest rate of
LIBOR plus 13/16 percent and a maturity of 17 years with seven years grace.
3.    The project objective was appropriate, given the country's unsustainable commercial
debt burden that caused the announcement of a debt moratorium on commercial bank debt
payments in March 1990. This led to a loss of access to trade credit lines and international



- 111 -
capital markets.
4.    The DDSR operation can be judged a success, reducing Bulgaria's eligible
commercial debt by about US$3.8 billion, which represented 46 percent of the eligible debt,
at a net cost of US$715 million. This compares favorably to other DDSR operations--
generating above average debt reduction, but at a remarkably lower cost in comparison with
most other restructuring agreements.' Because of the large proportion of Bulgaria's debt
covered by the DDSR operation--almost two-thirds of Bulgaria's external debt of US$12.5
billion by end-1993--debt and debt service reduction as a proportion of total debt outstanding
is estimated at about 29 percent. This is higher than DDSR operations in most other
countries.
5.    As a result of the DDSR operation, Bulgaria's creditworthiness indicators have
improved. Total external debt at end-1995 was US$10.4 billion (84 percent of GDP),
compared to US$12.1 billion at end-1992 (140 percent of GDP). Also, the debt-to-export
ratio declined from 240 percent to 172 percent over the same period. The debt service ratio
was estimated at 17 percent in 1995 (well below the Bank's guideline of 25 percent).
Looking to the medium term, the indicators would suggest a manageable debt service
level--under the base case of slow and gradual reform presented in the recent Country
Assistance Strategy--CAS (Report No. 15423-BUL, March 15, 1996). A debt sustainability
exercise indicates that the debt service as a percentage of export earnings (liquidity ratio)
would reach 15.5 percent by the end of the decade and would continue to fall further
reaching 11.1 percent by the year 2005. These projected ratios are well below the 25
percent threshold level for sustainability. Furthermore, they are significantly lower than in
each of the four previous DDSR operations with Argentina, Mexico, the Philippines and
Venezuela (Houben, 1995). The IBRD liquidity ratio is very small--about 0.8 percent in
1995--and will remain under 1.5 percent for the next decade--well below the Bank's exposure
guideline of 4 percent. With the exception of preferred creditor ratio which exceeds the
Bank's guideline of 35 percent over the years 1995 -1996, Bulgaria's creditworthiness
indicators would remain comfortably within the Bank's exposure guidelines. Finally,
Bulgaria's 'solvency ratio' of 181-198 percent is below the 200 present threshold for a
manageable debt situation, as suggested by cross country experiences.2
6.    The DDSR agreement provides significant cash relief in the first seven years. But in
later years, Bulgaria's debt servicing obligations will rise sharply due to the DDSR operation
itself, repayment of official lending that has supported the economy's adjustment and the
Paris Club reschedulings. To manage these debt service obligations, Bulgaria must use the
breathing space provided in the first seven years to make substantial progress in restructuring
1 See Table 1 which compares the financial aspects of Bulgaria's DDSR with those of other
commercial debt deals.
2 The 'solvency ratio' is computed by taking the ratio of the present value of debt service on
existing debt stock as of end-1995 (discounted at a rate of 7.2 percent as recommended by IEC) to
average exports for the past three years.



- iv -
the economy and restoring the basis for export growth. The reforms supported by the SAL
have resulted in an important reorientation of the Bulgarian economy: many of the basic
steps taken to liberalize the economy--price, trade and exchange rate reform--as well as the
initiation of laws/regulations supporting a market economy are probably irreversible.
However, macroeconomic stabilization remains an area of concern. Further structural
change--particularly in the areas of privatization, state enterprises and banking reform--is
essential to achieve and maintain macroeconomic stability and growth. So far, Government
has been unable to address the country's financial and enterprise sector issues, resulting in a
major economic crisis in early 1996. Sustainability of the benefits of the DDSR operation is
therefore in doubt.
7.    As is common in many debt reduction operations, the DDSR agreement has left
Bulgaria with an inflexible debt service profile that persists over the medium term. Thus, if
debt service difficulties do arise, options for restructuring debt will be extremely constrained.
In any case, the likelihood of debt servicing difficulties to the IBRD is relatively low. The
IBRD debt service constitutes only 5.5 percent of total inflexible debt service.3 This ratio is
expected to rise to about 10 percent toward the end of the decade. Unfortunately, pressures
in the foreign exchange market in the first quarter of 1996, engendered by problems in the
state enterprise and banking sectors, and payment of the first of Bulgaria's two payments
(January and July 1996) on its Brady bonds (about US$140 million) have significantly
reduced foreign reserves to about US$750 million (or less than 1.5 months of projected
1996 imports). This sharp decline in reserves is highly worrisome given that Bulgaria faces
extremely large external debt payments of US$1.2 billion in 1996, of which about US$262
million is owed to London Club on Brady bonds, US$259 million is owed to the IMF,
US$164 million to the Paris Club, and US$228 million is owed on German and Japanese
bonds. But the amount owed to the Bank is small--about US$42 million. Debt service
payments in 1997 are also large--about US$ 0.9 billion. Therefore, given the current
economic situation and the Government's unclear response to it, some near-term risk to
holders of inflexible debt and some preferred creditors is present. Recently, the Bank has
classified Bulgaria as a severe risk country under short-term monitoring.
8.    The DDSR was also expected to help Bulgaria normalize its relations with the
international financial community, lessen uncertainties that deterred investment, and hence,
enhance growth prospects over the medium term. Some benefits have, indeed, come about
in the wake of the deal. Several foreign banks have recently established subsidiaries in
Bulgaria as well as an increasing number of trade credit lines have been reopened.
However, due to delays in structural reforms, political instability and lack of a consistent
macroeconomic policy, external commercial flows to the country are negligible and foreign
direct investment is among the lowest in Eastern Europe.
3  A measure of the inflexibility of debt service is the preferred creditors (e.g., IMF, IBRD,
EBRD) share of debt service and the debt service on bonds.



v 
Implementation Experience
9.   Implementation of the project was satisfactory. The loan was prepared in 22 months
after nearly two years of intense negotiations between the Republic of Bulgaria and its
commercial creditors. The Loan was ratified by the Parliament on July 27, 1994. It became
effective on September 30, 1994, and was fully disbursed in one tranche on October
19,1994.
10.   The performance of the Bank was good. The Bank played an important advisory role
in the design, formulation and evaluation of the menu of options of the operation. Also, the
Bank advised the Government of Bulgaria during negotiations with the steering committee
representing creditor banks. These intense negotiations, as well as other DDSR-related
issues, dominated the macroeconomic and country dialogue for nearly two years.
11.   Since the DDSR Loan closed, Bulgaria's political situation has changed. The
Government headed by Prime Minister Berov resigned. A caretaker government which took
over between October 1994 and January 1995, called for an election. The election in
December 1994 returned the Bulgarian Socialist Party (BSP) to power in January 1995 with a
clear majority in the Parliament. Nevertheless, the DDSR agreement was ratified by
Parliament and enjoys broad political support from the various parliamentary groups.
12.   The performance of the borrower was satisfactory, especially given the political
changes. Cooperation was excellent during preparation as well as during early stages of
implementation. The loan objectives were designed in close collaboration with the
Government. The Borrower's ownership of the operation was very strong.
13.   Bulgaria offered the steering committee representing creditor banks a debt
restructuring deal that reflected its objectives of achieving debt reduction (by capping
allocations to the par bond) and limiting the upfront costs (by including the possibility of
restricting the share of buyback). But neither the Government of Bulgaria nor the steering
committee pressed for inclusion of a specific minimum debt reduction requirement clause due
to the fact that, at the time of agreement, both sides were concerned that there would not be
sufficient resources to meet such a requirement. Subsequently, when sufficient external
financing commitments had been obtained from the IMF, the World Bank, and EU/G-24 in
April 1994, the Government switched its emphasis to the objective of achieving greater debt
reduction (about 51 percent gross debt reduction, corresponding to its objective of a 20
percent buyback share). As this could not formally impede the deal closure since the
package did not include a specified minimum debt reduction requirement, the Government
had to settle for a debt reduction of 46 percent of eligible debt with a 13 percent buyback
share.
14.   More broadly, the DDSR agreement--and the Bank's DDSR loan--was meant to create
a financial breathing space for Bulgaria during which its program of structural reform,
initiated in 1991, could take hold and lay the foundation for sustainable economic growth.
Since the initial burst of reforms, however, economic progress in Bulgaria has been slow and
erratic. Periods of tight macroeconomic policies have been followed by a rapid loosening of



- vi -
policies, leading to high and variable inflation. Erratic macroeconomic policies have also led
to dramatic exchange rate depreciations. For instance, prior to the conclusion of the DDSR
agreement, macroeconomic policies were geared toward building up adequate reserves to
cover the upfront costs of the DDSR deal, rather than preserving financial stability
throughout the debt restructuring process. As a result, the domestic currency--Lev--
experienced a 40 percent real depreciation in March 1994 and inflation escalated to 122
percent by the end of the year. Nevertheless, in 1995 output rose for the second consecutive
year, inflationary pressures receded, unemployment declined from its peak, and international
reserves were relatively comfortable. However, these improvements in the economy's
performance proved transitory because bold structural reforms have yet to be taken
decisively.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
15.   The DDSR agreement was successfully completed in a relatively short time and has
largely achieved its immediate objectives. However, the loan accomplished less in advancing
pivotal long-term reform and several core development issues remain to be tackled. These
could ultimately undermine the benefits of the loan and jeopardize sustainability.
16.   As discussed in the recently approved CAS, five areas have been identified as
priorities for Bank assistance to Bulgaria: (i) facilitating the transition to a market economy
and the expansion of private sector activity through structural reforms, primarily enterprise
reform (especially privatization) and banking reform; (ii) supporting macroeconomic
stabilization to lower inflation and sustain a viable balance-of-payments position; (iii)
establishing financially viable and effective social sector policies and institutions, including a
social safety net; (iv) rebuilding and rehabilitating Bulgaria's infrastructure and improving
the environment; and (v) improving the effectiveness of Bank operations through
improvements in public administration, and project preparation and identification. However,
due to the current economic situation, inadequate progress on structural reforms and poor
implementation of existing investment loans, the Bank's current assistance is focused only on
a small core program of interventions in the social and environment sectors. A higher level
of lending is strictly conditioned on further structural reforms that are needed to underpin
stabilization and improve economic efficiency. This high lending scenario (or reform lending
scenario) would be divided into two clusters: adjustment lending and guarantee operations;
and, investment lending in infrastructure. A detailed outline of Bank's program under each
scenario is given in the recently approved CAS.
17.   Several key lessons have emerged from the Bulgarian DDSR experience that may be
of broader relevance to other countries in the process of restructuring their commercial debt.
18.   First, a country's ability to meet its external debt obligations on a sustainable basis
depends on progress in restructuring the economy and restoring the basis for economic
growth during the breathing space provided in the first few years of a DDSR agreement.
Whereas Bulgaria's economic performance during 1994 and 1995 improved significantly,
mounting pressures in the financial and state enterprise sectors and in the foreign exchange
market, resulting in a major economic crisis in early 1996, provide evidence of the need to



- vii -
tackle deep-seated structural problems with more urgency if the breathing space provided by
the DDSR agreement is to be translated into permanent economic gain.
19.   Second, seeking a clear picture of available external financing should come before
agreeing on the specific terms of the DDSR. When prospects for external financing from the
IFIs brightened in April 1994, the Bulgarian authorities switched their emphasis to the
objective of achieving greater debt reduction (51 percent). Since the DDSR package did not
include a specified minimum debt reduction requirement, the Government had to accept a
lower debt reduction (46 percent). The Bulgarian experience suggests that while pursuing
policies that ensure the availability of sufficient resources for its debt reduction operation, a
country should also explicitly incorporate its objective for debt reduction into the deal.
20.   Finally, directing macroeconomic policies toward preserving financial stability
throughout the DDSR process is vital. Bulgaria's efforts, however, have been characterized
by 'stop-go' cycles, which have caused dramatic exchange rate depreciations and high and
variable inflation. This reinforces the view that countries embarking on a DDSR operation
need to assign, in a timely manner, priority in their monetary and exchange rate policies to
the accumulation of a sufficient cushion offoreign exchange reserves to be able to finance a
portion of the upfront cost prior to the conclusion of the operation.



IMPLEMENTATION COM[PLETION REPORT
BULGARIA
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION LOAN
[Loan No. 3800-BUL]
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMfENT
A. Introduction
1.    During the communist regime, Bulgaria's total debt outstanding increased
significantly, nearly tripling between 1985 and 1989, reaching US$9.2 billion by end-1989.
This accumulation of debt occurred against a background of abysmal economic performance
and stagnant export earnings in convertible currency markets. Between 1985 and 1989
exports of goods to convertible currency markets declined from US$3.3 billion to US$3.1
billion in nominal terms, before falling to US$2.6 billion in 1990. As a result, the ratio of
the country's hard currency debt to hard currency exports of goods reached nearly 300
percent by end-1989.
2.    The worsening foreign exchange situation led the Government of Bulgaria to contract
more short-term debts in 1988-1989, which exacerbated the bunching of amortization
payments. About 40 percent of outstanding debts were scheduled to be paid in 1990. In the
first quarter of 1990, all debt payments were made on schedule, including an estimated US$1
billion of principal repayments. Part of these repayments were met from official foreign
exchange reserves, which dropped from US$1.1 billion (4 months' import cover) at end-
1989, to less than US$0.1 billion by end-1990, or less than one week of imports. Declining
reserves and large repayment obligations forced the Government to declare a debt
moratorium in March 1990 on all obligations of the Bulgarian Foreign Trade Bank (BFTB),
which held virtually all of Bulgaria's commercial bank external debt. As a result, Bulgaria
lost access to new external financing, including virtually all trade credits, and this led to a
further contraction of foreign trade.
3.    Nearly two thirds of Bulgaria's debt of US$12.5 billion at end-1993 was from foreign
commercial banks. Official debt, both bilateral and multilateral, accounted for only 24
percent of debt outstanding at end-1993. Multilateral debt included two Council of Mutual
Economic Assistance (CMEA) banks--the International Bank for Economic Cooperation
(IBEC) and the International Investment Bank (IIB)--that accounted for about five percent of
the debt outstanding. The remainder of multilateral debt was from the World Bank, the
IMF, the EBRD and the EIB, contracted since 1991. Bilateral debt was mainly composed of
debt contracted prior to the moratorium that was being rescheduled through the Paris Club
and balance-of-payments support provided through the European Union/Group of 24
Countries (EU/G-24).
4.    Negotiations between the Republic of Bulgaria and its commercial creditors began in
1992. From the outset, the negotiations were extraordinarily complicated. One problem was



-2-
the large number of banks involved--over 300 commercial banks. This problem was dealt
with through the formation of a Bank Advisory Committee (BAC). Discussions between the
Government of Bulgaria and the BAC were difficult and protracted. A first major step was
accomplished when Bulgaria agreed to make partial interest payments beginning in October
1992, and the BAC and the Government agreed on the options to be included in the menu.
These negotiations eventually resulted in a preliminary agreement on a DDSR operation on
November 24, 1993. A final term sheet was issued on March 11, 1994, and the DDSR
agreement closed on July 28, 1994.
5.    The DDSR agreement covered US$8.1 billion of external commercial debt after
accounting for interest accrual in the first seven months of 1994, partial interest payments by
Bulgaria during 1994, and some interest adjustments associated with the operation itself.
The remaining commercial debt is held by Russian and Polish banks (about US$812 million)
and other Bulgarian commercial banks that were not included in the DDSR operation. The
Russian and Polish banks were originally expected to participate in the DDSR agreement, but
decided to settle their commercial debt outside of the DDSR agreement and in conjunction
with the resolution of other bilateral balances associated with the old CMEA trading system.
B. Project Objectives
6.    The basic objective of the DDSR agreement was to reduce Bulgaria's substantial
external debt burden through three instruments: (a) a buyback option (including associated
interest) at 25 3/16 cents on the dollar; (b) a 30-year discount bond at a discount of 50
percent and bearing a floating interest rate of LIBOR plus 3/16 percent, with a single bullet
payment at the end of 30 years; and (c) an 18-year Front-Loaded Interest Reduction Bond
(FLIRB) bearing interest rates according to a predetermined schedule beginning at two
percent, rising to three percent in the seventh year and thereafter, starting in the eighth year,
LIBOR plus 13/16 percent. The FLIRB has a maturity of 18 years and a grace period of
eight years. PDI was subject to a three percent downpayment and the remainder was
exchanged for PDI bonds, bearing an interest rate of LIBOR plus 13/16 percent and a
maturity of 17 years with seven years grace. The DDSR agreement was also expected to
help Bulgaria normalize its relations with international financial community, lessen
uncertainties that deterred investment, and hence, enhance growth prospects over the medium
term.
7.    The World Bank's DDSR loan amounted to US$125 million and was disbursed in one
tranche upon loan effectiveness to assist the Government of Bulgaria finance a portion of the
cost of the principal and interest collateral of the instruments and/or the debt buyback. In
addition, the World Bank agreed to set aside an amount of US$75 million out of the
proposed Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL), which the Bank was
originally planning to submit to the Executive Directors for approval in the second or third
quarter of FY95. The set-aside would be disbursed upon loan effectiveness of the proposed
FESAL operation. In the event, the FESAL did not materialize and the proposed set-aside
was cancelled. The actual DDSR agreement was implemented without direct official support
by drawing down Bulgaria's international reserves to less than two months of merchandise
imports. The Bank and IMF support for the DDSR agreement was subsequently used to



replenish Bulgaria's reserves to a level more appropriate for a small open economy.
C. Achievement of Project Objectives
8.    A basic objective of the DDSR--bring Bulgaria's current and future debt service
obligations into line with its capacity to pay, and therewith to normalize relations with its
creditors--was achieved. The DDSR agreement was comprehensive in restructuring all
eligible commercial debt of western commercial banks, including past due interest. This
represented nearly two-thirds of Bulgaria's debt of US$12.5 billion by end-1993. The DDSR
agreement provided debt and debt service reduction through a menu of options for original
debt outstanding, amounting to US$8.1 billion--including US$1.9 billion in past due interest
(see Table 3 of the World Bank Report No. P-6403-BUL). Past due interest was treated
separately, with the operation providing for a favorable arrangement on calculating interest
arrears and a par exchange of the remainder of bonds bearing market interest rates. Details
of the DDSR agreement are summarized in Table 2 of this report. At the closing, the DDSR
agreement resulted in a commercial debt reduction of about US$3.8 billion--46 percent of
eligible debt in present value terms (see Table 1). Bulgaria's creditworthiness indicators
have improved considerably. Total external debt at end-1995 was US$ 10.4 billion (84
percent of GDP), compared to US$12.1 billion at end-1992 (140 percent of GDP). Also,
the debt-to-export ratio declined from 240 percent to 172 percent over the same period. The
debt service ratio was estimated at 17 percent in 1995 (well below the Bank's guideline of 25
percent). Under the base case of slow and gradual reform (discussed in the CAS), debt
indicators would suggest a manageable debt service level in the near and medium term. A
debt sustainability exercise indicates that the projected debt service ratio would decline to 15
percent by the end of the decade, and the debt to GDP ratio would be around 60 percent (see
Section E below).
9.    Bulgaria's debt agreement compares favorably to DDSR operations in other countries.
Its debt deal generated above average debt reduction at a remarkably low cost (Table 1).
That is, Bulgaria managed to reduce its eligible debt by 46 percent, which was between that
of Mexico (45 percent) and Poland (49 percent), and higher than the weighted average of all
past DDSR operations (39 percent). But Bulgaria's substantial debt and debt service relief
was achieved at a very low cost. Its buyback equivalent price--the ratio of the upfront cost
relative to the amount of debt and debt service reduction achieved--at 19 cents was
exceptionally low in comparison with most other agreements. Furthermore, Bulgaria's ratio
of the buyback equivalent price relative to the prevailing market price was more favorable--
from the debtor's viewpoint--than in any previous debt deal (although the subsequent deal
with Poland was marginally more attractive).
10.   A DDSR agreement can lead to a reduction in uncertainty about future fiscal and
foreign exchange developments associated with the debt overhang. By removing this
uncertainty, the DDSR operation can increase the likelihood of success of an existing reform
program (or make it more likely that a reform program becomes acceptable for the country),
leading to enhanced efficiency and increased output. For example, DDSR operations have
led to favorable results in Poland, Mexico, and Venezuela, where access to international



- 4 -
Table 1: Comparisons Between Commercial Bank Debt Restructuring Operations
Country     year    Total Debt    Total Cost   Total Debt and   Buy-back         Secondary
of      Restructured   of Debt     Debt Service     Equivalent Price  Market Price
Agree-  Under DDSR  Reduction/b  Reduction          of Operations/c   at Time of
ment   Operations/a  (billions     /Restructured    (% of face      Agreement in
(billions     US$)        Debt   (%)       value)           Principle (%
US$)                                                        of face value
Bulgaria    1994    8.3           0.7          46               19               27
Argentina    1993    28.1         3.0          35               29               39
Brazil      1993    47.2          3.9          25               38               35
Costa Rica   1990    1.6          0.2          71               19               19
Dominican   1994    1.1           0.1          45               36               36
Rep.
Jordan      1993    0.7           0.1          43               35               39
Mexico      1990    51.9          7.7          45               34               44
Nigeria     1991    5.8            1.7         76               38               40
Philippines   1990,   5.8          1.8         64               49               50, 53
1992
Poland      1994    14.4           1.9         49               27               39
Uruguay     1991    1.6           0.5          55               50               54
Venezuela   1990    19.7          2.6          32               40               46
Weighted                                       39               34               40
Average
Notes:
a/ Includes PDI and debt restructured under new money options for Mexico, Uruguay, Venezuela,
and Philippines (1992); the Philippines (1990) new money option was not tied to a specific value
of existing debt.
b/ Includes cost of principal and interest collateral, and of buy-back.
c/ The buy-back equivalent price is the ratio of the upfront costs associated with a given operation
relative to the amount of debt and debt service reduction achieved.
Source:
Houben (1995), "Commercial Bank Debt Restructuring--The Case of Bulgaria", IMF Paper on
Policy Analysis and Assessment, PPAA/95/6, Table 2, page 11.



- 5 -
financial markets was re-established.' Similarly, some benefits are already evident in the
wake of the Bulgarian deal. Several foreign banks have recently established subsidiaries in
Bulgaria as well as an increasing number of trade credits have been reopened. However, due
to delays in Bulgaria's structural reforms, lack of a consistent macroeconomic policy, and
political instability, external commercial flows to the country are negligible and foreign direct
investment remains low compared to other transition economies.
11.    Given the need to maintain macroeconomic stabilization (especially with significantly
higher foreign interest payments resulting partly from the DDSR agreement), the Government
initially took important measures to control the fiscal deficit. Fiscal restraint resulted in a
sizeable primary fiscal surplus, amounting to 6.9 percent of GDP in 1994, compared to a
deficit of 1.5 percent in the previous year. However, the overall budget deficit worsened
during 1995, despite an increase in the primary balance by two percentage points of GDP.
There were two main causes for the increased fiscal deficit: rising interest payments
(primarily on domestic debt, amounting to 15 percent of GDP in 1995) and revenue
shortfalls. These factors were offset, to some extent, by cuts in non-interest expenditures.
These expenditures, however, have now been compressed to such a low level that they are
adversely affecting economic growth. The low level of public investment and operations and
maintenance expenditures, combined with social protection payments (which account for 12
percent of GDP and could rise further) and the level of indebtedness (120 percent of GDP),
all raise serious concems about fiscal sustainability in the near and medium term. These
pressures are already evident in the 1996 Budget, in which the projected deficit is several
percentage points of GDP above a level consistent with the Government's inflation objective
(of 20 percent by year-end) without incorporating the mounting costs of structural reforms.
Since debt service payments will rise as grace periods on amortization payments expire and
the concessional interest rates on par bonds are phased out, a front loading of fiscal
adjustment is called for.
12.   Inadequate progress in implementing structural reforms, particularly in the enterprise
and banking sectors has been a root cause of the inability to sustain macroeconomic
stabilization. To date, the Govemment has not yet articulated a clear and consistent strategy
for the imposition of financial discipline on state enterprises. The large and persistent losses
of SOEs --averaging annually more than 15 percent of GDP during 1992-1994-- have
undermined the soundness of the banking system and complicated macroeconomic
management. The Govemment has made some initial efforts by establishing a system of
management contracts and introducing a monitoring system for the 100 largest loss makers.
Further measures are being considered for imposing financial discipline on the SOEs. The
key concern is whether the system of control envisaged by the Govemment will effectively
stem the losses of the largest loss makers. Ultimately, some form of surveillance program
for the largest lossmakers will be necessary to reduce the quasi-fiscal deficit and to secure a
sufficiently strong primary balance capable of meeting external debt service obligations.
l See Stijn Claessens and others (1992),"Recent Experience with Commercial Bank Debt
Reduction," World Bank Policy Research Working Papers, No. 995, World Bank, Washington D.C.



- 6 -
13.   The banking sector faces many problems: several banks, including private banks, are
facing liquidity problems and there have been backlogs in the payment system. Furthermore,
banking supervision is extremely weak; all state banks, and most private banks, are estimated
to have substantial negative net worth; and most non-government assets are non-performing.
In response, BNB has taken steps to strengthen supervision, lower reserve requirement, raise
the basic interest rate, and increase refinancing to inject liquidity into the system. Overall,
however, banking supervision remains inadequate, and BNB intervention marginal as the
underlying cause of the problems in the banking sector--losses of large SOEs--is not being
addressed.
14.   Privatization is another area where progress is disappointing and the Government is
yet to take concrete steps to further the process. As of the beginning of 1996, market -based
privatization has totalled only 500 transactions and has involved very few enterprises (about
30) of significant size, accounting for about 10 percent of the 3,800 SOEs (or 2.5 percent of
state assets). This has led to a situation in which SOEs not only dominate every subsector in
the economy, but also absorb a large portion of Bulgaria's scarce financial resources.
Municipal privatization has proceeded more quickly (about 1500 transactions), but the vast
majority of these transactions are very small service establishments or assets sales. The
absence of political will as well as strong vested interests that profit from the status quo are
important reasons for this poor record on privatization.
15.   The current Government has made a strong commitment to accelerate the pace of
privatization; however, so far, this commitment has not translated into tangible progress. To
date, the primary thrust of the Government's privatization efforts has been to develop a two-
round mass privatization program. The Government recently announced a timetable and
selected about 1,050 state enterprises to be included in the program. However, for the large
enterprises, only a minority of shares of these enterprises are included in the program, as the
Government fears that "too rapid" privatization would disrupt the economy. The remaining
shares would be sold to "strategic investors"; if such investors cannot be found, they would
be included in a second round of mass privatization scheduled for 1997. At the same time,
the Government is committed to accelerating market privatization by cash sales or debt-equity
swaps for both Brady bonds and domestic bad loan bonds. The Government intends to
achieve the privatization of 50 percent of SOE assets by the end of the second round of mass
privatization, through both market and mass privatization methods. However, it is unclear
whether this can be accomplished given the current slow pace of implementation.
D. Implementation Record
16.  Implementation of the DDSR loan was satisfactory. It was prepared in 22 months and
was ratified by the Bulgarian Parliament on July 27, 1994. Therefore, the DDSR agreement
enjoys political support from the various parliamentary groups. The loan became effective
on September 30, 1994, and was disbursed in one tranche on October 19, 1994.
17.   Bulgaria offered the steering committee representing creditor banks a debt
restructuring deal that reflected its objectives of: (i) achieving debt reduction by capping
allocations to the par bond, and (ii) limiting the upfront costs of the DDSR deal by including



- 7 -
the possibility of restricting the share of buyback. But neither the Bulgarian authorities nor
the steering committee pressed for inclusion of a rebalancing mechanism or an exist clause
that could be linked to a required minimum debt reduction due to the fact that, at the time of
agreement, both sides were concerned that there would not be sufficient resources to meet
such a requirement. Subsequently, when prospects for external financing from the IFIs
brightened in April 1994, the Government switched its emphasis to the objective of achieving
greater debt reduction (about 51 percent gross debt reduction, corresponding to its objective
of a 20 percent buyback share). As this could not formally impede the deal closure since the
package did not include a specified minimum debt reduction requirement, the Government
had to settle for a debt reduction equivalent of about US$3.8 billion (or 46 percent of eligible
debt with a 13 percent buyback share).
18.   More broadly, the DDSR agreement--and the Bank's DDSR Loan--was meant to
create a financial breathing space for Bulgaria during which its program of structural reform,
initiated in 1991, could take hold and lay the foundation for sustainable economic growth.
However, since the initial burst of reforms, progress in stabilizing and restructuring the
economy has been slow and erratic. Periods of tight macroeconomic policies have been
followed by a rapid loosening of policies, leading to high and variable inflation. For
instance, prior to the conclusion of the DDSR agreement, macroeconomic policies were
geared toward building up adequate reserves to cover the upfront costs of the DDSR deal,
rather than preserving financial stability throughout the debt restructuring process. As a
result, the domestic currency--Lev--experienced a 40 percent real depreciation in March 1994
and inflation escalated to 122 percent by the end of the year. Nevertheless, in 1995 GDP
rose for the second consecutive year, growing by about 2 to 2.5 percent, inflation fell
sharply to 34 percent on a year-end basis, unemployment declined further to about 11
percent, and international reserves were relatively comfortable (about 3.4 months of
imports). However, these improvements in the economy's performance will prove transitory
unless bold structural reforms are taken quickly and decisively. Mounting pressures in the
financial and state enterprise sectors and in the foreign exchange market, resulting in a major
economic crisis in early 1996, provide evidence of the need to tackle deep-seated structural
problems with more urgency if the ultimate objectives of the DDSR agreement are to be
realized.
E. Project Sustainability
19.   An external debt sustainability exercise indicates that Bulgaria's creditworthiness
indicators are within the Bank's exposure guidelines. The 'solvency ratio' of 181-198
percent on the basis of its existing stock of external debt (estimated as of end-195), is below
the 200 present threshold for a manageable debt situation, as suggested by cross country
experiences (see Table lof Appendix C).2 An assessment of the liquidity situation of
Bulgaria--under the base case of slow and gradual reform-- shows that the country has a
2  The 'solvency ratio' is computed by taking the ratio of the present value of debt service
on existing debt stock as of end-1995 (discounted at a rate of 7.2 percent as recommended by IEC)
to average exports for the past three years.



- 8 -
manageable debt service level. The liquidity ratio-- debt service as a percentage of export
earnings-- falls from 17.1 percent in 1995 to 15.5 percent in 1999 and continues to fall
further reaching 11.1 percent by the year 2005 (Appendix C, Table 2). These projected
ratios are well below the 25 percent empirical threshold level for sustainability.
Furthermore, they are significantly lower than in each of the four previous DDSR operations
with Argentina, Mexico, the Philippines and Venezuela (Houben, 1995)3. The risk to the
World Bank is very small. The IBRD liquidity ratio was 0.8 percent in 1995 and will
remain under 1.5 percent for the next decade--well below the Bank's guideline of 4 percent.
Also, with the exception of preferred creditor ratio which exceeds the Bank's guideline of 35
percent over the years 1995 -1996, Bulgaria's creditworthiness indicators would remain
comfortably within the Bank's exposure guidelines.
20.   A predictable but worrisome by-product of the DDSR operation is the highly
inflexible debt service, that persists over the medium term (Appendix C, Table 3). Thus, if
debt service difficulties were to reappear, options for restructuring debt will be extremely
constrained. Given the current economic situation and the Government's unclear reaction to
this situation, some near-term risk to holders of inflexible debt and some preferred creditors
is present. In any case, the likelihood of debt servicing difficulties to the IBRD is relatively
low. The IBRD debt service constitutes only 5.5 percent of total inflexible debt service.
This ratio is expected to rise to about 10 percent toward the end of the decade. But, the
overall liquidity ratio shows that, with appropriate policies, debt service difficulties in the
near-term could be avoided.
21.   Sustainability will also depend critically on the foreign sector. Trade flows have
responded favorably to the large 1994 devaluation. The current account balance turned
marginally positive in 1994, and strengthened further in 1995. This has allowed foreign
exchange reserves to be built-up to their highest recorded level in 1995 (US$1.5 billion, or
3.4 months of imports), at the same time the Government has met significant external debt
obligations. However, pressures in the foreign exchange market in early 1996, engendered
by problems in the state enterprise and banking sectors, and payment of the first of
Bulgaria's two payments on its Brady bonds (about US$140 million) have reduced
significantly foreign reserves to about US$750 by end-March, 1996 (or less than 1.5 months
of projected 1996 imports). This sharp decline in reserves is highly worrisome given that
Bulgaria faces extremely large external debt payments of US$1.2 billion in 1996, of which
about US$262 million is owed to London Club on Brady bonds, US$259 million is owed to
the IMF, US$164 million to the Paris Club, and US$228 million is owed on German and
Japanese bonds. Debt payments in 1997 are also large--about US$ 0.9 billion. Recently,
Bulgaria has been classified as a severe risk country and the Bank has placed the country on
its Tier I list of countries for short-term monitoring.
3 Houben (1995), "Commercial Bank Debt Restructuring--The Case of Bulgaria," IMF Paper on
Policy Analysis and Assessment, PPAA19516.



-9-
F. Bank Performance
22.   Bank performance was good. The Loan was processed and approved quickly. The
Bank played a key advisory role to Bulgaria on the design, formulation and evaluation of the
menu of options in the DDSR operation. Also, the Bank advised the Government of
Bulgaria during negotiations with the Bank Advisory Committee (BAC).
23.   Collaboration with the IMF was close at all stages in the DDSR operation. The
agreement involved large upfront costs--US$715 million--which were initially financed from
Bulgaria's international reserves and subsequently replenished by the IMF and the Bank.
The Fund provided augmentation for the DDSR agreement in the amount of SDR 69.74
million (about US$101 million). The IMF support for the DDSR agreement in 1994 was to
be in addition to the existing Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) of 15 percent of quota and the
Systemic Transformation Facility (STF) of 50 percent of quota. However, the 1994 SBA
was suspended due to non-compliance with fiscal/monetary targets. The second tranche of
the STF was not released following suspension of the parallel SBA. Both the Bank and the
IMF are in general agreement on the steps that need to be taken on structural reforms. The
Government of the Netherlands also provided NGL 15 million (about US$8.6 million)
towards Bulgaria's DDSR agreement, raising the official support for the agreement to about
US$241 million.
G. Borrower's Perforrnance
24.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory, especially given the changes in
government. Since the DDSR agreement closed, Bulgaria's political situation has changed.
The Government headed by Prime Minister Berov resigned. A caretaker government which
took over between October 1994 and January 1995, called for an election. The election in
December 1994 returned the Bulgarian Socialist Party (BSP) to power in January 1995 with a
clear majority in the Parliament. Nevertheless, the DDSR agreement was ratified by
Parliament and enjoys political support from various parliamentary groups. In accepting the
Berov Government's resignation, the Parliament empowered it to continue to take the
measures necessary to comply with the DDSR agreement.
25.   Cooperation was excellent during preparation and appraisal, as well as during the
early stages of implementation (1993). The project objectives were designed in close
collaboration with the Government, and Borrower's ownership of the project was very
strong.



- 10 -
H. Assessment of Outcome
26.   The immediate outcome of the DDSR operation was satisfactory, although medium
term prospects for the country are clouded by slow structural reforms. The exchange of debt
for new bonds benefited both the creditor banks and the Government of Bulgaria. Bulgaria
benefited in three different ways: (i) reduced debt overhang; (ii) improved maturity structure
of its debt obligations; and (iii) improved growth prospects by lessening uncertainties that
deter foreign and domestic investors. Some benefits are already evident as several foreign
banks have recently established subsidiaries in Bulgaria and an increasing number of trade
credit lines have been reopened. However, due to delays in structural reforms, political
instability and a lack of consistent macroeconomic policy, external commercial flows to the
country are negligible and foreign direct investment is among the lowest in transition
economies. On the other hand, the commercial banks experienced a rise in the market
valuation of their outstanding claims, reflecting both the improved prospects for the country's
external debt sustainability and the collateral that was placed in an escrow account to provide
assurance of timely payments in the future.
I. Future Operation
27.   As discussed in the recently approved CAS, future Bank assistance to Bulgaria is
focused on five areas:
a.    facilitating the transition to a market economy and the expansion of private
sector activity through structural reforms, primarily enterprise reform
(especially privatization) and banking reform;
b.    supporting macroeconomic stabilization to lower inflation and sustain a
viable balance-of-payments position;
c.    establishing financially viable and effective social sector policies and
institutions, including a social safety net;
d.    rebuilding and rehabilitating Bulgaria's infrastructure and improving the
environment; and
e.    improving the effectiveness of Bank operations through improvements in
public administration, and project preparation and identification.
28.   However, due to the current economic situation, inadequate progress on structural
reforms and poor implementation of existing investment loans, Bank's lending activities (as
outlined in the CAS) are currently limited to a core lending program of only US$125 million
for FY97-99. Higher lending is strictly conditioned on further structural reforms that are
needed to underpin stabilization and improve economic efficiency. This high lending
scenario (or reform lending scenario) of US$665 million during FY97-99 would be divided
into two clusters: adjustment lending and guarantee operations; and, investment lending in
infrastructure. A detailed analysis of Bank's program under each scenario is given in the



- 11 -
recently approved CAS.
J. Key Lessons Learned
29.   The DDSR operation was successfully completed in a relatively short time and has
largely achieved its immediate objectives. The Bulgarian DDSR experience has yielded
several key lessons that may be of broader relevance to other countries in the process of
restructuring their commercial debt.
30.   First, a country's ability to meet its meet its external debt obligations on a sustainable
basis depends on progress in restructuring the economy and restoring the basis for economic
growth during the breathing space provided in the first few years of a DDSR agreement.
Whereas Bulgaria's economic performance during 1994 and 1995 improved significantly,
pressures in the foreign exchange market in early 1996, engendered by problems in the state
enterprise and banking sectors, provide evidence of the need to tackle deep-seated structural
problems with more urgency if the breathing space provided by the DDSR agreement is to be
translated into permanent economic gain.
31.   Second,  seeking a clear picture of available external financing should come before
agreeing on the specific terms of the DDSR. When sufficient external financing
commitments had been obtained from the IMF, the World Bank, and EU/G-24 in April
1994, the Government of Bulgaria switched its emphasis to the objective of achieving greater
debt reduction (about 51 percent gross debt reduction, corresponding to its objective of a 20
percent buyback share). As this could not formally impede the deal closure since the
package did not include a specified minimum debt reduction requirement, the Government
had to settle for a debt reduction equivalent of about 46 percent of eligible debt with a 13
percent buyback share. This reinforces the view that while pursuing policies that ensure the
availability of sufficient resources for its debt reduction operation, a country should also
explicitly incorporate its objective for debt reduction into the deal.
32.   Finally, gearing macroeconomic policies to preserving financial stability throughout
the DDSR process is essential. Stabilization and structural reforms in Bulgaria, however,
have been characterized by 'stop-go' cycles, which have caused dramatic exchange rate
depreciations and high and variable inflation. The Bulgarian experience suggests that
countries embarking on a DDSR operation need to assign, in a timely manner, priority in
their monetary and exchange rate policies to the accumulation of a sufficient cushion of
foreign exchange reserves in order to finance a portion of the upfront cost prior to the
conclusion of the operation. In contrast, it has been suggested that debtors should attach less
importance to preserving financial stability in the run-up to a debt restructuring deal, in an
effort to convince creditors of the need for generous concessions. However, the economic
costs of adopting such policy would likely have been higher than possible gains in terms of
additional debt reduction.
33.   Operational lessons from the World Bank involvement in the DDSR operation were
also important. The DDSR loan was the first operation of its kind in an Eastern European
country. Its implementation required developing new disbursement, legal procedures and



- 12 -
legal covenants to ensure that the loan financed the purchase of collateral. For example, the
Bank reserved the right to require prepayment of the loan if such proceeds were not used for
debt and debt service reduction or if, having the resources been allocated to debt and debt
service reduction, the collateral was released (if Bulgaria cancels its debt). Also, the Bank
had to consent to a limited waiver of the negative pledge clauses in loan and guarantee
agreements between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Bank to allow the pledge of collateral
for the instruments under the DDSR agreement.



- 13 -
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1            Summary of Assessments
Table 2            Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3      :     Project Timetable
Table 4      :     Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5      :     Project Financing
Table 6      :     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 7      :     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 8      :     Bank Resources: Missions



- 14 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives      Substantial     Partial    Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro policies                                   SI           El              El
Sector policies                                 ERl           El 0
Financial objectives               a             SI           El              El[
Institutional development          []            El           El
Physical objectives                El]1 El                    L
Poverty reduction                  LIE                        LI
Gender issues                      D             II           El I0
Other social objectives            El            LI           LI             IS
Environmental objectives           C]            El          IC
Public sector management           El            El            lI
Private sector development         El            XI           El             El
Other (specify)                     l            El           El             E
B. Project sustainability           Likely               Unlikely            Uncertain
El                    El                  IS
C. Bank Performance           Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory         Deficient
Identification                     E1                  I1                   E
Preparation assistance             Im                    E                   E
Appraisal                          U                     El                  El
Supervision                         lI                                       El
D. Borrower performance       Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory         Deficient
Preparation                                              ER                  El
Implementation                     E                     NI                  El
Covenant compliance                E                     IS                  E
Operation (if applicable)          El                    El                  El
E. Assessment of outcome      Highly Satisfactory Satisfactory UnsatisfactoryHighly Unsatisfactory
Ol            xI          E1              E1



- 15 -
Table 2 : Related Bank Loans / Credits'
Loan/Credit Title   Purpose                  Year of Approval    Status
Proceeding
Operations
Structural            Support Bulgaria's   1991                     Loan closed on
Adjustment Loan    adjustment                                       December 31,
program                                       1994
Technical             Provision of           1991                   Under
Assistance Loan       technical                                     implementation
assistance
Includes projects in the same sector/subsector as this project and adjustment operations with related objectives. A limit
of 10 years is observed when listing preceding operations.



- 16 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                Date    Date actual/
planned2    latest
estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary                N/A  10/01/92
Preparation                                              N/A  10/02/92
Appraisal                                                N/A  N/A
Negotiations                                           09/94  08/31/94
Letter of development policy                             N/A  N/A
Board presentation                                     09/94  09/22/94
Signing                                                 N/A  09/23/94
Effectiveness                                          09/94  09/30/94
First tranche release                                   10/94  10/19/94
Second tranche release                                   NA  NA
Loan closing                                         12/31/94  12/31/94
2       As provided in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).



- 17 -
Table 4: Loan / Credit Disbursements : Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$thousands)
FY 1995
Appraisal estimate      125,000
Actual                  125,000
Actual as % of              100
estimate
Date of final
disbursement           10/19/94



- 18 -
Table 5: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$M)                (US$M)
Source          Local  Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total
Costs   Costs         Costs  Costs
IBRD/IDA                  -      125.0  125.0    -    125.0  125.0
Cofinancing Institutions:
(1) IMF                   -     101.0  101.0    -    101.0  101.0
(2) The Government of     -       8.6    8.6    -       8.6    8.6
the Netherlands
TOTAL             -    234.6  234.6           234.6  234.6



- 19 -
Table 6: Status of Legal Covenants3
Agreement   Section         Covenant    Present         Original        Revised          Description       Comments4
type        status     fulfillment    fulfillment              of
date            date            Covenant
Loan           3.01 (a)          I        NYD         06/30/95                         Maintain sound      In
accounting          compliance.
practices for
project records and
accounts.
3.01 (b)          I        NYD         6/03/95                         Have project        In
records and         compliance.
accounts audited
by independent
auditors and
fumish audit report
to the Bank not
later than six
months after the
end of the year.
4.01             13        C                                           Keep the Bank       In
informed at all     compliance.
times of all
notices, certificates
and confirmations
issued to or
received by the
Borrower in
respect of the
purchase.
Covenant types                                                                       Present status
I  =    Accounts/audits                  8      =  Indigenous people                C     =    covenant complied with
2  =    Financial performance/revenue     9     =  Monitoring, review, and reporting   CD   =   complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries    10    =  Project implementation not       CP   =   complied with partially
3  =    Flow and utilization of project            covered by categories 1-9         NC   =    not complied with
funds                           11    =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral        NYD    = not yet due
4  =    Counterpart funding                        budgetary or other resources
5  =    Management aspects of the                  allocation
project or executing agency      12    =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6  =    Environmental covenants                    regulatory/ institutional action
7  =    Involuntary resettlement          13    =  Other
3   This table is based on Annex D5 of OD 13.05, Project Supervision.
4   The loan reimbursed the upfront costs of the Government's DDSR deal. This was disbursed in one tranche. Therefore, the
audit covenant was waived in consultation with Controller's.



- 20 -
Table 7: Bank Resources : Staff Inputs'
Planned              Revised               Actual
Stage of Project Cycle   Weeks    US$       Weeks      US$       Weeks       US$
Through appraisal                                                   19.3      52.2
Appraisal-Board          34.5      91.7       27.7       74.6       31.9      88.7
Board-effectiveness
Supervision              19.5      39.5       22.7       37.6       20.6      23.0
Completion               10.0       19.6       9.0        9.4        1.2       1.8
TOTAL                  64.0     150.8       59.4      121.6       73.0     165.7
5  Also includes Bank-financod and trust fund consultants.



- 21 -
Table 8  : Bank Resources : Missions
Performance rating6
Stage of project      Month/      Number of       Days .       Specialized    Implement-    Develop-     Types of
cycle             year         persons        field       staff skills    ation status   ment       problems'
represented'                 objectives
Appraisal through
Board approval        NIA
Supervision           N/A
Completion            2/96          1 _                         E                                              _
6  Performance Ratings: 1 =  Minor Problems; 2 =  Moderate Problems; 3    Major Problems
Specialization:
A  =  Agriculturist               E =  Economist/Macro                     S =  Social Sector Specialist
B  =  Banking Specialist          F =  Financial Specialist                T =  Task Manager
Eg =  Energy Specialist           P =  Private Sector Specialist           DP = Diab/Procure Specialist
i   Types of Problems: F =  Financial; T  = Technical; M =  Managerial






APPENDIX A
AIDE MEMOIRE
of the Debt and Debt Service Restructuring Loan Implementation Completion Report
Mission
On February 15, 1996, I met Mr. Sv. Gavriiski - Deputy Minister of Finance,
responsible for external finances and external debt, and Mr. Mileti Mladenov - Deputy
Governor of the BNB, to discuss the outcome of the DDSR operation, and the view of the
government on its preparation, implementation, and sustainability. The MoF and the BNB
were the both key implementing institutions of this operation.
The DDSR operation was a specific loan designed to assist the government in financing
part of the upfront costs of the agreement between Bulgaria and its external creditors. The
Government considers the DDSR agreement as acceptable for Bulgaria and as an absolutely
necessary and timely step needed to regularize the relations with the international financial
markets. The DDSR agreement was timely approved and ratified by the Parliament with
consensus.
The immediate objectives of the operation were met. It resulted in substantial reduction of
the stock of the external debt (almost 50%) and provided significant debt service relief
during the first, most critical years. All Bulgaria's external debt now is regularized and is
serviced on time.
However, its more far reaching and strategic objectives are not achieved. The DDSR
agreement might have contributed to acceleration of economic growth, opened the
international financial markets for Bulgaria, and provided additional impetus for foreign
direct investment, if it was accompanied by energetic structural reform measures and
consistent economic policies. Due to delays in structural reforms, political instability and lack
of consistent macroeconomic policy, this was not achieved. The overall economic situation
remains unstable, the external commercial financial flows to the country are negligible, and
the foreign investment is short of expectations.
The implementation of the agreement is good. The service of the external debt is effected
on time. Moreover, as international interest rates remained low, actual debt service remains
below projected.
According to the Government, the sustainability of the operation is not clear. While the
authorities are committed to continue the regular service of their external obligations, the
recent crisis in the banking system, the delayed privatization, and the fiscal pressures might
endanger the implementation of the Government program for 1996-1998. According to the
Government, additional external official financing will be needed, along with substantial
increase of foreign direct investment, short-term trade credits from abroad, as well as better
access to the international financial markets.
The authorities expressed their appreciation of the constructive role of the World Bank for
the negotiation of the DDSR agreement and the timely and substantial help in meeting its
upfront costs, as well as for the swift and efficient processing of the operation.



APPENDIX B
Page 1 of 3
The World Bank                                    1818 H Street, N.W.    (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT    WasNngton, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION             U.S.A.             Cable Address: INDEVAS
Fax: (202) 477-6391
May 14, 1996
His Excellency
Dimitar Kostov
Minister of Finance
Sofia, Bulgaria
Dear Mr. Minister:
Enclosed is a draft copy of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Debt
and Debt Service Reduction (DDSR) Loan that closed on December 31, 1994. This report
reflects the policy of the World Bank to evaluate jointly all World Bank completed projects
with the borrower. The DDSR was the second Bank adjustment operation in support of
economic policy reform. The final version of the ICR will be distributed to the World
Bank's Executive Directors, after receiving the comments of you and your colleagues. The
Government's comments on the project and its implementation will be attached to the final
version of the ICR and also distributed to the Executive Directors.
I would like to take this opportunity to describe briefly the report's conclusions
regarding the implementation of the DDSR. Overall, the draft ICR has concluded that
implementation of the DDSR was satisfactory. The performance of the Government of
Bulgaria was also satisfactory, especially given the political changes. Most of the loan's
immediate objectives were successfully achieved. Bulgaria benefited from the exchange of
debt for new bonds in three different ways: (i) reduced debt overhang; (ii) improved maturity
structure of its debt obligation; and (iii) improved growth prospects by lessening uncertainties
that deter investors. Some benefits are already evident as several banks have recently
established subsidiaries in the country and an increasing number of trade credit lines have
been reopened.
However, the loan accomplished less in advancing pivotal long-term reform and
several core development issues remain to be tackled. These could ultimately undermine the
benefits of the loan and jeopardize sustainability. More broadly, the DDSR agreement--and
the Bank's DDSR loan--was meant to create a financial breathing space for Bulgaria during
which its program of structural reform, initiated in 1991, could take hold and lay the
foundation for sustainable economic growth. However, since the initial burst of reforms,
progress in stabilizing and restructuring the economy has been slow and erratic. Periods of
tight macroeconomic policies have been followed by a rapid loosening of policies, leading to
dramatic exchange rate depreciations as well as high and variable inflation. Although
Bulgaria's macroeconomic situation improved during 1995, however, this improvement in the
economy's performance will prove transitory unless bold structural reforms are taken quickly
and decisively. Mounting pressure in the banking and state enterprise sectors and in the
foreign exchange market, resulting in a major economic crisis in early 1996, provide



APPENDIX B
-2-                         Page of 2 of 3
evidence of the need to tackle deep-seated structural problems with more urgency if the
breathing space provided by the DDSR agreement is to be translated into permanent
economic gain.
We would appreciate the written comments of you and your colleagues on the draft
ICR by end-May 1996. Your comments will be presented to the Bank's Executive Directors
as part of the ICR.
I appreciate your attention to this matter, as the evaluation of completed Bank projects
is an extremely important element of the project cycle.
Sincerely yours
Alberto R. Musalem
Resident Representative
The World Bank Mission, Sofia
Enclosure



APPENDIX B
Page 3 of 3
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
102 Rakovsky St., 1040 Sofia
Telex: 22727, Telefax: 801148
June 5, 1996
Mr. Alberto Musalem
Resident representative, Bulgaria
The World Bank
36, Dragan Tsankov Blvd./Interpred
Sofia 1057
BULGARIA
Dear Mr. Musalem,
Thank you for the draft of the ICR for the DDSR Loan which was carefully
studied by us. We consider that all the statements of the stages of development of the
Bulgarian economy and the phases of negotiations and implementation of the Loan
are correctly represented in it.
With respect to the DDSR Loan, we have to emphasise its utmost importance
for the favourable outcome of the negotiations for the restructuring of the country's
foreign debt in 1994. We hope however, that the World Bank will continue its
support in the coming years when servicing the foreign debt will be an extremely
heavy burden on the Bulgarian economy.
In relation to that I would like to express my gratitude to the World Bank for
the assistance that is provided to the Republic of Bulgaria in the process of its hard
transition to a market economy.
Sincerely yours,
Dimitar Kostov
Minister of Finance



APPENDIX C
Page 1 of 3
THE WORLD BANK/IFC/MIGA
OFFICE MEMORANDUM
Confidential
DATE: February 14, 1996
TO: Kyle Peters, EClCO
FROM: Fareed Hassan, EClCO
EXTENSION: 35095
SUBJECT: Bulgaria: Analysis of Debt Sustainability
1.   In response to FRSCR comments on Bulgaria's CAS, an analysis of debt
sustainability is provided below.
Structure of External Debt and Debt Management Strategy
2.    Bulgaria's external debt stock was estimated to be US$10.4 billion as of
end-1995, which was equivalent to about 84 percent of 1995 GDP. US$1.5 billion
(about 14 percent) was owed to Multilateral creditors of which about US$420
million (about 3 percent) is owed to IBRD. Debt service obligations in 1995 were
equivalent to 17 percent of exports of goods and services. IBRD debt service
accounted for less than one percent (0.8 percent) of Bulgaria's exports of goods and
services in 1995.
3.    Relieving Bulgaria's debt overhang has been a key objective of successive
Governments' strategy to integrate Bulgaria into international financial markets and
to help restore long-term growth.
4.    The Government has now largely completed a comprehensive restructuring
of its external debt. First, it concluded, on July 28, 1994, a comprehensive DDSR
agreement, restructuring all eligible commercial debt of Western banks, including
interest arrears (about US$8.1 billion)'. Because of the large proportion of
Bulgaria's debt covered by the DDSR agreement, about 64 percent of debt
outstanding as of end-1993, it provided the country with a significant reduction of
its total debt burden. This debt relief effort was supported by the Bank's DDSR
loan of US$125 million." Second the Government has reached three agreements
with the Paris Club, the latest in April 1994, covering rescheduling of all
*/ The DDSR operation did not include the commercial debt held by Russian and Polish
banks (about US$ 812 million).
**/ See World Bank Report No. P-6403-BUL, 1994.



APPENDIX C
Page 2 of 3
obligations falling due until April 1995. Bulgaria is now current on all official
post-cutoff-date debt.
5.    The degree of flexibility on the external side is, however, constrained by
both the large stock of debt and its composition. About two thirds of Bulgaria's
debt stock is accounted for by post-London Club "Brady" instruments, 14 percent
by multilateral creditors, and 11 percent is rescheduled Paris Club debt. This does
not give the Government much flexibility in terms of repayment options.
Debt Sustainability
6.    As indicated by the 'solvency ratio' of 181-198 percent on the basis of its
existing stock of external debt (estimated as of end-195), Bulgaria is below the 200
present threshold for a manageable debt situation as suggested by cross country
experiences (see Table 1 below).
7.    An assessment of the liquidity situation of Bulgaria shows that the country
has a manageable debt service level. The liquidity ratio -- debt service as a
percentage of export earnings -- falls from 17.1 percent in 1995 to 15.5 percent in
1999 and continues to fall further reaching 11. 1 percent by the year 2005 (see
Table 2 below). These ratios are well below the 25 percent empirical threshold
level for sustainability. The risk to the World Bank is very small. IBRD liquidity
ratio is 0.8 percent in 1995 and will remain under 1.5 percent for the next decade.
Also, with the exception of preferred creditor ratio which exceeds the Bank
guideline of 35 percent over the years 1995 -1996, Bulgaria remains comfortably
within the Bank's exposure guidelines (see Table 2 below).
8.    In terms of inflexible debt service, the indicators show a very large
proportion of inflexible debt service to total debt service, which persists over the
medium term (see Table 3 below). If debt service difficulties do arise, options for
restructuring debt will be extremely constrained. At this time, official reserves are
two months of projected 1996 imports and may decline further. Given the current
economic situation and the Government's unclear reaction to this situation, some
near-term risk to holders of inflexible debt and some preferred creditors is
indicated. But, the overall liquidity ratio shows that, with appropriate policies,
debt service difficulties in the near-term could be avoided
9.    In any case, the likelihood of debt servicing difficulties to the IBRD is
relatively low. As shown in Table 3, IBRD debt service constitutes only 5.5
percent of total inflexible debt service. This ratio is expected to rise to about 10
percent toward the end of the decade.
CC:  Christiaan Poortman (EClCO); John Wilton (FRSCR); Carolyn Jungr
(FRSCR); Zeljko Bogetic (ECICO); William Shaw (IEC); Kathie Krumm
(ECAVP); Huda Kraske (EClCO).



APPENDIX C
Page 3 of 3
Table 1: Solvency Ratios (as of end -1995)a
(Percentage)
PV Debt Service'/Exports   PV Debt Service/Exports
l___________________  (1993-95 average)        (1994-96 average)
Medium and Long-    192.9                      175.5
Term Debt2
Short-Term Debt      5.5                      5.1
Total                198.4                     180.6
/1 Including IMF
/2 The present value (PV) of debt service is computed on the basis of a 7.2
percent discount rate, as recommended by IEC.
Table 2: Liquidity Ratios, 1995-2005'
(Percentage)
1995  1996   1999      2005  Guidelines
Total Debt service/Exports    17.1  17.7   15.5    11.1  25
IBRD Debt Service /Exports  0.8   1.0    1.4       1.3    4
IBRD Debt Service /Public   5.1   6.2    9.1       12.0  20
Debt Service
Preferred Creditors (IMF,    38.2  37.2   27.9     20.2  35
IBRD, EBRD) Debt
Service/Public Debt Service
Table 3: Inflexible Debt Service Ratios,1995-2005a
(Percentage)
1995     1996    1999  2005
Inflexible Debt Service/Total  81.6    92.0    77.4  78.1
Debt Service
Inflexible Debt Service /Exports  13.9  16.3    12.0  8.7
IBRD Debt Service /Inflexible    5.5   6.5      11.7  15.6
Debt Service
/a Based on macro-projections presented in the recent CAS.
m:\bul\paO16\ddsricr6, May 13, 1996






, L                                 ~~~~~~R O M A N I A=
FED. REP.0. AA                                                                                                                        VRA          EA    R
YUGOSLAVIA
vo ;\   D  mlu    s   Z  tj   f   <Oaol_o         7<         '            77TURKEY                      
F Y Rr                             2     ,            D
MACEDONIA                                                                          /BULGARIA
Sr   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~SELEC  TDDOES -ND TOWNS
22 ~       ~~~ ,,,,j   rss    *    OIADT CAfL'TALS
\\                                                 G  R  E  E  C0A  E~ .l.         - IE                                                                  ROAS EIOsANEIESC
5 FED REP  f                                    - _ _ >  :     ~           ~            ~      ~        -       /                |                 - -  - INTERNATIOfOAL BON. DARIES
,~~~~~~~ oo ,._, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s^ -                                                                                 egeon e 3 _.4uorafTs
t_(fj_~~~~~A~-   J ,-/
^.^r                           .I_                          _-,                                                                                     ^      .M _
..- GlIC                                            _ 2         ~            2-Tz                            ,      'yLcat O









I MAC, 1NG
iepcrt N:o.        1 i b1 1Y
Type: 1 CR



