Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF 027985
DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 3800 BUL
Dutch Grant Agreement
(Debt and Debt Service Reduction Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Dutch Funds
provided by the
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
Dated May 23, 1995
DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 3800 BUL
DUTCH GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 23, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting as Administrator (the 
Administrator) of the Dutch Grant (as hereinafter defined) provided by the Minister 
for Development Cooperation of the Netherlands (the Minister).
WHEREAS the Recipient has requested the assistance of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), the International Monetary Fund and the 
Minister in the financing of a portion of the cost of: (i) the purchase price of 
Eligible Debt purchased by the Recipient under the 1994 Financing Plan; and (ii) the 
acquisition of collateral to secure principal and interest payments on the Discount 
Bonds and the interest payments on the Front Loaded Interest Reduction Bonds (FLIRBs);
WHEREAS the Bank has made a Loan for this purpose on the terms and conditions 
set forth in a Loan Agreement (Loan No. 3800 BUL), dated September 23, 1994, between 
the Recipient and the Bank (the IBRD Loan Agreement);
WHEREAS the Minister wishes to make available to the Recipient a grant in the 
amount of fifteen million Dutch guilders (Dfls.15,000,000) (the Dutch Grant) to assist 
the Recipient in the financing of a portion of the cost of the purchase price of 
Eligible Debt purchased by the Recipient under the 1994 Financing Plan on the terms 
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS pursuant to the Arrangements for Administration, entered into between 
the Minister, the Bank and the International Development Association (the 
Association), dated December 11, 1986 (the Arrangements), the Minister has appointed 
Page  2
the Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association have agreed, to 
administer grant funds to be made available by the Minister for the financing of 
certain programs and projects supported by the Bank and the Association, as the case 
may be, in accordance with the provisions of the Arrangements and has authorized the 
Bank to do all such acts and things as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out 
such administration, including entering into this Grant Agreement on behalf of the 
Minister;
WHEREAS the Recipient acknowledges that the financial assistance extended to the 
Recipient under this agreement (the Dutch Grant Agreement) shall be considered part of 
the bilateral development aid extended by the Government of the Netherlands to the 
Recipient;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.O1. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section and Schedule 4 to the IBRD 
Loan Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (18) 
and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
     (viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development acting as Administrator of the 
Dutch Grant pursuant to the Arrangements, except that in Section 
6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement except that in Section 6.02 (a), 
the term "Loan Agreement" means the IBRD Loan Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Loan", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Dutch Grant extended to the Recipient under this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General Conditions 
means the Dutch Grant Account opened by the Administrator on its 
books in the name of the Recipient, to which the amount of the 
Dutch Grant is credited; and
Page  3
(vi)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Dutch Grant Account shall be made in Dutch 
guilders; provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed out 
of the Dutch Grant have been paid or are payable in another currency, 
the Administrator shall, at the request of the Recipient, purchase such 
currency with the proceeds of such withdrawal."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Recitals to this 
Agreement and in the IBRD Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set 
forth; and the terms "Dutch guilders" and "Dfls" mean the currency of the Netherlands.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an 
amount of fifteen million Dutch guilders (Dfls.15,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Dutch Grant may be withdrawn from the Dutch 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement, as 
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and 
the Administrator, for expenditures made in respect of the reasonable cost of Part A 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the IBRD Loan Agreement and to be 
financed out of the Dutch Grant.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.O1. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, Articles III and IV 
of the IBRD Loan Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same 
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, it being understood that all 
references in said Articles to the "Bank" shall be deemed to be references to the Bank 
as Administrator of the Dutch Grant under this Agreement, all references to the 
"Borrower" shall be deemed to be references to the Recipient, and all references to 
the "Loan" and the "Loan Account" shall be deemed to be references to the Dutch Grant 
and the Dutch Grant Account, respectively.
ARTICLE IV
Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 4.01. In accordance with the Arrangements, the rights and obligations of 
the Administrator under this Agreement may be transferred to the Minister. The 
Recipient accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to the Recipient 
to that effect, the Minister shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in such 
notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator under this 
Agreement as if the Minister had been an original party to this Agreement, without any 
further action or formality being required on the part of any party and, from such 
date, the Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as a party under 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective on the date upon which the 
Administrator dispatches to the Recipient notice of its acceptance of evidence 
satisfactory to the Administrator furnished by the Recipient that the execution and 
delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient have been duly authorized or 
ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 5.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Dutch Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder.
Page  4
ARTICLE VI
Representation
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
102 Rakovski Street
Sofia 1040
Republic of Bulgaria
Cable address:
Telex:
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
22727
Sofia
For the Administrator:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
By /s/ Snezhana Botousharova
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Dutch Funds
Provided by the
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION OF THE
NETHERLANDS
By /s/ Rachel Lomax
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Page  5
Withdrawal of the Dutch Grant
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Dutch Grant may be withdrawn from the Dutch Grant Account for 
expenditures made in respect of the Purchase to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to July 27, 1994; and (b) 
in respect of any Specific Purchase, unless the Recipient has furnished to the 
Administrator a certificate, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator, 
showing that the Specific Purchase in question, as provided for in the corresponding 
agreement or agreements relating to Part B of the Project as set out in Schedule 2 of 
the IBRD Loan Agreement, remains in full force and effect.  Without limitation or 
restriction on the provisions of Section 5.03 of the General Conditions, if the 
Administrator shall so request in connection with one or more withdrawals from the 
Dutch Grant Account, the Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Administrator of counsel acceptable to the Administrator 
in connection with any of the aforesaid conditions.
