                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No.: 31977




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT




                                    BULGARIA



WATER COMPANIES RESTRUCTURING AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
                                 LOAN 3739-BUL




                                    April 7,2005




Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit    = Bulgarian leva (BGN)

1991             US$l   .oo       BGN Leva 18.60
1992             US$l   .oo       BGN Leva 23.OO
1993             US$l   .oo       BGN Leva 28.00
1994 (March) US$l .OO             BGN Leva 45.67
2003             US$l   .oo       BGN Leva 1.868


Abbreviations and Acronyms

CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
DH               District Heating
DHC              District Heating Company
EBRD             European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU               European Union
GDI              Gross Domestic Income
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
GOB              Government for Bulgaria
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
MEER             Ministry of Energy and Energy Resources
MOE              Ministry of Environment
MRD              Ministry of Regional Development and Construction
OED              Operations Evaluation Department
PMU              Project Management Unit
PPAR             Project Performance Assessment Report
PSP              Private Sector Participation
RWC              Regional Water Company
UfW              Unaccounted-for-Water


Fiscal Year

Government:               January 1-December 31




Acting Director-General, OperationsEvaluation          : Mr. Ajay Chhibber
Acting Director, OperationsEvaluation Department       : Mr. R. Kyle Peters
Manager, Sector,Thematic and Global Evaluation Group   : Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                           : Mr. George Keith Pitman

                                                              i



  OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.


About this Report
      The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programsand activities of the World Bank for two
purposes:first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocessand to verify that the Bank'swork is
producingthe expected results,and second, to helpdevelop improveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough
the dissemination of lessonsdrawn from experience.As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percentof
the Bank's lendingoperations. In selecting operationsfor assessment, preferenceis given to those that are
innovative,large, or complex;those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for which
Executive Directorsor Bank management have requestedassessments;and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.The projects,topics, and analytical approachesselectedfor assessmentsupport larger evaluation
studies.
      A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
      Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the OED Rating System
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Susfainabilify: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnsfifufionalDevelopment lmpacf: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
      Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                      ...
                                                                      111



Contents

Principal Ratings          ................................................................................................................         v

Key Staff Responsible              ........................................................................................................         v
                                                                                                                                                    ..
Preface   ..............................................................................................................................          v11

Summary      ...........................................................................................................................           ix

1. Background ...................................................................................................................

        Economic Situation..................................................................................................                        I
        Sector Background...................................................................................................                        I

2. Project Design and Implementation                              ...........................................................................       2

         Objectives................................................................................................................                .2
        Project Components.................................................................................................                         3
        Implementation .......................................................................................................                     .4

3. Evaluation of Results                ...................................................................................................         5

        Institutional Strengthening...................................................................................... .5
        Priority Water and Sewerage Investment ................................................................                                     7
        District Heating Component.................................................................................                              .13

4. Rating of the Project               ..................................................................................................          13

        Outcome...........................................................................................                              ...........13
        Relevance ...........................                                 .....           ..............................................       13
        Efficacy ..............................                               .............................................................        14
        Efficiency....................                                        ................................................                 ...14
        Institutional Development                                                        ...................................................      IS
        Sustainability............................................................................................
        Bank Performance ..........                                .........        ........................................................      IS
        Borrower Performance ................................................

5. Lessons ..........................................................................................................................

Annex A. Basic Data Sheet                  ..............................................................................................         19

Annex B1: Progress in Service Provision from 1996 to 2003                                             .......................................     21

Annex B2: Key Performance Indicators for 1996 and 2003                                               ........................................     22




This report was prepared by Tauno Skytta, who assessed the project in June 2004. The report was edited by
William Hurlbut and Soon-Won Pak provided administrative support.


                                                            V



 Principal Ratings

-                              -~            ICR                    ICR Review*                         PPAR
 Outcome                                 Satisfactory                Moderately              Moderately Satisfactory
                                                                     Satisfactory
 Sustainability                          Substantial               Non-evaluable                        Likely
 Institutional Development                   Likely                     Modest                         Modest
 Impact
 Bank Performance                        Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   Satisfactory



 * The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the Bank.
 The ICR Review is an intermediate Operations Evaluation Department (OED) product that seeks to independently verify
 the findings of the ICR.


 Key Staff Responsible

                                                                        Sector Director
                                           "-  "
_ " l l l " ~ - ~               ll_llll""ll

  Appraisal                             Robert van Pulley             Ricardo A. Halperin           Michael Wiehen


                                              vii


Preface

This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Water Companies
Restructuring and Modernization Project, estimated (at appraisal) to cost US$131.O
million. The project was approved in May 1994 for an IBRD loan of US$98.0 million
that covered 74.8 percent of the total costs. The Government of Bulgaria (GOB) covered
US$11.4 million (8.7 percent), and participating water companies US$21.6 million (16.5
percent). In April 1997,the project was restructured after the GOB requested the
cancellation of US$41.O million of the loan due to a serious economic setback that made
the loan unaffordable. In the process, a district heating component costing US$17.1
million was added to the project with an allocation of US$12.0 million of the loan.
US$45.0 million (of the reduced loan of US$57.0 million) was earmarked for the original
water supply and sewerage components. The project closed in December 2002, six
months behind schedule.

This report is based on the Implementation Completion Report (ICR, dated June 27,
2003) prepared by the Infrastructure and Energy Sector Department in the Europe and
Central Asia Region, the Memorandum and Recommendations of the President, Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR, dated May 5, 1994), loan documents, project files (both at the
World Bank headquarters and in the Sofia Country Office), and discussions with Bank
staff. An Operations Evaluation Department (OED) mission visited Bulgaria in June 2004
to discuss the effectiveness of the Bank's assistance with the government, development
partners, and representatives of selected project participatinghmplementing regional
water and district heating companies. The cooperation and assistance of central
government officials, management and staff of visited companies, and other interested
parties are gratefully acknowledged.

This PPAR is part of a series of assessments of water and sanitation projects in ECA,
including similar projects in Albania, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Baltic
States. It provides an assessment of the outcome of the Bank's assistance that sought to
enable Bulgaria to reform water and wastewater utilities and improve environmental
conditions in urban areas.

Following standard OED procedures, copies of the draft PPAR was sent to the borrowers
and agencies for their review and comments, but none were received.


                                               ix


Summary

         The Water Companies Restructuring and Modernization Project was among the
early World Bank interventions to support major reforms during Bulgaria's transition to a
market economy. The project, costed at US$131.O million, was approved in May 1994
for an IBRD loan of US$98.0 million. The objectives of the project focused on the
strengthening of regional water companies (RWCs)(through increased autonomy,
commercial orientation, and better management accountability to local authorities),
improving health and environmental conditions in urban areas, conserving water
resources, improving operating efficiency and cost recovery, and introducing transparent
procurement procedures and efficient contract management.

         The project partially achieved its objectives, but at a reduced scale because a large
portion of the loan was cancelled when the country's economy encountered severe
setbacks in 1997. The project was formally restructured in April 1997, a district heating
component was added and the project objectives were revised accordingly.

        Many of the water entities that participated in the project are on their way to
become efficient operators, service restrictions have been nearly eliminated, and the
reliability and quality of service are improved. However, scaled back expansion of
sewage treatment curtailed achievement of major environmental benefits. The district
heating component was satisfactorily implemented.

        The project's outcome is rated as moderately satisfactory. The project's
institutional development impact is rated as modest. Even so, sustainability of project
benefits is rated as likely, provided that vigorous efforts continue to improve the finances
of the operating water companies.

        Both the Bank and borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.

        This project performance assessment supports three lessons for broader
application:

Lesson 1. The timeframe of water sector reforms and sequencing of various steps should
be designed carefully to takefull account of their links with economic, legal, and other
reforms upon which they depend.

        The restructuring of Regional Water Companies was linked with the legal issue of
asset transfer, which was delayed because the new water law to cover the ownership of
assets had not been enacted. Similarly, decisions on tariffs and other financial matters
depend on the autonomy of the entity and the steps it must take to improve its finances.
RWCs are still subject to political pressure, which tends to delay decisions on critical
financial issues.

Lesson 2. Theproject components should be in line withproject objectives, scale of
operation, goals, andfunding; components should be clearly defined and have concrete,
measurable targets.

                                             X



        The objectives of this project were rather broad, emphasizing system-wide
operational improvements. The project components, on the other hand, were designed to
initiate many of the improvements in different zones on a pilot scale with corresponding
limited funding. At the time project funding was cut-back, the scope of the project's water
components were not adjusted to reflect significantly reduced funding. As a result,
achievements do not fully meet the set objectives and goals, although they are quite
reasonable if compared to the limited scope of activities and respective volume of
funding.

Lesson 3. Simple, straightforward components ofenproduce results eflciently.

        The district heating component of the project is an excellent example of a clear
and practical design of a project component. It was well defined, highly relevant and was
implemented through an effective operator within the given period, and with some cost
savings (used for necessary extensions). The benefits are substantial. The overall impact
of this component on the development of the district heating sector is high.




                                                                       Ajay Chhibber
                                                                 Acting Director-General
                                                                  Operations Evaluation

                                                        1


1.         Background

Economic Situation

1.1        Until 1997,Bulgaria was among the poorest performing economies in Central and
Eastern Europe. During the early years of transition, reform efforts were slow. The             '
problems culminated in a severe financial crisis in 1996-97 (decline of GDP, decline of per
capita income, increase of poverty).2In July 1997, after a short period of financial chaos
and the general elections in April 1997,a Currency Board Arrangement (IMF) was put into
effect. Thereafter, conservative fiscal policies have been followed and structural reforms
have accelerated. By September 1999,the economy had stabilized, and the growth and per
capita income began to recover. As a result, Bulgaria was invited to initiate negotiations on
EU membership with an aim tojoin the Union in 2007. After five years of sound
macroeconomic management and accelerated structural reforms, economic growth has
been restored, thus improving public and investor confidence. Structural reforms focus on
completion of privatization and restructuring of the energy, railway, telecommunications,
and water sectors. The Bank supports these efforts through a series of programmatic
adjustment loans (PAL); the second PAL is currently under implementation.

1.2        When the Water Companies Restructuring and Modernization Project was being
appraised in 1993, Bulgaria's population was estimated to be about 8.5 million. Although
the population was reported to have decreased to 7.9 million by 2002, the share of the
urban population is growing and is currently about 70 percent. Unemployment rate has
come down from 18percent in 2001 to 14percent in 2003, but the poverty rate remained
high at 12.8percent (in 2001). In 2002, the GNI per capita was US$1,790.3In the past
five years, the growth rate has been between 4 and 5 percent.


Sector Background

1.3        Access to improved water supply in Bulgaria is reported to be nearly 100percent,
but the quality and reliability of service is in question in many Bulgarian citiesa4The
Ministry of Regional Development and Construction (MRD) is a policymaking body that
also oversees the operations of the various water and sewerage systems. Today, 29
Regional Water Companies (RWC) shoulder the responsibility of providing water supply
and sewerage services to about 74 percent of the population; the remaining 26 percent are
served by 20 municipal water and sewerage utilities5



1. Most of the economic data in this section is from the "Program Document for A Proposed Second
Programmatic Adjustment Loan," The World Bank, May 4,2004.

2. This was also a critical period for the assessed project as its implementation was just getting under way.

3 . Still well below the ECA average GNI per capita of US$2,160.

4. Information in this section was obtained through discussions during the assessment mission in June 2004
and from "Financing the Water and Wastewater Sector, Implementation of Strategy (Draft)," The World
Bank, June 30,2004.

5. The total number of water and wastewater utilities, in Bulgarian Vodocanal i Kanalizacia (ViK), is 50, i.e.
29 RWCs, 20 municipally owned WS&S utilities, and Sofia ViK. Of the 29 RWCs, 13 are fully state-owned

                                                      2


1.4      About two-thirds of all raw water comes from surface water sources, dams, and
catchments and the remaining one-third from groundwater wells. Water supply systems
cover nearly the entire population, especially in towns serviced by RWCs. In the 1990s,
however, many of them had to resort to supply restrictions due to water shortages. Many
improvements have been implemented since the onset of the assessed project,6but still
about half a million people are without a 24-hour supply of safe domestic water today.
Moreover, only some 35 percent of the wastewater collected undergoes some form of
treatment, although not up to the standard stipulated in the EU directives.

1.5      As part of the EU-membership negotiations, Bulgaria has agreed to meet EU's
environmental directives on water supply and wastewater treatment. This commitment
was realized in the endorsement of the Strategyfor Water Supply and Sewerage
Management and Development in the Republic of Bulgaria (Strategy) in March 2004.
The Bank has assisted the GOB in preparing the financing and strategy implementation
plan (see footnote 4) with the following priority objectives:

     0   Provision of water supply service on a 24-hours-per-day basis.
     0   Treatment of wastewater in line with the EU directives.
     0   Rehabilitation of water and wastewater networks to improve efficiency and
         reduce health risks.

1.6      Between 2004 and 2014, the overall financing need is estimated at 9.0 billion' and
is envisaged to significantly depend on private capital. Thus, private sector participation
(PSP) will be an important aspect of the sector development in the near future. The
government strategy seeks to improve efficiency, reduce losses, and close the funding gap
through effective use of PSP. The Bank is involved in this process through the ongoing
PAL loan, and will potentially continue this support in the future. The Water Companies
Restructuring and Modernization Project (the evaluated project) was selected for the
performance assessment (i) to fill some gaps in the ICR, (ii) to be part of a regional
assessment of water and sanitation projects in transition economies, and (iii) to verify the
rating of the project.



2.       Project Design and Implementation

Objectives

2.1      The project objectives, as specified at appraisal,' were to help the government to:
(i) increase the corporate autonomy and commercial orientation of RWCs and make their
management accountable to local authorities; (ii) improve health and environmental

and 16 arejointly owned by the state (51 percent) and municipalities (49 percent). A concessionaire serves the
city of Sofia.

6. The assessed project was one of the early Bank interventions in Bulgaria.

7. The total funding need includes 6.9 billion for direct investments and 2.1 billion for the debt service.

8. The four objectives of the original project.

                                                  3


conditions in urban areas and conserve water resources; (iii) increase operating efficiency
and cost recovery in RWCs; and (iv) demonstrate the feasibility and benefits of
introducing transparent procurement procedures, efficient contract management, and
competition for supply of goods, works, and services.

2.2      At the time of project appraisal in 1993,the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) aimed at providing investment support to, among other things, ensure that the
necessary infrastructure was in place to support economic growth. The Water Companies
Restructuring and Modernization project was to contribute to the improvement of water
and sewerage service through RWCs. The Bank involvement was specifically envisaged
to encourage the adoption of a coherent strategy for the sector, focusing on commercial
viability, demand orientation, and sustainability.


Project Components

2.3      Project components were divided into two main categories:

         Institutional strengthening, with 7 percent of the total base line costs, i.e.,
         US$7.5 million equivalent (para. 3.1).

    0    Priority water and sewerage investment, with 93 percent of the total baseline
         costs, i.e., US$98.0 million equivalent (para. 3.9).

2.4      The total project costs were estimated at US$131.0 million (base cost US$105.5
million) to be financed by a Bank loan of US$98.0 million (74.8 percent), and the rest by
the government of Bulgaria, US$11.4 million (8.7 percent), and by the participating
RWCs, US$21.6 million (16.5 percent).

2.5      In 1997,the project was restructured after the GOB requested the cancellation of
US$41.O million of the loan (in December 1996). This was caused by a serious economic
setback (para.1.1)which made the loan unaffordable to the government and especially for
the RWCs. In the process, the reduced loan of US$54 million was split between the
original water supply and sewerage components the project (Parts A and B) and a new
component was added: a district heating (DH) component (Part C) with an allocation of
US$12.0 million from the             After the restructuring, the objectives as well as the
scope of the water supply and sewerage components remained unchanged - even though
the financing for these components had been reduced by more than half.

2.6      The objective of the district heating component"was to improve the efficiency of
the system and help identify future investments needed for its improvements. This was to
be achieved through provision of more accurate information to the providers and users of
district heat on the location of heat consumption in the district system.




9. The respective amendment of the loan agreement was signed on April 17, 1997

10. The additional objective 5.

                                                        4


2.7      The district heating component included the procurement and installation of heat
meters in buildings in 15 district heating systems." This component was envisaged to cover
the entire population being served by the respective District Heating Companies (DHC). In
1997,only about 10percent of the sub-stations had meters to measure the heat
consumption in buildings. This did not provide an adequate database for appropriate
demand management. The project also included the purchase of 22,000 heat meters and
6,000 regulators.


Implementation

2.8      The overall responsibility for project implementation rested with MRD. A special
Project Management Unit (PMU) was established within MRD to carry out procurement,
hire consultants, and supervise all field activities. The respective RWCs implemented the
project at the regional level. Project implementation was slow. Initially, all 29 RWCs
were identified as potential participants, but only 21 eventually decided to join the project
program. Each RWC had to sign a sub-loan agreement with MRD. This turned out to be a
time-consuming process; six RWCs signed up between 1996 and 1998 and the remaining
15RWCs signed their sub-loan agreements in 1999.As a result, the bulk of the work
under various sub-loan agreements was carried out several years after the effectiveness of
the loan, which was delayed by one year (October 1995).

2.9      In Stara Zagora and Kardjali,'whichthe assessment mission visited, the bulk of
the actual implementation took place between 1999and 2001. Project supervision reports
indicate that the technical preparation of most sub-projects took some three years beyond
loan effectiveness.

2.10     The implementation of the district heating component was the responsibility of
the Ministry of Energy and Energy Resources (MEER) assisted by the PMU; the
respective DHCs carried out the actual field activities.

2.11     Actual project costs are not knownI2and, despite efforts by the assessment
mission to discover them, the MRD representatives were not in a position to provide data
to roughly estimate the overall total costs. Table 1 is an educated guess on the actual
project costs using the disbursement rates appIied on various funding categories in the
project as per the ICR Annex 2.




11. There are 20 district heating companies in Bulgaria in total.

12. The ICR is silent on this aspect of the project, but presents the breakdown of the loan amount (Annex 2
of the ICR) for (i) the restructured project as of May 1997, and (ii) the actual used amounts as of June 1,
2003.

                                                5


Table 1: Project Costs; SAR, Revised as of 1997 and Actual (estimated)

 Part of the     Description of               Costs in US$ million                  Notes
   Project        components             SAR  1997 revision      actual'

   Part A   Priority water and           98.0     47.7            32.5   Disbursed at 70%;
            sewerage investments;                                        equipment, materials, civil
            completion of ongoing                                        works
            works, rehabilitation and
            upgrading, and
            reduction of UfW

   Part B   Institutional                7.5      4.0             5.1    disbursed at 100%;
            strengthening; technical                                     consultants, training,
            assistance, training,                                        equipment, vehicles
            study on WRM, and
            operation of Project
            Management Unit

   Part C   District heating                      17.1            20.7   disbursed at 70%, included
            improvements; heat                                           only supply of meters
            meters and regulators

            Interest and other           5.6      2.6             2.6
            charges
            Unallocated/exchange         19.9     5.0             6.9
            rate variations

                Total project costs     131.0     76.4            67.8   US$5.2 million of the 1997
                                                                         loan was cancelled by
                  Total loan amount      98.0     57.0            51.8   project closing

1, Source OED, actual are estimates only.


2.12     Eventually, 91 percent of the revised loan amount estimated in 1997 was
disbursed. The actual project costs were 89 percent of the costs estimated in 1997, but
only 52 percent of the 1994appraisal cost estimates (US$131.O million). It is surprising
that, despite this significant reduction in project costs, no change was made in project
objectives or scope in the restructuring process, indeed an additional component was
added.



3.       Evaluation of Results

Institutional Strengthening

3.1     A number of important sector issues were covered, but the expected impact is
yet to materialize. The main components to address the institutional strengthening
(objective 1) were RWC capacity building through in-country training and TA, carrying
out a Water Resources Management study, project implementation through assistance for
the PMU (investment planning and project implementation). The achievements are
assessed as follows:

Objective 1: increase the corporate autonomy and commercial orientation of RWCsand
make their management accountable to local authorities.

                                               6


3.2      The project assisted the government in restructuring RWCs to make them
autonomous and to strengthen capacity to plan and implement investments. For this
purpose, PMU engaged specialist consultants and provided limited training in project and
utility finance and management of operations. Ex-post, 15 of the 21 RWCs - or over 70
percent of the participating RWCs - arejointly owned by the state (51percent) and by the
municipalities they serve (49 percent) compared with the ex-ante situation in which all
RWCs were fully state-owned. This development has enhanced local involvement in the
day-to-day operations of these water companies and is likely to improve the service to
better respond to local aspirations. The remaining six RWCs have not yet completed the
transfer of their share of the assets, including the valuation of assets, and subsequent
registration. This partial autonomy does not yet include the right to set tariffs which
continues to be a politically difficult issue.

3.3      Other significant actions for achieving corporate autonomy of RWCs were the
development of a new water law and establishment of an independent regulator for its
enforcement, approved by the council of ministers. The new law is awaiting enactment
by the parliament (expected in September 2004). If this occurs, the regulator could be
established in 2005. The role of the regulator is to ensure that the water companies,
public and private alike, will operate in a proper business environment, with appropriate
pricing of water, and adequate cost recovery. The regulator will operate under the council
of ministers and will have a central office and four district offices. The enactment of the
new water law and the subsequent establishment of the regulator are the final steps
required to complete the conversion of RWCs into operating companies to be contracted
by the owners as per the original goal. The goal also involves the companies to operate
according to commercial principles. To this effect, training in financial management,
several tariff increases (although not yet sufficient for the full cost recovery) throughout
the life of the project, and the introduction of annual auditing of the RWC accounts have
been effective preparatory efforts.

3.4     The water resources management study was completed in November 1997. It
proposed (as an option) a river basin approach to the future water resources management
and guidelines on charges for water usage and wastewater treatment. These proposals are
now part of the government's water strategy and important factors in the government's
dialogue for EU-accession.

3.5     A large part of the funds allocated for institutional strengthening were used for
hiring consultants to prepare sub-projects and assist the PMU in carrying out procurement
and regular project supervision. This was a valuable experience and training opportunity
for many in-house staff of MRD and PMU as well as for local consultants. The capacity
to prepare project investment plans, project designs, and tender documents was
substantially enhanced. Some of the ex-PMU staff is now working on the preparation and
implementation of EU-funded projects (ISPA Program) within the MRD, thus utilizing
this experience for further development of the sector.

3.6     During the project implementation, private sector participation (PSP) became a
new approach for widening sector funding options and improving operational efficiency
As a result, concession contracts were developed for Shumen and Varna. Eventually,
neither one was completed due to the less than satisfactory quality of the relevant

                                                        7


documents and incomplete understanding of the related risks and benefits, thus lowering
the political will to contemplate this new concept. Although this effort, as an
afterthought, did not work out as expected it helped to advance the PSP concept in
Bulgaria. For example, the preparation of the Sofia concession contract benefited from
the work done for Shumen and Varna.I3


Priority Water and Sewerage Investment

3.7       The priority investments (rehabilitation and completion of ongoing projects) were
aimed at improving health and environmental conditions in urban areas and conserve
water resources (objective 2) and at increasing RWC's operating efficiency and cost
recovery (objective 3).

Objective 2: improve health and environmental conditions in urban areas and conserve
water resources.

3.8        Selected indicators (shown in Annex Bl)14highlight the progress in service
provision between 1996 and 2003 as follows:

     0   Population with 24-hour service: the number of customers with 24-hr service has
         not risen at all for all practical purposes, but many operational improvements
          indicate that the water service is now more reliable than before the project:
         restrictions in water distribution have been nearly eliminated in many cities.
     0    Water quality testing: in all but four'' RWCs bacteriological safety of water
         samples is well over 90 percent (average is 92 percent). This indicates that water
         is safe for human consumption. There are, however, no health statistics to confirm
         the impact of this change.
    0     The share of thepopulation connected topublic sewerage: data from all
         participating RWCs show that some 56 percent of the total population is
         connected to sewerage systems; this is up from 18percent in 1996. The project
         provided rather insignificant funds for the extension of the sewerage systems, but
         it is possible that some critical bottlenecks were removed, thus effectively
         increasing the sewerage coverage. It may also have encouraged RWCs to fund

13. The Sofia water supply and sewerage service is now run by a concessionaire, Sofiysku Vodu.Its
shareholders are EBRD (29 percent), the city of Sofia (20 percent), and a private operator (51 percent). The
experience from this PSP operation is expected to become a substantial demonstration case in scaling up
PSP operations among RWCs and other utilities. It may be noted (as was reported to the mission) that
assets registration has progressed well, collection rate is satisfactory at 91 percent, and a long-term
investment plan is being drawn up. Improved service reliability has been widely reported. A critical issue in
negotiating the first concession contract for Sofia was the weak asset database and the lack of reliable
operational indicators (i.e., lack of benchmarking). During the early years of the contract, this problem was
eliminated and the database will serve future plans for investment priorities and operational improvements.
For instance, it has been established that unaccounted-for water (UfW)is still at 60 percent, but a realistic
rehabilitation program aims at reducing UfW to 30 percent in 10years.
14. The data in Annex B1 was collected by the assessment mission, with the help of MRD, to update the
data given in ICR.

15. There is no data on this from Dobrich; Lovech, Pernik, Smolian, and Yambol report test results between
70 percent and 84 percent.

                                                        8


          parallel extensions from their revenue base and/or from other donor assisted
          programs.
    0     Share of collected sewage treated the average share reported by RWCs is 34
          percent; this is a slight improvement in terms of percentage treated (33 percent in
          1996),but is in any case a significant step forward in improving environmental as
          well as health conditions given the tripling in the volume of sewage collected
          since 1996.16

3.9       Overall, although the health and environmental results attributable to the project
are not substantial in quantitative terms, they represent a positive trend and form a good
base for achieving more concrete results in future projects. The base data is now more
reliable than before the project and this may make preparation for future physical
investments and capacity building projects, through public or private operations, much
clearer and more realistic.

3.10      The information on the actual scope of water sub-projects, extent and details of
physical achievements, and their respective actual costs is superficial at best in the ICR.
The assessment mission paid particular attention to this issue in its discussions with the
officers of the four visited RWCs.17The situation concerning the four RWCs, as case
utilities, is presented in Table 2 below. The sub-projects in Table 2 represent the typical
scope of all sub-projects with minor variations, such as completion of unfinished water
sources (see Kardjali) and rehabilitation of wastewater system (see Gabrovo) that were
not common in other sub-projects. The main findings are:

          0    Although most RWCs carried out leak-detection and respective rehabilitation
               of the system in pilot areas, impact was rarely recorded; Kardjali with its less
               than 20 percent UfW in the pilot area was an exception in this regard.
               Similarly, several pilot zones for leak-detection and rehabilitation were
               created in Gabrovo; the results show a reduction of UfW from 86 percent to
               44 percent in these pilot zones.
          0    Furthermore, all RWCs report that large numbers of pipe bursts were repaired
               annually, often numbering in thousands; the reported number of repairs in
               2001 range from about 800 to nearly 6,000.'8
          0    Rehabilitation of pump stations (with replacement of old inefficient units) has
               proven to be an effective way to increase operational efficiency; for instance
               an analysis in Kardjali shows that energy costs have gone down by 20 percent.
               Automated operation has further reduced energy costs as the bulk of pumping
               (i.e., filling up reservoirs) takes place at night, when tariffs are reduced.



16. Due to the lack of baseline indicators, no realistic analysis of ex-ante/ex-post situations can be carried
out.

17. The RWCs were selected on the basis of the scope of sub-projects as typical examples of the overall
project, their known analysis of project results, and proximity to Sofia (due to time limitations of the
mission).

18. Some recorded burst repairs in 2001: Smolian 795, Dimitrograd 820, Sliven 1,399, Kardjali 2,456,
Targoviste 4,05 1, and Shumen 5,792; in 2000, 6,718 bursts were repaired in Pernik.

                                                             9


Table 2: Scope and Costs of the Water and Sewerage Components in four case RWCs;
Parts A and B
___-___-     _ _ _ ~
                    ~

                                                                Sub-project costs
RWC            ~ - - - -
                     Summary of sub-project scope                 (US$ million)    Notes on reported results
                                                        -1111

                            Visited case RWCs                  Estimated Actual

Gabrovo        Leak-detection and rehabilitation in five pilot                   Reduced Ufw from 86% to 44%
               zones, and zonal water meters                     0. 81
               Rehabilitation of water supply network and                        Large number of bursts repaired
               treatment plant improvements                      1.09
               Rehabilitation of wastewater system               0.61            Increased coverage
               Vehicles, excavators, workshop tools,                             Shorter response time to repairs
               supervision/contingency                           0.93
               Gabrovo sub-project total                         3.44       n.a. No breakdown of actual costs

Kardjali       Leak-detection and rehabilitation in pilot                        Ufw ~ 2 0 %in pilot zones
               zones
               Rehabilitation of transmission and distribution                   Local rationing discontinued
               mains, completion of old/unfinished supplies
               Rehabilitation of pumping stations/improved                       Improved efficiency and quality
               disinfection
               Automated network operation/control system                        25% reduced kWh/m3
               wlcomputers
               Water meters, spares, valveslrequlators,                          Shorter response time to repairs
               equipment and vehicles
               Kardjali sub-project total                        2.21       1.69
-                                                                                No breakdown of costs available
  1"11111"11111"             1111111~~-1"-1-                                       _l__l_______"--

Pernik         Leak-detection and rehabilitation in pilot                        No specific results recorded
               zones
               Rehabilitation of transmission and distribution                   Bursts reduced significantly
               mains
               Replacement of pumps and valves                                   Service reliability improved
               Water meters and construction equipment                           1,300meters installed
               Pernik sub-project total                           n.a.      n.a. No cost data available

Stara Zagora Rehabilitation of transmission mains and                            No service rationing necessary
               pumping stations
               Rehabilitation of distribution networks                           Large number of bursts repaired

               Bulk and consumer water meters with                               More reliable service/O&M data
               accessories
               Workshop equipmenfftools, leak detect.                            Shorter response time reported
               equipment, vehicles
               Stara Zagora sub-project total                    2.12       1.77 No breakdown of costs available
                                              ""l.-~.~.l"
         1""                  l__l__l                                     I             "'I -..----1-.-.-_____1--.-

Project total Water and sewerage components of all sub-          105.5           SAR-baseline
               projects                                                     37.6 ICR-PPAR estimates


          0    As the cost data of improvements are not unavailable, it would be important to
               carry out a special analysis of relevant costs to establish a reliable basis for
               future cost estimates of large-scale improvement programs.
          0    Water production in many RWCs has declined significantly because of
               reduced industrial activities; since 1996, the total production has been
               estimated to have decreased by nearly 30 percent. In addition, domestic
               consumption has declined, mainly due to increased tariffs over the life of the

                                                      10


              project. The rehabilitation of the water distribution systems has also had an
              impact on water conservation, but rather limited as of today. Similarly,
              expansion of sewage treatment so far has been insignificant. Water
              conservation and environmental issues need to be addressed in a
              comprehensive way as Bulgaria prepares for EU accession.


Objective 3: increase operating efficiency and cost recovery.

3.11     What do theperformance indicatorsfrom 21 RWCsreveal? Improved
operational management is demonstrated through performance indicators comparing
1996with 2003 performance (Annex B2):l9

         0    Unaccounted-for water:the 2003 data show that Ufw has gone up, on
              average,2ofrom 53 percent to nearly 57 percent. The project supplied a
              significant number of water meters both zonal and consumer meters. This has
              improved the reliability of the data and one can assume that the data today is
              more reliable than in 1996;'l the main achievement may be, that in the near
              future, the indicators will allow a more accurate comparison of annual
              operational results. There are, however, quite promising results from some
              pilot zone leak-detection and rehabilitation cases; they are discussed later in
              this section (para. 3.14).
         0    Collection rate: overall performance in financial management of RWCs has
              worsened; down from 86 percent to approximately 82 in 2003.22
         0    Working ratio: in this area, some real progress has been made even on an
              average basis; the average ratio is down from nearly 107percent in 1996to
              about 100percent in 2003.23The results show that most RWCs can, but only
              just, finance their operation and maintenance costs, a few like Pleven may be
              able to fund even some minor investments from their own coffers. It is
              common to find that reaching a working ratio level of well below 100percent
              requires more time than just one project cycle, especially in cases where major
              institutional reforms are necessary at the same time.24
              Staffindex;the average staff index among the 21 RWCs is still as high as 10
              staff per 1,000-connections. Kardjali, Russe, and Sliven have reached a staff


19. The data in Annex B2 was collected by the assessment mission, with the help of MRD, to update the
data given in ICR.

20. This is simple average of UfW indicators in various RWCs, not a weighted average of the overall water
billed compared with the amount produced.

21. Only 9 RWCs show real, although slight, progress in UfW between 1996 and 2003; Russe is the only
RWC with significant reduction of UfW, down from 62 percent to 44 percent.

22. Ten RWCs show some minor, but real progress (or at least a stable situation), the best one is Montana,
up from 80 percent to 91 percent.

23. Only three RWCs show a worsening situation; the worst progress has been in Gabrovo, up from 107
percent to 124 percent, and the best is Isperih, down from 128percent to 96 percent.

24. Results in several water projects in similar situations (Croatia and Romania, to mention a few)
assessed by OED support this finding.

                                                    11


             index level of about 5. In Kardjali, which the mission visited, this is likely due
             to the high degree of automation in the operation of the system and improved
             maintenance procedures. There are no comparative pre-project data on staff
             index, but the current situation should be reflected against the EU water
             industry standard that is 2 to 3 staff per 1,000-connections. The best of the
             RWCs are now reaching that goal, but many have a long way to go.

3.12     While the foundation and procedures for better performance are being established,
overall progress has been modest to date. Managers have a better understanding of
relevant issues today, driven by the goal to join the EU, and better progress can be
expected in the near future. The project provided rather meager funds for large-scale
rehabilitation efforts, and especially after the restructuring, the project spread the limited
funds too thinly over a large number of companies. Training, as part of the TA provision,
included project formulation, procurement, and most importantly leak-detection of water
systems. The effort, however, fell short of the scale required to meet the needs of so
many and such large operators.

3.13     Metering of water connections in most RWCs is at or near 100pe~cent,~'but the
reliability of meters is not known. In addition to zonal meters to record bulk supplies,
substantial quantities of consumer meters and modern equipment for meter workshops
were provided under the project. On this basis, and as observed by the mission during the
visits to four RWCs, it is reasonable to assume that the recording of water consumption is
now more reliable than before the project.

3.14    Pilot Ufwactivities could not be scaled-up because offinancing cut backs and
did not lead to reduced water losses system-wide. The key finding of the assessment
mission is that the leakage rate is high; on average in 2003, the participating 21 RWCs
report a rate of over 56 percent. Further to the discussion above (paras. 3.11 and 3.12)'
two positive exceptions are Lovech and Montana with UfW rates of 26 percent and 24
percent respectively (in 2003); both down from a rate of roughly 30 percent before the
project (in 1996). Five more RWCs have reached, or maintained, a rate below 50 percent
(Kardjali, Pleven, Russe, Shumen, and Vidin), but the rest of the RWCs are well over the
50 percent level, the highest figures were reported by Dobrich and Gabrovo at over 80
percent in 2003.

3.15    Throughout the project's main construction period (1999-2002), the supervision
reports highlight lack of progress on system-wide UfW as a serious shortcoming in
project implementation. This issue was also recognized as a point of departure for the
approach taken in the design of the project in 1993-94. The strategy for reducing UfW
was to initiate rehabilitation of the system in pilot areas and develop a suitable method
for expanding the program across the entire network at some later date. The project
design, however, defined the performance indicators for the distribution system as a
whole. This was not a logical approach at this pilot phase, as no definite timetable for
expanded activities was set, nor was adequate funding for their implementation provided.




25. The average metering rate is 96 percent in some 15 RWCs where the data was available.

                                                     12


3.16      The scope of investments was far below what would have been required to
expand the system rehabilitation to a reasonably acceptable level. For instance, in
Kardjali only some two percent of pipes are replaced annually against the estimated need
of about 10percent. This low rate of replacement of course drastically affects progress in
reducing UfW. However, it can be assumed that the largely successful implementation of
pilot-scale leak detection and network rehabilitation activities will encourage RWCs to
replicate the effort to eventually cover the entire network, thus expected to result in a
significant reduction in UfW rates.

3.17      Most Bulgarian urban water systems face a special problem as far as their
rehabilitation is concerned; the pipe material used is mostly asbestos cement, from about
60 percent up to even 90 percent in some regions.26This material is rather sensitive to the
quality of the laying of pipes; especially the foundation of the mains is critical. Settling of
pipes atjoints creates excessive angles in pipe alignment that create potential leakage
points-in the worst cases at six-meter interval^.^' In addition, the quality of rubber rings
used to seal thejoints is also an issue in many cases, as well as the aging of the rings. In
field observations, both during the mission and otherwise, gaskets were commonly found
to be brittle and are likely to be so, to a large extent, as most of the mains in the
distribution networks have been in service for 30 years or more. This problem is likely to
cause increasingly widespread leakage in the near future.

Objective 4: demonstrate thefeasibility and benefits of introducing transparent
procurementprocedures, efficient contract management, and competitionfor supply of
goods, works,and services.

3.18      The PMU played a key role in improving procurement procedures. With Bank
assistance, PMU prepared all bidding documents; this required heavy support from Bank
staff during the early stages of the project, but gradually the quality of the documents
improved to meet Bank guidelines. The total number of contracts was 750. Except for
one misprocurement case of water meters,28all contracts were administered effectively
and as per the guidelines.

3.19      This project was the first international intervention in the water sector and a good
number of sector professionals gained through it substantial experience in international
procurement procedures. The PMU manager and procurement specialist received special
training (at the Bank in Washington); this was an important factor in this process. At the
end, the responsibility of all procurements was handed over to the participating RWCs,
and the outcome was satisfactory. The RWC staff became familiar with the international
bidding procedures as well as the benefits of competitive bidding for cost control of
contracts.




26. An exception is Sofia where the distribution network is mainly of cast iron pipes; the share of asbestos
concrete pipes is less than 10 percent.

27. The length of individual pipes is six meters.

28. In this case, unacceptable bid opening procedures were followed.

                                                    13


District Heating Component

3.20     Objective 5: The importance and benefits of metering in demand-side
management was demonstrated thereby improving the DH sector's efficiency. The sector
is fully regulated, and with the help of regular tariff increases, amounting to 35 percent
overall since the introduction of metering, the sector is expected to eliminate all operating
subsidies by 2005. The 2001/2002 data presented in the ICR savings in pumping costs
                                                                         -
(ranging from 10percent to over 20 percent), better control over water loss, conservation
of heat (energy), to mention a few - indicate that this target is real is ti^.'^ Furthermore, the
GOB has a firm plan to move ahead with PSP in the DH sector.

3.21     The introduction of heat metering and system regulation facilitated a demand-
driven operation that has resulted in substantial savings in water loss and power costs due
to reduced pumping requirements. Full metering allowed management to turn-around the
district heating sector. Similar activities are under way in Sofia (which did not participate
in the project) that accounts for the bulk of district heating in Bulgaria (60 percent).



4.      Rating of the Project

Outcome

4.1     The overall outcome is rated moderately satisfactory as the project achieved
most of its relevant revised objectives. After the loan closing, good progress is being
made on the remaining objectives, expected to be fully met in due course. This composite
rating is assessed on the basis of the separate rating of relevance, efficacy, and efficiency
given below.


Relevance

4.2     The project objectives were relevant to the overall government and Bank strategy
as seen at project appraisal (para. 2.2). The restructuring of the project in 1997took into
account the precarious economic situation at the time to better reflect affordability
criteria. All major aspects of the objectives, although demanding, were and are relevant
for achieving the intended sector reforms and improvements in service quality and
reliability.

4.3     There was, however, an imbalance between the rehabilitation of the water
distribution network (including leak-detection) on a pilot or demonstration scale and
expected system-wide results. As the experience from these pilot/demonstration activities
is encouraging, their future replication and scaling-up is expected to bring about
significant improvements in UfW reduction provided the necessary investments are
secured. The DH objective was highly relevant. Overall, the relevance is rated as
substantial.

29. Some of this data is based on consumer surveys. The assessment mission reviewed the updated data for
2003 in general with officials of MEER, but the attempt to obtain the records failed.

                                                         14


Efficacy

4.4       The extent to which the project actually achieved its objectives is measured on the
basis of selected indicators for service provision and progress made from 1996 until
2003, the year for which the latest full-year results are available; they are presented in full
in Annex B1. In summary, while progress is being made and is expected to continue,
improvements are somewhat less than envisaged at appraisal. The main achievements are
improvement of service reliability, establishing a systematic approach for leak-detection
activities and getting these activities effectively under way, albeit on a pilot scale because
of reduced financing. The new water quality testing procedures is producing reliable data
on this important aspect of water service. Most shortcomings are in the area of sewerage
operations, especially in wastewater treatment. The project made almost no contribution
to improved treatment of sewage, as expected. The efficacy of the DH objective was
substantial. On the above basis, the project's efficacy is rated as modest.


Efficiency

4.5       Actual project expediture for the water supply components were reduced by about
65 percent. Despite this cost reduction, the project's water objectives and components
were not significantly scaled down. Considering that the overall benefiting population
was of the order of 4.0 million (in 2003),30the average investment was as low as US$lO.O
per capita. This is extremely favorable when compared to the acceptable cost level of the
industry in similar rehabilitation programs, i.e., limited to only the most critical
rehabilitation of the system. No financial rate of return was calculated for the project in
either the SAR or ICR. In general, investments in rehabilitation tend to generate a high
rate of return, and therefore in this case, rehabilitation was the least cost and a definite
priority alternative for the project. In addition, replacement of worn out, inefficient
pumps have generated significant cost savings through reduced power consumption as
observed, for instance, in Kardjali.

4.6      Key performance indicators (in Annex B2) reveal that there has been slight
improvement in the operation of the water and sewerage systems of the participating
RWCs (after the project in 2003) compared with indicators for the pre-project situation
(1996). The working ratio has come down to the level at which RWCs are likely, but only
just, to meet their operating and maintenance costs. The other performance indicators
(UfW,collection rate, and staff index) do not show clear efficiency improvements, but
indicate that trends are moving in the right direction and system operations are stabilizing
(see also discussion in paras. 3.11 - 3.17). Substantial benefits have been, or are expected
to be achieved with regard to other objectives of the water components, i.e. objectives 1,
2, and 4. The efficiency of the DH objective was substantial.

4.7      On the above basis, the project's efficiency is rated as substantial.



30. This is roughly estimated on the basis of incomplete population data obtained from various project
reports, chiefly supervision reports; the SAR states that RWCs serve about 85 percent of the population,
today this figure is reported to be 74 percent, i.e., 5.8 million; a pro-rata estimate (21/29) gives a served
population of 4.2 million for the project RWCs.

                                                15


Institutional Development Impact

4.8      The project achieved its original institutional objectives, but with some limitations.
The restructuring process did not reach all participating RWCs and was not carried through
all the way. Therefore, the project's impact on the autonomy of RWCs is not as substantive
as expected. The project helped to improve the quality of investment planning, and project
preparation and supervision, at the central level (PMU) as well as within RWCs. In
addition, a noticeable start was made in improving operational procedures, thus helping to
achieve better efficiency; this, however, holds true in some RWCs only, which now will
serve as good demonstration cases for others to follow.

4.9      At the central level, the project was helpful in getting the new water law enacted,
the key issue in completion of the restructuring process of RWCs. The law also lays the
basis for establishing a regulator for the sector, to be finalized in 2005. In addition, the
project became involved in advancing the PSP approach to accelerate measures to
achieve efficient operation and close the finance gap for urgent investments. Although
the Varna and Shumen cases did not materialize, the experience gained and documents
produced are helpful for taking the necessary steps in the near future, as spelled out in the
government's new water strategy.

4.10     On the above basis, the project's institutional development impact is rated as
modest.


Sustainability

4.11     The four RWCs that the assessment mission visited provide some relevant data in
assessing the resilience to risk of benefits achieved through the project. As analyzed in
above discussions on indicators, the flow of service benefits is ensured only if the
positive trend demonstrated in many RWCs continues uninterrupted over years to come.
The government's goal to meet EU accession requirements by 2007 is likely to ensure
that RWCs will become fully autonomous and that they receive all necessary support in
their efforts to further improve operations and reliability of service. The benefits of
district heating improvements are hlly sustainable. With this reservation on water and
sewerage components, the overall sustainability is rated as likely.

Bank Performance

4.12    The Bank was quite effective during both project appraisal and implementation.
Supervision was especially effective, and flexible when called for; the project assisted the
government in carrying out the restructuring of RWCs as well as developing the new
water law and establishing a regulator for the sector. The Bank was particularly
determined to advise the participating RWCs on activities to reduce UfW and related
rehabilitation of the system. The Bank has continued to support the efforts initiated under
the project through helping the government to prepare a new water sector financing
strategy. This assessment applies to the district heating activities as well. Overall, the
Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

                                               16


Borrower Performance

4.13     Borrower ownership, both at the central level and among the participating RWCs,
was satisfactory. The borrower established a PMU within MRD that was instrumental in
carrying out the project activities after the hiatus created by the economic crisis of the
mid-1990s was overcome. Apart from some procurement issues that arose during project
implementation, shortcomings in achieving some of the project's objectives were more
due to the design of the project and the economic situation than the lack of performance
on the borrower's part. The borrower carried out the district heating activities fully
satisfactorily. Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.



5.       Lessons

5.1      The assessed project was initiated at a time when major reforms in the economy
were under way and steps were taken in various sectors to support economic growth. In
this situation, the project's objectives were understandably broad and perhaps somewhat
optimistic regarding the timeframe within which the reforms would be accomplished.
This project performance assessment supports three lessons for broader application:

Lesson 1. The timeframe of water sector reforms and sequencing of various steps should
be carefully designed to takefull account of their links with economic, legal, and other
reforms upon which they depend.

5.2      The restructuring of Regional Water Companies was linked with the legal aspects
of asset transfer. This was delayed because the new water law to cover the ownership of
assets had not been enacted. Similarly, decisions on tariffs and other financial matters
depend on the autonomy of the entity and the steps it must take to improve its finances.
RWCs are still subject to political pressure, which tends to delay decisions on critical
financial issues.

Lesson 2. Theproject components should be in line withproject objectives, scale of
operation, goals, andfunding; components should be clearly defined and have concrete,
measurable targets.

5.3     The objectives of this project were rather broad, emphasizing system-wide
operational improvements. The project components, on the other hand, were designed to
initiate many of the improvements on a (pilot) zonal scale with corresponding limited
funding. At the time of scaling down the project funding (in 1997),the designs of the
project'swater components were not adjusted to reflect the significantly reduced funding.
As a result, achievements do not fully meet the set objectives and goals, although they are
quite reasonable if compared to the limited scope of activities and respective volume of
funding.

Lesson 3. Simple, straightforward components oftenproduce results eflciently.

5.4     The district heating component of the project is an excellent example of a clear
and practical design of a project component. It was designed for a clearly defined and

                                             17


relevant purpose together with a reasonably effective operator. The project was
implemented within the given period, with some cost savings (used for necessary
extensions) and the benefits are substantial. The overall impact of this component on the
development of the district heating sector is high.


                                             19                                              Annex A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

BULGARIAWATER COMPANIES RESTRUCTURING AND MODERNIZATION
PROJECT (LOAN3739-BUL)


                                           Appraisal         Actual or                Actual as % of
                                           estimate       current estimate           appraisal estimate
Original commitment                          98.0              51.8                         52.9
Total cancellation                                             46.2
Total project cost                           131.0             67.8'                        52.8
- PPARestimate;theactualtotalprojectcostisnotpresented inICR.
I/



                                                  Original                    .I.._.- Actual
                                                              1 1 1 1 ~ - 1 1          _I
Departure of Appraisal Mission                    06/03/93
Negotiations                                       03/94
Board approval                                   0512611994
Effectiveness                                     10/01194                            10110/95




                                                            Actual Cost
                                                               US$~OOO)
AppraisaVNegotiation                                           583,854
Supervision                                                    769,443
Total                                                          1,353,297

                                                                               20                                                  Annex A


 Mission Data
                                                                                                                          Rating trend
                                                                                                                       Types ofproblems
                                      Date            No. of                                                 Implementation Development
                                   (month/year) persons                 Specializations represented             Progress            Objective
Amraisal/Neaotiation-                 6/3/93            2
    I ,
 Supervision                        12116/94            3               Project Officer, Senior Sanitary                 S             U
                                                                                    Engineer
 Supervision                         9112/95            3               Economist, Engineer, Financial                   S             U
                                                                                    Analyst
 Supervision                         2119196            3               Economist, Engineer, Financial                   S             U
                                                                                    Analyst
 Supervision                          5/3/96            3             Financial Analyst, Engineer, Project               S             U
                                                                                     Officer
 Supervision                        12111196            3             Financial Analyst; Engineer, Project               S             U
                                                                                     Officer
 Supervision                         5/28/97            3             Financial Analyst, Engineer Project                S             U
                                                                                     Officer
 Supervision                        11/21/97            3             Engineer, Financial Analyst, Project               S             U
                                                                                     Officer
 Supervision                        10/29/98            4             Operations Officer, Financial Analyst,             S             S
                                                                        Sanitary Engineer, Operations
                                                                                    Assistant
 Supervision                          3/4/99            4               Task Team Leader, Engineer,                      S             S
                                                                        Privatization Specialist, Projects
                                                                                     Officer
 Supervision                          7/3/99            2             Task Team Leader, Project Officer                  S             S
 Supervision                        11/17/2000          4             Team Leader, Procurement Analyst,                  S             S
                                                                       Engineer, Procurement Specialist
 Supervision                        7/20/2001           2             Team Leader, Procurement Analyst                   S             S
 Supervision                        12115/2001          4              Team Leader, Senior Water and                     S             S
                                                                      Sanitation Specialist, Procurement
                                                                                    Analyst
 Supervision                        3/8/2002            3              Team Leader, Senior Water and                     S             S
                                                                       Sanitation Specialist, Operations
                                                                                     Officer
 Supervision                        1016/2002           4             Task Team Leader, Utility Finance,                 S             S
                                                                      Water and Waste Water, Operations;
                                                                                  Procurement


 0therPr0.iectData
 Borrower/Executing Agency:

.,,,.
 F".,""
    OLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
         I..I,-"" ....l.-_."" " "
                              ...,.  ,,,.,,."""         "l.."."^""....
 Operation                                                                        Credit no.            Amount  ll.."--."      Board date
                                               _lllll_-"




                                                                                                     (US$ million)

 None

                                                             21                                        Annex B1


Annex B1: Progress in Service Provision from 1996 to 2003

                 population with 24-hr                             population with              collected sewage
RWC                      service
                               -__-.--.-     ~aT%!?"!esting safe -"".""sewerage        .,.,".l_.l    treated
                                                                                                        ----
                                                                                                    "11"1"     ~




                      199s"             2003    199s"      2003      199s"       2003            1996d            2003
Gabrovo                          97.9%                    96.5%                65.1%                            75.8%
Dobrich                          99.8%                    n.a.                 66.5%                            100.0%
Kjustendil                       99.1%                    95.1%                59.2%                            92.9%
Lovech                           99.2%                    84.7%                44.2%                            0.0%
Varna                            99.6%                    95.2%                83.9%                            98.3%
lsperih                          100.0%                   95.9%                0.0%                            0.0%
Vratsa                           99.5%                    98.0%                53.5%                           57.2%
Dimitrovgrad                     99.7%                    96.0%                71.1%                           0.0%
Kardjali                         85.1%                    97.6%                40.4%                            0.0%
Sliven                           99.9%                    96.7%                60.7%                           94.7%
Stara Zagora                     99.5%                    93.8%                59.0%                           26.8%
Shumen                           99.8%                    98.0%                58.9%                           0.0%
Vidin                            97.1%                    95.1%                49.3%                           0.0%
Montana                          96.4%                    95.1%                55.7%                           7.2%
Pernik                           97.2%                    79.5%                76.3%                           93.8%
Pleven                           100.0%                   95.3%                54.1%                           71.2%
Russe                            100.0%                   96.4%                64.3%                        0.0%
Silistra                         100.0%                   95.7%                45.9%                        0.0%
Smolian                          90.5%                    72.0%                60.0%                        0.0%
Targoviste                       99.1%                    95.7%                50.0%                        0.0%
Yambol       ,                   100.0%                   70.6%.               63.6%                        0.0%


a. SAR states that on average 98% of population was connected to water supply network (1994); year-round and
seasonal water shortages were common.
b. Water quality testing was not common practice in the past.
c. On average 18% of population was connected to sewers (ranging from 4% to 75%) based on 1994study that
surveyed 70% of connections.
d. Only about 33% of sewer systems had primary or secondary treatment: 25% of plants did not operate as per
design standards.

                                                                 22                            Annex B2


Annex B2: Key Performance Indicators for 1996 and 2003

                    unaccounted water           collection rate'          working ratio'   staff index3
       RWC
                       1996        2003         1996        2003         1996      2003   1996      2003
Gabrovo               65.0%       81.4%        97.0%       79.0%        107.0%    124.0%            13.0
Dobrich               76.0%       81.7%        88.0%       89.0%        141.O%    133.0%            12.6
Kjustendil            66.0%       52.0%         76.0%      54.0%        121.0%    99.9%             8.6
Lovech                30.0%       25.9%        86.0%       88.0%        108.0%    95.2%             6.7
Varna                 60.0%       66.9%        84.0%       78.0%        101.O%    98.8%             21.o
lsperih               50.0%       60.5%        91.O%       87.0%        128.0%    95.6%             6.2
Vratsa                50.0%       71.2%        88.0%       88.0%        95.0%     97.3%             9.8
Dimitrovgrad          53.0%       54.8%        87.0%       71.O%        112.0%    99.1%             10.6
Kardjali              41.O%       43.0%        85.0%       85.0%        102.0%    99.7%             5.0
Sliven                54.0%       66.1%        86.0%       64.0%        96.0%     98.2%             5.6
Stara Zagora          53.0%       67.6%        87.0%       85.0%        97.0%     98.2%             13.6
Shumen                53.0%       47.5%        81.O%       80.0%        106.0%    99.0%             9.3
Vidin                 57.0%       46.7%        87.0%       94.0%        101.0%    97.0%             8.8
Montana               27.0%       24.1Yo       80.0%       91.O%        102.0%    98.0%             10.1
Pernik                40.0%       76.4%        87.0%       64.0%        105.0%    97.4%             11.3
Pleven                46.0%       48.2%        82.0%       86.0%        106.0%    90.5%             13.5
Russe                 62.0%       44.4%        96.0%       96.0%        94.0%     96.4%             5.2
Silistra              62.0%       59.5%        85.0%       85.0%        103.0%    99.4%             8.8
Smolian               33.0%       51.O%        92.0%       93.0%        105.0%    96.3%             18.5
Targoviste            71.O%       68.7%        86.0%       86.0%        113.0%    99.3%             10.4
Yambol                63.0%       56.0%        79.0%       76.0%        100.0%    98.5%             11.1
Average               53.0%       56.8%        86.2%       81.9%        106.8%    100.5%            10.5
Definitions:
1. collection rate = revenue collected as a percentage of the total water billing
2. working ratio = total operational costs as a percentage of total revenue.
3. staff index = number of staff per 1000 connections.


