Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/vv~~ 37 S 7' - -C-
Report No. 12317-BUL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BULCARIA
WATER COMPANIES RESTRUCTIRING AND l0DERNIIZATION PROJECT
MAY 5, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region
I Tis document a a rerited dstrbwn md my be uand by   I    ony in he perfonnama  off
their offili dutis Its contens may n  otheiese be dicosed wiout World Bnk authoitoton.



CURRENCY E_UIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Bulgarian Leva (L)
Value of- USSI.00 in L 1/
1991         18.60
1992         23.00
1993         28.00
1994 (March) 45.67
PRINCIPAE. ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CAS         country Assistance Strategy
DDSR        Bank Debt and Debt Service Reduction
EC PHARE    European Union Assistance Program for Eastern Europe
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GEF         Global Environmental Fund
GOB         Government of Bulgaria
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IIP         Initial Investment Program
IS          International Shopping
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
LS          Local Shopping
NOE         Ministry of Environment
MRD         Ministry of Regional Development and Construction
NCRDH       National Center for Regional Development and Housing
PMU         Project Management Unit
RWCs        Regional Water and Sewerage Companies
US AID      United States Agency for International Development
US EPA      United States Environmental Protection Agency
BULGARIA -- FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/ Values for exchange rates are year averages at the market rate until 1993. T]
value for March 1994 is the monthly average. In February 1991, exchange ratel
were unified and a single market exchange rate was allowed to float in the nei
formed interbank market.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
WATER COMPANIES RESRUCTURING ADMODERNIZATION  OJCT
STAFFAPASAL REPORT
Table of Contents
I.  SECTOR BACKGROUND .-. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . .  .  ..    .  .  . .1
A.  Country/Economic Profile  . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
B. Sector Profile  . . . . .  .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
C.  Regional Water and Sewerage Companies--Issues for Project
Design    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  4
II.  SECTOR RESTRUCTURING STRATEGY .. . . .  ....... . ...  .   7
A.  Further Restructuring of the Regional Water and Sewerage
Companies   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  * . . . . . . . *   7
B.  Privatizing State Engineering and Construction Enterprises  .   8
C.  Implementing a new Regulatory Framework and Tariff Policies . . 8
D.  Improving Water Resources Management  . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
B. Sector E;gagement Criteria  ....  ..... .. ......    9
III.  RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
IV. THE PROJECT.. .11
A. Objectives.. 11
S. Project Components.. .   11
C.  Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
D.  Cost Recovery/On-lending Policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
E.  Water and Sewerage Companies' Tariffs . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
F.  Institutional Eligibility Criteria for Sub-loans  . . . . . .  19
G. Project Implementation.                                        19
B. Procurement   ..21
I. Disbursements . . .. . . . . .                                 25
J. Accounts and Audits    ..27
K. Supervision . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
L. Environmental Screening    ..28
V.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
VI.  RISK ASSESSMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  33
This report was prepared by R. Van Pulley (Task Manager and Senior Economist),
B. Gomez (Senior Financial Analyst), S. Margetis (Senior Environment
Specialist, EC1IN); K. Georgieva (Environment Economist, EMTEN); J. Drozdz
(Sanitary Engineer, EMTIN); T. Triche (Institutional/Regulatory Expert,
Consultant); A. Damianova (Project Officer, RNB); and S. Kim (Cost/Budget
Analyst, EC1DR), following a preappraisal mission in March 1993 and an
appraisal mission in June 1993, and under the supervision of Mr. R. Halperin
(Division Chief, EClIN), and Mr. M. Wiehen, (Director, ECI). Messrs. W.
Stottmann (ENTIN) and S. Lintner (EMTEN) were peer-reviewers. The assistance
of the Government of Japan which provided two grants for the preparation of
the Project is gratefully acknowledged.
This docmet has a -.stricted distibution and may be usod by reents only in hwe pefomao
lofficia dutes. t contents may not othewise be lisAosed without Word Bank *thiaon.



LIST OF ANUEXES
1.   1993 Tariffs of Regional Water and Sewerage Companies . . . . . . .  35
2.-  Tariff-Setting Guidelines for Water and Sewerage Companies . . . . 36
3.   Project Investments by Year  ..... .. .   . . . .          . . . . 38
4.   Project Management Unit Budget . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
5.   Terms and Conditions fo. On-leading . ... .  . . . .    ..       .  .  40
6.   Institutional Eligibility Criteria for On-Lending . .-. . . . . .   42
7.   Project Nanagement Unit Organization Chart .-. . . . . . . . . . 45
8.'''  project-Manaement 'Unit'Responsibilities-. .'. . . . . . . . . . . 46
9.   Institutional Strengthening Window - Base Cot and Timetable  . . . 47
10.  Initial Investment Program .  . . . . . . ..... . .                48
11.  Loan Disbursement Schedule . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .  . . . .   . 50
12.  Annual and Mid-term Reviews  .        . . . . .  . . . . . . . . 51
13.  Documents in Project File ........ . . . . . .  . . . . . . .  53
&_R: IBRD No. 25226



BULGARIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
WATER COMANIES RESTRUCTURING AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROM CT IMWP=
Borrower:       Republic of Bulgaria.
Executing'      Ministry'of Regional Development and Construction (MRD)
Agencies:        and National Center for Regional Development and
Housing (NCRDH).
Beneficiaries:  Regional and Municipal Water and Sewerage Companies (RWCs).
Amount:         US$98 million equivalent.
Terms:          Repayment in 17 years, including four years of grace, with
repayments calculated on an annuity basis at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
On-lending      The Government would on-lend to water companies about USS93
Terms:          million in leva at a variable interest rate, on a first-come
first-served basis (subject to eligibility criteria). The
rate will be the Basic Rate (Central Bank Rediscount Rate)
plus a premium initially set at 6%, to compensate for the
interest and the foreign exchange risks which will be assumed
by the Government. The interest rate will be adjusted
periodically to reflect changes in the Basic Rate at the time
of the adjustment. About US$5 million would be used by the
Government to finance project implementation and to provide
RWCs and other entitieq with grants for capacity building.
Project         The project objectives are to assist the Government to:
Objectives:      (i) increase the corporate autonomy and commercial
orientation of RWCs and make their management accountable to
local authorities; (ii) improve health and environmental
conditions in urban areas and conserve water resources;
(iii) increase operating efficiency and cost recovery in
RWCs; and (iv) demonstrate the feasibility and benefits of
introducing transparent procurement procedures, efficient
contract management, and competition for supply of goods,
works, and services.
Project         The project comprises two major components:  (i) the
Description:     Institutional Strengthening Window (7% of baseline cost)s and
(ii) the Priority Water and Sewerage Investments Window (93%
of baseline cost). The Institutional Strengthening Window
includes: RWCs capacity building through in-country training
and provision of technical assistance; carrying out a study
of options for improved management of water resources;
strengthening and providing technical assistance to the



- Li -
Project Management Unit (PMU) that has been net up by the
MRD; and enhancing RWCe investment planning capability and
construction supervision.  The Priority Water and Sewerage
Investments Window includes, in-turn, two components: the
Completion and Rehabilitation Window and the Non-revenue
Water Reduction Window.  $he Project Completion/
Rehabilitation Window will fund completion of ongoing
investments that have high rates of return, and
rehabilitation and upgrading of facilities. The Non-revenue
Water Reduction Window will respond to the emerging
incentives:for water companies to reduce water loss   and to
improve their operating efficiency.
Environmental   The project, classified in Category B, should have a positive
Aspects:         environmental impact through: (i) more efficient use and
better quality of drinking water, and (ii) reduction of
pollution from wastewater. To avoid possible detrimental
environmental effects, environmental analyses will be
prepared for all sub-projects, evaluated by MOE and reviewed
and approved by the Bank before sub-project tendering. Some
sub-projects will involve internatio-al waterways but
notification to other riparians will not be required under
the Bank's policy because the Project will only finance
sub-projects that will involve the rehabilitation, upgrading
and completion of existing water and sewerage systems and
will be complemented by water demand management and loss
reduction program. Thus the sub-projects will have no
adverve effect in either the quantity or quality of present
and future water flows. No resettlement issues have been
identified; if any are identified by the sub-project studies,
they should comply with the relevant Bank provisions.
Benefits:        All water and sewerage services customers will benefit from
the efficiency gains generated by the restructuring and
strengthening of water companies, as this should result in
cost containment and more affordable tariffs. Moreover,
restructuring water companies and adding municipal
shareholders will introduce the concept of managerial
accountability. Customers will also benefit from upgraded
water services and increased availability of drinking water
to consumers currently experiencing shortages. The
Government will benefit from the Project support to the
objective of redefining and making more effective the State's
role in the economy. The Project does this by: {i) shifting
investment responsibility from the State budget to the water
companies; (if) redefining the State's functions away from
operating the utilities to monitoring and regulating; and
(iii) strengthening local authorities, who will become co-
owners of the utilities responsible for provision of
services. Through procurement, the Project will support
increased competition for the provision of goods and



- iii -
services. The social benefits include improvements in public
health. Finally, the Project addresses an agreed priority of
the 1992 Bulgaria Environmental Strategy which, Inter alla,
called for completion of priority water and sewerage
investments with positive health or environmental benefits,
and for water conservation measures.
Risks:          There are many political and macroeconomic risks that could
negatively affect Project execution which are not amenable to
mitigating measures that can be built into the Project. Those
mitigated through project design itself include the
following: (i) political factors which may interfere with
RWCs commitment to raise tariffs so as to achieve the agreed
financial targets. This is minimized by financing relatively
small affordable investments scattered among a number of
water companies, incorporating a grace period for repayment
of the sub-loans, and up front approval of agreed upon
tariff-setting guidelines; (ii) diminishing political
commitment to decentralization. This is unlikely given the
widespread political support for the policy, the fact that
all political parties support municipal participation as RWC
shareholders, and agreement to restructure at least four RWCs
before loan effectiveness5 (Lii) the difficulty of
maintaining a PMU capable of fulfilling the role that it has
been assigned. This has been handled by involving the PMU
from the outset of project preparation, financing
Implementation assistance, ensuring competitive staff
salaries and preparing a detailed Manual of Procedures; and
(iv) lack of counterpart funds given adjustment-induced
budgetary restraint. This risk is minimized by Annual
Reviews to agree on appropriately sized Annual Investment
Programs, and financing with the loan proceeds a relatively
large percentage of each component, ranging from 70 to 100%.
Poverty Impact: Not Applicable.
Rate of Return: Eligible sub-projects should have an economic rate of -return
not lower than 12%.



-iv-
ESTIMATED PROJECT MOSS                     Loal        Fogeigg      Total
--USS Million--------
Institutional Strongtheningll
Capacity Building                         0.3         1.2           1.5
-Water Resources Managet!ent               0.1         0.4          0.5
PMU and Project Implementatilon
Assistance                             0.5         2.0          2.5
Investment Planning and                      -
Construction Supervision                                          _C3
S--ubttsl  -                  -S -   - 6.0                7.5
Water and sewerage Investments
Project Completion/Rehabilitation
Window                                 37.4        30.6          68.0
Non-revenue Water Reduction Window       16.5        13.           30.0
Subtotal                      53.9         44.1         98.0
Total Baseline Costs                   55.4        50.1         105.5
Physical Contingencies                    4.7         5.6          10.3
rr..ce Contingencies                      5.1         4.5           9.6
interest During Construction                         55.6           S.6
Total                                      65.2        65.8         131.0
j/ Arnex 9 incLudes a more detailed brealkdom of expenditures under this coqwonent.
FMh_CING (US$ million and percentage)
World                  Water
Bank      ,6OVt.     Companies        Total
,  T.    .  AMT. %..  .AT. %    ..AML.   %
Institutional Strengthening    7.5   100                              7.5  100
Project Completion/
Rehabilitation              47.5    70  10.2  15    10.3  15       68.0  100
Non-revenue Water Reduction   21.0    70                9.0  30      30.0  100
Interest During Construction   5.6   100                              5.6  100
Unallocated                   J16.4  __82   .,2   6     2.3  12_   19.9  100
Total                         98.0  74.8  11.4  8.7   21.6  16.5  131.0  100
ESTIMATED !BRD LOAN DISAB (EUSENTS       million)
Bank Fiscal Year   j    1996   1997  1I=    1999   2000  2001  2002
Annual             6.1_/ 10.2  18.9  19.1   15.1   15.1  11.5    2.0
Cumulative         6.1  16.3  35.2  54.3  69.4   84.5  96.0  98.0
ri In tine with the standard disbursement profite for the water sector loan for all regions.
V  Inctudes deposit in the Speciat Account of USS4.0 million.



IU1LQhRL&
VATER COMPANIES RESTRUCTURING AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. CouMtrylEconomic Profile
1.1         Bulgaria, one of the smaller South-Eastern European countries in
terms of area (43,000 square miles) and population (8.5 million), belongs to
the group of former socialist countries in transition. A peaceful adjustment
to multiparty democracy has been in progress since 1989. In October 1991 the
first non-communist Government since 1944 was formed.
1.2         Since February 1991, successive Governments have pursued economic
reform and stabilization, including price and trade liberalization. A floating
exchange rate regime has been established. In the initial years of reform,
coordinated and austere monetary, fiscal and exchange rate policies were
implemented to lower inflation and to improve external balance. The burden of
fiscal adjustment fell hardest on investment, which declined from 9.8% of GDP
in 1990 to 1.8% in 1993, resulting in a build-up of unfinished investments.
1.3         Despite impressive adjustments, economy activity has continued to
fall and inflation has remained high -- 91% in 1992; and 65% in 1993. GDP
fell by about 5% in 1993, implying an aggregate decline of 40% since 1988,
though some new private sector activities may not be captured in scatistics.
Unemployment has also risen from 1.8% in 1990 to 16.5% in 1993. One factor
constraining economic growth has been the large external debt owed to
commercial banks (US$ 8.5 billion). While an agreement on debt reduction with
Bulgaria's commercial creditors has recently been concluded, that is expected
to be supported by a Bank Debt and Debt Service Reduction (DDSR) operation,
access to capital for trade and investment is likely to remain constrained for
several more years.
1.4         Although the reform process in Bulgaria has been uneven and
slower-than-expected in privatization, successive governments since 1991 have
remained committed to the development of a strong market economy, including
key legislative reforms needed to support privatization, land restitution,
demonopolization, and bankruptcy norms. The reform has stimulated the
development of an active private sector, which now accounts for about a third
of economic activity and over 50% of retail trade. The Government of Bulgaria,
while continuing to implement market reforms, is under severe pressure from
trade unions and political parties to return the economy to growth and prevent
further social tension arising from the adjustment process. The Government's



-2-
program focuses on: (i) accelerating privatization,* (ii) adopting an adequate
social safety net for low income groups; (iii) successfully concluding the
DDSR operation with the commercial creditors; (iv) stimulating the economy and
facilitating private investment by increasing spending on high priority
-infrastructure. Accelerating privatization is a key priority. It has been
initially hindered by legislative uncertainties, and more recently, by
-cumbersome asset valuation procedures. To speed the process of privatization,
the GOB has proposed and the Parliament is considering several amendments to
the Privatization Law, including the introduction of a mass privatization
scheme. Prospects for a return t* medium- and long- term economic growth
remaini positive, if the Government can sustain the reform program, but the
risk of setbacks cannot be dismissed.
B. Sector Profile
1.5        Institutional Framework. The National Council on Water (an
interministerial body) established in 1991 is responsible for Water
legislation and has recently drafted a Water Law which is now pending
Parliamentary approval.11 The Council allocates water resources between
sectors for drinking water, energy, and agriculture. The Ministry of Health
monitors and enforces drinking water quality standards. The Ministry of
Environment (NOE) monitors ambient water quality, enforces standards, and
finances construction of wastewater treatment plants. The Ministry of
Regional Development and Construction (MRD) plays a policy-making and
operational role for the sector; key State-owned sector enterprises are under
its authority. These include: (i) Vodokanal Engineering, the major design
firm for large water and sewerage investments; (ii) Vodokanal Invest,
responsible for contracting and monitoring construction of State-financed
water and sewerage investments; (iii) Hydrostroy, specialized in construction;
and (iv) 29 regional water supply and sewerage companies (RWCs) supplying
services to about 85% of the population (7.2 million). There are also 14
municipal water and sewerage companies serving 15% of the population
(1.3 million).  Raw water for drinking purposes derives from water companies'
own single pur;ose dams, catchments, wells, and large multi-purpose dams
operated by the Dams and Cascades Division of the National Electric Company.
irrigation water is supplied by the Ministry of Agriculture.
1.6        Domestic Water Supply and Demand.  Water is a relatively scarce
resource with a per capita endowment below half the European average (2,400 m3
in Bulgaria versus 5,000 m3 in Europe). About 98% of the population is
connected to the drinking water supply network. About 68% of drinking water
is supplied from surface sources and 32% from groundwater. Households consume
61% of water sold while industrial (28%) and agricultural enterprises (11%)
account for the balance. Average domestic water consumption is about 116
liters per capita per day. Seasonal and year-round regional imbalances in
water supply, compounded by over consumption and physical losses, have led to
considerable service inequality. Year-round water shortages persist in 103
1I   rh dmA kw P*ide fo (I) P0044tio  ma rowad dtin g wer a:mg (i) river hai _mang   4 thon &e oa D ew river hclb agendX
to be otrgned tunder h Natioal Cocl an Wau;r (00 sol protcio aound wat ame  (iv) penitan for vwe alocaiaua ad (VO
abdhetka fe, Me dah am  aot howcver, go fir eo_ugh in clealy defining redomlkia.  au6mWi L h Isd tec    at tde tims dha
Pi%rta wm Ph dot I in itspruttfoan



-3-
cities and 1,103 settlements. Seasonal shortages prevail in 14 cities and 85
settlements. Inadequate access to drinking water has negative social and
health impacts.
1.7         wastewater.  Environmental protection was not a high priority
during the socialist period. Wastewat2r collection and treatment
infrastructure lags far behind water supply. -8ased on a survey of water and
sewerage companies representing 70% of connections, Qo.ly 18% of customers are
connected to sewers. Moreover, access to sewerage is very uneven throughout
the territory, ranging from 4% to 75% depending on the company.  Only one
third of -uunicipai- sewer systems (i.e., 60-of 187) have :primary or secondary
wastewater treatment plants and one quarter of plants do not treat water to
design standards, usually due to lack of equipment or materials. Low coverage
of sewerage and sewage treatment has a negative impact on public health and
the environment. About 32% of wastewater discharged into rivers does not
comply with standards. Pre-treatment of industrial discharges is required by
law, but the Goverament does not have the means to enforce compliance in every
case. Its approach, therefore, is to focus on the most serious cases of non-
compliance, about 10% of enterprises.
1.8         The Government has began restructuring the major State enterprises
under the MRD. First, Vodokanal Engineering, Hydrostroy Construction and all
water companies were transformed from State enterprises into "Sole
Proprietorship Limited Liability Companies" (i.e., Sole Proprietor Ltd.
Company) under the Commercial Trade Act (1991) and all operating subsidies
were eliminated. The shares of Sole Proprietor Ltd. Companies remain State-
owned. The objectives of restructuring were to break up monopolies and
provide companies with the corporate structure and commercial incentives to
improve efficiency. After the initial transformation, Vodokanal Engineering
divested itself of contracting and construction supervision with the
establishment of Vodokanal Invest as a separate Sole Proprietor Lt1. Company
in 1991. Vodokanal Engineering intends to spin off several geotechnical
divisions. As a result of the contraction in investment, phasing out of
operating subsidies and divestiture, Vodokanal Engineering staff fell from
1,500 to about 700. Vodokanal Invest has a staff of 40.
1.9         Similarly, Hydrostroy was broken up into 13 separate Sole
Proprietor Ltd. Companies, including 9 regionally-based construction companies
and 4 enterprises specialized in laying pipelines, drilling, heavy industry,
and hydrotechnical research. Staff fell from approximately 12,800 to 3,000
with the drop in budget-financed construction. The MRD intends to subject
Vodokanal Engineering and Hydrostroy enterprises to competition, both among
themselves (i.e., Hydrostroy regional construction companies) and with
emerging private contractors, often comprised of former staff. Eventually, it
intends to privatize these enterprises according to the Privatization Act of
1992.
1.10        The MRD also began transforming water operating utilities by
establishing 29 regional water and sewerage companies (RWCs).  Each RWC
delivers water and sewerage services to 3-17 municipalitiesZ and is organized
as a Sole Proprietor Ltd. Company. For the networks serving a single
Mu     or abobe an ceahous; hece. genpkaw ai U.S. 'co_&e.



-4-
municipality, 14 municipal companies were established and transferred to local
authorities, The proposed project would promote further restructuring to
improve RWCs' autonomy, commercial orientation, and local accountability.
C. Regional Water and Sewerag,e            -a_&anies-ssues for ProJect Desian
1.11        Commercialization/Coroorate Accountabiljty.  For the RWCs, new
managers were competitively selected by the MRD and now operate under   -
individual management contracts incorporating some corporate performance
indicators. Still, widely accepted management efficiency indicators for water
utilities are not routinely collected. Some staff downsizing has also
occurred, but there is still scope for improving efficiency._ A remaining
concern is that RWCs' management are accountable only to the central
Government; hence not necessarily responsive to municipal authorities and
consumers with primary interest in adequate services and affordable prices.
Although more corporate autonomy and incentives have been provided by the
reforras, company managers still tend to seek guidance from the MRD,
particularly on key issues such as pricing. A broader shareholder base is
needed to provide a better corporate environment for efficiency gains.
Performance-based incentives and access to training for staff are also needed.
1.12        Accounting. RWCs are required to apply the accounting principles
and standards established in the Accountancy Law and the Chart of Accounts
which entered into force in Bulgaria in 1991. The Law and the Chart are
important steps toward harmonizing Bulgaria's accounting practices on the
international standards. The newly introduced principles and standards are
substantially different from the previous accounting regime. They incorporate
the concepts of profit, prudence, going concern, and consistency. The full
implementation of the new accounting practices in water and sewerage companies
will require a sustained effort over a long period of time, together with
training for managers and accounting staff. This process may be facilitated
by water companies contracting accounting and auditing services with private
firms. Some local firms have been recently established in Bulgaria and the
major international firms have offices in the country.
1.13        Tariff Settina Guidelines.    Water and sewerage tariffs are set
by water companies in accordance with guidelines issued by the Council of
Ministers. Compliance with the guidelines is monitored by the National
Committee on Tariffs. The Council of Ministers guidelines for setting tariffs
allow RWCs to cover water and sewerage operating and maintenance costs and add
a 12% "mark-up" (rate of "profit"). The "mark-up" is designed to fund
corporate tax payments (amounting to about 50% of the "mark-up"), and any
other financial requirement such as debt service, and contribution to
investment. RWCs are permitted to set prices for household services at a
discount (typically below 30% of average cost) and cross-subsidize these with
higher charges to industry. Most RWCs in fact set tariffs in this way. The
current tariff-setting guidelines represent a significant improvement over the
previous practice of setting a uniform national tariff. Nevertheless, they
are not fully satisfactory because they do not take into account the specific
1'   TIe avoftge  n. o ihe Dum wate cooWnum of 7.6 carnpc_IOOO.6  ceme a baft= te tWR is W. BimP (W/0) aid
delopi4 cambua (5-=2sO). Owuag im  cwompnie for mo tmido e    em to far examd Bu%Ua mm



-s-
investment needs and debt service requirements of water companies. This
approach was feasible when investments were financed from the central budget,
but it is not feasible when water companies have to finance investments with
internal cash generation and borrowing. The guidelines and monitoring of
tariffs has been the Government's response to pressure from trade unions to
increase the level of intervention in price-setting by monopolLes. This
pressure stems primarily from the public perception that monopolies are
raising prices without improving efficiency.
1.14        The thrust of the Project is to ensure that water companies have
both the incentives and wherewithal to improve efficiency and to ensure that
tariffs are sufficient to cover legitimate current and capital costs. to
ensure the latter, the tariff-setting guidelines for water companies will need
to move away from the allowable "mark-up" concept, which does not necessarily
reflect actual costs. Revised tariff-setting guidelines should allow water
companies to: (i) provide for working capital needs (ii) contribute not less
than 30% to planned investments; (iii) cover debt service; (iv) provide
adequate funding for maintenance and renewals; (v) adjust tariffs for
inflation every quarter; and (vi) reduce over time the price differential
between household and industrial consumers (paras.4.21 and 4.22).
1.15        Tariff Levels and Affordabiliy. Before 1990, the unified
househole. tariff was Leva 0.1 mS and 0.4   for industry.  Water and sewerage
tariffs rose on average by about 100% in real terms in 1991 and since then,
continuing large nominal increases by most RWCs have kept real prices roughly
stable. There is, however, substantial variation in the tariff levels, partly
explained by cost differentials and partly by water companies' varying
aggressiveness in cost recoverv. For example, among RWCs in April 1993, water
and sewerage tariffs ranged from Leva 0.95 to 7.6 per m3 (US$.04 to .30 per
in3) for households and Leva 1.63 to 10.4 (USS.06 to .40 per m3) for industries
(Annex 1). Despite the increases, the majority *. RWCs maintain low water and
sewerage tariffs--generally below 3 leva/ml for domestic water (USS.11W/ in
1993). Tariffs remain affordable with the average annual water and sewerage
bill representing less than 1.4% of the lowast old age pension. Since these
services were substantially underpriced during the socialist period, recent
tariff increases still only barely enable RWCs to cover operating costs and
generally do not allow a contribution to investment or network renewal costs.
Low prices are also partly enabled by the fact that RWCs are relatively debt
free as existing infrastructure was largely financed from the central budget.
Finally, tariffs are kept low by pressure from municipalities and consumers,
who have had to adjust to significant other price adjustments in the economy
without noticeable service improvement. Underpricing results in
overconsumption and strains utility finances, constraining investments in
infrastructure and service., causing their deterioration.
1.16        Billina and Collection.  Between 85 and 90% of consumers are
metered, and RWCs have been instructed by the MRD to meter all remaining
unmetered connections. This high ratio, which likely stems from the
prevalence of private housing (i.e., 85%) in Bulgaria during the socialist
period, make the sector rather rare among former socialist economies. The
existence of metering and the personal responsibility for water usage this
engendered should greatly facilitate cost recovery and efficiency gains if
RWCs operate under rules of the game that provide the correct incentives.
Billing and collection is also fairly well developed though most systems have



-6-
not been automated. The percentage of water bills eventually collected is
relatively high, particularly from households (i.e., 90% for a sample
surveyed), though there are indications that collections from industrial
consumers have begun to lag recently.  RWCs will need to arrest the
deterioration in collection ratios and enforce water cutoffs as industrial
restructuring proceeds and tariffs rise.;                  -
I.. 17 -   Non-revenue Water.  It is estimated that non-revenue water4'
averages 40% in Bulgaria, but exceeds 50% in some RWCB. Reducing non-revenue
water is critical to improve operating efficiency, cost recovery, and
alleviate water shortages.  Nevertheless, esatisfactory "diagnosis and curel is
hindered by the fact that most production, along with transmission in regional
networks, is unmetered. According to the preliminary analysis, 70 to 90% of
water losses are physical losses attributable to the water network, which
consists of 50,000 km of pipe--80% of which is asbestos cement.  Problems are
threefold. First, the quality of the pipes and rings is poor. Second, civil
works were not carried out according to acceptable standards (e.g., sand beds
around pipes are sometimes lacking or improperly sized). Third, many pipes
are beyond their useful life, which is 25 to 30 years even for good quality
asbestos cement pipes.
1.18        Investment Plannina and Execution.  Up until now, water supply
investments have been centrally planned, financed, and executed by the MRD.
Sewerage investments have been planned by the MOE and financed with budget
transfers to municipalities. Investment costs were not recovered from
consumers. This centralized decision-making process together with the lack of
market-based criteria to guide investment selection or competition among
alternative uses of capital led to significant allocative inefficiencies.
Institutionally-fragmented investment planning (e.g., MRD for water, NOE and
municipalities for sewage treatment) and budget finance also led to a supply-
driven approach. Proposed investments were not always viewed from the
perspective of an integrated network, nor were tiiey planned from the
institutional standpoint of the water companies that would operate and
maintain them. This often resulted in overdesign of facilities, design
inconsistencies and inefficient processes, including high energy costs.
Dependence on annual budget allocations led to long and uncertain construction
periods and cost escalation. The NRD estimates that there is a backlog of
uncompleted works valued at US$432 million. If cost minimization/efficiency
objectives are to be achieved in the future through improved accountability,
investment planning should increasingly be carried out by the RWCs themselves,
since they will also be responsible for operating and maintaining facilities
and recovering the costs through tariffs. Given their lack of experience with
investment planning and management, technical assistance and intensive staff
training is needed.
1.19        Priority issues facing the RWCs that were factored into project
design are:
lack of local ownership of RWCs which reduces accountability to
customers and dilutes incentives for commercialization and
efficiency;
41   Nosi-wvca WatuI(VdUm. pO&W - VO_= SoMVm PWduo"dj1OO



-7-
e     operating efficiency and cost recovery remain low with water
losses estimated at 40% and tariffs barely covering operating
costs;
staff lack access to training in modern system operation and
maintenance practices, management information systems, accounting,
or tariff settinqg-
*     companies lack access to capital needed to complete unfinished
water and sewerage investments, and upgrade. and rehabilitate
inefficient networks and facilities. Noreover, the sector lacks
financial intermediaries capable of brokering resources to fund
investments; and
*     water and sewerage companies lack experience in planning and
implementing their own investments.
II. SECTOR RESTRUCTURING STRATEGY
2*1         The Sector Restructuring Strategy, which the proposed Project
supports, aims at improving the policy, institutional, and regulatory
framework for water supply and sewerage services over the next decade. Its
main features are outlined below.
A. Further Restructuring of the Regional Water and Sewerage Companies
2.2         The restructuring strategy seeks to:  (i) expand RWCs' autonomy by
modifying their existing corporate structure; (ii) decentralize and promote
accountability to local authorities by inducting municipal shareholders to the
RWCB; (iii) make RWCs financially autonomous with regard to operation and
maintenance, and eventually, investment costs; (iv) make it feasible to
introduce forms of private participation such as concessions, leases or
management contracts; and (v) establish transparent and rigorous investment
screening procedures and effective institutional arrangements to channel funds
for economically justified sector investments. To achieve these objectives,
existing RWCs would first be transformed from Sole Proprietor Ltd. Companies
into Limited Liability Companies (Ltd. Companies) with a broader shareholder
base. As Ltd. Companies, the RWCs will own and operate water systems
previously managed by the State and have financial and managerial autonomy
under the 1991 Commercial Trade Act. This includes lnter alla the right to
hire or shed staff based on locally competitive wage scales and conditions and
the right to contract-out services to the private sector through concessions,
lease contracts or service contracts if shareholders perceive benefits from
such arrangements.
2.3         In time, the shares of each RWC would be owned by the
municipalities served in the region. During a transition period of about
5 years, not less than 49% of shares would be owned by municipalities on the
basis of population and the rest by the State. During this period, the
Government will continue to support investments and play a role in monitoring
the performance of company management while the capacity of local authorities



-8-
is strengthened and updated tariff-setting guidelines (para. 1.14) are tested.
Once new shareholders' capacity is demonstrated and RWCs are able to cover
debt service and contribute to investment from tariff revenues, the State will
give up its shareholdings. The participation of municipalities as
shareholders and the required recovery of investment costs through tariffs are
new institutional and commercial concepts. The MRD will need to exercise firm
policy guidance to ensure implementation.
2.4         Restructuring RWCs is the main policy objective of the Project.
The main stages of development for RWCs are cgrnoratization by transforming
water companies from Sole ProprietorshUps-into Limited Liability Companies;
decentralization by inducting municipal shareholders; and commercialization by
improving cost recovery. These measures together will facilitate eventual
private sector participation in the sector. Draft Articles of Association for
the restructured water companies (with municipalities as shareholders) and the
legal procedures for restructuring are in the Project File. To ensure prompt
restructuring of RWCs, agreement was reached at negotiations at negotiations
that MRD will (i) invite by September 30, 1994 all the relevant municipalities
to become shareholders of the RWCB, and (ii) complete by March 31, 1995 the
registration of the RWCs servicing municipalities that agree to become
shareholders as Limited Liability Companies (para. 7.1 (a)). It was also
agreed that at least four RWCs should be legally registered as Limited
Liability Companies as a condition of effectiveness (para. 7.2.(a)).
B. Privatizing State Engineerint and Construction Enterorises
2.5         The MRD is committed to privatizing the companies resulting from
the break-up of Vodokanal Engineering and Hydrostroy. To ready them for this
eventuality, both Vodokanal Engineering and Hydrostroy companies will compete
as State-owned commercial enterprises without government subsidies against
their divested enterprises and against domestic and international private
firms for the works and services to be financed under the Project. As demard
for their services is stimulated, joint ventures or privatization
opportunities for Vodokanal Engineering and Hydrostroy with local and/or
foreign investors are expected to materialize. Without the sector changes and
demand for services promoted by the Project, private investment in these
companies is unlikely.
C. Imlementing a new Regulatory Framework and Tariff Policies
2.6         The role of the MRD is to: (i) ensure a smooth transition to
decentralized control over water services; Iii) set and enforce policies for
state support to investments in water supply and sewerage; and (iii) collect
and publish information-on service levels and water company efficiency that
will give consumers a "yardstick" against which to compare relative
performance. Moreover, during the transition period when the State retains
51% ownership of RWCU, the MRD will provide guidelines approved by the Council
of Ministers for tariff-setting. MRD as the State's representative
shareholder in the RWCs, will also play a direct role in tariff-setting and
management oversight. After the transition Is completed and State ownership
is fully devolved to local authorities, the MRD will have no direct control
over management or tariff-setting, which local governments will assume as



-9-
owners of the companies. The MRD will continue to publish performance
indicators to ensure transparency of RWCs operations and finances as well as
public awareness.
2.7         Rwes, and municipal water companies participating in the Project,
will be required to set tariffs at levels that allow for effective operations,
maintenance, renewals, and debt service as provided for in the updated tariff-
setting guidelines to be adopted under the project (Annex 2). Raising water
prices over time is expected to result in lower consumption and a general.
shift from supply- to demand-oriented management. The collection and
publication of the companies' performance indicators will help to monitor that.
tariff levels are justified and that the companies pursue cost minimization.
2.8         Drinking water standards will continue to be set and enforced by
the Ministry of Health while ambient water quality will continue to be
monitored/controlled by the MOE.
D. ImgrovinQ Water Resources Management
2.9         The Government is committed to improve water resources management.
major objectives are to clarify institutional responsibilities and integrate
management of water quality and quantity at the river basin level. At
present, functions are divided between the MOE, the National council on Water
and other institutions (para. 1.5).  To achieve the objectives, the Government
will carry out a study to identify options and recommended actions. The study
which would be carried out by a team of Bulgarian experts with foreign
assistance as needed is part of the Project (para. 4.7). Also, the draft
water law (para. 1.5) and the GEF-financed Danube River Program, which is
preparing pre-investment studies for three Bulgarian tributaries, are
attempting a river basin approach to water resources management.
2.10        The Government is also committed to develop new and more effective
mechanisms for water pollution control and abatement. The NOE has already
collected baseline data on industrial effluent and pre-treatment for all major
discharge sources. It is upgrading its pollution monitoring capability with
assistance from EC PHARE and strengthening the enforcement capabilities of its
Regional Environmental Inspectorates. These measures will complement the
Project by ensuring that industrial effluent is properly pre-treated before
discharge into municipal facilities. More work is needed to ensure that new
ambient and effluent standards proposed by the MOE are phased in such a way as
to meet European Community standards over time with due regard to
affordability. As recommended by the Environment Strategy (Report No. 10142)
prepared last year with the World Bank, U.S. EPA and AID, a system of taxes
for wastewater discharges is under preparation. Revenues generated by the
taxes would be used to finance urgent pollution abatement investments.
E. Sector En;asament Criteria
2.11        A long-term strategy has been agreed along with an initial set of
measures to be supported by the Project. The emphases of these initial
measures are in restructuring and strengthening water companies. Further Bank



- 10 -
involvement in the sector will depend on progress in implementing the agreed
short-term measures and adopting solutions which begin to address longer-term
strategic objectives.
2.12        In order to gauge progress in implementing the restructuring
strategy, a series of objective Sector Engagement Criteria have been  -
identified. These criteria will form the basis of our evolving sector
dialogue and give signals as to whether the Bank should remain actively
engaged in the sector.  Sustained and measurable progress together with strong
Project implementation performance are expected to justify further Bank
support to the-sector using simplified documentation, to the extent possible
The Government also plans to seek finance from other donors to increase sector
investments along the lines of the Project at an appropriate stage.
2.13        The Sector Engagement Criteria which will be monitored by the Bank
during supervision are as follows:
(i) restructuring RWCs as Ltd. Companies with municipal shareholders;
(ii) establishing effective institutional arrangements and procedures
for screening potential sector investments based on objective
criteria, channelling resources to those that qualify, and
ensuring water companies repay sub-loans;
(iii) maintaining the reduced role of MRD in water company operations,
strengthening MRD's role in collecting and publishing sector
performance indicators, and encouraging municipalities to
effectively oversee water companies' operations;
(iv) establishing cost recovery and on-lending policies that cause
tariffs to reflect the full cost of services;
(v) privatizing State engineering and construction enterprises serving
the water supply and sanitation sector;
(vi) adopting and implementing institutional arrangements for water
resources management that integrate quantitative and qualitative
controls at the river basin level; and
(vii) improving environmental protection through a mix of command-and-
control and market-based incentive measures.
III. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
3.1         The Bank's country assistance strategy (CAS) for Bulgaria,
discussed by the Board on March 9, 1993, aims at supporting the Government's
structural adjustment and macroeconomic stabilization, as well as providing
investment financing aimed, inter-alla, at assuring adequate infrastructure
for economic growth. Improving the environment is also an important objective
of the CAS. The proposed Project directly contributes to achieve the
objectives of the CAS by providing a vehicle through which to pursue a broad
dialogue and establish the basis for future support to the sector, either



directly to water and sewerage companies or, preferably, via the financial
sector once financial reforms are completed. Bank involvement can encourage
the adoption of a coherent strategic framework for the sector based on
principles of commercial viability, demand orientation, and sustainability.
In the absence of Bank involvement, it is unlikely that the country would be
able-to mobilize the technical, assistance and financial resources needed to
simultaneously restructure the sector and finance priority infrastructure.
The Bankws procurement guidelines will introduce competitive bidding as a
means of stimulating supplier efficiency and t-ansition to-a market economy
for the sector.  As the first water sector operation for-an economy in
transition, it will provide important-design lessons and implementation
experience for projects elsewhere. Finally, the Projeot meets the 3anke-
program objective category of environmentally sustainable development.
IV.  THElQO
A. Obiectives
4.1         The project objectives are to assist the Government to:
*     increase the corporate autonomy and commercial orientation of RWCs
and make their management accountable to local authorities;
*     improve health and environmental conditions in urban areas and
conserve water resources;
*     increase RWCs' operating efficiency and cost recovery; and
*     demonstrate the feasibility and benefits of introducing
transparent procurement procedures, efficient contract management,
and competition for supply of goods, works, and services.
B. Proiect Components
4.2         The proposed Project, to be implemented from 1994-2001 comprises
two main components: (i) Institutional Strengthening Window; and (ii)
Priority Water and Sewerage Investments Window.
Institutlonal StrenSthening Window
4.3         This component accounts for 7% of Baseline Costs, and will fund
consulting services, acquisition of equipment, and materials for: (I) RWC
capacity building through in-country training and provision of technical
assistance; (ii) carrying a Water Resources Management study; (iii) project
implementation; and (Lv) enhancing RWCs investment planning capabilities and
construction supervision.
RWC Capacity Buildina
4.4         In-country training (US$0.5 million) will be provided in high
priority subjects to about 100 representatives of shareholders, managers, and



- 12 -
staff of the water and sewerage companies. Courses will be focussed and
short. The aim is to develop capacity in core areas considered essential for
commercialization. Core training will include 4 modules:
*    General Management:  Shareholder Responsibilitiesa Management
Strategy, Planning, and Control; Personnell Public Relational
Communication, Management Styles and Delegation; and-Private
Sector Participation.
*    Financial Managements  Financial Accounting and Auditing;- Cost
Accounting; Tariff Settingt and Financial Planning -and Control.-
*    operations and Maintenance:  operational Efficiency; Maintenance;
Metering; Control of Losses; Billing; and Customer Relations.
*     Investment Planning:  Sub-project Preparation, Procurement,
Disbursement and Supervision Procedures; Investment Feasibility
Studies; Environmental Impact Assessment; and Investment
Appraisal.
4.5         To complement the core training, a technical assistance program
(US$1.0 million) will be established on a matching grant basis to satisfy
individual water companies' demands for more tailored technical assistance.
Assistance will be targeted to water companies and other entitiese5 whose
proposals meet the following objectives:
*    to increase water companies, operating efficiency and cost
recovery;
*    to improve environmental and water resources management; and
*    to improve the health of the population by improving the quality
of drinking water.
4.6         The maximum allocation from the loan proceeds for any one
technical assistance on a matching grant basis will initially be US$100,000
and would require a minimum 30% matching contribution by the beneficiary.
Individual interventions of larger size may be allowed with the approval of
the MRD and the Bank. Both the maximum grant and the cost-sharing floor may
be adjusted after the first year based on experience. Depending on the
average size of activity, it is estimated that about 30 technical assistance
activities can be financed with the proposed allocation. If the technical
assistance program is achieving its objectives as expected, additional project
funds may be reallocated to it with the agreement of the Bank and the NRD.
Activities that potentially benefit =cre than one company or have higher cost
sharing will have preference.
wfetmrta WA viOk* or rqIsbinUe doi4 above elmu of onern.m Fow afnpk. epMamlhicmlg  k  sm WuIShe whm adwim heal
Wfec wea suemVed fran eVow. to coomimniniu driking waie omM bcared =nW  I, lbyd Nail.. Centw d1 hygIen mi Mefdim E.ohg.



- 13 -
Water Resources Management Studs
4.7           The purpose of this study (US$0.5 million) is to design improved
institutional arrangements for managing water resources. Terms of reference,
and the arrangements and timetable for implementation were agreed at
negotiations (para. 4.29).
Prolject ImlmnainAssistance
4.8         A Project Management Unit (PMU) has been established-to assist the
Government in supervising the project and to assist water and sewerage
companies in accessing the loan resources (pakas._ 4.24 and 4.25).  The loan
itself will finance the local consultants/staff of the PMU along with
necessary equipment and materials (US$1.0 million). The budget for the PMU is
included in Annex 4.
4.9         In addition, the loan will finance international and local
consultants (Project Implementation Assistance Consultant -- US$1.5 million)
that the PMU will need to appraise sub-projects and capacity-building grant
requests submitted by water and sewerage companies. When requested by water
and sewerage companies, the Project Implementation Assistance Consultant will
also prepare bidding documents and/or Terms of Reference. The Project
Implementation Assistance Consultant will also prepare a diagnostic study and
strategy for the reduction of Non-revenue Water on the basis of field
investigations in pilot areas and assist the PMU in appraising requests by
water and sewerage companies for funds from the Non-revenue Water Window
(para. 4.13). The consultant will prepare guidelines to assist water and
sewerage companies to design their own action plans for controlling physical
and commercial water losses, define a plan for improved operation and
maintenance and pipe replacement for the pilot areas, and prepare bidding
documents for procurement of production and distribution meters.
Enhancing Investment Planning and Construction Supervision
4.10        The Project includes funds (US$3.0 million) to be on-lent (para.
4.18) to RWCs to enhance investment planning capabilities and construction
supervision.
Priority Water and Sewerage Investments Window
4.11        The investment window would have two components:  Project
Completion/Rehabilitation Window (para. 4.12) and Non-revenue Water Reduction
Window (para. 4.13).  Approved sub-projects should contribute to one or more
of the following sector priorities:
*     reduce water losses,
*     increase water and sewerage companies operational efficiency and
cost recovery potential;
*     provide water supply in areas of acute shortage;
*     improve drinking water quality where health is threatened;



- 14 -
*    ensure sewage collection where an existing wastewater treatment
plant is underutilised; and
*     reduce pollution in sensitive water courses, where upstream
pollution prevents downstream use of natural resources such as
-   -    --  drinking water; or results in irreversible environmental damage
(i.e., biodiversity, beaches).
PFoiect ComDletionuRehabilitatjon window
4?12        The Project gives priority to completion of ongoing investmentes,
elimination of system bottlenecks, and rehabilitation and upgrading of
facilities.  US$68 million of project funds have thus been allocated to a
Project Completion/Rehabilitation Window for water and sewerage sub-projects
that are deemed eligible based on agreed criteria (para. 4.23).  Many needed
investments were initiated by the Government in earlier years, but
construction was halted due to lack of funds. There are also cases of systems
where bottlenecks have arisen due to design and construction imbalances. For
example, there are instances where sufficient water supply has been developed,
but treatment plant capacity lags; hence the efficiency of the system is poor.
Deferred maintenance and rehabilitation of existing facilities have resulted
in systems operating below design standards. Eligible sub-projects should
have an estimated economic rate of return not lower than 12% (PMU Manual of
Procedures (para. 4.25)).
Non-revenue Water Reduction 1indow
4.13   -   The Non-revenue Water Reduction Window (US$30 million) will
respond to the emerging incentives for water and sewerage companies-to reduce
water losses and to improve their operating efficiency. The objective during
the project implementation period is to reduce water losses from about 40% to
25%. This is an ambitious target. Success requires a commercial orientation
and new managerial approaches by water and sewerage companies that encourage
adequate operation and maintenance, including network upgrading and
replacement and using high quality materials and civil works. Studies and
training included under the Institutional Strengthening Component will support
this objective. Investment resources provided through this Window will
finance:
*     installation of accurate production meters6/ satisfying about 50%
of the country's total requirements; and
*    purchase and installation of equipment needed to improve
commercialization, system operations and maintenance, and
replacement of pipes and accessories.
6 It b mitat twi t  1of0 waiaeu at.S rN_ tge pmi 1,rbkm down u folhw. _wa _uin (10.0t. OmOv, (S.0C9,
'OterN     pla (4. PgpI SW- 260. mdpd eou (1,000.



- 15 -
C. Prolect Costs and Financlnf
4.14       The total cost of the Project is'estimated at US$131.0 million
including physical and price contingencies and 80% of interest and other
charges on the Loan (para. 4.15), net of taxes. This figure excludes the sunk
costs-of investments initiated and funded by the Government (about
US$75 million) which would be completed under the project. Table 1 provides
Project Cost Estimates, including the estimated breakdown of local (US$65.2
million) and foreign costs (US$65.8 million). The'relative size of the
different investment windows is notional and reflects the overall investment
priorities, The Base Coate of the Pro$ect are-US$105.5 million,
expressed in April 1994 prices.  Physical contingencies-are about 10% of
baseline cost. Price contingencies were estimated on the basis of expected
annual inflation rates (ODP deflators) from 1994 to 2001.7/
Table 1: Prolect Cost Estimates
(US$ million)
Local      Foreion    Total
 -------US$ Million--------
Institutional Strengtheningy
Capacity Building                       0.3        1.2          1.5
Water Resources Management              0.1        0.4          0.5
PMU and Project Implementation
Assistance                           0.5        2.0          2.5
Investment Planning and
Construction Supervision             0.6        2.4          3.0
Subtotal                      1.5         6.0         7.5
Water and Sewerage Investments
Project Completion/Rehabilitation
Window                               37.4        30.6        68.0
Non-revenue Water Reduction Window     16.5       13.5         3Q.0
Subtotal                     53.9        44.1        98.0
Total Baseline Costs                 55.4       50.1        105.5
Physical Contingencies                  4.7        5.6         10.3
Price Contingencies                     5.1        4.5          9.6
Interest During Construction                       55.6
Total                                    65.2       65.8        131.0
I/ Ariex 9 includes a more detalLed breakdom of expenditures wider this caianent.
71    1. amumed Maioe ste. .rm *do.e 40% fwr 194. 30% for 199, 20% fwr 1990 10% for 199 ..I 6% forto UMflg faw yulm ftd
forIn 1.2X for 1994.2.41 for 199, S.2X for 19963.4X fo 199.3.2% fo 1998.3.3% fo 199. S.4% io 200 ui 3.3% for 201. JIbe
bor mumnd tbat tlhe a_cing     will be puiodio   4ilal  Xa t oas d;ffom.bleno r  frign inflaian 



- 16 -
4.15        The financing plan (Table 2) includes the proceeds of the Bank
loan, the Government's contribution and internal cash generated by water and
sewerage companies. The Bank loan of US$98 million will finance-about 75% of
project costs including 80% interest and other charges on the Bank loan. The
latter up to US$5.6 million. The interest and other charges to be financed by
the loan correspond to part of the loan to be on-lent by the Government to
water and sewerage companies.  The financing of interest and other charges on
part of-the Loan to be on-lent is justified because the RWCs are only now
being established and their cash flow is still limited in relation to their
investment needs.  The Bank loan will be repaid by the Government over 17
years including 4 years of-grace with repayments calculated on an annuity
basis at the BankCs- standard variable rate of interest.  The local cou-nterpart
financing of US$33.0 million will be provided by the Government (US$11.4
million) and by water and sewerage companies (US$21.6 million). Proposed cost
sharing principles have been designed: (i) to minimise the impact on the State
budget during the adjustment process; (ii) recognize the value of the
Government's prior contribution to uncompleted investments8 and the positive
externalities for some types of investments that have beneficial health or
environmental effects; and (iii) to ensure that each contract is financed by
no more than two sources of funds, the Bank loan and local funds -- either
from water and sewerage companies or the Government budget depending on
whether they are water supply-related (i.e., Bank/water and sewerage
companies) or sewerage (i.e., Bank/Government). Minimizing the number of
financing sources will facilitate implementation.
Table 2:  Proiect Fiancini  Plan
(US$ million)
World                  Water
Bank       Govt.     Companies        Total
AMT.   %   AMT.                  . AMT  AMT
Institutional Strengthening    7.5  100                              7.5  100
Project Completion/
Rehabilitation              47.5   70    10.2 15    10.3  15      68.0  100
Non-revenue Water Reduction   21.0   70                 9.0  30     30.0  100
Interest During Construction   5.6  100                              5.6  100
Unallocated                   16.4 _       _ 1.2  _6    2.3  12     19.9  100
Total                         98.0 74.8   11.4  8.7   21.6  16.5  131.0  100
4.16        In line with these principles, water supply investments from the
Project Completion/Rehabilitation Window and the Non-revenue Water Window will
be financed by the Bank loan (70%) and water and sewerage companies (30%).
Sewerage investments will be financed by the Bank loan (70%) and the
Government budget (30%). For the Institutional Strengthening component, the
Bank loan will finance 100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of items procured
f  Aw at 9f&cwoktobeflauadwr UM  CrWdw an mm am X0% coiple*d. a cmesadve estima of &*
v  fA   p odWworsioUS$75iHUs            srh                        p



- 17 -
locally; however, water and sewerage companies will share expenses by covering
the cost of staff travel and subsistence for training and making at least a
30% contribution to each technical assistance activity. These contributions
are not included in the cost tables.
4.17       -The-Project Financing Plan broken down by -local and foreign costs
is presente-d in Table 3 below.
Table 3:  Proiect Logal and Foreign Cost and SouKcS of Financing
. - ... . - . (US$ uillon)                -       -............ ..
Local       Foreian      Total
World Bank                          32.2         65.8         98.0
Government                          11.4           0.0        11.4
Water and Sewerage Companies        21.6         .0.0         21.6
Total                             65.2         6
D. Cost RecovenrvOn-lend1ng Policy
4.18        The proceeds of the loan allocated to the Project
Completion/Rehabilitation and Non-revenue Water Reduction Windows (US$47.5
million and US$21.0 million respectively) will be on-lent by the Government to
water and sewerage companies which meet the eligibility criteria under the
Project (para. 4.23). The proceeds allocated to investment planning and
construction supervision (US$3 million) will also be on-lent. The proceeds of
the loan allocated to Capacity Building Program, the Water Resources
Management study and project implementation assistance (US$4.5 million) will
be provided by the Government to the sector on a grant basis to encourage and
facilitate the water and sewerage companies restructuring and the efficiency
improvements. US$5.6 million of the loan will finance interest during
construction (para. 4.1S). The remaining US$16.4 million remain unallocated.
4.19        In designing the on-lending terms and conditions for sub-loans to
water and sewerage companies, the GOB has adhered to the following criteria:
(i) the interest rate on sub-loans should take into account
financial market conditions so as to provide incentives for
efficient resource allocation;
(ii) the repayment period of sub-loans should result in a cash
flow which allows the Government to service the Bank loan
with the payments received from the water and sewerage
companies, so as not to create new budgetary demands; and



- 18 -
(iii) the tariffs required for water and sewerage companies to
service their debts should be affordable by the consumers to
ensure sustainability of the restructuring process.
4.20        In line with these criteria, sub-loans will be denominated in leva
at a variable interest rate.; The rate will be the Basic Rate (Central B^nk
Rediscount Rate) plus a premium to compensate for the credit and the foreign
exchange risks which will be assumed by the Government. The interest rate
will be adjusted periodically to reflect changes in the Basic Rate at the time
of the adjustment.  It in proposed that the sub-loans will be long-term,
-initially 13 years, including a 3-year grace period for the repayment of both
principal and interest.  With the agreement of the Bank, the terms may be
adjusted for new sub-loans during the project execution period in response to
changing conditions in the financial markets, and to ensure that the recovery
of sub-loans provides the Government with sufficient funds to repay the Bank
loan. The terms and conditions of sub-loans (Annex 5) were agreed at
negotiations (para. 7.'(b)).
E. Water and Sewerage Companies' Tariffs
4.21        As part of the sector restructuring program, the GOB is updating
the guidelines for tariff setting by RWCs. The revised tariff guidelines
(Annex 2) will apply to all RWCs, regardless of whether or not they are
receiving sub-loans under the Project. The updated guidelines are easy for
the water and sewerage companies to apply and the NRD to administer and
monitor. The main improvements vis-a-vis the old guidelines (para. 1.14) are
that RWCs will:
* make adequate provision for financing infrastructure
maintenance and renewals, system expansion, and debt service;
* make specific provisions for working capital needs;
* implement quarterly tariff adjustments to compensate for
inflation; and
* be encouraged to introduce rising block tariffs as a substitute
for the existing preferential tariff for households versus
industry.
4.22        In order to provide for adequate operation and maintenance
expenditures, the level of tariffs is expected to rise in all water and
sewerage companies, not only those with sub-loans approved under the project.
The anticipated level of tariffs has been estimated for companies included in
the Initial Investment Program (IIP -- para. 4.30). For the six companies in
the IIP, the tariff increases in real terms that would be required to
adequately cover operation and maintenance range from 30 to 50%, over a four
year period. An additional 5 to 10% increase would be required at the end of
the grace period to cover debt service on the sub-loans. Forecasted cash flow
statements are in the Project File. The tariff-setting guidelines enable
water and sewerage companies to phase-in these expected adjustments based on
actual costs, and improvements in systems operation and maintenance during the
sub-project execution period. This gradual approach to tariff increases



_ 19 _
protects consumers from large price increases and thus improve its political
viability and sustainability. Also, the operational improvement programs
(para. 4.23) for each water company will include specific targets for improved
operational and financial performance. At negotiations, agreement was reached
that issuance of revised tariff guidelines taking into account the criteria in
paras. 4.21 and 4.22 in a manner satisfactory to the Bank will be a condition
of effectiveness (para. 7.2 (b)). Additional details on the guidelines are
provided in Annex 2
P.  Institutiogal Eligibi_itv Criteria for Sub-loans
4.23        RWCs that wish to qualify for sub-project finance must first be
restructured as Limited Liability Companies with not less than 49% ownership
by the municipalities in their service area and the rest by the State.
Municipal companies without State participation will also be eligible upon
satisfying all other institutional eligibility criteria. These criteria
(Annex 6) are that companies must be in compliance with the NRD's updated
guidelines for setting tariffs; submit quarterly performance indicators to the
MERD and the PMU; prepare operational improvement programs and submit them to
the MRD and the PMU; and participate in the training program. These
eligibility criteria were agreed upon at negotiations (para. 7.1(c)). At that
time it was also agreed that the Bank will make a prior review of the first
six sub-projects to be financed by the Bank loan and any subsequent sub-
project whose total cost is US$5.0 million or more (para. 7.1(d)). These sub-
projects, as well as the first four loans and grants under the Institutional
Strengthening Window (para. 4.28) are viewed as "demonstration sub-projects"
which will provide design lessons and implementation experience for other sub-
projects. The PMU will take specific actions to use the experience of these
sub-projects for transfer of experience to the beneficiaries of future sub-
loans.
G.  Project ImRlementation
4.24        Responsibilities.  The Government as Borrower would be represented
by the Ministry of Finance. The Project Executing Agency would be the MRD,
which has established the PMU to assist in Project execution. The PMU has
been established within the National Center for Regional Development and
Housing (NCRDH), a specialized institute under the MED. In addition to
overseeing the PMU, the MRD will issue the updated tariff guidelines approved
by the Council of Ministers; complete the restructuring of RWCs; and collect
and publish the performance indicators to be submitted by the water and
sewerage companies. The MRD will award and sign consultant contracts under
the Institutional Strengthening component and certify that the sub-projects in
the Annual Investment Program compiled by the PMU meet the eligibility
criteria agreed by the Bank and Government. The MRD will engage an
Implementation Assistance Consultant (para. 4.9), acceptable to the Bank under
Terms of Reference also acceptable to the Bank, to assist in Project execution
(para. 7.1 (e)).  Draft Terms of Reference were agreed upon at negotiations
and are in the Project File. The consultant should be selected prior to loan
effectiveness (para. 7.2 (c)).



- 20 -
4.25        The PMU was established by the MR3 at the outset of project
preparation and it has gained a great deal of experience that will serve it
well during implementation.  The Organization Chart for the PNU is included in
Annex 7.  The PNU will operate according to an agreed Manual of Procedures
(Project File) that was agreed at negotiations (para. 7.1 (f)). At that
time, agreement was also reached on the staffing needs of the PNU0 and how they
will be met.  The main responsibilities of the PM1U are to organize the
selection process for consultants to be hired under the institutional
strengthening component and supervise the consultants; assist water and
sewerage companies in preparing sub-projectal appraise sub-projects and
compile an Annual Investment Program for submission to the MRD and World Bank;
monitor sub-project implementationj and report to the MRD. and the World Bank
on the status of implementation (Annex 8).   Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the organizational structure, staffing and functions of
NCRDH will at all times be such as to facilitate satisfactory Project
implementation (para. 7.1 (g)).
4.26        In line with the restructuring objective of the Project, water and
sewerage companies will have significantly enhanced responsibilities for sub-
project implementation. Water and sewerage companies will prepare their own
investment proposals including technical, economic, financial, legal and
environmental studies required to demonstrate feasibility and submit them to
the PMU for review. They will also sign an on-lending agreement with the MRD;
prepare and launch tenders for goods, works, and services; and negotiate and
sign contracts with suppliers of goods, works and services after obtaining the
necessary no objections from the PMU and/or the Bank. Procurement will be
simplified by the use of standard bidding document (para. 4.34). In addition,
the Bank has already started to provide and will continue to provide training
on procurement matters (para. 4.45).
4.27        In order to ensure high quality construction supervision and make
it possible to group sub-projects under a single supervision contract, this
service will be available to the subject to the companies under centrally
arranged contracts managed by the PMU and paid for by the companies with sub-
loans under the Project. To promote competition and the development of the
local consulting engineering capacity, it is envisioned that about six
contracts will be awarded as sub-projects are approved. The participating
water and sewerage companies will be represented in the selection committee
for the supervision consultants and will sign the contract jointly with the
PMU. Water and sewerage companies that do not wish to avail themselves of
this service may procure construction supervision services at their own
expense, subject to the review and approval of the P14U. Selection of
consultants for the technical assistance program and the improvement of
investment planning and feasibility studies will be made jointly by water
companies and PMU.
4.28        Institutional Strenothenino Window.  The MRD through its PMU will
be responsible for implementing this component, which aims at strengthening
sector institutions. The RWCs training will be carried out by the P1W with
the help of consultants. The consultant will prepare the core training
modules and organize the training courses for water and sewerage companies.
Selection of consultants for the technical assistance program and the
improvement of investment planning and feasibility studies will be made
jointly by water companies and PMU. Contracts with consultants will be signed



- 21 -
by water companies, subject to PMU approval. Bank approval will be required
for the first two activities to be carried out under each the capacity
building program and the improvement of investment planning capabilities and
construction supervision (para.7.1 (d)). Other activities will be reviewed
ex-post during supervision.      -
4.29       For the Water Resources Management Stuiy (para. 4.7) to be carried
out under the institutional strengthening component, the PMV will be
responsible for managing the consultants under the overall guidance of the
MRD. Other governmental entities may be involved to ensure adequate.
.stakeholders participatiot.-- These -inlude inter-alia -the National -Council on
Water, the Ministries of Agriculture and Environment, and the Committee on
Energy. Terms of Reference for the study are included in the Project File.
At negotiations, agreement was reached that the study will be carried out by a
team of Bulgarian experts with foreign assistance as needed. The consultants
should be satisfactory to the Bank (para. i.1 (h)). The timetable for
contracting the study is included in Annex 9. Agreement was also reached that
within 30 days of completion of the study, the Government will furnish to the
Bank a copy of its findings and recommendations, and within six months of the
completion of the study, the Government will furnish to the Bank its proposal
to implement the study's recommendations or alternatives satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 7.1 (h)).
4.30        Initial Investment Program.   In order to ensure that project
implementation is accelerated, a large number (38) of potential sub-projects
submitted by the MRD, MOE, and by water and sewerage companies were screened
by the PMU and consultants during project preparation on the basis of
technical, economic, financial and institutional criteria.9/ Sub-projects for
six RWCs (Dobrich/Makedonka, Sliven, Pleven, Bourgas/Pomorie, Zlatna Panega,
Stara Zagora/Kazanlak -- Annex 10), have been cleared to proceed to the
detailed feasibility stage. Sub-projects for these six RWCs will constitute
the Initial Investment Program, with a current estimated value of US$32
million. The feasibility studies for three of them are being carried out
under a Japan Grant executed by the Government through the PMU.
R. Procurement
4.31       The project elements, their estimated costs, and the procurement
arrangements are summarized in Table 4.
4.32       All goods and works to be financed from the Bank loan proceeds
would be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement
(May 1992), including amendments as of the loan signing date and using the
country standard bidding documents for Bulgaria. Bulgarian manufacturers
competing for the contracts for the supply of goods procured under
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures would receive a preference
in bid evaluation of 15% of the CIF price or the prevailing custom duty
applicable to non-exempt importers, whichever is less, provided they can prove
2I-  Sub-pojcts we r u _edu   aMording Lo %ebhncl oe  rlaichlui: () the beeft ofibe sub-paoject  ine e imtin of RBOD  mluedam for
sweag or adddo   volume of wa    for ww suply; (ij ie consscyq of the sub-p   wit   othet  eomon   f thea to_   nd actud
dand of the popuaton; (ii) tress for Impuko ncluding ahabfil of ddleddei dgus m uwcqibb or aeed a* n
moddico. Subrje metg telidc egIiOt wm Om subjted to finanl. cow=.  sued cwlhmmlenblae Io
ascctalec (a) Lh cap y of th wat  copy to cowr      sravice oa the Dank kb   trug  w XF, (b) do aom effeaiveneof thb wsi_ns
mawue in tem of BOD5 reduct for sago at rddtl vaoum of wte for wae sqpgr. (a) _1ft by low icme b_m:ds (d)



- 22 -
to the satisfaction of GOD and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value addeu in Bulgaria equal to at least 20% of ex-factory
bid price of such gooda.
4.33        Goods and equipment to be financed from the Bank loan proceeds
will consist of equipment for treatment plants, pumping-stations, sewero,
pipes, water meters, vehicles, computer systems and office equipment. As far
as practicable these will be sliced and packaged in such a manner that all
packages will be large enough to attract international competition and at the
same time will contain suitable "slices" to attract small manufacturers.
Local suppliers especially water and sewer pipe manufacturers are expected to
bid on most of this equipment and joint ventures arrangements between local
and foreign manufactures are also expected. Goods and equipment packages
estimated to cost more than US$250,000 equivalent each will be procured
through ICS. Two drinking water treatment plants (Sliven and Zlatna Panega)
would be procured through ICB on a turnkey-barsis with the "industrial model"
of domestic preference applicable to domestic manufacturers and contractors,
following a two-stage procedure.  The sludge digester at Pleven would be
procured through LCB on a turn-key basis following a single-step bidding
procedure. International Shopping (IS) based on comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from three eligible
countries will be used for contracts estimated to cost less than US$250,000
with an aggregate limit of US$3.0 million.  Local Shopping (LS) based on
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers will be
used for contracts estimated to cost leas than US$50,000 with an aggregate
limit of US$1.0 million.



- 23
TaAe 4:    gr/ n wmt
P olect stement                                   I&          C       oth,er         ^       Cs
1.      Works
1.1     Water Puwping                               1.0                               1.0
(0.7)                            (0.7)
1.2     Water rsnks                       - 2.5     0.7                               3.2
(1.8)   (O.S)                             (2.3)
1.3     Laying of Pipelines                         1.0                               1.0
(0.7)                           (C.7)
t.4        Sewer yolks                         3.0     1.2                               4.2
(2.1)   (0.8)                             (2.9)
1.5     Instatlation of Meters                      5.3                               5.3
(3.8)                            (3.8)
1.6     Remaining ProJects                 10.M     6.4                              17.1
(?.6)   (4.S)                            (12.1)
2.      Turnkey Contracts
2.1     Drinking Vater                     16.2                                      16.2
Treatment Plants               (11.6)                                     (11.6)
2.2     Studge digester                     O.S                                       0.5
(0.3)                                     (0.3)
3.      Goods
3.1     Equipment                          14.1                3.0!(                 17.1
(10.1)             (2.3)                  (12.4)
3.2     PIpes & Pipeline                   29.3                                      29.3
(21.0)                                    (21.0)
3.3     Meters                              5.3                                       5.3
(3.8)                                     (3.8)
3.4     Remaining Projects                 14.7                1.0!*                  MY.?
(10.5)             (0.8)                  (11.3)
4.      TA Contracts & Training
4.1     Training & Capacity-                                   1.9                    1.9
BuildIng                                           (1.9)                   (1.9)
4.2     water Resources Management                             0.6                    0.6
(0.6)                  (0.6)
4.3     PHIU Operating Costs                                   1.3                    1.3
(1.3)                  (1.3)
4.4     PNU Inplep entation Assistance                         1.9                    1.9
(1.9)                  (1.9)
4.5     Investment Ptanning &
Construction Supervision                            3.8                    3.8
(3.8)                  (3.8)
5.      Misceltaneous
5.1     Interest During Construction                                         5.6      5.6
(5.6)    (S.6)
Total                                      96.3    15.6       13.5           5.6    131.0
The Bank                                  (68.8)  (11.0)    (12,6)         L;6    (2L9.
t/ International Shopping (USS3.0 million) and Local Shopping (US#1.0 million).
N.A. Not Applicable



- 24 -
4.34        Procurement of civil works estimated to cost more than
US$1,000,000 equivalent will be through ICa. For civil works of estimated
value between US$250,000 and US$1,000,000 that are not be of interest to
foreign bidders, procuirement will be through local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures. For both ICU contract and-LCB contracts of value exceeding
US$250,000 the bidding documents drafted following the Bank's Sample Bidding
Documents for Small Works (SBDSW) with unit price option and price adjustment
provision will be used. For woxks in remote areas or for some rehabilitation
type works estimated to cost less than US$250,000 equivalent, which would not
be of interest to foreign bidders, procurement will be through LCB procedures
using the bidding documents drafted following SBDSW on fixed and lump-sum
price option, with payment only in local currency.  However, to compensate for
local inflation the bidders will be permitted to denominate their bid prices
in US dollar with provision for payments only in local currency at the
exchange rates applicable on the dates of progress payments. For procuremert
under LCB for the Bank-financed portion of the civil works foreign bidders
would be allowed to participate. Al'. civil works contracts with construction
periods exceeding eighteen months will be subject to price escalation.
Typically, the construction period for small contracts valued below US$250,000
would be less than eighteen months. Local contractors experienced in water
and sanitation works are numerous and they are expected to bid for small
contracts under the Project.
4.3S        All contracts awarded through ICB, contracts awarded through LCB
valued in excess of US$250,000 and contracts for technical assistance and
consultants services valued in excess of USS100,000 equivalent will be subject
to prior Bank review. This limit would result in prior review of over 95%
percent of total procurement. All other contracts will be subject to
selective ex-post review by the Bank. During negotiations, standard bidding
documents for Bulgaria for ICB, LCB, Two-Stage Bid and Consultant Services
were agreed (para. 7.1 (i)).
4.36        Bulgaria is in the process of drafting procurement laws that will
supersede existing laws, regulations and procurement practices. Since the
Bulgarian law regulations and procedures are yet to be reviewed by the Bank
to verify that they are acceptable for the procurement proposed under the
Project, assurances have been obtained *rom the GoB that the procurement of
Project components to be financed from Bank loan proceeds will be strictly in
accordance with the requirements under the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and
the standard bidding documents for Bulgaria will be used for all LCB as well
as ICB procurement.
4.37        Consultant contracts will be awarded following the Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Dank as
Executing Agency. Consulting contracts, with the exception of the
Implementation Assistance Consultant, will be selected with price as one of
the considerations (technical merits 80% and price 20%). The Implementation
Assistance consulting contract, was included as a third phase of the ongoing
contract for project preparation. At the Government's option, and with the
Bank's agreement, direct negotiations may be held with this consultant to
carry out phase three of the contract. If agreement cannot be reached, or if
the Government prefers, the Implementation Assistance consultant would be
selected based on competitive basis and in accordance with Bank's Consultant
Guidelines.



- 25 -
4.38        The consultant contracts listed in Annex 9 range from 30 to 90
staff-months, with baseline costs of individual assignments ranging from
US$0.5 million to US$1.5 million. Terms of Reference are in the Project File.
It is expected to award about six construction supervision contracts averaging
US$350,000 each as sub-projects are approved.
4.39        In addition to the above consultancies, there will be some
consultants (individual and firms) hired by water and sewerage companies
receiving matching grants under the Capacity-Building Program. These
consultants will also be hired in accordance with Bank procedures.
I. Disbursements
4.40        Loan proceeds will be disbursed over eight years with the closing
date of June 30, 2002. Table S provides the summary disbursement schedule
with quarterly estimates included in Annex 11. It was agreed that the final
date for approval of sub-loan proposals will be December 31, 1999
(para. 7.1 (j)).
Table 5.  Estimated Loan Disbursements V
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year    199   1996  1997  1998  1999  20_0 2001  20
Annual              6.1_  10.2  18.9  19.1  15.1  15.1  11.5   2.0
Cumulative          6.1   16.3  35.2  54.3  69.4  84.5  96.0  98.0
I/ In line with the stawdard disbursement profile for the water sector loan for all regions.
y Includes deposit in the Special Account of USS4.0 million.
4.41        The Bank loan will finance 90 to 100% of eligible expenditures for
consultants, auditors, goods, equipment, and materials procured under the
Institutional Strengthening Window; 70* of investments under the Project
Completion/Rehabilitation Window with the balance provided by the State budget
(i.e., sewerage) or water and sewerage companies (i.e., water supply); and 80%
of interest and other charges accrued on the Bank loan until January 31, 2002
up to US$5.6 million, which would be withdrawn by the Bank from the loan
account. The remaining 20% of interest and other charges would be paid by the
Government. Table 6 presents the allocation of loan proceeds by project
component.



- 26 -
Tdb4- 6: Allocation of .Lan P_roac_es
Cateoorv                                    An t of toan                Expenditures
(USS)                   to be Financed
1.  Institutional Strengthening Window                      7,500,000
(a) Investment Ptanning' and
Construction Supervision                      3,000,000
- Consultant Services *          .        .       .100.
* Equipment ------------------------------------------------------ 100% of foreign expenditures;
t00X of locat expenditures
Sex-factory cost);
- - -    -       - --         9n0 of. loca  expenditure for other
Items procured locally.
(b) Capacity Building, Water Resources
Management and PHU and Project
Imlopemntation Assistance                     4,500,000
* Consultant and Auditing Services  ----1----------------------------- t00X
* Equipment --------------------------1------------------------------- 100X of foreign expenditures;
100t of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost);
9O0 of tocal expenditures for other
item procured locally.
11.  Water and Sewerage Investments Window                   47,500,000
(a) Project Completfon/Rehabilftation Window
Civil works,installation, sad
Turnkey contracts.70X
Goods, equipment and  aterials                                               70   of foreign expenditures;
70% of local expenditures
(ax-factory cost);
70% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally.
(b) mon-Revenue Reduction Window                    21,000.000
Civil works,instaltation          ....................................... 70X
Goods, equipment, and  nterisas --------------------------------------- 70%  of foreign expenditures;
701  of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost);
70%  of local expenditures for other
item procured locally.
Ill.  Interest and Other Charges on the Loan                   5,600,000
accrued on or before January 31. 2002
IV. Unallocated                                              16.400.000
Total0
4.42              The Borrower will establish a Special Account in US dollars in a
bank acceptable to the World Bank and on terms and conditions also
satisfactory to the World Bank. The authorized allocation to this account
would be US$4 million equivalent, representing about 4 months of average
expenditures under the loan. At the request of the Borrower and, based on
project needs, the World Bank would make an initial deposit or deposits into



- 27 -
the Special Account, up to the amount of the authorized allocation.
Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted
monthly, or when one-third of the amount deposited has been withdrawn,
whichever occurs earlier. DocumetltLtion requirements for replenishment
allocations would follow the same procedure as described in the above section
on "Disbursements". In addition, monthly bank statements of the Special
Account which have been reconciled by the Borrower should accompany all
replenishment requests.
J.  Accounts and Audits
4.43        On-lending agreements for sub-loans will require water and
sewerage companies to submit to the PNU audited financial statements for each
fiscal year not later than June 30 of the following year.  The P3W will review
the audit reports of water and sewerage companies and will take appropriate
action to ensure that the auditor's recommendations to improve water and
sewerage companies' accounting and internal control systems are implemented.
If water and sewerage companies are not in a position to supply adequate
financial statements in the short-term, a compliance schedule will be worked
out as a sub-loan condition. These audits may be financed from the
Institutional Strengthening Window as they will increase the transparency of
water and sewerage companies operations and finances. The Bank will review
the audits on a sample basis to ensure that the PMU is satisfactorily
enforcing water and sewerage companies' compliance with audit requirements.
4.44        During negotiations assurances were provided that the Special
Account, Project Accounts, Statements of Expenditure and the pro-forma
accounts of the PNU will be audited at the end of each fiscal year by
independent auditors acceptable to the World Bank (para. 7.1 (k)). Audits
will be made available to the World Bank by June 30 each year.
K. Supervision
4.45          Intensive Bank supervision is needed because the Project
includes significant policy and institutional content and investments are
scattered. Much of the day-to-day supervision will be carried out by the PMU,
but Bank-intensive supervision of the PMU will be required, particularly in
the early years. Field supervision will take place about three time each year
including an Annual Project Review mission. Supervision requirements are 30
staffweeks in FY95, 30 in FY96 and 20 each FY97-FYOI making for a total of 180
staffweeks. During the first year a Project Launch Workshop will also be
organized along with a training seminar in procurement, disbursement, and
accounts/audits. The estimated ratio of supervision costs (180 staffweeks) to
preparation costs (about 170 staffweeks) is about 1 to 1. Supervision
economies will be sought by relying on the Bank Resident Mission for routine
consultations. Costs for follow-on projects should decline as the PMU and
water and sewerage companies gain experience in investment planning and
implementation and Bank procedures.
4.46        For each Annual Project Review, the PMU will furnish for
discussion an Annual Investment Program based on agreed eligibility criteria.
It will also prepare an Assessment of the previous year's implementation



- 28 -
experience for discussion with the Bank, MRD and participating water and
sewerage companies during the first quarter of each calendar year. The Annual
Project Review will coincide with the Government's annual budget cycle to
ensure consistency between the proposed next year investment program and
counterpart fund availability. Each year, the P3U will also update project
costs based on the unit prices derived from previous tenders. A Mid-term
Review will also be held.  This review is scheduled for June 1997, and in
addition to the matters to be covered in the annual review would provide for
an in depth assessment of the progress achieved in meeting.the project
objectives and of the issues faced during implementation, and should result in
an agreement on further actions that may be required. The scope of-the Mid-
term-and Annual Reviews wan agreed at negotiations, and is shown in Annex 12
(para. 7.1 (1)).
4.47        During negotiations, it was agreed that the PNU will furnish to
the Bank quarterly progress reports within 20 days of the end of each quarter
(para. 7.1 (m)). These reports should include a summary of implementation
status, a proforma financial statement for the PMU and Special Account,
progress report on restructuring water and sewerage companies, performance
indicators for water and sewerage companies, training courses provided during
the period, new capacity-building grants approved, and update of progress on
the Water Resources Management Study. Included in these reports will also be
procurement information to be collected and recorded as follows: (a) contract
award information; (b) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the
total project, including best estimates of allowances for physical and price
contingency, (c) revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising,
bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual contracts, and
(d) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
L. Environmental Screening
4.48        The Project is classified in Environmental Screening Category OS",
requiring sub-project environmental analyses, consistent with O.D. 4.01. The
project is expected to generate significant environmental benefits in three
main areas: (i) reduced pressure on the environment resulting from reduced
water losses; (ii) direct positive impact on water quality for affected
rivers, groundwater and seawater resulting from improved sewage treatment
facilities; and (iii) improved consistency between water supply, sewerage, and
wastewater treatment in current and future project design.
4.49        Preliminary environmental analysis of sub-projects in the proposed
ZIP (in Project File) has been carried out to identify benefits, examine
potential negative impacts and propose mitigation measures where needed. The
review of the preliminary environmental analysis points to the need fort
(i) environmentally acceptable disposal of sludge from the wastewater
treatment plants (especially in view of the additional sludge to be
generated), and (ii) assessment and control of any detrimental effects of the
marine outfall for the treated effluent from the wastewater treatment plant in
Pomorie. Satisfactory sludge disposal plans will be developed and
incorporated into final wastewater treatment plant designs which will be
suamitted to the Bank for approval before-tendering. An environmental impact



- 29 -
study for the Pomorie outfall will be carried out and reviewed and approved by
the MOE and the Bank before completion of the final design for the outfall.
The results of the study will be submitted to the Bank for approval.
4.50        All environmental analyses for sub-projects will be evaluated by
the MOB in line with the Republic of Bulgaria's Environmental Impact
Assessment Regulation (No. 1 of December 28, 1992).  The regulation along with
MOE's evaluation process, mechanism and capacity were reviewed and found
satisfactory by the sank.  The enviro.Auental analyses and their evaluation by
the MOE will be submitted to the Bank for review and approval before sub-loan
approval by the Borrower (para. 7.1 (d)).  The environmental analyses should
be consistent-with the requirements for Category "8B" Project..
4.51        Some sub-projects that could be eligible for funding under the
Project would involve water of either rivers that flow through Bulgaria and
one of its neighbors (i.e., Greece, Romania, Turkey or former Yugoslavia) or
tributaries of such rivers. However, notification to other riparians will not
be required under the Bank's policy because the Project will only finance sub-
projects that will involve the rehabilitation, upgrading and completion of
existing water and sewerage systems, and will be complemented by water demand
management and loss reduction programs. Thus, the sub-projects will have no
adverse effect on either the quantity or quality of present and future water
flows. To ensure that the proposed sub-projects satisfy these two conditions,
assurances were provided at negotiations that all proposed sub-projects that
involve surface water from international waters will be submitted to the Bank
for prior review and approval (para. 7.1 (d)).  After such review, the Bank
will only approve the financing of sub-projects which wills (i) have no
adverse effect on the quantity of water flows to any other riparian countries,
since they will have to involve no or only marginal increase in water
extraction and will incorporate measures to improve demand management and loss
reduction; (ii) have no adverse effect on water quality as they will involve,
where appropriate, completion and/or upgrading uf axisting wastewater
treatment plants which will help to improve the quality of downstream river
water; and (iii) be of such nature as to not be subject to adverse effects
from the uses of water made by other riparians (para 7.1 (n)). In addition,
since the Water Resources Management Study undertaken under the Institutional
Strengthening Window of the Project involves international waterways,
assurances were also obtained at negotiations that the terms of reference for
the study will include examination of any potential riparian issues (para. 7.1
(d)).
4.52        No resettlement issues have been identified at present.
Feasibility studies for sub-projects will include a review and identification
of potential population displacements. At negotiations agreement was reached
that sub-borrowers will be required to comply with the resettlement guidelines
of the Bank and a satisfactory resettlement plan will be required for sub-
project approval (para. 7.1(d)).  Dam safety procedures were reviewed and
found satisfactory during preparation of the Bank's Energy Project (SAR Report
No. 11240-BUL). No dam construction is envisaged in the Project.



- 30 -
V. PROJECT JUSTIFLCATION
5.1         The Project is justified by the Government's strong commitment to
restructure and modernize the water sector-a process that began in 1991 prior
to the World Bank's involvement.  It will provide direct benefits for
consumers, macroeconomic benefits, and social and environmental benefits.
5.2         Direct Benefits for Consumers.  All consumers can potentially
benefit-from the efficiency gains generated by the restructuring process and
the Institutional Strengthening Component of the Project, which is open to all-
water and sewerage companies.  It is expected that the restructuring,
technical asistLance, and investment will strengthen companies' managerial
efficiency, financial viability, service quality, and capacity to pian and
implement investments. This should result in cost containment and affordable
tariffs. Moreover, restructuring of water and sewerage companies and adding
municipal shareholders will introduce the concept of managerial accountability
to local consumers. The performance monitoring indicators (para. 4.23) to be
reported by water and sewerage companies to the MMD will serve to provide to
the public compaxative information on efficiency. The benefits expected to
accrue to consumers in terms of improved efficiency can also be measured
through such indicators.
5.3         The infrastructure investments under the Project will result in
further direct benefits to consumers. The major benefits include upgrading
water services and improving the availability of water to consumers currently
experiencing drinking water shortages. This would be the result of both the
completion of unfinished water supply investment (e.g., water treatment
plants, tanks) and the expected reductions in non-revenue water from 40% to
25% during the Project period. For the three water supply investments that
have already been identified for the ZIP (i.e., Sliven, Zlatna Panega, and
Makedonka) it is anticipated that they will together eliminate drinking water
deficits for a population of 386,000. Rteductions in non-revenue water should
reduce the need and cost associated with developing new water sources. rn
addition, improving sewage collection and treatment should help to reverse
deteriorating water quality and prevent higher water treatment costs
downstream. Direct benefits to consumers and the rate of return on
investments will be estimated for sub-projects as they are identified and
feasibility studies completed.   The Manual of Procedures to be followed by
the PMU establishes that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, eligible
sub-projects should have a rate of return not lower than 12%.
5.4         Macroeconomic Benefits.  The Project supports the Government's
macroeconomic objective of redefining and making more effective the State's
role in the economy. It does this by: (i) shifting investment responsibility
from the State budget to water and sewerage companies, which will recover
costs through user charges; (ii) redefining State functions away from
operating utilities to monitoring and regulating; and (iii) strengthening
local authorities, who will become responsible for provision of services.
5.5         The Project complements the Bank SAL-supported adjustment process
by restoring finance for critically needed investments and stimulating
employment and growth. The Government's 1994-96 investment program envisages
water and sanitation sector investments amounting to approximately US$55



- 31 -
million a year. The program, however is not realistic because of budgetary
constraints and the lack of credit for sector operations. rn practice, the
investments in the sector are likely to be determined by the availability of
=external financing. Under these conditions, the project is expected to
account for the bulk of sector investments at least for the initial years of
Project execution. Beyond that, water and sewerage companies and other
external-sources are expected to-increase their share.  -
5.6         The Project will help to -improve public tavestment programminq by
introducing economic, financial, and technical criteria to guide investment
selection--an approach that might be adopted later by other sectors. Most
investments in the program have large aunk costs and high economic returns.
which without the Project may not be realized given fiscal constraints and the
fact that they are relatively small and scattered, hence not amenable to
external financing.
5.7         Through procurement, the Project will support the Government's
objectives of increasing competition. Stimulating the sector should facilitate
privatization of local suppliers of goods and services to the sector and/or
establishment of foreign joint ventures.
5.8         Social and _nviroSnmental Benefits.  The social benefits include
improvements in public health and employment gains. Improvements in public
health would occur through reduction of drinking water contamination, although
lack of reliable epidemiological studies makes it difficult to quantify such
benefits. Based on the expected impact of the Project on GDP and average
import intensity at present, the Project expenditures will generate
approximately 45,000 jobs during the disbursement period (1994-2001), or an
average of 5,600 jobs per year. Employment generation will be higher if local
suppliers improve their competitiveness vis-a-vis foreign suppliers. moreover,
investments proposed for the IIP are located in areas of the territory
characterized by steep drops in industrial output exceeding 30%, unemployment
above 14%, and below average per capita income.
5.9         The Project addresses an agreed priority of the 1992 Bulgaria
Environment Strategy which inter alla called for completion of priority water
and sewerage investments with positive health or environmental benefits, and
for water conservation measures. The three sewerage investment identified for
the ZIP (i.e., Kazanluk, Pomorie, Pleven) will facilitate secondary treatment
for a population of 242,000 (Population Equivalent 800,000). The Annual
Investment Program will include assessments of population to be benefitted by
sewerage sub-projects in the investment program. Through the Core Training
Program, the Project will upgrade environmental management and awareness of
water and sewerage companies' staff.
5.10        Affordability.  All sub-investments analyzed for the IIP
demonstrate that they  tn be financed with affordable tariffs.  The share of
water expenditures in average household income is estimated at les than 1I,
while the maximum affordable level is estimated at 2.5%. Ensuring that low
income households can afford enough water is also facilitated by encouraging
water and sewerage companies to adopt a rising block tariff structure if they
wish. The first block of water consumed (e.g., up to 5 m3/household/month)
would be sold at a lower price, while consumption above this level would be
charged at a higher price. The two block tariffs ahould provide a balance



- 32 -
between the goal of affordability and the competing objectives of cost
recovery and efficiency and reduce and/or eliminate the current differential
between industrial and household consumers.
VI. RISK ASSESSMENT
6.1         There are many political and macroeconomic risks that could
negatively-affect Project execution which are not amenable to mitigating
measure. that can be built into the Project.  Those mitigated through project
design itself include the following:
*     political or macro-economic factors which may interfere with RWCs'
commitment to raise tariffs sufficiently to improve systeu
operations and maintenance and repay the Bank loan. This is
minimized by financing relatively small affordable investments
scattered among a number of water and sewerage companies,
incorporating a grace period for repayment of the sub-loans, and
the issuance of updated tariff-setting guidelines as a condition
of loan effectiveness;
*    RWC restructuring could slow if the political commitment to
decentralization diminishes. This is unlikely as all political
parties are committed to this policy and will benefit from
municipalities participation as RWC shareholders. In addition,
restructuring of at least four RWCs will be accomplished before
effectiveness. The policy is reinforced by complementary Bank
technical assistance in Local Government Reform financed by the
institutional Development Facility;
*     project investment costs may be underestimated given the dynamic
nature of price changes, previous lack of competition, and
difficulty of estimating completion costs. This is handled by
providing finance for contingencies, a flexible investment
program, and update of unit costs based on initial tenders;
*     implementation may be negatively impacted by the inherent
difficulty of establishing a capable PM1. This has been handled
by involving the PNU from the outset of project preparation,
financing implementation assistance, providing for competitive
staff salaries and recruitment, and preparing a detailed Manual of
Procedures. This Manual codifies experience already gained in
Bulgaria and builds on the Bank's experience with successful urban
projects in other Regions; and
*     counterpart funds may constrain the project given adjustment-
induced budgetary restraint. This risk is addressed by financing a
relatively large percentage of each component, rangirig from 70 to
100% and agreeing on an appropriately sized Annual Investment
Program.



- 33 -
*    Furtheruor, the proposed nnual and Mld-term Review (paras. 4.46)
t-t1l provide the Bank the opportunity to periodically reassess the
paogress achieved in meeting the project objectives, and to
discuss further measures that may become necessary.
-         VII. AOIEMKDt1! REACHED AND RECONNKNIATION
7.1         At negotiations, agreement was reached on the following matters:
(a)   the invitation by September 30, 1'994 to the municipalities to
become s,barebolders of the RWCs and the registering of RWCS as
Limited Liability Companies not later than March 31, 1995 (para.
2.4);
(b)   the term  and conditions of sub-loans (para. 4.20);
(c)   the institutional eligibility criteria for sub-loans (para. 4.23);
(d)  the prior review and approval of sub-projects, Institutional
Strengthening activities, environmental analyses, sub-projects and
studies involving surface waters, and resettlement plans (paras.
4.23, 4.28, 4.50, 4.51, ard 4.52);
(e)  the need to maintain Implementation Assistance Consultants and the
Terms of Reference for the Consultants (para. 4.24);
(f)   the Manual of Procedures to be followed by the PMU and its
staffing needs (para. 4.25);
(g)   the NCRDH organizational structure, staffing and functions
(para. 4.25);
(h)   the hiring of consultants, the Terms of Reference, for the Water
Resource Management study and commitment to implement the
recommendations of the study (para. 4.29);
(i)   the standard bidding documents (para. 4.35);
(j)   the final date for approval of sub-loans (para. 4.40);
(k)   the audit procedures (para. 4.44);
(1)   the scope of the Mid-term and Annual Reviews (para. 4.46);
(m)   the reporting requirements (para. 4.47); and
(n)   the criteria for Bank approval of sub-projects involving
international waterways (para. 4.51);



- 34 -
7.2         Agreement was also reached on the following conditions of
effectiveness:
(a)   qgintering at least four RWCS  as Limited Liability companies,
(para. 2.4);
(b)   issuance of the revised tariff-setting guidelines (para. 4.22)1
and
(C)   selecting the Implea_ntation Assistance Consultant (para. 4.24).
7.3                  *lon.  The proposed Project constitutes a suitablo basis
for a Bank Loan to the Government of Bulgaria in the amount of WS$98 million
at the standard variable interest rate for a period of 17 years, including a
four-year grace period, with repayments calculated on an annuity basis.
May 5, 1994



-35 -
. ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ Pp.
13 Tffs of Rcuoall We ad SWevrw e Ceun
TartsemSofWaes 
Wate                            Seer5                    Tota Wutrnde_t
1.        ......ard  .      .- ,:ti4
P . n                3.10    0.12    6.10    0.26    0.40    0.93    0.8       00      3.50    0.13     7.40   0a
lovlch               4.00    0.15    6m       0.3     0.10   0.04       25    0.01    4.10    0.16    6.45    04
*Dich                7.60    0.2    10.40    0.39    0.0    0.02    0O.5       0.3       1     0.1    10.90    0.41
Slam Zas             1.10    0.07    4O       0.15    0.20    0.01    0.20    0.01     2.00    0.0      4M      0.16
Dow$a                1.80    0.07    5.00    0.19                                      1.10    0.07    5.00    0.19
liii..               2.00    0.08    5.00    019    0.09   0.003    0.09   0.003    2.09    0.08    5.09    0.19
jB _goe~pad          1.80    0.07    SAO      0.19    0.40    0.02    0.40    0.02    2.20    0.01    5.40    0.20
Trgvihi              4.00    0.15    6.70    0.25                                      4.00    0.15    6.7      Om
Vaum                 4.00    0.15    6.20    0.23    0.40    0.02    1.50    0.06    4.40    0.17    7.70    0.29
V. Tanve             3.40    0.13    4.50    0.17   o0o    0.02    0.65    0.02    3.90    0.15    5.15    0.19
Vidin                3.50    0.      4.20    0.16    0.50    0.02    1.00    0.04    4.00    0.15   s5D         0.20
Vau.                 3.09    0.11    4.50    0.17    0.40    0.02    0.0    0.02    5.40    0M          5.00    0.19
lebtaft              1.60    0.06    3s       0.13    0.30    001    0.50    0.02    1.90    0.07    4.D        0.15
Kadim                2.50    0.09    4.00    0.S    0.35    0.0        0.35    0.01 QS8    0.11    435    0.16
EWjAdUf              2.50    0.0a    5.70    0.14    0.30    0.01    0.50    0.93   Z2o    0l.    4.20    0.16
u5man=               2.1     0.11    7.50    0.28    1.00    0.04    1.40    U.S    3.10    0.14         .90    0.54
paFUr                2.40    0.09    4.90    0.1      0.12   0.005    0.0    0.01    2.52    Q1         51to    0.19
Peals                1.30    0.05    3.57    0.14    0.25    0.01    1.14    0.04      1S    0.06    4.71    0.18
PIN                  2.00    0.0      330    0.12    0.20    0.01    0.20    0.01      2.20    0.0      5.50    0.13
Rapid                4.0     0.15    7.50    O        05      0.02    0.50    00M    4.50    0.17       80    0.30
Rous                 1.75   O00      4.00    0.15    0.20    0.01    0.30    0.01    1.95    0.07    4Jo    0.16
S1dm                4.50    0.17    9.00    034    0.2S    0.01    0.2S    0.01    4.75    0.18    9.25    Om
Smell                3.00    0.11    6.40    0.24    0.20    0.01    0.20    0.01    3.20    0.12    6.0    0.2S
Sofia-Rg.            0.9S    0.04    1.63    0.06    0.25    0.01    0.37    0.01      1.20    0.05    2.00    0.
Hake                 2.90    0.11    5.78    0.22    0.10   0.004    0.20    0.01    3.00    0.1        5.9"    0.2
9b_                  35.25    0.12    3.15    0.19    0      0002    0.15    0.01       3.0    0.12    5.30    0.
Ymbo1                2.50    0.09    5.60    0.14    0.20    0.01      0.20    0.01    2.70    0.10    3.10    0.14
1PWb                 6.00    0.23    7.00    0.26                                      6.00    0.25    7.00    0.26
Duzrgd               2.45    0.09    5.1o    0.22    0.05   0.002      .10   0.00      2.50    0.09    5.90    0.22



- 36 -
Page 1 of 2
ngWMIA
Water Comuanies Reytructurina and Modernizatlon Protect
Tari Settina Guidelines for V^ter and Seweraae Oomnanies
o'  clietives-
Tariff and other operating revenues should:
(a) recover the water and sewerage companies capital and current costs 
(b) encourage customers to conserve water; and
(c) be affordable to customers.
Costs to be Financed from Tariffs and Other   et     R _nes
To meet the objectives of the Tariff Guidelines, tariffs and other
operating revenues in any fiscal year should be sufficient to cover
(a) all expenses related to operations, including administration, and
adequate maintenance (but excluding depreciation). Specific
expenses in this category include:
.Materials
Salaries
External services
Social Insurance
Management Cost
Other current expenditures for good operation and
maintenance, including commercial costs
(b) debt service (repayment of principal + interest)
(c) taxes other than profit taxes
(d) dividends and taxes on profits, if any
(e) at least 30% of capital expenditures
(f) working capital needs (the difference between current assets and
current liabilities at the end of any fiscal year).
Tariffs and Other Oerating Revenues
Tariffs and other operating revenues includes the sum of revenues from
tariffs for water and sewerage services and customers deposits and customrs
contributions for capital expenditures.



- 37 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
Adjusting Tariffs and Other Charges
Water-companies should adjust their tariffs every quarter on January.
March,-June and September to reflect the inflation, based on Bulgaria's
consumer price index of the preceding calendar quarter.
Structure of Tariffs
Companies should consider a rising block tariff.  This would mean that
customers could buy enough for their basic needs at a low price. Any more
water would be at a higher price. All customers, including industry, would
have the inexpensive first block and the more expensive second block. For
large industrial and commercial users, almost all of their consumption would
be at the higher rate.
A raising block tariff:
(a) ensures people can afford the water they need (through the
inexpensive first block);
(b) allows companies to recover their costs (through the more expensiv@
second block); and
(c) encourages customers to conserve water; people who uses a lot of
water have to pay the higher price.
(d) Companies need to decide on the size of the first block, and the
price of each block. As a starting point should consider a first
block of 5 m3 per household per month (or other connection).
(e) Companies should also implement separate tariffs for water and
sewerage taking into account the costs of providing each service.
Responsibility for Setting Tariffs
The General Meeting of the water company is responsible for setting the
level and structure of tariffs.
The company's manager is responsible for recommending the tariff level
and structure to the General Meeting with appropriate justification.
Reporting Tariffs
The tariffs should be notified to the MRD in the quarterly Performance
Indicators Report.



BULGARI
Water Companles Restuctina and Moderiaton Prolt
Proiet Investnents by Yea
(US$ millon)
t995M             1996  1997        1        199I 9 aQ!. m        ToW
A. Institutional Strenathenina
Training & Capacity Building              0.1      0.4      0.5      0.4      0.1      0.0      0.0      0.0       1.5
Water Reswources Management               0.0      0.1      0.2      0.1      0.1       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.5
PMU and ProJect Implementation
Assistance                               0.1      0.4      0.5      0.4      0.3      0.3      03        0.2     2.5
Investment Planning and Consruction
Supeislon                                0.1      0.4      0.6      0.5      0.5      0.4      0.2       0.3     3.0
Sub-total                               0.3      1.3      1.8      1.4      1.0      0.7      0.5      0.5      7.5.         0
B. Water and Sewerace Investments
Proct Comnpletion/Rehabilitation Window   0.6      4.6      11.0     13.6     12.2     11.0     9.5      5.5      68.0
Non-Renue Reduction Window                0.3      2.1      4.8      6.0      5.4      4.8      4.2       2.4     30.0
Sub-total                               0.9      6.7     15.8     19.6    17.6      15.8     13.7      7.9     98.0
Total Baseline Costs                        1.2     8.0      17.6     21.0     18.6     16.5     t4.2      8.4    105.5
Physical Contingencies                     o.O      1.0       1.7     2.1       1.8     1.5       1.3      0.9     10.3
Price Contingencies                        Q.O      0.2      0.7       1.4     1.8      2.0       2.2      1.3     9.6
Interest During Construction               0.0      0.7       1.S     2.2      1.2      0.0       0.0      0.0     5.6
Total Prolect Cost                       1.2      9.9     21.5     26.7     23.4     20.0     17.7     10.6    131.0
0 m
04 



BULGAI
WatrCm,ne Re _tmun & Mdrnzton  oect
Opeatg Budge (1994-2001)
MuS Thousands)
1stYear    2ndYe        3WdYa       4thYer    SthYea        6th Yer    7th Year    Sib Year    Total
1994        1995        1996        1997        1995        1999        2000        2001    1994-20O0
10/95-9194   10t94-9/95   lJ96    10196j9/97          10197-/8 19/99   1019/Q10   10100-9/01
Positon:
Igheb"  vel                                         3          11          11          11           10          7            4           4
S&wpot Leel                                         2           5           5           S            S           4           3           2
TOTAL                                             5           16          16          16          15          11           7           6
Salaries                                         30.0        114.5       115.6       116.1       111.5        14.5        57.0        38.9.   668.8
Tning                                            13.7          3.0         3.0         3.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0      22.7
Operanl Trvd                                      5.4          5.S         5.6         5.7         5.          5.5         5.2         5.0     43.6
commirnlcasIol                                    6.6         6.7          6.9         7.0         7.0         6.5         6.0         S.0      51.7
TrSaSon SeaMi                                     2.2          2.2         2.3         2.3         2.2         2.0         1.5         1.0      15.6
Ntatle                                            0.2          0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2       1.7
HospItalIty                                       0.2         0.2         0.2          0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2       1.7
Oveoea (utd*boderNCRDH evIce)                    30.0         30.0        30.0        30.0        15.0        15.0        1S.0        15.0    130.0
Vddele Optg Ct                                    8.6          1.S         8.9         9.1         9.0         8.7         8.5         6.0      67.6
Msa3mo nd Repalrs                                 0.3         0.3          0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3       2.5
Cgtra       euvilce                               3.3          3.4         3.4         3.5         3.4         3.0         2.4         0.5.    22.9
1.8         1.$         1.9         1.9         1.8         1.7         1.5          1.0     13A
8ubta                                          102.3       176.7       178.4       190.2       156.3        127.7       97.9         73.0.  1092.3
Eu W and PFt rnu                                              10.0         00          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.       2
TOTAL                                          II.4        166.7       178.4       IS0.2       156.3        127.7       97.9         73.0     IIISA
Not: (i)  h fitar qopeg  uet of $118,400 is beng fiad  _tbd flt d        apn   nt 0  cminnt and th rmainin budet of SI mMino, uder  loa
(U Th adffg  r th fint   fo  ye(1994-1997) will be compsd of t  followig 11 BlgarIape    Director, Head ofFn,        of P m A,
accefu_5  two finanIal  blst tO prourem  exess two ntbast prjct meit tabif ng istce coonator; ad five rd t staff.
Th folowing posto  wm be bdised satg in the fift ye  batinig asance coordiao (1998); fbL anablyt, proceme  experst
mv. ptro. expert and om < aerta (1999); fin anlyt. procamur e xt pewt mv. pro. expet  ande sa ety C000); and onm ecrtaty (2001).                                              X
0



- 40 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 2
BULGARIA
Water Companies Restructurina and Modernization Proiect
Terms and Conditions for On-lendinc
1.    The Government will on-lend the proceeds of the Bank loan to water and
sewerage companies which meet the eligibility criteria under the Project. The
terms and conditions of the sub-loans should meet the following criteria:
(i)  the real interest rate on the sub-loans should be positive in the
medium- to long-term to take into account the financial market
conditions and to provide incentives for efficient resource
allocation;
(ii) the repayment period of the sub-loans should result in a cash
flow which allows the Government to service the Bank loan with
the payments received from the water companies, so as not to
create new budgetary demands; and
(iii) the tariffs requured for the water companies to service their
debts should be affordable by the consumers.
Terms and Conditions
2.    Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree the terms and conditions for the
sub-loans are:
CurrencX:             The sub-loans will be denominated in leva.
Interest Rate:        The interest rate established at the time of
approval of the sub-loan will be the Basic Rate
(Central Bank Rediscount Rate) plus 6 percentage
points.1/ The interest rate will be adjusted
every three months to reflect the Basic Rate at
that time.
Repayment Period:     The repayment period for the sub-loans will be 13-
years, including a 3-years grace period for the
repayment of both principal and interest. During
the grace period, interest will be capitalized
every six months.
This spread will be revised from time to time to ensure that the interest
rates charged are in line with market conditions.



-41-                           Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
Method of ReSa=ment: The sub-loans will be repaid to the Government on
an annuity basis.
Adiustina the Terms and Conditions
3.    These terms may be adjusted in the future for new sub-loans in response
to. changing conditions in the financial markets4 and to ensure that the
recovery of the sub-loans provides the Government with suffic-ent funds to
repay to the World Bank the part of the loan which should be serviced by the
water companies. The terms will be discussed and agreed with the World Bank.



- 42                           Ann-s*6
Page 1 of 3
,BUL$GAR
Water Companie Restructurina and Modernization Proiect
Institutional Eliaibility Criteria for On-Lending
1.          Companies that wish to apply for sub-project loans under the
project must demonstrate their commitment to improving the efficiency-of
-company management and operations. Satisfactory fulfillment of the following
criteria would be required.-
Company Restructuring
2.          A state water company must be restructured as a Limited Liability
Company with 51 percent of the shares owned by the State and not less than 49
percent of shares owned by the municipalities served by the company.
municipal companies, which have already been transformed into municipal
companies without State participation, would also be eligible upon satisfying
all other criteria.
Performance Re22rtinc and Im_rovement Proaram
3.          To qualify for a sub-loan, a company must be in compliance with
the MRD requirements for reporting performance indicators and with the
provisions of the Bulgarian Trade Act regarding capitalization, management and
accounting procedures. (MRD reporting requirements are outlined in
Attachment 1.)
4.          The company is required to prepare an improvement program with
realistic targets for each of the indicators along with a detailed description
of steps to be taken to improve operation and maintenance practices,
commercial and financial performance.   The company could make use of the
project's Capacity Building Program to carry out its improvement program. The
company's performance would be monitored by the implementation agency on
behalf of the MRD, and it would be expected to show satisfactory progress in
achieving and maintaining the targets. Failure to perform could result in
suspension of sub-loan disbursements.
Core Trainina
5.          All water companies will be eligible to take advantage of the Core
Training Program (Attachment 2) that will be offered under the project.
Completion of the six courses that have been designated high-priority, by the
company managers indicated, would be expected prior to approval of sub-loans.
This requirement will be enforced flexibly, particularly if the relevant
manager has already demonstrated competence in the course matter or has
recently completed equivalent training. Justifiable course substitutions
within the Core Training Program will be permitted on a case-by-case basis.
The companies participating in the first year investment program would be
expected to fulfill this requirement within a reasonable time after the Core
Training Program begins to operate.



43-                         Annex6
Page 2 of 3
Rleoular Re irtina of Performance Indicators
1.          In the context of the aector restructuring program, the role of
the MRD will evolve.  Its direct involvement in sector operations will
diminish, while its policy-making, monitoring, and regulatory roles will be
enhanced. The iRD will publish comparative data on the companies' performance
as a way- of keeping the public informed about the -quality and cost- of
services. As long as the State provides investment grants or guarantees loans
for water supply companies, the MRD will monitor the financial and operational
performance of the companies in order to ensure the viability of the companies
and their ability to use resources effectively and repay the sub-loans.
2           To enable the Ministry to fulfill these roles, all water companies
will be required to report the following operational and financial indicators
to the MRD. All indicators would be submitted on a quarterly basis, within
two weeks after the end of the quarter. This is an initial indicative list.
Additional and more complex indicators should be added, and the frequency of
reporting may be increased as the capacity of the companies to measure their
performance increases.
Commercial indicatores
-     total population in service area, percentage connected to water
supply, percentage connected to sewerage
-     number of water subscribers, broken down by metered and non-
metered
-     number of sewerage connections
-     total volume (mz3) of water billed per month, broken down by
metered and non-metered
-     average volume of water billed per subscription per month
-     collection ratio (total collections divided by total billings)
Overatina indicators:
-     total volume (nm) of water produced each month, metered and
estimated
non-revenue water percentage for each month (volume of water
produced minus volume of water sold divided by volume of water
produced)



44-                         Annex 6
Page 3 of 3
-  -  -water loses per km per day for each month (total produced mlnus
total sold divide  by number of km of pipe divid  by-number of
days in each month)
-     stff/connection ratio (number of Staff per 1000 water supply
subscribers-
Financal& indicgtors:
-     unit prices for water and seworage supplied for each consumer
category (the tariff schedule)
-     profit margin (total revenues minus total operating costs, before
depreciation, divided by total revenues)
-     costs per m3 (total operating costs divided by total volume of
water sold)
-     energy costs per m3 (total energy costs divided by total volum of
water sold)
-     labor costs per m=  (total labor costs, including social security
taxes, divided by total volume of water sold)
-     cash flow (the forecast for the next quarter of total revenues and
total expenses, including profit taxs if applicable)
-     current ratio (current assets divided by creditors due within the
next year)
-     debtor turnover (sales divided by debtors)



PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
ORGANIZATION CHART
|  Director                                                se +3
iged of Pr__aeat lRSad of FQwc                                          |l                    
Departent                   ------------- - -    Depart-et      .d-watrator
(Dsputf blsector)                                 (DepuAty Dir co"r)  
Procurement         znwst.eat          TraiLing/Technical        PinaneLal              Accountant              Secretary
Ixpert           Projects Expert        Assistance              Analyst
(2 Positions)   [ 2)stions)               Coordinator           (2 PosLtions)                               (3 Positions)
lb tz
0
D X
S.



-46 -AD
Page I of 1
Water Companies RestructurnrS and Modernization Prolect
-Project Nanaoeeent Unit .1PHUtflRennonsibilitien 
The P1U will:
-  organize tenders for the institutional strengthening contracts and
supervise the consultants selected;
-  assist water companies in preparing sub-loan applications;
-  appraise sub-projects submitted by water companies;
-  submit environmental reviews to the Ministry of Environment for clearance,
and where required, to the World Bank;
-  assist water companies, at their request, to prepare tender documents for
sub-project investments;
-  review, clear and, where required, submit tender documents and bid
documents to the World Bank for no objection;
- prepare on-lending agreements for signature by the MED and Water
Companies; monitor construction or implementation of sub-project
investments;
-  approve payment to the contractor or supplier;
-  prepare withdrawal applicatlons for submission to the Ministry of Finance;
and prepare all required reports to the World Bank; and
-  prepare the Annual Investment Program; and
- monitor sub-project implementation.



  e  [  [  lW  #  |  L0     0
S   E|  |g:   t          t[g 
.~~~~~~~~1 
p            X iW't



- 48 -
Page 1 of 2
at,er Coemanies Restructurina and Modenization Project
Initial Investment Prooram
The Initial Investment Program (IIP) includes completion of 3 water
supply-systems (Slatna Panega,-liLven and Makedonka) to eliminate drinking
water deficits for a population of 386,000 and 3 sanitation system  (Pomorle '
Kazanluk and Pleven) to allow efficient wastewater treatment for a population
of 245,000. These projects will not adversely change the quality and quantity
of water flows to other riparians.
()       Za,tpa Panaga sub-project is a regional scheme aiming at
providing sufficient drinking water to the towns of Lukovit,
Cherven Briag, Zlatna Panega and Radomirtsi from Slatna
Panega Lake and abandoning the polluted Iskar and Zlatna
Panega River's sources. The project is under the
jurisdiction of Lovech and Pleven Water Companies and
includes the construction of a water treatment plant, a
water storage tank (1,000 n3) and the completion of about 10
1km of water pipelines.
(ii)      Sliven sub-project will supply drinking water to the town of
Sliven from the existing Assenovets reservoir, a tributary
of Tundia River. The sub-project includes the construction
of a water treatment plant, a water storage tank (10,000 m3)
and completing about 3.0 km of water pipelines. The system
will be operated by Sliven Water Company.
(iii)      Makedonka sub-project (Dobrich Water Company) aims to reduce
current peak water shortage in Dobrich by increasing the
drinking water supply from existing groundwater sources.
The UIP component includes the supply and installation of
pumps at existing boreholes, the construction of a water
storage tank, pumping stations and about 8 km of pipelines.
(iv)      Pomorie sub-project will reduce the pollution discharge into
the Black Sea from this coastal resort town. The project is
under the jurisdiction of Burgas Water Company and includes
the completion of a wastewater treatment plant which is at a
very advanced stage of construction (population equivalent
50,000), the rehabilitation of seven wastewater pumping
stations, the construction of sewers and a sea outfall.
(v)      Kazanluk sub-project will reduce the pollution discharged
into the Tundja River, which is a source of drinking water
for the town of Stara Zagora. It includes the completion of
Kazanluk wastewater treatment plant (population equivalent
268,000), and the construction of main sewers.  The utility
responsible for the system is Stara Zagora Water Company.



- 49 -
Page 2 of 2
(vi)   ~jgPleven sub-project will increase the existing wastewater
treatment plant efficiency (population equivalent SOO,OOQ)
and reduce the pollution of Tuchnitta River, a tributary of
Danube River, by constructing sewage collectors, and sewers
which will collect sewage currently flowing untreated to
Tuchnitae. The Project also includes the installation of a
methane gas recovery system which will significantly reduce
energy consumption of the wastewater treatment plant.



- 50 -
,nd     -                       W    W.e           Dl*6s            3
3. ."                       ..       .        1.9    .        . , S
Q_4rade                     (1J84J            (U8                   (%efT
Decebr31 1994                  4l0 4l0 4ls
MU& SI. 1995                    3.9               5.0                   4.1%
Jam 30. 1995                    2I.               63 t6.3%
PYIM
September30, 1995               1.8               7.9                  2.1%
December 31. 1995               2.0               9.9                  I.2%
Mar31. 1996                     3.9              138                   t4.1%
Jk  30, 1996                    2.5              163                   16.f%
Se _tember 30.1996              6.4              22.7                  23.2%
December31. 1996                4.9              274.                  2.2%
Mact5. t997                     4.9              52.5                  33.2%
Jm30. 1997                      2.7               5.2 33.9%
Setmb9  3  197                  4.1              3.                    40,1X
Decmbcr3l. 197                  2.0              41.9                  42X
YMrc31. 1998                    3.8              49.1                  5.1%
Jamo 301998                     5.2              54.3                  55.4X
September 30.1998               2.               59                    581%
Jam 30, 1999                    4.7              69.4                  70.8%
September30. 1999               3.1              72.5                  74W
December31. 1999                3.9              764                   78.0%
March31. 2O0                    3.9              30.3                  81.9%
Jaw 30. 200                     4.2              84.5                  862%
SCptber30. 2000                 3.6              88I                   89.9%
Decmbetr31. 2000                3.9              92.0                  93.9%
March31. 2001                   2.0              94.0                  95.9%
Jm 30. 2001                     2.0              960                   9.0%
PY2002
Seplemb_r30. 2001               IA               97A0                  99.0%
Decemr31. 2401                  IA               980                  100.0X



-51 -                          Annex 12
Page 1 of 2
BULGARIA
Water Comnanies Restructurinc and Modernization Prolget
Annual and Mid-term Reviews
The-Annual Reviews will emphasize compliance with the Sector Engagement
Criteria and progress in project. execution. The PMU will.have available for
the Reviews the following information:
(a)           assessment of progress made in each one of the Sector
Engagement Criteria (see next page);
(b)           Annual Implementation Assessment;
(c)           Annual Investment Program;
(d)           assessment of progress made under each component of the
technical assistance and training components under the
project against agreed schedules and targets; the
identification of issues and recommendations for remedial
actions; and updated timetables for completion of the
components;
(e)           summary of consultants progress reports and contract
information including expenditures and disbursements;
(f)           details of sub-loans approved by MMD to be financed under
the Project, which should include: (i) name of the sub-
borrower; (ii) amount of the loan; (iii) summary of sub-
project objectives and components; (iv) expected sub-project
cost; (v) amount of the sub-loan disbursed; (vi) expected
sub-project completion date; and (vi) major issues, if any;
(g)           summary table indicating, item by item, the appraisal
estimates of costs versus expenditures and loan
disbursements at the end of the reporting period in
accordance with Project Accounts and the balance available
under the loan by categories of investment; and
(h)           summary of loan covenants and their status of compliance.
The Mid-term Review, in addition to the above will include:
(a)           an assessment of all past years of project execution;
(b)           the investment program until project completion end;
(c)           seeking agreement on actions to be taken to ensure
satisfactory project implementation.



- 52 -
Annex 12
Attachment
Page 2 of 2
sector Rnaaement Criteria
(i)   restructuring RWCe as Ltd. Companies with munic$ipal shareholders;
(iL)   outablishing effective-institutional arrangements and procedures for
screening potential sector investments based on objective critsria,-
channelling resources to those that qualify, and ensuring water
companies repay sub-loans;
(iLL)   maintaining the reduced role of MRD in water company operations,
strengthening MRD's role in collecting and publishing sector
performance indicators, and encouraging municipalities to effectively
oversee water companies' operations;
(iv)   establishing cost recovery and onlending policies that cause tariffs
to reflect the full cost of services;
(v)   privatizing State engineering and construction enterprises serving
the water supply and sanitation sector;
(vi)   adopting and implementing institutional arrangements for water
resources management that integrate quantitative and qualitative
controls at the river basin level; and
(vii)   improving environmental protection through a mix of command-and-
control and market-based incentive measures.



- 53 -
Annex 13
Page 1 of 1
Water ComDanies Resttutugring and modernization Proj ec
Documents in Project File
1.   Environment Strategy for 8ulgaria Prepared by the World Bank, U.S EPA
and AID dated March 17, 1992.
2..  PMU Manual of Procedures..-
3.   PMU October 1993 - September 1994 Operating Budget Assumptions.
4.   Maps:
(a) Income Revenue per Capita of the Population
(b) Drop of Industrial Output 1989-1991
(c) Unemployed - 1991
(d) Ecological Status
(e)  Evaluation of the Natural Potential for Tourism
5.   SAFEGE Project Planning and Feasibility Study -- Phase 1s
(a)   Baseline Report (Vol.. I-II), April 1993
(b)   Interim Report (VolQ. I-III), April 1993
(C)   Final Report (Vols. I-III), October 1993
6.   Draft Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
7.   Environmental Protection Act (Promulgated State Gazette No. 86/18
October 1991 and amended State Gazette No. 100/10.12 1992).
8.   Regulation No. 1 of 28 December 1992 on Environmental Assessment Impact.
9.   Process for Restructuring Regional Water and Sewerage Companies.
10.  Draft Articles of Association for Regional Water and Sewerage Companies.
11.  Ministry of Environment - Organization Chart.
12. Sample Review of Environmental Assessments by the Mini$try of
Environment.
13.  Draft Terms of Reference for:
(a) The Water Resources Management Study
(b) Implementation Assistance Consultants
(c) Core Training
14. Forecasted cash flow for water companies in the Initial Investment
Program.



IBRD 25226
23'                      24                       25                      26'                       2r
Danube River
.  { <r O ~~~Tcraov                                                                ,                   =CrO  orert 44
ILom                                                Buchqt                                            Severniok         OC s
~~~9     ; 4              sho3e AQ                                                                                                                          T*Obrc
OF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
Y UG O S LAA FBerkovica                     rasta
Y  ~       sbdvQ UsaR G. 0og S L;   V.T V I A                    0                                            To
43'                                          4''
g~~~ fvDo~~tevgr                                                            Ele\ )Garov-/ 
OFt                                     \    .         a ~~~~~~~~ ~~                ~    ~~~~~~~Sliven  A  <
Pernicg 3tf < << fo \ t == - X BLACK
I   b   r g :   DxJpn;  ll   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ X~~ombol                                                   Buga
M    tendAl C O A  Dupnica
42'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
Sandonski                 Solin                                                            T  U  R  K  E  Y
dk  /pd                      ,,t  s ,,
~~->$*~~domFsc>   IPehichV  7  ~~~~~~~    >                      Podkova o
23'~~~~~~2
RO6~~w.JIA     ~BULGARIA
WATER COMPANIES RESTRUCTURING AND
OF         Seo                 ~~MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Sofia             ,. ~~~~Re-gionaI Woter      Highways         ~)National Capital                                                     SEA OF
~~~ OF ~~~~~~C-ompanies                            Main Roads               *  Distridt Centers                                          MARMARA
JM N  2               h7lMunicipal Water    Railroads         E          Selected Cities
TURKEY            Companies         --   nternational Boundaries      Divers
OCTOBER 1993



