                                               Document of
                                            The World Bank




                                                                                         Report No: 25993

                              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                            (CPL-37390; SCL-3739A; SCPM-3739S; TF-23058)

                                                   ON A

                                                   LOAN

                                 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$98 MILLION

                                                  TO THE

                                        REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA

                                                  FOR A

           WATER COMPANIES RESTRUCTURING AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT




                                               June 27, 2003




Infrastructure and Energy Sector Department
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
 official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

(Exchange Rate Effective January 6, 2003)

      Currency Unit = Bulgarian leva (BGN)
             BGN 1 = US$ 0.535
              US$ 1 = BGN 1.868

            FISCAL YEAR
       January 1    December 31

 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

 BNB   Bulgarian National Bank
 DH    District Heating
 DHC   District Heating Company
 EU    European Union
 EUR   Currency of European Union
 MEER Ministry of Energy and Energy Resources
 PEP   Performance Enhancement Program
 PMU   Project Management Unit
 RWC Regional Water Company
 SERC State Energy Regulatory Commission



     Vice President:     Johannes F. Linn (ECAVP)
  Country Director:      Andrew Vorkink (ECCU5)
    Sector Director:     Hossein Razavi (ECSIE)
   Sector Manager:       Motoo Konishi (ECSIE)
 Task Team Leader:       Sudipto Sarkar (ECSIE)

                                          BULGARIA
   WATER COMPANIES RESTRUCTURING AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 18
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            38

Project ID: P008319                                                      Project Name: WATER COMPANIES REST
Team Leader: Sudipto Sarkar                                              TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 27, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: WATER COMPANIES REST                                     L/C/TF Number: CPL-37390; SCL-3739A;
                                                                                                     SCPM-3739S; TF-23058
   Country/Department: BULGARIA                                                           Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (75%); Sewerage (25%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services for the poor (P); Infrastructure services for
                            private sector development (S); State enterprise/bank restructuring
                            and privatization (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    07/20/1992                                        Effective: 10/01/1994              10/10/1995
   Appraisal:    06/03/1993                                            MTR: 06/01/1997                05/04/1998
    Approval:    05/26/1994                                         Closing: 06/30/2002               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA/MINISTRY OF REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
                                           AND PUBLIC WORKS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Johannes F. Linn                               Wilfred Thalwitz
Country Director:               Andrew N. Vorkink                              Michael Wiehen
Sector Manager:                 Motoo Konishi                                  Ricardo A. Halperin
Team Leader at ICR:             Sudipto Sarkar                                 Robert Van Pulley
ICR Primary Author:             Sudipto Sarkar


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objectives of the original project were to: (a) increase the corporate autonomy and
commercial orientation of RWCs (Regional Water Companies) and make their management
accountable to local authorities; (b) improve health and environmental conditions in urban areas;
(c) increase operating efficiency and cost recovery in RWCs; and (d) demonstrate the feasibility
and benefits of introducing transparent procurement procedures, efficient contract management,
and competition for supply of goods, works, and services.

3.2 Revised Objective:

Based on a request from the Government, US$ 41 million was cancelled from the loan as of
December 10, 1996. The cancellation was due to the unaffordability of the loan given the
macro-economic conditions in Bulgaria (Section 5.1). Through an amendment to the Loan
Agreement, a district heating component was added to the project in April 17, 1997 and the loan
proceeds of US$ 57 million were allocated in the following manner: US$ 45 million for the water
component; and US$ 12 million for the district heating component. After the restructuring, the
objectives of the project were:

Water Component

To: (a) increase the corporate autonomy and commercial orientation of RWCs and make their
management accountable to local authorities; (b) improve health and environmental conditions in
urban areas; (c) increase operating efficiency and cost recovery in RWCs; and (d) demonstrate the
feasibility and benefits of introducing transparent procurement procedures, efficient contract
management, and competition for supply of goods, works, and services.

District Heating Component

To provide more accurate information to the providers and users of district heat on the location of
heat consumption in the district heating (DH) system of the Borrower in order to improve the
efficiency of the system and help identify future investments needed for its improvement.

3.3 Original Components:

The original project had two components which were to be managed by the Ministry of Regional
Development and Public Works (MRDPW):

Part A: Priority Water and Sewerage Investments

        (i)    Completion of ongoing investments, elimination of system bottlenecks and
               rehabilitation and upgrading of water and sewerage facilities; and
        (ii)   Reduction of water losses and improvement of operating efficiency of water and
               sewerage companies through measures that include installation of accurate
               production meters satisfying about 50% of the country's total requirements,


                                                - 2 -

               replacement of pipes and accessories and purchase and installation of equipment
               needed to improve commercialization as well as system operations and
               maintenance.

Part B: Institutional Strengthening

        (i)     Carrying out a capacity building program for water and sewerage companies
                through provision of technical assistance and in-country training;
        (ii)    Enhancing investment planning capabilities of water and sewerage companies and
                carrying out supervision of construction undertaken under Part A, described
                above;
        (iii)   Carrying out a sector study on the topic of national Water Resources
                Management; and
        (iv)    Maintaining a Project Management Unit to implement the project.

3.4 Revised Components:

The project had three components: Parts A, B, and C. Part C was added to the project when the
district heating component was included in the project. Implementation responsibility for Parts A
and B remained with MRDPW while the Ministry of Energy and Energy Resources (MEER), as
owner of the district heating companies, was responsible for Part C.

Part C: District Heating Pilot

    Procuring and installing heat meters for buildings in the fifteen district heating systems of the
    Borrower included in the project.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not exist when the loan was approved.
However, the project was reviewed in the Bank, passed the quality control mechanisms present at
that time, and was approved by the Bank's Board based on a satisfactory level of quality. The
project was prepared with due diligence which was supported by adequate funding including a
grant from the Japanese Government.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The early years of the project were difficult due to the macro-economic conditions of the country
which had led to an unsatisfactory rating of the project (Section 5.1). However, as the situation
in the country stabilized with the creation of the Currency Board in June 1997, the implementation
pace of the project increased and allowed the project to meet its objectives satisfactorily. For the
water component, loan proceeds of around US$27.8 million equivalent (US$22.7 million in
investments and the rest in the form of Technical Assistance) were utilized by 21 RWCs, covering
about 60% of the population. The total investments in the 21 RWCs were around US$32.6
million financed by the loan and counterpart funds. For the district heating component, the loan
proceeds of US$14.5 million were utilized in 15 district heating companies (DHC) covering the


                                                 - 3 -

entire population served by DH services. Although the investment component in each water
company or district heating company was not high, the effect of the project was significant.

Water Component (Parts A and B)

Objective 1: Increase the corporate autonomy and commercial orientation of RWCs (Regional
Water Companies) and make their management accountable to local authorities.

This objective was satisfactorily met due to the following institutional changes.

Restructuring of RWCs. When the project started there were 29 RWCs and 14 municipal
owned water companies. The RWCs were 100% State-owned serving multiple municipalities
while the municipal companies were owned by a single municipality. The project worked with 21
RWCs and required them to restructure through which the State would retain 51% share of an
RWC while the 49% share would be distributed among the municipalities, based on the
population, being served by the RWC. The restructuring process involved (i) approval by the
municipalities to take on the 49% share of a RWC; (ii) Council of Minister Decision to transfer
49% share from the State to the municipalities; and (iii) registration in court, reflecting the new
ownership structure. Steps (i) and (ii) were completed for all 21 RWCs under the project.
However, step (iii) was not completed in six RWCs. The decentralization effect of the project
was important since municipalities became more involved in day to day operations which led to a
proposed amendment to the Water Law described below. The restructuring effort was also
significant in the early 1990s when decentralization was not a common practice in Bulgaria that
was transitioning out of centrally controlled economy.

Proposed amendment to the Water Law. In May 2002, an amendment to the Water Law was
sent to the Parliament that would change the ownership structure of the RWCs. As per the
amendment, the RWCs would be converted into an operating company and the network assets
would be distributed between the State and the municipalities.          The State would have full
ownership of assets that relate to water resources or inter-municipality bulk water transfer. Each
municipality would own 100% of the assets within its territory. Through this amendment, the
operating company would be contracted by the owners (State and municipality) and responsible
for the delivery of quality service. Given that the operating company would not own network
assets it would be relatively easy to introduce the private sector within the company if such a
decision was taken. The amendment has been discussed in the Parliament and is expected to pass
by December 2003. The project helped to highlight the importance of decentralization in the
delivery of water service that led to the drafting of the amendment.

Development of a water regulator. The project helped to benchmark the performance of the 21
RWCs which provided a standardized information base for the policy makers to determine the
level of services and develop policies for the sector. Key information from this benchmarking
process is included in Annex 1. The benchmarking process, commitment by the Government to
provide quality service at affordable prices, and the willingness of the Government to introduce
the private sector in the operating companies led to the development of a framework for a water
regulator. The preparatory work for the establishment of the regulator was supported by two



                                                 - 4 -

grants from the Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF) provided to the
Government. The first grant (US$350,000) helped to assess the need for a regulator and outlined
a framework for the regulator. The second grant (US$75,000) is being currently utilized to
provide advice to the Government in drafting legislation for the establishment of a water
regulator. The legislation is expected to be in effect by December 2003. It should be noted that
the introduction of the concessionaire was not in the scope of the project and the actions taken by
the Government reflect their inclination to introduce the private sector in the water and
wastewater industry.

Improved management practice. During project implementation consultants were successful in
imparting knowledge to improve the operational efficiency of the RWCs. In the initial years of
the contract there was a framework agreement with a consulting company that provided
assistance to the Project Management Unit (PMU) to implement the project and train the staff of
the RWCs to better manage their operations. This consulting assignment was followed up by a
Performance Enhancement Program (PEP) under which staff and managers of RWCs received
assistance to improve the day to day operations of a company. In addition, assistance was
provided to detect and prevent water leaks in the network. This program was successful and it
expanded from Gabrovo RWC to the other cities since the staff in Gabrovo RWC were able to
provide the training. Due to the project, the planning process used in the RWCs changed from
the single year input planning to a more medium term output planning system. RWCs are now
required to prepare Action Plans through which they have to outline measures to be taken to meet
targets of service and efficiency.

Increased emphasis on accounting.         Under the project, the RWCs utilized loan funds to
complete financial audits as per international standards.      On an annual basis, the auditors
performed the audits of the financial statements of the companies and provided recommendations
on making the internal controls more streamlined and enhancing the financial position of the RWC
through better financial management practices.       The auditors also reported the progress to
implement the recommendations made in the earlier years which showed that the management of
the RWCs were committed towards improving the financial position of the companies.

Development of water strategies. The project required the development a Water Resource
Management Study. This study was successfully completed and approved by the Council of
Ministers on November 14, 1997. The study proposed practices to meet EU environmental
requirements, a river basin approach towards water resource management, and suggested
guidelines on charges for water usage and wastewater treatment. The recommendations of the
study are being used today as Bulgaria prepares for EU Accession. In addition, towards the end
of the project, as Bulgaria became an EU Accession candidate country, the Government drafted a
Water Strategy that has been reviewed by the Council of Ministers.           The Water Strategy,
expected to be confirmed by the Council of Ministers by December 2003, defines the high cost of
meeting EU environmental standards and outlines a policy framework to finance investments
needed in the sector. In the future, the Bank is expected to support the Government to implement
its Water Strategy (Section 6.1). The Government's strategy is to finance the needs of the sector
through EU grants, internal cash of water companies, private capital through concession type of
contracts, budgetary support for critical investments, and loans from International Financial



                                                - 5 -

Institutions. The implementation of the project, through which the Government appreciated the
challenges of strengthening the water and wastewater sector, helped in the development of the
Water Strategy.

Development of a concession contract. Outside the scope of the project, the Sofia water and
wastewater utility - which was a municipal company - was successful in introducing the private
sector through a long term concession contract. Given the demonstration effect of the Sofia
water concession and the plan of the Government to reduce the dependence of the RWCs on the
State for investments, the Government promoted concessions in the country. The Water Law was
amended in October 2000 to allow concessions in RWCs. Thereafter, the Council of Ministers
adopted a decision to introduce the private sector in the Varna and Shumen RWCs through a
concession contract. Funds from the loan were used to prepare for the concession. In early June
2003, the status of the concession contract is as follows: 5 reputable international bidders have
been pre-qualified, and bidding documents have been prepared which are awaiting the
confirmation of the tender committee.

Objective 2: Improve health and environmental conditions in urban areas

The objective was satisfactorily met due to the following:

Improvement in bacteriological quality of water. By and large, Bulgaria does not have
chronic problems of water borne diseases affecting the population, although sporadic cases may
occur. The bacteriological quality of water, measured by the percentage compliance of water
samples that comply with the Bulgarian standards of coliform bacteria, have slightly improved
during the duration of the project. The percentage of compliance increased from 88% in 1988 to
91% in 2001 and has more or less remained a constant. Under the project about 325 chlorination
facilities were installed which will ensure that bacteriological quality of drinking water in future
years is met. The development of the Water Regulator, supported by the project, is also an
important institutional change that will ensure quality of water.

Water conservation. The various institutional measures taken under the project and also due to
a decline in the industrial sector, savings in water production were generated under the project.
For the 21 RWCs, the total production in 1996 was 711 million m3 of water compared to the
production of 516 million m3. This saving is substantial, assuming the economic cost of water
produced to be US$0.10 per m3. The average household per capita consumption of water
declined from 87 liters/day to 78 liters per day between 1996 and 2001.              As a point of
comparison, most West European countries have an average urban consumption levels of 120-200
liters per day. The low level of water use in Bulgaria can be explained by the fact the RWCs serve
both rural and urban population and rural consumption is typically lower than urban consumption.
The efforts undertaken in the project to achieve full cost recovery led to increase in tariffs which
also contributed to water conservation.

Objective 3: Increase operating efficiency and cost recovery in RWCs

This objective has been satisfactorily met due to the following:



                                                - 6 -

Improvement in the working ratio. From the commercial point of view there has been an
improvement in the RWCs as measured through an improvement in the working ratio - defined as
cash operating costs as a percentage of cash operating revenue. In 1996, this ratio used to be
107% which dropped to 90% in 2002, implying that there was a cash deficit in the RWCs in 1996
compared to a surplus in 2002.


                                        Working Ratio (%)

                         120%
                         100%
                           80%
                           60%
                           40%
                           20%
                            0%
                                 1996 1997 1998 1998 1999 2000 2001



Decline in unaccounted for water (UFW). In 1996 the unaccounted for water (water not billed
due to administrative and physical losses, expressed as a ratio of total water produced) was 379
million m3 for the participating RWCs. In 2002, this figure dropped to 291 million m3. In
percentage terms the UFW remained more or less a constant, (around 53%), between 1996 and
2002 since the physical losses could not be reduced given the associated high investment needs.
Most RWCs under the project have asbestos cement pipes that are more than 30 years old. The
physical leaks in these pipes are high and substantial portion of the network should be replaced.
However, the replacement cost is high and was not affordable during project implementation
period. The project did not want to burden the RWCs with large unaffordable loans, which could
lead to a negative fiscal effect where the central Government would have to provide assistance to
the RWCs for debt service. As a result, the size of each sub-loan was modest and the project
focused on institutional improvements and urgent investments such as better metering with the
approach that as tariffs increased and financial management of the RWCs improved, internal cash
generated for investments and borrowing would increase. The decline in the UFW under the
project is largely due to the administrative measures taken by the RWCs.

Successful implementation of the leak detection program. Although, the RWCs could not
afford large investments to replace the aging network, the project emphasized the need to identify
section of the network that were prone to constant leaks and bursts, resulting in water loss. A
pilot leak detection program was started in Gabrovo RWC with an international and a local
consultant. The pilot was successfully implemented and demonstrated to the other RWCs that
economic measures could be taken to reduce losses. The effects of the pilot program in Gabrovo
are summarized below where the UFW reduced from 86% to 44% in one year.




                                                - 7 -

                                     Pilot Leak Detection Program
     Pilot Zone          Before Implementation                     After Implementation
               Water Supplied Water Billed      Loss      Water Supplied  Water Billed  Loss
                    (m3)           (m3)         (%)            (m3)           (m3)       (%)

    Gabrovo 1          20,610         4,960     76%                9,263        5,651   39%
    Gabrovo 2          69,210         5,180     93%              10,092         4,754   53%
    Drianovo           10,094         1,817     82%                2,838        1,646   42%
    Triavna 1          28,650         3,609     87%                7,221        4,549   37%
    Triavna 2          18,974         5,123     73%                9,700        5,400   44%

     Total            147,538        20,689     86%              39,114        22,000   44%


Increased internal cash for the RWCs. The revenues for the participating RWCs increased
from US$32.5 million in 1996 to US$78.43 million. Although there was a drop in industrial
consumption, the domestic consumption remained more or less a constant and the increase in
revenues is due to the increase in tariffs. However, the increase in tariffs affected the collection
rate slightly which dropped between 86% to 80% in the same period. Using the above revenue
and collection data, the cash available for the RWCs increased from US$27.9 million to US$62.7
million between 1996 and 2002, respectively. This trend of increasing cash availability is expected
to continue due to efficiency measures and tariff increases which would allow the RWCs to invest
from their own sources or leverage loans.

Objective 4: Demonstrate the feasibility and benefits of introducing transparent procurement
procedures, efficient contract management, and competition for supply of goods, works, and
services

This objective was met satisfactorily, although a misprocurement was declared by the Bank for
the purchase of water meters.

More than 750 contracts were signed for the project and these contracts were administered in an
adequate manner. To determine project progress this large volume of contracts was managed
through an information database established in the Project Management Unit (PMU). Under the
project, procurement supervision missions were carried out and excepting the case for the
misprocurement of meters, all procedures were carried out as per Bank's guidelines.            The
misprocurement for meters (contract value of US$229,643 equivalent) was declared since proper
procedures were not followed at the bid opening.

At the beginning of the project, the PMU received training on procurement through workshops
and international seminars. At this stage, the PMU assumed the responsibility of preparing most
of the bidding documents and the RWCs were responsible for preparation of the detailed design,
bill of quantities, and co-ordination with local authorities to seek permits.          However, as
implementation progressed, the RWCs - with assistance from the PMU - became more familiar
with the Bank's procurement procedures and started to take on additional responsibilities.
Towards the end of the project, the RWCs prepared the bid documents for all types of
procurement, expecting International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures where the PMU



                                                 - 8 -

provided some assistance. The transfer of procurement responsibility from the PMU to the
RWCs was a significant development. Further, the RWCs were impressed with the lower unit
prices for goods and works that could be obtained through a competitive procurement process
In some cases, the unit prices for goods were twice as low as the price from suppliers that had
worked with the RWCs in the past. This demonstration of obtaining low prices has made an
impact and the RWCs plan to carry out competitive procurement practices in the future.

District Heating Component (Part C)

Objective 5: To provide more accurate information to the providers and users of district heat on
the location of heat consumption in the district heating system of the Borrower in order to
improve the efficiency of the system and help identify future investments needed for its
improvement.

Background

When the project started only about 2,500 sub-stations, representing about 10% of all
sub-stations in the country, had meters which did not allow the District Heating Companies
(DHCs) to measure consumption in a building and take appropriate measures to manage demand
in a substantial number of sub-stations. The project supported: a) purchase of around 21,000 heat
meters to measure consumption at all sub-stations in the country; and b) purchase of regulators in
around 6,000 sub-stations to better control the heat supplied to a building based on real time
demand. This equipment were purchased for 15 DHCs in the country.

Before the project started, consumers were not able to measure and control their consumption
and the heat bill was based on the surface area of an apartment. To introduce better demand
management, the Government promoted the introduction of private heat accounting companies
(HACs) to install cost allocators and heat regulators (thermostatic valves) in radiators. All
consumers were required to install this equipment by September 30, 2002 so that heat supplied by
radiators in an apartment could be controlled and measured. The HACs also provide a fee based
service to measure heat consumption and report the bill to both the consumer and the DHC.

The above objective was met satisfactorily due to the significant sector wide impact of the project
as described below:

Energy conservation by consumers.             The business of the HACs and consumer energy
conservation was promoted by the project through the introduction of heat meters in all
sub-stations. Accurate heat consumption at the sub-station level through heat meters purchased
under the project allowed the HACs to distribute the costs among apartments in a building based
on the cost allocators installed in radiators. In Sofia, a test was conducted to measure the energy
savings in four buildings between the 2000/2001 and the 2001/2002 heating seasons. The results
show a 12% reduction in overall energy consumption at the apartment level. The bill collection in
these test apartments also increased by 5%. A similar test, through 60 sub-stations in Sliven,
indicated that domestic consumption decreased by 15% and in four public buildings the energy
savings corresponded to around 22%. These savings are in line with savings seen in other



                                                 - 9 -

countries that installed similar equipment - 18% in Germany measured over 70,000 apartments;
and 15-20% savings in other Eastern European countries.

Energy and water savings by the DHCs. Before the project, the district heating system was
supply driven and the amount of heat supplied to a building could not be controlled.    The heat
regulators allowed the DHCs to have a greater temperature difference between the supply and
return water which reduced the volume of hot water to be pumped resulting in:

        Savings in pumping costs:     Pumping costs were reduced due to decreased use of
        electricity. Estimated savings in some of the towns are: Pleven - 23%; Russe 20%; and
        Vratsa 10%. Other cities under the project would have similar reduction in losses;

        Reduction in water loss: There were physical leaks in the hot water distribution network
        prior to the project. The investments have reduced water leaks due to the equipment
        purchased under the project - valves, pumps, heat exchangers, and meters. In Russe, it is
        estimated that the physical water loss in November 2002 was one-third the amount
        compared to the figure in November 2001.

Investments supported the turn-around of the sector. Full metering at the sub-station level
and demand side management were significant events for the sector. The introduction of the
HACs was promoted by the project since these companies preferred to install cost allocators and
regulators in buildings where the consumption at the sub-station level was accurately measured.
The demand side measures supported under the project contributed towards the stoppage of
disconnection from the network by the consumers. The investments carried out under the project
were also in line with the Government's District Heating Strategy, prepared in August 2000 with
the assistance of the Bank. Accurate information, through metering of the sector, is helping the
Government to develop policies to further strengthen the district heating sector.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The actual expenditures from the loan among categories are outlined in Annex 2 and mentioned
below. The figures in parenthesis corresponds to the Bank loan amounts. Categories 1, 2, and 3
refer to the water component where funds were utilized by 21 RWCs. Categories 5 and 6 refer to
the district heating component of the project where funds were used by 15 DHCs. When the
US$41 million was cancelled from the loan, at the request of the Borrower, the remaining loan
amount was divided into two sub-loans: a) Loan 3739A - A Single Currency Loan denominated
in German DM for an amount of US$45 million equivalent. Subsequently, the currency of the
loan was changed from German DM to EUR on January 1, 2001; and b) Loan 3739S - A Single
Currency Loan denominated in US Dollars for an amount of US$12 million.

Category 1 (US$6.5 million equivalent): This category was intended mainly for replacement of
sections of network that were in extremely poor condition in accordance with Part A(i) of the
project. Funds used in this category was lower than expected due to the fact that counterpart
funds from the RWCs were allocated towards Part A(ii) of the project which was a higher
priority.

Category 2 (US$16.2 million equivalent): Funds from this category were intended to be used


                                              - 10 -

under Part A(ii) of the project. The utilization of funds under this category was more than
anticipated given the urgent need to reduce water losses and improve operating efficiency.
Meters, leak detection equipment were purchased under this category and it resulted in reduction
of water losses, described above.

Category 3 (US$5.1 million equivalent):              Category 3a was intended for construction
supervision and funds were used to complete works on time and ensure quality. Category 3b was
also well utilized for consulting services that included:
        -       Part B(i) of the project that supported general technical assistance for project
                preparation and PMU training, Performance Enhancement Program, leak detection
                program, and preparation of bidding documents for the proposed Varna and
                Shumen concession.
        -       Part B(iii) of the project that resulted in the preparation for the Water Resources
                Management Study
        -       Part B(iv) of the project to support the PMU for project implementation

Category 4 (US$2.6 million equivalent): The project included a category under which the
interest charges were capitalized and the actual expenditures were in line with the ones anticipated
after the project was restructured.

Category 5 (US$14.5 million equivalent): Funds from this category were used for the purchase
of 21,000 heat meters and equipment (regulators, pumps, valves, heat exchangers) for 6,000
sub-stations in DHCs (Sofia, Plovdiv, Kazanlak, Sliven, Pernik, Samokov, Varna, Veliko
Turnovo, Vratsa, Pleven, Razgrad, Russe, Shumen, and Burgas). These equipment resulted in the
benefits that have been described above.

Category 6 (no expenditure): Funds under this category were not utilized since the need to carry
out significant civil works did not arise. Minor civil works were funded by the district heating
companies.

Unallocated (not applicable): The unallocated portion of the original loan was utilized to
account for the exchange rate variation.

Cancelled amount (US$5.2 million equivalent): After the May 1997 cancellation of the loan
there were four other cancellations are included in the table above: a) cancellation of US$97 from
the 3739S part of the loan on November 14, 2001; b) cancellation of US$229,642 equivalent
(EUR 251,072) on May 21, 2002 due to the misprocurement of meters; c) cancellation of
US$4,076,157 equivalent (EUR 4,106,959) on June 30, 2002 at the request of the Government;
and d) cancellation of US$873,425 equivalent (EUR 781,413) on May 5, 2003 for the unutilized
portion of the loan.

Exchange rate variation (US$6.9 million equivalent): The original loan of US$98 million was a
Currency Pool Loan, denominated in US Dollars. However, after the restructuring of the project,
the unutilized portion of the loan (3739A) was denominated in German DM and subsequently in
EUR. The period under which most of the disbursements took place, the US Dollar was strong



                                                 - 11 -

against the German DM and the EUR. This resulted in savings if the loan is expressed in US
Dollar equivalent as above. In reality, the funds were fully spent and should be allocated among
the disbursed portions of the loan.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

An ex-ante       economic-rate-of-return was not       calculated in the Staff Appraisal Report and
therefore no ex-post EROR has been calculated. However, for both the water and the district
heating components, the rate of return could be expected to be high given the large benefits
compared to the investments.

Water Component

The usual methodology for computing a water supply project's EROR would be to calculate
benefits and costs, with and without the project, and then compute the net benefits for the
duration of the project and the useful life of each item financed. The benefits would be ordinarily
calculated by accounting for the savings in water production and increased consumer payments
due to the project. The table below summarizes the savings due to water production, incremental
revenues, and investments under the project. The figures indicate that if an EROR was calculated
it would be a high number due to the large benefits compared to the costs. The main determinant
for the benefits is the tariff level that increased by more than 200% during the duration of the
project.

                                          Summary of Cost and Benefit
                                              (in 1000 US Dollars)
           Category                 1996        1997        1998     1999      2000      2001     2002

Savings in production                   0       1,659      3,447     5,858    13,314   20,960   22,073
Incremental revenue                     0        -241      3,449     2,981     2,315    7,184   22,487
Combined benefit                        0       1,418      6,896     8,839    15,629   28,144   44,560
Project cost                           56         649      3,165     6,190    11,156   10,528      893

Net Benefit                           -56         769      3,730     2,649     4,473   17,616   43,666

                                            Other Relevant Parametes

Water Produced (mln. m3)              711         636        651       610       546      520      516
Water Sold (mln. m3)                  332         275         286      264       246      225      225
Water Loss (mln. m3)                  379         361         365      346       300      295      291
Average tariff (USD/m3)              0.15        0.19        0.32     0.36      0.36     0.42     0.51




                                                   - 12 -

District Heating Component

The investment costs would be recovered in less than half a district heating season indicating the
significant benefits of the heat meters and the regulators, assuming a 15% energy saving. The
benefits presented below also reflects the various measures taken by the Government to promote
demand side management - such as introduction of the HACs, making it mandatory to install cost
allocators and regulators, increasing tariffs etc. The assumptions for the calculation are presented
below.

   - Annual heat consumption:                   7 million MWh (500,000 households;
                                                annual household consumption of 14 MWh)
   - Annual energy savings (MWh):               15% of annual heat consumption or 1,050,000 MWh
   - Exchange rate:                             US$1 = BGN 1.87
   - Economic tariff (BGN/MWh):                 55
   - Economic tariff (US$/MWh):                 30
   - Annual energy savings (US$ million):       31.5
   - Investment cost (US$ million):             14.5
   - Cost recovery period (year):               0.46

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) does not include a financial rate of return calculation. As a
result, the ICR also does not include such an analysis.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is rated substantial and is noticeable in the
following areas which would contribute towards ensuring sustainability under the project.

Water component

l The project's contribution to develop a water regulator in the country will have long lasting
    impacts.      The water regulator will ensure that quality water and wastewater service is
    provided to the consumers at prices that are affordable. Further, the regulator will ensure
    more efficient sector investments and operations;
l The proposed amendment in the Water Law related to the transfer of full ownership of RWC
    network assets to a municipality is a significant institutional change and builds on the original
    decentralization objective of the project. This institutional reform program was prepared
    jointly by the central and the local governments as fiscal decentralization is taking shape in the
    country;
l The RWCs are operating more efficiently than they did when the project started. Through the
    project, the RWCs improved their management practices and emphasized financial
    management to strengthen their financial position. The RWCs also became familiar with
    competitive procurement practices which has become more common due to the lower unit
    price it yields for goods and civil works; and
l Knowledge of introducing the private sector was created both at the central government level
    and at the RWCs of Varna and Shumen.               The project was a catalyst in initiating the
    discussions of private sector participation in the Bulgarian water and wastewater sector.



                                                 - 13 -

    Multiple seminars and workshops were held which made key officials aware of the issues
    related to the introduction of the private sector.

District heating component

The installation of heat meters for all sub-stations in the country and regulators are important
institutional changes that contributed towards the demand side management measures and
facilitated the entry of the HACs and accurate measurement of heat consumption. Such a scheme
is currently under consideration for the Sofia DHC that represents about 60% of the sector. After
the heat meters were installed, the Government developed plans to privatize the DHCs since the
commercial risk to the private sector would be reduced through accurate measurement of heat
consumption in a building. Such a scheme is currently under consideration for Sofia DHC which
represents 60% of the sector.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The project implementation was delayed due to:

Change in Government. The project was approved by the Bank's Board on May 26, 1994.
However, the Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of Bulgaria was not signed
until June 29, 1995 and the project did not become effective as of October 10, 1995. According
to Bulgarian legislation, international agreements are subject to ratification by the Bulgarian
Parliament before they become effective. In October 1994 the Parliament was dissolved and a
caretaker Government was appointed which was not authorized to sign the Loan Agreement. A
new Government took office on January 26, 1995 and it had to make itself familiar with the
project before the Loan Agreement was signed. The new Government also requested to amend
the terms of the loan to reflect the recategorization of countries done by the Bank for purposes of
establishing loan maturity and grace periods (at negotiations Bulgaria was classified as Category
III which was changed to Category II on September 1994).                      Because of the unusual
circumstances, the Bank agreed that the new terms, as of May 15, 1995, would be made available
to Bulgaria but these discussions delayed the signing of the loan.

Macro-economic conditions. After the project was made effective, the economy suffered a
set-back which also delayed the project implementation.              Inflation was high, the Bulgarian
currency was not stable against the US Dollar, unemployment was rising (19%), and income level
of the population was low. Under these circumstance, the RWCs were not willing to take on the
burden of the sub-loans, especially since the industrial consumption was rapidly decreasing and
the traditional support from the State in the form of subsidies, was cut-off. However, the
macro-economic situation took a turn-around in 1997 when the Currency Board was formed.
Due to the formation of the Currency Board, the Bulgarian Leva became stable, inflation reduced
and the overall economic conditions improved. Thereafter, the RWCs came forward to sign
sub-loans to address urgent investment needs. The summary below on the sub-loan signatures by
RWCs per year outlines the demand for the loan funds, with the maximum number of loans being



                                                     - 14 -

signed in 1999.

        1996: 4 sub-loans signed (Gabrovo, Dobrich, Kjustendil, Lovech)
        1997: 1 sub-loan signed (Varna)
        1998: 1 sub-loan signed (Isperih)
        1999: 15 sub-loans signed (Vratsa, Dimitrovgrad, Kardjali, Sliven, Stara Zagora,
                 Shumen, Vidin, Montana, Pernik, Pleven, Russe, Silistra, Smolian, Targoviste, and
                 Yambol

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
After the loan was made effective, the Government took the following important steps for the
project that helped implementation and made the project meet its objectives:

   l restructured the loan by cancelling US$ 41 million, recognizing that the macro-economic
        conditions in the country would not make it possible for the RWCs to borrow a loan of
        US$ 98 million;
   l included the district heating component of the project that made a significant impact to the
        sector and effectively used the loan proceeds;
   l ensured that project implementation was not delayed due to lack of counterpart fund
        requirements; and
   l ensured that the project implementation was not delayed by following up regularly with
        the PMU, the RWCs, and the district heating companies.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Although, the implementation was delayed the Government did everything under its control to
satisfactorily meet the objectives of the project.           Even after the project has closed, the
Government continues to           make improvements in the water and the district heating sector
(Section 6.1). An internal audit was carried out by the Government in 2002 which did not
suggest that the project implementation was carried out in a manner that would be detrimental to
meeting the expected outcomes.

5.4 Costs and financing:
In the original Loan Agreement, the Borrower (Republic of Bulgaria) had agreed to on-lend the
loan proceeds at an interest rate that would be 6% higher than the rate offered by the Bulgarian
National Bank (BNB).          However, to make the sub-loans more affordable, the Government
requested an amendment to the loan to reduce the on-lending interest rate to 3% higher than the
rate offered by the BNB. The Bank agreed to make this amendment which became effective as of
November 19, 1998.




                                                    - 15 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability is rated likely because of the following reasons:

Water sector

The improvements in operating efficiency, reduced working ratios, and a more than 200%
increase in tariffs during the lifetime of the project will make the RWCs financial sustainable.
Similarly, the technical sustainability is likely due to the effect of investments aimed at higher
operating efficiency. Finally, sustainability has been underpinned by the work to create sector
regulation with a high likelihood that a regulatory law will pass soon. Particularly the economic
regulation when established could be expected to improve sustainability by introducing greater
predictability in the setting of tariffs.

District heating sector

District heating is the most economical way to provide heat to high density urban areas if the
distribution network already exists. As a result efforts have been made in the country to revive
the sector and these efforts are proving to be successful. The Government has developed an
Energy Strategy which has a District Heating component. The Energy Strategy was approved by
the Council of Ministers on May 11, 2002 and the Parliament on July 17, 2002. Key elements of
the strategy are outlined in Section 6.2. The sector is already regulated by the State Energy
Regulatory Commission (SERC) that is helping the DHCs reach financially sustainability.
Currently, domestic district heating tariffs do not cover operating costs and as a result, the sector
is dependent on the central Government for operating subsidies. However, taking affordability
into consideration, the Government has made plans to periodically increase tariffs and no
operating subsidies are expected to be provided for the heating season starting in the Fall of 2005.


Follow-up Bank operations

The Bank has three follow-up operations in its current Country Assistance Strategy with Bulgaria
through which it will continue to assist the Government to make the water and the district heating
sectors financially sustainable. The Bank is expected to be engaged in these sectors until 2009
with the Government.

Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL): This is a three part adjustment operation, each part
corresponding to a loan of US$ 150 million, supporting sector reforms in the country. Both the
district heating and the water sector are covered under this operation:

   l PAL 1 (FY'03): Satisfactory implementation of the DH component of the Energy
                               Strategy which would include increase of tariffs by 10% by Fall 2002,



                                                  - 16 -

                           developing a schedule to raise household tariffs to cost recovery levels,
                           and allowing disconnection of services for non-paying customers.

                           Submission to the Parliament the amendment of the Water Law that
                           would support the restructuring and decentralization of the RWCs.

                           The above conditions have been met and PAL 1 has been fully
                           disbursed

   l PAL 2 (FY'04): Satisfactory implementation of the DH component of the Energy
                           Strategy which would include increase of tariffs by 10% by Fall 2003,
                           adjustment to the Energy Benefit program to assist the poor, strengthen
                           the management of the DH companies, facilitating the formation of
                           home owner's association in multi-family dwellings that would be a
                           single consumer for a DHC instead of multiple apartments within the
                           building.

                           Approval of the Water Strategy by the Council of Ministers; Approval
                           of legislative framework for the water regulator by the Government

   l PAL 3 (FY'05): Satisfactory implementation of the DH component of the Energy
                           Strategy which would include adjustment of tariffs to fully meet cost
                           recovery levels and eliminate subsidies and introducing the private
                           sector in the DHCs.

                           Additional involvement of the private sector, most likely through
                           concession contracts

District Heating Project (FY '03): Two Bank loans have been provided to the Sofia and Pernik
DHCs to: (i) improve the quality of their services; (ii) improve their financial viability; and (iii)
increase environmentally friendly operations through energy conservation and pollution reduction
measures. The Bank loans to Sofia and Pernik DHC would be for US$ 27.2 million equivalent
and US$ 7 million, respectively. This project is expected to be implemented between 2003 and
2008 and will continue to support the Government through policy and institutional reforms to
ensure sustainability of the district heating sector.

Proposed Community Services Project (FY '05): A Bank loan of around US$ 60 million is being
considered with the following objectives: (i) develop institutional capacity to prepare and
implement infrastructure projects in line with EU ISPA requirements; and (ii) create a sustainable
financing mechanism to promote investments in water and wastewater utilities. The project
would support the implementation of the Government's Water Strategy and development of a
financing plan and institutional capacity to meet the infrastructure needs of the country in line with
EU Accession requirements. The project would also finance critical investments. A key element
of the project would be to support the Government's water regulator that would guide the RWCs
to improve their financial performance.         The project is expected to start in 2004 and be



                                                 - 17 -

implemented for about 5 years.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
No transition arrangements are applicable since the RWCs and the DHCs are already in place and
are making additional plans to improve their efficiency.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
    Bank performance in the preparation of the loan is rated satisfactory. The project was
    prepared in the early 1990s when market conditions, as seen in Bulgaria today, were not in
    place. The broad framework created under the project was forward looking and allowed a
    number of institutional developments mentioned earlier. However, the demand for the use of
    the loan proceeds were optimistic given the macro-economic conditions in the country and the
    low level of tariffs that could not support the US$ 98 million loan.

7.2 Supervision:
    Bank performance during supervision is rated satisfactory. The Bank worked closely with the
    Government and the RWCs to implement the project which met its objectives. The Bank paid
    special attention to the institutional set-up for the project and secured 2 PPIAF grants that is
    helping to establish a water regulator, ensuring the sustainability of the sector. The Bank team
    worked diligently to overcome the initial delays of the project so that the implementation
    rating of the project could be rated as satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
    The Bank performance overall is rated satisfactory since the supervision effort was successful
    in making the project meet its objectives.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance is rated satisfactory since it took important decisions to make
fundamental changes in the RWCs by allowing greater decentralization and emphasizing the need
to improve operating efficiency. The Borrower should be credited for the difficult political
decisions it took to make changes in the RWCs in an environment in the early 1990s where
decentralization was not common.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Given that this project had an important social outcome in terms of providing quality water and
wastewater services, the Government paid full attention to the implementation of the project. The
Bank's team had access to the policy makers and the project did not suffer from problems of
counterpart funds. The Water Law was changed in the country in October 2000 to allow for the
introduction of a concessionaire in a RWC. The MRDPW and the Ministry of Finance closely
monitored project progress and requested amendments to the Loan Agreement when needed. In
addition, the Council of Ministers supported the project on a number of fronts: adopting the
Water Resources Study, developing a water and wastewater regulator, and forming a tender
committee to follow-up on the Varna and Shumen concession contract.




                                                  - 18 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The PMU, RWCs, and the DHCs all worked hard to make the project a success. The PMU had
qualified staff that assisted with the preparatory work prior to the signature of sub-loans and
managed more than 750 contracts and multiple disbursements to the water companies. The
RWCs and the DHCs took on ownership of implementing the project that has been useful in
establishing project sustainability.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
    The Borrower's performance overall is rated satisfactory since the project has met its
    objectives and both the RWCs and the district heating companies have improved operations
    today compared to the situation when the project started.

8. Lessons Learned

    The project was one of the first investment operations for the Bank in Bulgaria. The broad
    sector reform objectives of the project allowed institutional reforms to take place and made an
    impact in the water and wastewater and the district heating sectors as described earlier.
    However, there may have been some optimism in the pace of reform that could take place.

    Lesson One: Investment projects should be designed in line with the macro-economic
   conditions in the country.

   Although the loan was approved by the Bank's Board in 1994, the pace of project
   implementation increased after 1999 when 15 out of the 21 sub-loans were signed. The
   primary delay in the early stages of the project was due to the fact that the RWCs could not
   afford to take on the sub-loans when tariffs were low and prospects of increasing them fast
   were not high. This was further complicated by the fact that the Bulgarian leva was not stable
   against the US Dollar, prior to the Currency Board being established, and the on-lending
   interest was high. Social and economic issues have to be addressed for the delivery of quality
   water and wastewater services. The political will to address these issues often takes time to
   develop, especially under difficult economic conditions, which contributed to the
   implementation delay.

   Lesson Two: Projects should be simple, have limited objectives, and success should be
   defined during preparation.

   Projects with first-time Borrowers should be simple, and expectations should be realistic. The
   project was optimistic by expecting the RWCs to reform and substantially improve their
   autonomy, commercial orientation, and local accountability. The project had four objectives
   for the water sector and a fifth one was added for the district heating sector. The creation of
   an objective for the district heating sector was necessary.        However, if there were less
   objectives under the water component, project implementation would be more focussed. For
   the future, projects with limited objectives and possibility of a repeat operation by the Bank
   should be considered. The Bank's instrument of the Adaptable Programmatic Loan (APL)
   would have well suited this project had this instrument been in place when the project was
   prepared. Under an APL approach a path of reform is defined with investment tranches linked


                                                - 19 -

    to meeting the pre-defined triggers that would indicate progress on the reforms.

    A sector reform project with a large number of RWCs must count on a reliable system of
    performance monitoring that would include data collection and proper reporting. Such a
    system was not established during project preparation. The situation was rectified during
    project supervision in two ways: (a) in the short term by creating a system of performance
    indicators with semi-annual reporting of a limited number of key performance indicators; and
    (b) in the medium term by commissioning studies to establish a water regulator.

    Lesson Three: Decentralization should be linked to fiscal and administrative autonomy.

    The objective of the project to promote decentralization in the RWCs was correct since the
    distribution of water and collection and treatment of wastewater service should be managed
    locally. However, the transfer of shares to the municipality should have been linked to greater
    fiscal and administrative autonomy at the local level. Under the project, the municipalities
    owned part of the assets but did not have the ability to take independent decisions about
    raising tariffs or taxes and operations of the RWCs. The State still has majority control of the
    RWCs while the municipalities had minority control with the smaller municipalities having
    nominal share that did not allow them to have an influence on the operations of the company.
    These shortcomings are being currently addressed through the proposed amendment in the
    Water Law where the network assets would be fully transferred to a municipality while the
    State will only retain control over the bulk water transfer and water resource assets. Further,
    the Government has recently started taking measures to provide more fiscal and administrative
    autonomy to the municipalities which will make the RWCs more responsive to the local needs.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower comments are summarized below:

The Project

The Borrower considers the project sustainable since the purposes of the project were met and
because of the institutional development that was promoted by the project. The RWCs would be
able to take on larger investments in the future as their financial situation is improving and they
have been strengthened institutionally. The support provided to the RWCs would help them to
take on the responsibility to prepare and implement projects in the future to allow Bulgaria to
meet EU Accession Requirements.

The development of the Water Regulator and the development of the concession contract for the
Varna and Shumen RWCs are important features of the project. Bulgaria plans to bring in as
much private capital is possible for the water sector and to this end the Water Law is being
amended. The Water Regulator will help to ensure that the interests of the citizens and the
private operators are balanced and that good quality water is provided to the consumers at
affordable prices.




                                                 - 20 -

The decentralization of the RWCs was needed but at the same time was ambitious. Without
institutional capacity and resources at the local level, the operations of the RWCs could not be run
from the local level. Important decisions for the restructured companies (51% State ownership;
49% municipal ownership) were difficult to take, compared to a company that is fully owned
either by the State or a single municipality.

Co-operation with the Bank

The work with the Bank was productive and without the intervention of the Bank the project
would not have met its objective. The Bank supervised the project in two different ways. First,
there would be official supervision missions that would assess the progress of the project. The
findings and the recommendations of the missions helped the Government to implement the
project. Second, the Bank staff would regularly contact the PMU through phone calls and
electronic mail (E-mail). This interaction with the Bank was also useful. As more responsibilities
were transferred to the Bank's Sofia office, implementation issues were addressed quickly,
especially the ones related to procurement. Such an arrangement of assigning procurement
responsibilities to the Bank's Sofia office should be followed in other projects in the future.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable

10. Additional Information

Not Applicable




                                                - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



Table 1                 Average Equivalent Tariffs
Table 2                  Unaccounted Water
Table 3                  Collection Rate
Table 4                  Working Ratio


                                                     Table 1
                                   Average Equivalent Tariffs USD/m3
         RWC            Sub-loan signed     1996       1997     1998     1999     2000   2001    2002
         Gabrovo           11/27/1996        0.15       0.21    0.42     0.37     0.39   0.39    0.52
         Dobrich           11/20/1996        0.29       0.35    0.51     0.58     0.56   0.62    0.70
         Kjustendil        11/29/1996        0.28       0.27    0.40     0.45     0.49   0.59    0.51
         Lovech             12/3/1996        0.04       0.04    0.08     0.11     0.13   0.14    0.36
         Varna             12/23/1997        0.19       0.27    0.36     0.37     0.39   0.47    0.64
         Isperih            1/9/1998         0.21       0.30    0.42     0.59     0.59   0.64    0.68
         Vratca             2/16/1999        0.17       0.20    0.36     0.46     0.46   0.51    0.64
         Dimitrovgrad       2/18/1999        0.14       0.16    0.28     0.35     0.37   0.46    0.55
         Kardjali           2/18/1999        0.10       0.12    0.21     0.26     0.26   0.29    0.41
         Sliven             2/18/1999        0.13       0.18    0.28     0.24     0.26   0.36    0.25
         St.Zagora          2/18/1999        0.17       0.25    0.37     0.40     0.39   0.54    0.65
         Shumen             3/22/1999        0.17       0.22    0.31     0.34     0.36   0.41    0.67
         Vidin              10/8/1999        0.13       0.18    0.30     0.32     0.32   0.37    0.41
         Montana           10/14/1999        0.03       0.04    0.11     0.13     0.19   0.22    0.37
         Pernik            10/12/1999        0.06       0.11    0.22     0.21     0.20   0.20    0.46
         Pleven            10/13/1999        0.16       0.29    0.43     0.47     0.43   0.50    0.57
         Russe             10/20/1999        0.10       0.14    0.22     0.22     0.22   0.27    0.35
         Silistra          10/20/1999        0.18       0.27    0.39     0.44     0.46   0.52    0.61
         Smolian           10/14/1999        0.13       0.16    0.38     0.45     0.46   0.53    0.38
         Targoviste        10/13/1999        0.15       0.22    0.35     0.44     0.44   0.50    0.56
         Yambol             10/8/1999        0.12       0.12    0.30     0.30     0.27   0.36    0.41
         Average                             0.15       0.19    0.32     0.36     0.36   0.42    0.51


         Note: The average tariff equivalent tariff is calculated as total water and wastewater revenues
         divided by the volume of water sold.




                                                       - 22 -

                                                            Table 2
                                                  Unaccounted for Water
      RWC        1996            1997             1998              1999             2000             2001            2002
             UFW Prod. Loss UFW Prod.    Loss UFW Prod. Loss UFW Prod. Loss UFW Prod.        Loss UFW Prod. Loss UFW Prod. Loss
                 (in mln. M3)    (in mln. M3)     (in mln. M3)      (in mln. M3)     (in mln. M3)     (in mln. M3)    (in mln. M3)
Gabrovo      65%   38     24 54%   20      11 49%   16      8  44%    13      6  45%   12       5 45%    12      5 45%  29     13
Dobrich      76%   48     36 79%   41      33 77%   40     31  78%    41     32  76%   35      27 79%    32    25 80%   37     30
Kjustendil   66%   16     10 68%   15      10 66%   13      9  66%    13      9  64%   12       8 68%    12      8 67%  11      8
Lovech       30%   38     11 28%   35      10 26%   32      8  25%    29      7  26%   24       6 25%    23      6 25%  28      7
Varna        60%   93     55 66%   79      53 62%   87     54  64%    88     57  60%   70      42 66%    99    65 69%   89     61
Isperih      50%     4     2 38%     2       1 39%    2     1  60%      3     2  59%     3      2 58%     3      2 61%   3      2
Vratsa       50%   28     14 65%   35      22 71%   46     33  73%    43     31  69%   41      28 69%    40    28 71%   36     26
Dimitrovgrad 53%     8     4 62%     8       5 75%  13      9  72%    10      8  65%     8      5 73%     7      5 59%   6      3
Kardjali     41%   16      6 43%   13        6 42%  13      5  42%    12      5  41%   12       5 40%    11      4 39%  10      4
Sliven       54%   42     22 53%   36      19 48%   33     16  50%    31     15  46%   28      13 48%    24    12 21%   12      3
St.Zagora    53%   63     34 62%   60      37 58%   59     34  62%    60     37  63%   58      37 66%    52    34 68%   54     36
Shumen       53%   33     17 56%   25      14 46%   24     11  50%    22     11  50%   22      11 50%    20    10 49%   17      8
Vidin        57%   16      9 58%   13        7 60%  14      8  58%    12      7  50%   10       5 47%     9      4 47%   8      4
Montana      27%   48     13 36%   54      19 33%   54     18  23%    40      9  24%   35       8 24%    34      8 28%  35     10
Pernik       40%   45     18 40%   39      15 53%   47     25  61%    57     35  53%   39      21 48%    27    13 53%   33     17
Pleven       46%   44     20 58%   45      26 55%   45     25  50%    38     19  50%   36      18 52%    34    17 51%   31     16
Russe        62%   68     42 64%   57      36 58%   50     29  48%    40     19  52%   41      22 51%    32    16 47%   28     13
Silistra     62%   18     11 63%   13        8 60%  14      8  63%    14      9  61%   14       8 62%    12      8 61%  12      7
Smolian      33%   10      3 48%   11        5 50%  12      6  49%    12      6  49%   11       5 50%     9      5 50%   9      5
Targoviste   71%   16     11 75%   15      11 75%   15     11  74%    12      9  68%   10       7 70%     9      7 71%  10      7
Yambol       63%   21     13 59%   21      13 71%   22     16  66%    22     14  70%   24      17 67%    20    13 64%   18     11
    Average  53%             56%              56%              56%               54%              55%             54%
      Total      711      379     636     361      651    365        610     346     546      300       520    295    516      291




                                                              - 23 -

                                          Table 3
                                    Collection Rate (%)
RWC                Date of       1996 1997       1998 1999       2000     2001        2002
                  Sub-loan
Gabrovo          11/27/1996      97%     89%     83%     85%      84%    78, 31%       74%
Dobrich          11/20/1996      88%     97%     96%     91%      87%      90%         89%
Kjustendil       11/29/1996      76%     82%     74%     71%      65%      62%         52%
Lovech            12/3/1996      86%     91%     91%     87%      87%      83%         84%
Varna            12/23/1997      84%     94%     93%     92%      83%      82%         78%
Isperih           1/9/1998       91%     95%     97%     93%      85%      88%         84%
Vratca            2/16/1999      88%     88%     91%     93%      91%      89%         84%
Dimitrovgrad      2/18/1999      87%     91%     93%     88%      86%      85%         81%
Kardjali          2/18/1999      85%     92%     91%     91%      88%      81%         84%
Sliven            2/18/1999      86%     88%     87%     82%      79%      81%         n/a
St.Zagora         2/18/1999      87%     95%     92%     91%      85%      83%         81%
Shumen            3/22/1999      81%     94%     88%     84%      81%      79%         75%
Vidin             10/8/1999      87%     94%     92%     94%      93%      95%         92%
Montana          10/14/1999      80%     88%     93%     93%      96%      96%         86%
Pernik           10/12/1999      87%     91%     80%     73%      83%      71%         57%
Pleven           10/13/1999      82%     90%     92%     90%      88%      85%         84%
Russe            10/20/1999      96%     97%     98%     96%      95%      95%         95%
Silistra         10/20/1999      85%     92%     92%     90%      89%      84%         81%
Smolian          10/14/1999      92%     97%     97%     95%      94%      92%         90%
Targoviste       10/13/1999      86%     92%     91%     89%      85%      82%         81%
Yambol            10/8/1999      79%     87%     86%     84%      82%      79%         77%
Average                          86%     92%     90%     88%      86%      84%         80%

Note: Collection rate is defined as the cash collected divided by the volume billed on an
        annual basis.




                                           - 24 -

                                              Table 4
                                           Working Ratio
     RWC          1996         1997        1998        1999        2000         2001        2002

Gabrovo          107%          96%         86%          86%       93.85%      98.66%      108.84%
Dobrich          141%         104%         85%          86%       89.70%      104.07%     106.67%
Kjustendil       121%         108%         98%          96%       89.55%      93.18%       85.70%
Lovech           108%          96%         83%          76%       82.97%      79.13%       82.80%
Varna            101%          89%         84%          86%       87.19%      88.34%       87.63%
Isperih          128%          92%         94%          89%       86.81%      86.90%       88.26%
Vratca            95%          92%         92%          91%       89.51%      94.36%       90.70%
Dimitrovgrad     112%         100%         92%          90%       97.31%      91.11%       83.77%
Kardjali         102%          97%         85%          81%       83.29%      79.89%       85.03%
Sliven            96%          85%         85%          84%       87.98%      84.23%       85.21%
St.Zagora         97%          95%         92%          88%       88.79%      93.68%       94.27%
Shumen           106%         100%         92%          90%       92.30%      89.93%       92.26%
Vidin            101%          97%         92%          92%       92.57%      91.10%       94.04%
Montana          102%          96%         85%          88%       85.11%      85.48%       89.85%
Pernik           105%          83%         77%          82%       87.54%      89.98%       80.15%
Pleven           106%          88%         88%          88%       93.97%      91.71%       90.88%
Russe             94%          94%         88%          90%       92.27%      90.62%       84.18%
Silistra         103%         102%         94%          93%       94.45%      91.67%       86.00%
Smolian          105%         103%         88%          74%       83.04%      87.21%       95.02%
Targoviste       113%          99%         88%          91%       89.95%      90.84%       89.31%
Yambol           100%          97%         88%          87%       87.11%      86.81%       85.76%
Average          107%          96%         88%          87%         89%         90%         90%

Note: Working ratio defined as cash operating costs as a percentage of cash operating revenue.




                                               - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


                           Category                                Loan Amounts
                                                             (in US Dollar Equivalent)
                                                        Expected use after    Actual use
                                                           May 1997        as of June 1, 2003
                                                          amendment



         1     Goods, equipment, materials, and civil         23,400,000           6,532,847
               works under Part A(i)of project
         2     Goods, equipment, materials, and civil         10,000,000          16,182,129
               works under Part A(ii) of project

         3     Technical Assistance
          a    Consultant services, tranining and              1,500,000           1,513,935
               equipment for Part B(ii) of project

          b    Consultant services, tranining and              2,500,000           3,597,107
               equipment for Parts B(i), B(iii), and
               B(iv) of project
         4     Interest and other charges accrued              2,600,000           2,626,064
               before January 31, 2002
         5     Goods for Part C of project                    10,500,000          14,495,230

         6     Civil works for Part C of project               1,500,000                  -

         7     Unallocated                                     5,000,000                  -

               Cancelled                                              -            5,179,323
               Exchange Rate Variation                                -            6,873,365

                               TOTAL                          57,000,000          57,000,000




                                                  - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Key indicators for the 21 RWCs are presented below.


                                              Summary of Benefits and Costs

Gabrovo - Sub loan signed on 11/27/1996                           1996     1997     1998     1999     2000     2001     2002
Production
Water produced                                        000 cub.m  37,620  19,520   16,350    12,760  11,801   11,801   28,800
Savings in production                                 000 cub.m          18,100   21,270    24,860  25,819   25,819     8,820
Marginal cost of water production                    USD/cub.m     0.06    0.05     0.10      0.11    0.14      0.17    0.08
Savings in production                                 1000 USD     0.00  863.37 2,052.56 2,742.06 3,526.88  4,342.76  725.89

Consumption
Total Water Billed                                    000 cub.m  13,170    9,010    8,287   7,147     6,451   6,451     5,308
Tariff (Average; Water supply to all users)          USD/cub.m     0.10    0.12     0.28      0.24    0.26      0.26    0.44
Revenue                                               1000 USD 1,317.00 1,081.20 2,320.36 1,715.28 1,677.26 1,677.26 2,312.16
Incremental revenue                                   1000 USD          -235.80 1,003.36    398.28  360.26   360.26   995.16

Combined Benefit                                      1000 USD     0.00  627.57 3,055.92 3,140.34 3,887.14  4,703.02 1,721.05

Costs
Project costs                                         1000 USD             91.01  963.48 1,018.60   899.46   172.87
Dobrich - Sub loan signed on 11/20/1996                           1996     1997     1998     1999     2000     2001     2002
Production
Water produced                                        000 cub.m  47,938  41,390   39,761    40,768  34,908   31,520   37,457
Savings in production                                 000 cub.m            6,548    8,177   7,170   13,030   16,418   10,481
Marginal cost of water production                    USD/cub.m     0.09    0.07     0.09      0.10    0.12      0.15    0.14
Savings in production                                 1000 USD     0.00  445.26   766.18    750.70 1,596.18 2,536.58 1,471.53

Consumption
Total Water Billed                                    000 cub.m  11,554    8,616    9,109   8,806     8,378   7,560     7,339
Tariff (Average; Water supply to all users)          USD/cub.m     0.24    0.30     0.44      0.50    0.48      0.54    0.61
Revenue                                               1000 USD 2,772.96 2,584.80 4,007.96 4,403.00 4,021.44 4,082.40 4,476.79
Incremental revenue                                   1000 USD          -188.16 1,235.00 1,630.04 1,248.48  1,309.44 1,703.83

Combined Benefit                                      1000 USD     0.00  257.10 2,001.18 2,380.74 2,844.66  3,846.02 3,175.36

Costs
Project costs                                         1000 USD    55.86  410.16   297.16    623.01 1,503.11  597.63
Kustendil - Sub loan signed on 11/29/1996                         1996     1997     1998     1999     2000     2001     2002
Production
Water produced                                        000 cub.m  15,701  14,530   13,480    12,994  12,130   11,831   11,468
Savings in production                                 000 cub.m            1,171    2,221   2,707     3,571   3,870     4,233
Marginal cost of water production                    USD/cub.m     0.06    0.06     0.09      0.10    0.12      0.14    0.15
Savings in production                                 1000USD      0.00    69.79  201.67    268.53  437.45   545.28   634.95

Consumption
Total Water Billed                                    000 cub.m   5,260    4,690    4,520   4,460     4,310   4,340     3,951
Tariff (Average; Water supply to all users)          USD/cub.m     0.14    0.15     0.23      0.26    0.33      0.36    0.39
Revenue                                               1000USD    736.40  703.50 1,039.60 1,159.60 1,422.30  1,562.40 1,540.89
Incremental revenue                                   1000USD             -32.90  303.20    423.20  685.90   826.00   804.49

Combined Benefit                                      1000USD      0.00    36.89  504.87    691.73 1,123.35 1,371.28 1,439.44

Costs
Project costs                                         1000USD            113.67   620.39    748.52  577.29    85.67




                                                         - 27 -

                                              Summary of Benefits and Costs

Lovech - Sub loan signed on 3/12/1996                              1996     1997     1998     1999     2000      2001     2002
Production
Water produced                                         000 cub.m  37,567  34,954   32,480    28,562  24,485    22,853   27,885
Savings in production                                  000 cub.m            2,613    5,087    9,005  13,082    14,714     9,682
Marginal cost of water production                     USD/cub.m     0.10    0.11     0.19      0.26    0.25       0.29    0.33
Savings in production                                  1000USD      0.00  280.64   953.30 2,333.20 3,328.06   4,280.30 3,233.79

Consumption
Total Water Billed                                     000 cub.m  26,200  25,050   24,193    21,525  18,146    17,167 21,034.00
Tariff (Average; Water supply to all users)           USD/cub.m     0.03    0.04     0.07      0.09    0.11       0.12    0.34
Revenue                                                1000USD    786.00 1,002.00 1,693.51 1,937.25 1,996.06  2,060.04 7,151.56
Incremental revenue                                    1000USD            216.00   907.51 1,151.25 1,210.06   1,274.04 6,365.56

Combined Benefit                                       1000USD      0.00  496.64 1,860.81 3,484.45 4,538.12   5,554.34 9,599.35

Costs
Project costs                                          1000USD              34.37  375.46    879.54  427.57      17.70
Varna - Sub loan signed on 12/23/1997                              1996     1997     1998     1999     2000      2001     2002
Production
Water produced                                   000 cub.m        92,630  79,300   87,098    88,194  70,271    99,433   88,924
Savings in production                            000 cub.m                          -7,798   -1,096  16,827   -12,335    -1,826
Marginal cost of water production                USD/cub.m          0.06    0.04     0.07      0.08    0.10       0.09    0.10
Savings in production                            1000USD            0.00    0.00  -527.14    -87.02 1,632.22 -1,048.48 -189.17

Consumption
Total Water Billed                               000 cub.m        37,320  26,660   33,406    31,463  28,242    26,117   25,067
Tariff (Average; Water supply to all users)      USD/cub.m          0.12    0.18     0.22      0.21    0.23       0.30    0.35
Revenue                                          1000USD        4,478.40 4,798.80 7,349.32 6,607.23 6,495.66  7,835.10 8,773.45
Incremental revenue                              1000USD                                   -742.09  -853.66    485.78  1,424.13

Combined Benefit                                 1000USD            0.00    0.00  -527.14  -829.11   778.56   -562.70  1,234.96

Costs
Project costs                                    1000USD                           904.71    998.81 1,200.76   141.77
Isperih - Sub loan signed on 1/9/1998                              1996     1997     1998     1999     2000      2001     2002
Production
Water produced                                   000 cub.m        4,053     2,128    2,390    3,070    3,140     2,610    2,779
Savings in production                            000 cub.m                                    -680     -750      -220     -389
Marginal cost of water production                USD/cub.m          0.28    0.16     0.25      0.22    0.22       0.23    0.30
Savings in production                            1000USD            0.00    0.00     0.00  -149.94  -166.05     -51.00 -116.74

Consumption
Total Water Billed                               000 cub.m        2,027     1,330    1,451    1,237    1,270     1,088    1,070
Tariff (Average; Water supply to all users)      USD/cub.m          0.21    0.30     0.42      0.59    0.59       0.64    0.68
Revenue                                            USD            425.67  399.00   609.42    729.83  749.30    696.32   727.60
Incremental revenue                                USD                                       120.41  139.88      86.90  118.18

Combined Benefit                                   USD              0.00    0.00     0.00    -29.53   -26.17     35.90    1.44

Costs
Project costs                                      USD                               4.11    311.04  207.45      22.07




                                                          - 28 -

                                              Summary of Benefits and Costs

Vratsa - Sub loan signed on 2/16/1999                              1996     1997     1998     1999     2000     2001     2002
Production
Water produced                                   000 cub.m        28,217  34,591   45,917    42,839  40,670   40,352   36,275
Savings in production                            000 cub.m                                             2,169   2,487     6,564
Marginal cost of water production                     USD/cub.m     0.68    0.07     0.09      0.10    0.10      0.10    0.11
Savings in production                            1000USD            0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00  218.42   247.71   665.59

Consumption
Total Water Billed                               000 cub.m        14,178  12,158   13,351    11,775  12,532   12,361   10,390
Tariff (Average; Water supply to all users)      USD/cub.m          0.16    0.19     0.30      0.31    0.32      0.37    0.38
Revenue                                            USD          2,268.48 2,310.02 4,005.30 3,650.25 4,010.24 4,573.57 3,948.20
Incremental revenue                                USD                                               359.99   923.32   297.95

Combined Benefit                                   USD              0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00  578.41  1,171.03  963.54

Costs
Project costs                                      USD                                       338.53  375.23   130.06     0.76
Dimitrovgrad - Sub loan signed on 2/18/1999                        1996     1997     1998     1999     2000     2001     2002
Production
Water produced                                   000 cub.m        7,894     8,178  12,585    10,494    7,786   7,122     5,774
Savings in production                            000 cub.m                                             2,708   3,372     4,720
Marginal cost of water production                     USD/cub.m     0.34    0.04     0.05      0.09    0.13      0.14    0.22
Savings in production                            1000USD            0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00  357.19   475.11  1,028.02

Consumption
Total Water Billed                               000 cub.m        3,737     3,126    3,161   2,921     2,729   2,517     2,303
Tariff (Average; Water supply to all users)      USD/cub.m          0.13    0.15     0.26      0.31    0.32      0.41    0.45
Revenue                                          1000USD          485.81  468.90   821.86    905.51  873.28  1,031.97 1,036.35
Incremental revenue                              1000USD                                              -32.23  126.46   130.84

Combined Benefit                                 1000USD            0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00  324.96   601.57  1,158.86

Costs
Project costs                                    1000USD                                     97.71   409.65   443.03     3.25
Kardjali - Sub loan signed on 2/18/1999                            1996     1997     1998     1999     2000     2001     2002
Production
Water produced                                   000 cub.m        15,591  13,104   13,158    11,796  11,652   10,543     9,840
Savings in production                                  000 cub.m                                     144.00  1,253.00 1,956.00
Marginal cost of water production                USD/cub.m          0.06    0.06     0.12      0.15    0.15      0.18    0.22
Savings in production                            1000USD               0       0        0         0    22.12  222.16   430.71

Consumption
Total Water Billed                               000 cub.m      9,233.00 7,517.00 7,659.00 6,822.00 6,905.00 6,329.00 5,993.00
Tariff (Average; Water supply to all users)      USD/cub.m          0.09    0.11     0.20      0.25    0.24      0.27    0.39
Revenue                                            USD            830.97  826.87 1,531.80 1,705.50 1,657.20  1,708.83 2,337.27
Incremental revenue                                USD                                                -48.30     3.33  631.77

Combined Benefit                                                    0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00   -26.18  225.49  1,062.48

Costs
Project costs                                               USD                              463.49  672.95   984.66     15.90




                                                          - 29 -

                                              Summary of Benefits and Costs

Sliven - Sub loan signed on 2/18/1999                              1996     1997     1998     1999     2000     2001     2002
Production
Water produced                                   000 cub.m        41,510  36,300   33,257    30,500  27,800   24,024   12,088
Savings in production                            000 cub.m                                             2,700   6,476   18,412
Marginal cost of water production                     USD/cub.m     0.40    0.13     0.07      0.09    0.11      0.15    0.20
Savings in production                            1000USD            0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00  292.41   942.26  3,652.94

Consumption
Total Water Billed                               000 cub.m        19,210  16,973   17,174    15,385  14,995   12,966     9,527
Tariff (Average; Water supply to all users)      USD/cub.m          0.09    0.10     0.15      0.16    0.18      0.24    0.25
Revenue                                          1000USD        1,728.90 1,697.30 2,576.10 2,461.60 2,699.10 3,111.84 2,381.75
Incremental revenue                              1000USD                                             237.50   650.24    -79.85

Combined Benefit                                 1000USD            0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00  529.91  1,592.50 3,573.09

Costs
Project costs                                    1000USD                                     258.24  607.33   910.20     3.99
Stara Zagora - Sub loan signed on 2/18/1999                        1996     1997     1998     1999     2000     2001     2002
Production
Water produced                                         000 cub.m  63,331  60,301   58,962    59,784  57,875   52,253   54,050
Savings in production                                  000 cub.m                                       1,909   7,531     5,734
Marginal cost of water production                     USD/cub.m     0.05    0.05     0.09      0.10    0.09      0.11    0.14
Savings in production                                  1000USD      0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00  170.86   855.52   805.05

Consumption
Total Water Billed                                     000 cub.m  29,688  23,195   24,792    22,555  21,197   19,610   17,550
Tariff (Average; Water supply to all users)           USD/cub.m     0.13    0.20     0.29      0.32    0.32      0.40    0.49
Revenue                                                1000USD 3,859.44 4,639.00 7,189.68 7,217.60 6,783.04  7,844.00 8,599.50
Incremental revenue                                    1000USD                                      -434.56   626.40  1,381.90

Combined Benefit                                       1000USD      0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00 -263.70  1,481.92 2,186.95

Costs
Project costs                                          1000USD                               300.08 1,048.22  689.89
Vidin - Sub loan signed on 10/8/1999                               1996     1997     1998     1999     2000     2001     2002
Production
Water produced                                   000 cub.m        16,073  12,620   13,777    12,308  10,483    8,580     8,126
Savings in production                            000 cub.m                                             1,825   3,728     4,182
Marginal cost of water production                     USD/cub.m     0.68    0.07     0.10      0.13    0.15      0.21    0.22
Savings in production                            1000USD            0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00  275.03   779.52   930.91

Consumption
Total Water Billed                               000 cub.m        6,951     5,296    5,528   5,159     5,243   4,553     4,271
Tariff (Average; Water supply to all users)      USD/cub.m          0.11    0.16     0.26      0.27    0.28      0.32    0.35
Revenue                                          1000USD          764.61  847.36 1,437.28 1,392.93 1,468.04  1,456.96 1,494.85
Incremental revenue                              1000USD                                               75.11   64.03   101.92

Combined Benefit                                 1000USD            0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00  350.14   843.55  1,032.83

Costs
Project costs                                    1000USD                                               36.16  205.82     16.31




                                                          - 30 -

                                              Summary of Benefits and Costs

Shumen - Sub loan signed on 3/22/1999                            1996     1997       1998     1999     2000     2001     2002
Production
Production
Water produced                                   000 cub.m       32,612  25,119    23,536    22,250  22,021   19,563   17,440
Savings in production                            000 cub.m                                              229    2,687     4,810
Marginal cost of water production                     USD/cub.m     0.00    0.21     0.27      0.32     0.35     0.43    0.49
Savings in production                            1000 USD           0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00    79.83 1,148.16 2,356.90

Consumption
Total Water Billed                               000 cub.m       15,464  11,055    12,778    11,172  11,119    9,867     8,955
Tariff (Average; Water supply to all users)      USD/cub.m          0.16    0.21     0.29      0.31     0.34     0.39    0.47
Revenue                                          1000 USD       2,474.24 2,321.55 3,705.62 3,463.32 3,780.46 3,848.13 4,208.85
Incremental revenue                              1000 USD                                            317.14   384.81   745.53

Combined Benefit                                 1000 USD           0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00  396.97  1,532.97 3,102.43

Costs
Project costs                                    1000 USD                                    152.40  662.14   729.08
Montana - Sub loan signed on 10/14/1999                             1996    1997     1998     1999     2000     2001     2002
Production
Water produced                                   000 cub.m        48,279  53,943   53,540    39,895  35,403   34,300   34,792
Savings in production                            000 cub.m                                             4,492   5,595     5,103
Marginal cost of water production                     USD/cub.m     0.06    0.04     0.07      0.10     0.11     0.12    0.10
Savings in production                            1000 USD           0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00  486.48   686.51   493.97

Consumption
Total Water Billed                               000 cub.m        35,138  34,468   35,610    30,879  26,965   26,965   25,037
Tariff (Average; Water supply to all users)      USD/cub.m          0.02    0.03     0.06      0.07     0.08     0.09    0.29
Revenue                                          1000 USD         702.76 1,034.04 2,136.60 2,161.53 2,157.20 2,426.85 7,260.73
Incremental revenue                              1000 USD                                              -4.33  265.32  5,099.20

Combined Benefit                                 1000 USD           0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00  482.15   951.83  5,593.17

Costs
Project costs                                    1000 USD                                            327.99   454.78     16.54

Pernik - Sub loan signed on 10/12/1999                              1996    1997     1998     1999     2000     2001     2002
Production
Water produced                                   000 cub.m        45,359  38,709   47,463    56,880  39,343   26,656   32,898
Savings in production                            000 cub.m                                           17,537   30,224   23,982
Marginal cost of water production                     USD/cub.m     0.06    0.03     0.05      0.04     0.05     0.07    0.05
Savings in production                            1000USD            0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00  825.99  2,197.28 1,275.84

Consumption
Total Water Billed                               000 cub.m        27,354  23,111   22,507    21,997  18,539   13,834   13,378
Tariff (Average; Water supply to all users)      USD/cub.m          0.03    0.06     0.12      0.11     0.11     0.14    0.28
Revenue                                          1000USD          820.62 1,386.66 2,700.84 2,419.67 2,039.29 1,936.76 3,745.84
Incremental revenue                              1000USD                                            -380.38  -482.91  1,326.17

Combined Benefit                                 1000USD            0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00  445.61  1,714.37 2,602.01

Costs
Project costs                                    1000USD                                             352.00   749.45     67.81




                                                          - 31 -

                                              Summary of Benefits and Costs

Pleven - Sub loan signed on 10/13/1999                            1996    1997        1998    1999     2000     2001     2002
Production
Water produced                                   000 cub.m        44,329   44,987   44,640   37,625   36,437  33,566    30,551
Savings in production                            000 cub.m                                             1,188    4,059    7,074
Marginal cost of water production                     USD/cub.m     0.08     0.07     0.12     0.15    0.16      0.17     0.19
Savings in production                            1000USD            0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   190.32  700.99  1,335.57

Consumption
Total Water Billed                               000 cub.m       24,066  18,899     19,897   18,701   18,344  16,178    14,860
Tariff (Average; Water supply to all users)      USD/cub.m          0.10     0.19     0.28     0.32    0.31      0.34     0.38
Revenue                                            USD          2,406.60 3,590.81 5,571.16 5,984.32 5,686.64 5,500.52 5,646.80
Incremental revenue                                USD                                               -297.68 -483.80   -337.52

Combined Benefit                                   USD            0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    -107.36  217.19   998.05

Costs
Project costs                                      USD                                                326.84 1,093.59   406.53
Russe - Sub loan signed on 10/22/1999                               1996     1997     1998    1999     2000     2001     2002
Production
Water produced                                   000 cub.m        67,898   56,673   49,814   39,640   41,411  32,220    28,055
Savings in production                            000 cub.m                                            -1,771    7,420   11,585
Marginal cost of water production                     USD/cub.m     0.63     0.07     0.09     0.10    0.11      0.14     0.17
Savings in production                            1000USD                                       0.00  -191.80 1,045.48 2,018.11

Consumption
Total Water Billed                               000 cub.m        26,121   20,401   20,836   20,565   19,737  16,737    14,853
Tariff (Average; Water supply to all users)      USD/cub.m          0.09     0.13     0.21     0.20    0.20      0.24     0.30
Revenue                                            USD          2,350.89 2,652.13 4,375.56 4,113.00 3,947.40 4,016.88 4,455.90
Incremental revenue                                USD                                               -165.60   -96.12   342.90

Combined Benefit                                   USD              0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00  -357.40  949.36  2,361.01

Costs
Project costs                                      USD                                                684.09 1,624.16   166.07
Silistra - Sub loan signed on 10/20/1999                            1996     1997     1998    1999     2000     2001     2002
Production
Water produced                                   000 cub.m        17,732   12,743   14,093   13,850   13,636  12,310    11,738
Savings in production                            000 cub.m                                               214    1,540    2,112
Marginal cost of water production                     USD/cub.m     0.09     0.10     0.14     0.15    0.16      0.20     0.22
Savings in production                            1000USD            0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    35.29  308.00    470.13

Consumption
Total Water Billed                               000 cub.m         6,766    4,759    5,609   5,154     5,250    5,250    4,578
Tariff (Average; Water supply to all users)      USD/cub.m          0.17     0.26     0.37     0.41    0.43      0.50     0.56
Revenue                                          1000USD        1,150.22 1,237.34 2,075.33 2,113.14 2,257.50 2,625.00 2,563.68
Incremental revenue                              1000USD                                              144.36  511.86    450.54

Combined Benefit                                 1000USD            0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   179.65  819.86    920.67

Costs
Project costs                                    1000USD                                              399.96  625.65     45.06




                                                          - 32 -

                                              Summary of Benefits and Costs

Smjolian - Sub loan sigined on 10/14/1999                               1996    1997    1998     1999     2000     2001     2002
Production
Water produced                                      000 cub.m         10,285  10,630  12,100    11,600  10,700    9,342     9,250
Savings in production                               000 cub.m                                               900   2,258     2,350
Marginal cost of water production                        USD/cub.m      0.06    0.06    0.10      0.13     0.14     0.16     0.19
Savings in production                               1000USD             0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00  122.94   359.25   454.96

Consumption
Total Water Billed                                  000 cub.m          6,903   5,517    6,110   5,914     5,440   4,762     4,622
Tariff (Average; Water supply to all users)        USD/cub.m            0.08    0.12    0.22      0.24     0.26     0.33     0.35
Revenue                                             1000USD           552.24  662.04 1,344.20 1,419.36 1,414.40 1,571.46 1,617.70
Incremental revenue                                 1000USD                                               -4.96  152.10   198.34

Combined Benefit                                    1000USD             0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00  117.98   511.35   653.30

Costs
Project costs                                       1000USD                                               70.15  376.69     51.88
Yambol - Sub loan signed on 10/18/1999                                  1996    1997    1998     1999     2000     2001     2002
Production
Water produced                                      000 cub.m         20,936  21,418  21,935    21,791  23,850   19,926   17,877
Savings in production                               000 cub.m                                            -2,059   1,865     3,914
Marginal cost of water production                        USD/cub.m      0.06    0.04    0.07      0.09     0.08     0.11     0.14
Savings in production                               1000USD             0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00 -155.25   203.47   549.53

Consumption
Total Water Billed                                  000 cub.m          7,769   8,754    6,315   7,477     7,067   6,607     6,380
Tariff (Average; Water supply to all users)        USD/cub.m            0.12    0.11    0.28      0.28     0.25     0.33     0.39
Revenue                                             1000USD           932.28  962.94 1,768.20 2,093.56 1,766.75 2,180.31 2,488.20
Incremental revenue                                 1000USD                                            -326.81    86.75   394.64

Combined Benefit                                    1000USD             0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00 -482.06   290.22   944.17

Costs
Project costs                                       1000USD                                             346.74   464.32     40.61
Targovishte - Sub loan signed on 10/13/1999                          1996    1997       1998     1999     2000     2001     2002
Production
Water produced                                      000 cub.m        15,578  14,619   15,058    12,246  10,293    9,332   10,110
Savings in production                               000 cub.m                                             1,953   2,914     2,136
Marginal cost of water production              USD/ cub.m. produced     0.06    0.05    0.08      0.10     0.13     0.14     0.13
Savings in production                               1000 USD            0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00  251.16   405.34   274.90

Consumption
Total Water Billed                                  000 cub.m          4,540   3,620    3,790   3,180     3,310   2,940     2,970
Tariff (Average; Water supply to all users)        USD/cub.m            0.14    0.21    0.33      0.40     0.41     0.47     0.56
Revenue                                             1000 USD          635.60  760.20 1,250.70 1,272.00 1,357.10 1,381.80 1,663.20
Incremental revenue                                 1000 USD                                              85.10  109.80   391.20

Combined Benefit                                    1000 USD         0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    336.26   515.14   666.10

Costs
Project costs                                       1000 USD                                            348.49   463.62     75.20




                                                              - 33 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              6/3/1993

 Supervision

              12/16/1994               2    PROJECT OFFICER (1);             S               U
                                            SENIOR SANITARY ENG. (1)
              09/12/1995               3    ECONOMIST (1); ENGINEER          S               U
                                            (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              02/19/1996               3    ECONOMIST (1); ENGINEER          S               U
                                            (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              05/03/1996               3    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);           S               U
                                            ENGINEER (1); PROJECT
                                            OFFICER (1)
              12/11/1996               3    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);           S               U
                                            ENGINEER (1); PROJECT
                                            OFFICER (1)
              05/28/1997               3    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);           S               U
                                            ENGINEER (1); PROJECT
                                            OFFICER (1)
              11/21/1997               3    ENGINEER (1); FINANCIAL          S               U
                                            ANALYST (1); PROJECT
                                            OFFICER (1)
              10/29/1998               4    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          S               S
                                            FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                            SANITARY ENGINEER (1);
                                            OPERATIONS ASSISTANT (1)
              03/04/1999               4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                            ENGINEER (1);
                                            PRIVATIZATION SPEC. (1);
                                            PROJECTS OFFICER (1)
              07/03/1999               2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                            PROJECT OFFICER (1)
              11/17/2000               4    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); ENGINEER (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                            (1)
              07/20/2001               2    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                            PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                            (1)
              12/15/2001               4    TEAM LEADER (1); SR.             S               S
                                            WATER AND SAN. SPE (2);
                                            PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                            (1)
              03/08/2002               3    TEAM LEADER (1); SR.             S               S



                                             - 34 -

                                                WATER AND SAN. SPE (1);
                                                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
               10/06/2002                   4   TTL, UTILITY FINANCE (1);             S             S
                                                WATER AND WASTE WATER
                                                (1); OPERATIONS (1);
                                                PROCUREMENT (1)


 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                  583,854
  Supervision                                                            769,443
  ICR
  Total                                                                1,353,297
Between 1992 and 2003, total Bank funds utilized for the project is US$ 1,353,297 of which US$ 583,854
was spent to prepare the project and US$ 769,443 was spent for supervision. The average cost per year
for the Bank was US$ 123,027.




                                                 - 35 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Relevant information for the ICR has been included in the main text and other annexes.




                                                 - 38 -

- 39 -

