Report No. 596a-CO                                                                FILE   COPY
Appraisal of the                                                                                  CP
Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project
Colombia
June 6, 1975
Latin America & Caribbean Region
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit - Colombian Peso (Col$)            Col$ 1        = US$ 0.0395
US$1           = Col$ 25.3, at the time of       Col$ million = US$ 39,500
appraisal and used in this
report.
Measures
mm             = millimeter (1 mm = 0.039 inch)
m              =  meter (1 m 3.28 feet)
km            -  kilometer (1 km = 0.62 miles)
ha             =  hectare (1 ha = 10,000 m2 = 2.h7 acres)
km2           =  square kilometer (1 km2 = 247.1 acres   100 ha)
m3            =  cubic meter (1 m3 = 1.31 cubic yards   264.2 U,5 gallons)
MM3           =  million m3 (1 Mm3 = 811 acre feet)
kg            =  kilogram (1 kg = 2.2 lb)
m ton or ton  =  1,000 kg = 2,205 lb
lsw           =  kilowiatt (1,000 watts of electric energy)
Abbreviations
INCORA              =  Instituto Colombiano de la Reforma Agraria
ICA                 =  Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario
CIAT                =  Centro Internacional de Agricultura Tropical
CECORA              =  Central de Cooperativas de la Reforma Agraria
SENA                =  Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje
Caja Agraria        =  Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y linero
IDEMA               =  Instituto de Mercadeo Agropecuario
ICCE                =  Instituto Colombiano de Construcciones Escolares
INPES               =  Instituto Colombiano Especiales de Salud
ICEL                =  Instituto Colombiano de Energia Electrica
TELECOM             = ERpresa. Nacional de Telecommunicaciones
Caminos Vecinales  =  Fondo Nacional de Caminos Vecinales
COACGROSINU         =  Cooperativa Agropecuaria de Sinu
COAGROVALLEE        =  Cooperativa Agropecuaria del Valle
FEDERALGODON        = Federacion Naci.nal de Algodoneros
FFA                 = Fondo Financiero Agropecuario
DIAGONAL            =  Distribuidora de Algodon Nacional
Fiscal Year - January 1 - December 31



COLOMBIA
AN APPRAISAL OF THE CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUM4ARY AND CONCLUSIONS ......     .........................  i - ii
I.   INTRODUCTION ......................................1
II.   BACKGROUND ........     ...............................1
III.   THE PROJECT AREA .......    ..........................     3
Location and Present Situation .............. ...          3
Climate  ........................................          3
Soils and Topography ......    .....................       3
Population, Employment and Land Tenure .........           4
Agricultural Production             ...4
Institutional Assistance to Agriculture    ..........      5
Marketing ......... ........................               6
Transportation                 ...6
Existing Social Infrastructure and Services   ......       6
IV. THE PROJECT ..................                               7
Description and Project Works.                             7
On-farm Development.                                       7
Agricultural Development Credit Fund ....    .........     7
Extension Services.                                        8
Consultant Services ..............................         9
Improvement of Social Infrastructure ....    .........     9
Cost Estimates ...................................        10
Financing .11
Procurement ........      ..............................  12
Disbursements ....................................        12
Accounts and Audit ...............................        13
Environmental Evaluation .........................        13
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in February-
March 1974 to Colombia composed of Messrs. W.A. Lucas, A. Uhlig, A. Amir,
F. Thomas, C. Vidalon and K. Ringskog of the Bank and J. Vivas, Consultant
to the Bank.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)                                Pae No.
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT . .....................   13
Project Organization     .............................  13
Participation of Other Agencies and Institutions .  14
Farmers' Organizations ........  ...................  14
Project Charges .15
VI. PRODUCTION, FARM INCOME, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES
AND PROCESSING .16
Area Cultivated, Yields, Production and
Farm Income   ...    .     .....,   16
Market Prospects, Prices and Processing .... ......  17
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ......   .................  18
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS .........   .........................  20
ANNEXES
1.  The Project Area
2.  The Project
3.  Agricultural Supporting Services
4.  Organization and Management
5.  Cost Estimates
6.  Estimated Schedule of Expenditures and Disbursements
7.  Agricultural Production and Farm Budgets
8.  Markets, Marketing and Prices
9.  Economic Analysis
Chart No. 9059 - Proposed Project Organization
Chart No. 9060 - Construction Schedule
MAPS
11080    Cordoba 2 Project Area



COLOMBIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for rehabilitation and completion
of the Cordoba 2 Project (40,000 ha) where the Instituto Colombiano de la.
Reforma Agraria (INCORA), a dependency of the Ministry of Agriculture, has
been engaged in drainage development and agrarian reform during the past
several years. In 1972 Government adopted a new policy whereby INCORA would
be required to rehabilitate and complete 16 existing land development projects
before undertaking new projects. The Government requested financial assist-
ance from the Bank for this program and seven projects were selected as suit-
able for future consideration by the Bank. The project appraised in this
report would be the first phase of the program.
ii.       Over the last six years, the Bank has made five loans for agricul-
tural development in Colombia, totalling US$57.4 million (one for colonization,
two for credit and two for irrigation and drainage projects). All projects
underwent initial difficulties, but overall performance has improved and the
projects are progresssing moderately well.
iii.      In the Cordoba 2 area the project would increase agricultural
production through double-cropping under rain-fed conditions by providing
improved drainage to reduce inundation of crop land during the wet season and
reclaiming about 6,000 ha of permanently flooded land. The project would
also include on-farm development (primarily land leveling), improvement of
extension services, technical assistance, a development credit fund, the
settlement of 1,000 families on reclaimed lands and a program to improve
social infrastrucutre for education, health, village water supply, rural
electrification and telephone service. The project would be carried out
over a five-year period, 1976-1980, and would benefit about 3,800 farm
families.
iv.       INCORA would be responsible for implementing the construction,
agricultural development and settlement phases of the project. Other Govern-
ment agencies in the Ministries of Agriculture, Education, Health and Public
Works would assist with specialized components through operational agreements
with INCORA. The new Government, which took office August 7, 1974, had
indicated that INCORA would be reorganized, most likely to place the agrarian
reform and land development functions in separate agencies. The organizational
structure was discussed with Government during negotiations and assurances
were obtained that INCORA would continue to have responsibility for the proj-
ect as at present.



- ii -
v.        The estimated project cost is US$35.7 million, with a foreign ex-
change component of US$16.9 million, including contingencies and interest
during construction. The proposed Bank loan of US$21.0 million would cover
the foreign exchange costs, 90% of the local currency component (US$2.3 mil-
lien) of the development credit fund and 70% of total costs for the program.
towimprove social infrastructure (US$1.3 million). The balance of project
costs, equivalent to US$14.7 million, would be financed by Governlment. Procure-
ment for project works (US$12.2 million) and major items of equipment imported
by INCORA (US$2.2 mi11ion) would be through international competitive bidding
in~-accordance with Bank guidelines. Consultant services (US$0.7 million)
would be procured through direct negotiations. Procurement of construction
contracts and equipmer.t required for the social improvement program and
purchases of farm equipment and livestock from development credit funds would
be through local competitive bidding procedures, which are satisfactory to the
Bank. Under international competitive bidding domestic manufacturers in
Colombia would be accorded preferential treatment in bid evalution in accord-
ance with Bank procedures. The Government would be the borrower and assume
the foreign exchange risk.
vi.       At full development in 1985 the annual net value of production
would be about US$111.1 million in the project area as compared to US$2.3
million without the project. It is estimated that the increases in farm
income would range from US$223 for small subsistence farms (1 ha) to US$2,400
for 10 ha settler farms within community enterprises (Empresas Ccomunitarias)
and US$4,100 for privately owned farms of 30 ha. It is estimated that with
the project 60% of the farm families in the area would have a per capita
income above the expected upper limit in 1985 (US$250) for the pcoorest 40% of
the population in the country, as compared to 14% at present. ThLe project
would increase food supply for internal consumption and contribute to improving
Colombia's balance of payments since most of the increased production would be
for import substitution or export. The economic rate of return over an as-
sumed 40-year project life would be 27%.
vii.      With appropriate assurances obtained from Government, the project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$21.0 million, with a repayment period of
30 years, including a 6-year grace period.



COLOMBIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Colombia has requested Bank assistance in
financing completion of the existing Cordoba 2 project which is part of a
country-wide land development program administered by the Instituto Colombiano
de la Reforma Agraria (INCORA). During the past six years the Bank has made
five loans for agricultural development in Colombia, totalling US$57.4 million.
Projects which received this financial assistance were Atlantico No. 3 Irri-
gation (502-CO), Atlantico No. 3 Second Stage (849-CO), Livestock Development
(651-CO), Agricultural Credit (624-CO), and Caqueta Land Colonization (739-CO).
A Phase II of the Caqueta project has been appraised and will be presented
for approval in the near future. These projects have experienced difficulties
and progress was slow during the first years of operation but at present all
are performing moderately well.
1.02      In September 1972, the Government and INCORA requested Bank assist-
ance for rehabilitation and completion of 16 projects where development for
irrigation and drainage, agrarian reform and other improvements have been in
progress for several years. This proposal was the result of a new policy
adopted by Government whereby INCORA was restricted to completion of on-going
projects prior to undertaking new development. The Bank subsequently reached
agreement with INCORA on seven projects which would be considered for finan-
cial assistance. Cordoba 2 is the first of these projects that was appraised.
The agrarian reform program has been reasonably effective in the project area
and consequently the project would benefit mostly small farms.
1.03      Feasibility studies for the Cordoba 2 area were completed by
Hunting Technical Services, Ltd, England, during 1969-71 and these studies
form the basis for the appraisal covered by this report.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      With gross domestic product (GDP) up by 7.1% in 1972, having
averaged 6.4% in real terms annually during the 1967-72 period, Colombia's
overall economic performance has been impressive. Mtuch of the credit for
achieving this level can be attributed to increased urban construction and to
strong agricultural and industrial expansion, rapid growth of non-traditional
exports (agricultural exports accounted for about 44% of the value of total
exports in 1972), and favorable coffee prices. Continuation of such rapid
growth would lay a solid base for the country's longer term economic future,



enhancing the prospects for employment creation and chances for improvement
in the distribution of income. A major problem during the next few years,
however, will be inflation. Consumer prices increased by 13.5% in 1972, as
compared to 7.5% in 1967-70, with food prices among the major contributors.
The cost of living index increased 22% in 1973 and a further increase of 27%
took place in 1974.
2.02      Colombia's population of about 24 million (1973) is increasing at
a rate of 3.2% per year and will reach about 33 million by 1985. In 1970,
the labor force was about 6.2 million, of which some 7.4% was unemployed.
Data on unemployment are sparse, but available figures indicate an overall
rising trend in urban areas. Unemployment and underemployment in both urban
and rural sectors, rapid rural-urban migration and inability of the industrial
sector to create sufficient new jobs are among the most serious problems facing
the country.
2.03      Per capita GDP in 1972 was about US$400 (in 1970 dollars), but
income is distributed unevenly, with the poorest fifth of the population
apparently receiving 3% to 4% of total income and the richest fifth about
60%. The upper limit in per capita income for the poorest 40% of the popula-
tion is about US$180.
2.04      Although agriculture's direct contribution to GDP dropped from 38%
in 1958 to 25% in 1972, the sector still plays a major role in the Colombian
economy, accounting for some 43% of the labor force and contributing 73% of the
country's merchandise export earnings in 1972. A major weakness of Colombia's
agriculture is its inability to meet the demand for products. The wholesale
price index of food stuffs has been growing faster than the corresponding total
index. However, increasing production for domestic purposes should not be
at the expense of expansion of agricultural exports, which are a necessary
condition for achievement of the national targets for growth and improved
income distribution.
2.05      Another serious problem facing Colombian agriculture is the extreme
poverty in many rural regions: at least half of Colombia's 1.6 million rural
families exist at a subsistence level. Income distribution in the sector is
more skewed than it is at the national level and closely related to the dis-
tribution of land. Furthermore, inefficient use of land has been found to be
associated with large holdings, hence, the special importance of agrarian
reform.
2.06      The Colombian Government has recognized that the interrelated problems
of rural poverty, low agricultural productivity, and rural unemployment cannot
be solved without changing the structure of the agricultural sector, and since
1961 the Instituto Colombiano de la Reforma Agraria (INCORA) has been the
agency responsible for implementing Government policy in this field (para 5.01).
One of INCORA's fundamental objectives has been land acquisition and redistribu-
tion. The acquisition of land by INCORA throughout the country has been hindered
by political resistance but the new agrarian reform legislaticn, Law 4 of
1973, provides an opportunity to accelerate the pace of agrarian reform.



- 3 -
III. THE PROJECT AREA
Location and Present Situation
3.01      The Cordoba 2 project area is located in the Department of Cordoba,
in the valley of the Rio Sinu and in the vicinity of the city of Monteria.
The development area of 40,000 ha is situated in the wide part of the valley
on the east bank of the river (Map 11080). Prior to the early 1960's the
area was almost totally inundated during the wet season each year and was
used for part-time livestock grazing. With completion by INCORA of the main
drainage canal and the flood protection dike on the east boundary during
1963 to 1967, use of the land for agricultural purposes accelerated rapidly.
Since 1967 INCORA has continued construction of primary and secondary drainage
systems and this work has been completed on about one-third of the area.
Lands in the area respond rapidly and positively to drainage and full reclama-
tion can be achieved in one to two years. At present about 17,000 ha are
cropped under rainfed conditions, mainly cotton (12,000 ha), with 17,000 ha
in unimproved pasture and 6,000 ha still in swamp. INCORA has acquired about
one-third of the land in the area and settled about 1,000 families in
community enterprises (Empresas Comunitarias) on 14,500 ha (Annex 1).
Climate
3.02      Climate in the area is humid tropical, with a mean annual rainfall
of 1,138 mm and temperature of 280C. Normally more than 80% of rainfall
occurs during the wet season from May through November, during which time
double-cropping with a variety of crops is possible, however, with a certain
amount of risk. Supplemental irrigation would provide some benefits but
INCORA takes the positon that the marginal increases in production would not
justify the high cost of irrigation development (Annex 1).
Soils and Topography
3.03      Soils in the area are young alluvium deposited by overflow of the
Rio Sinu. Near the river the deposits of coarser material produced loam and
sandy loam soils, known as the levee lands, which have reasonably good
texture, fertility and drainage characteristics and are suitable for field
crops such as cotton, maize, soybeans, sesame and vegetables. The finer alluvium,
deposited farther from the river, produced heavy silt and clay loam soils which
are fine textured and have poor internal drainage. These basin lands are more
subject to flooding and retention of flood water for long periods. These lands
are presently used for pasture or unutilized, however, with drainage and leveling
a large part of these lands could be cropped, except in the lowest areas, covering
about 6,000 ha, which would only be suitable for pasture. Fertility of both the



-4-
general soil types is good and response to fertilizers is positive.   Topography
is very uniform with a total gradient of 10 meters in the 40 km from the south
boundary of the project area to north boundary at Cienega Grande. About 70% of
the land in the project area has been classified as suitable for rain-fed
agriculture (Annex 1).
Population, Employment and Land Tenure
3.04      Total population in the area of influence of the proposed project
was about 205,000 for 1973, of which 80,400 (39%) are classified as rural.
The overall growth rate is estimated at 2.6% p.a., composed of annual rates
of 3.1% and 1.9% for the urban and rural segments respectively. The labor
force is estimated to constitute about one third of the population and surveys
carried out in 1970 suggest that unemployment and underemployment combined
are equivalent to close to half of the labor force in both the urban and rural
sectors.
3.05      The project area has an estimated population of 35,000 which depends
upon agriculture, almost half of which, or 2,810 families, are farm operators,
mainly owners and to a smaller extent tenants under different tenancy arrange-
ments. The land distribution pattern changed rapidly after the project area
became an irrigation district in 1961. Since then INCORA has acquired 9,900
ha of land held in excess of 50 ha by a single farm unit and reclaimed 2,300
ha of inundated (cienega) land. These 12,200 ha were subsequently distributed
in blocks of about 140 ha to 87 community enterprises farmed by about 1,000
farmers, each with a right to exploit an average of 12 ha. At present about
50% of the area (17,000 ha) is occupied by small farms ranging from 2 ha to
20 ha, representing 91% of all farms in the area (Annex 1).
Agricultural Production
3.06      Due to the relative remoteness of the Cordoba 2 area from major
market centers, problems with flooding during the wet season and former land
tenure conditions, the project area has been used traditionally for extensive
livestock production like most of the Atlantic coast of Colombia. With im-
proved communication, the introduction of cotton in the coastal region and
the implementation of a drainage and land reform program over the past two
decades, land utilization has become more intensive.
3.07      The value of agricultural production (at farm gate prices) was
estimated to be approximately Col$ 207 million (US$8 million) in 1973, of
which 75% originated from the cash crop subsector (cotton, maize and sorghum),
15% from the livestock subsector and 10% from subsistence crops (yucca, plan-
tains, and tropical fruits). The average net production value per hectare is
about Col$ 1,600 (US$63). Three distinct farming systems prevail in the area:
(a) small semi-subsistence units with a high proportion of land in food crops,
some small livestock and some cash crops such as maize; (b) medium to large
size commercial crop farms (cotton, sorghum and maize and, in some instances
beef cattle); and (c) larger beef cattle farms, sometimes mixed with cash



crops. Production techniques are still rather traditional and yields are
low, particularly in the small semi-subsistence farms and in the large live-
stock holdings. The medium size commercial crop farms are increasingly using
improved inputs and practices for the production of cotton and sorghum. The
most serious constraints to realizing the optimum potential are the incomplete
drainage systems, leaving 15% of the areas as swamps and leading to intermittent
flooding and ponding of the lower lands, and the paucity of technical and
financial assistance to farmers, especially to the smaller ones.
Institutional Assistance to Agriculture
3.08      The project area is a public irrigation and drainage district for
which INCORA has the overall responsibility. INCORA carries out the construc-
tion of project works required for land and water development, land acquisi-
tion and settlement, operation and maintenance of project works, and technical,
administrative and financial assistance, mainly to the smaller farmers. To
this end INCORA maintains a project headquarters in the area staffed with
some 30 technicians.
3.09      Agricultural research relevant to the project area is provided
by the Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario (ICA) at the Turipana research
station located in the project area and at the Palmira station in the south-
ern part of the Cauca Valley. Research is also carried out at the Agricultural
Faculty of the National University of Colombia and the Centro Internacional de
Agricultura Tropical (CIAT) research stations, both in Palmira. All these
stations are well equipped and capable of supporting agricultural development
in the project area.
3.10      Agricultural extension assistance to farmers is furnished by INCORA
staff, private extensionists, agents from ICA, commodity organizations, agri-
cultural banks and also through demonstration by the research stations. Most
of these extension activities consist of credit supervision and extension for
farm management and the technical aspects of crop production remains weak in
terms of coverage and quality.
3.11      Farmer training is provided for by Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje
(SENA), the national institution for vocational training. It is well ex-
perienced in this task and maintains a training center near Monteria in the
project area. The program offered includes two to three years practical
courses at the stations in handling farm machinery, general agricultural
practices and management, in addition to short courses in the field.
3.12      Agricultural credit services are provided by INCORA's credit
programs, the Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero (Caja Agraria),
the Banco Ganadero and the Central de Cooperativas de la Reforma Agraria
(CECORA) through the Cooperativa del Sinu. These institutions and major
national and regional commercial banks are well represented in the area and
are easily accessible to farmers. However, funds for the various credit
programs have generally been short of demand and largely restricted to short
term crop financing.



Marketing
3.13      Yarketing channels in the project area are sufficiently developed
to hand'e Loth present and future production.  National marketing agencies
such as the Instituto de M'ercadeo Agzopecuario (IDEDIA) and the Central de
Cooperativas de la Reforma Agraria (CECORA) are active in the area, as well
as the cotton and livestock federations and processing industries handling
specific crops. IDEMA operates two cotton ginneries and a grai.n storage
facility in the area, which are adequate to meet present needs and projected
production increases.
Transportation
3.14      The project area is served by main highways which provide access
to the larger cities and commercial centers in the region.  I'lonteria, the
main center, has good highwav connections to Medellin, a major market and
industrial center, and to Carta2ena and Barranquilla, both important ports
on the Atlantic coast.
Existing, Social Infrastruicture and Services
3.15      Social infrastructure and services in the rural part of the project
area with respect to education, health services, water supply, electric power,
sewage disposal and communications show serious deficiencies. In the Cordoba
2 area, it is estimated that one third (15,000) of all eligible students, both
urban and rural, are not in school for lack of facilities and that a deficit
of 500 classrooms exists. A large proportion of the rural population does not
receive adequate health care due to an insufficient number of health centers
or poor service from existing centers. The two hospitals in Monteria and
Cerete require some expansion and additional equipment to properly serve the
area. Twenty five villages in the area with a population of 2,500 or less
do not have a pure water supply, electric power, sewage disposal or telephone
service to tne larger cities or towns. These villages contain a majority of
the rural population, as the farmers live in villages rather than on their
farms.
3.16      A seri.ous problem with schools and health services is the lack of
budgetary support from Government for operation and maintenance of existing
facilities. Although buildings and staff are available, the schools lack
funds for teaching materials and supplies, school lunches, proper maintenance
and teacher training.  Health centers have a minimum of equipment and very
limited funds for medicines and supplies and maintenance, and sanitation is
poor.
3.17      Education and Public health services are provided without cost to
both rural and urban inhabitants bv Government. A minimum charge is made
for hospital visits, including examinations by doctors, and care, but this
charge may be waived depending on thle patient's ability to pay.  Charges
for electric power, water suppl.v and telephone services are onlv sufficient
to cover operation and maintenance costs and are relativelv low.



- 7 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Description and Project Works
4.01      The principal objectives of the project are to complete the drainage
systeems on 40,000 ha and land leveling on 20,000 ha to eliminate both permanent
and temporary flooding. Under the project about 6,000 ha of permanently
flooded land would be reclaimed and this, together with 7,800 ha of privately
owned land on farms in excess of 50 ha to be acquired by INCORA, would be used
to settle about 1,000 families on tracts of 12 ha in community enterprises
(Empresas Coniunitarias).  New settlers would be selected within the Cordoba
region, where there are many landless families, and in accordance with existing
INCORA procedures which are satisfactory. Project works would consist of
construction of primary and secondary drains (514 km), a flood protection
dike and collector canal (6.8 kin), all-weather roads (168 km), culverts,
bridges, and other structures (24) fencing (342 km) and rehabilitation and
enlargement of the project headquarLers buildings (Annex 2). Assurance were
obtained from Government during negotiations that: (a) within 18 months of
the date of loan effectiveness, a phased program for completion of the existing
plans for land acquisition and distribution in the project area would be
prepared by INCORA and agreed with the Bank and (b) this program, together
with establishment of new settler's organizations, would be carried out ac-
cordiing to an agreed timetable during the implementation period of the
project.
On-farm Development
4.02      On-farm development would consist of land leveling, construction
of tertiary irrigation and drainage canals and on-farm access roads as
required. Land leveling is required as a drainage measure to reduce temporary
ponding and the 20,000 ha of leveling in this area would be on small farms,
both INCORA settlers and privately owned, as on a major part of the larger
farms land improvement has already been completed.  The amount of leveling
required for rain-fed farming would be much less than that normally required
for irrigation.  On-farm development on the small farms of less than 12 ha
would be financed from a development credit fund provided under the project
(para 4.03).
A_ricultuLral_Development Credit Fund
4.03      The project would include establishment of a development credit
fund, under the management of INCORA, to provide medium and lonp-term credit
to small farmers, both INCORA settlers and private farms of less than 12 ha
and to Empresas comunitarias. In the past, agricultural credit has been
provided mainly for short-term Droduction loans and small farmers have had
only a Uimited source of development credit (Annex 3).  In addition INCORA
has largelv restricted their assistance from their own resources to settlers
on small farms, whaich left small private farms devendent on other sources
such as Caja Agraria and Banco Ganadero.  These agencies, however, hlave not



- 8 -
provided sufficient credit, either for production or development, to small
private farmers within INCORA projects, and the project funds would meet the
needs of both small private farmers with 12 ha or less and INCORA settlers
for development credit. Larger farms have better access to credit from
public institutions and the Federations or Associations of producers. Fur-
ther the newly established Fondo Financiero Agropecuario (FFA) would provide
an additional source of credit to large farms and it would not be necessary
to provide credit funds for either production or development, in the project
for these large farms. Normally, INCORA is able to provide adequate produc-
tion credit to the small farms. The credit funds would be administered under
the same terms and conditions as INCORA's existing Planned Credit Program,
financed under Bank loan 624-CO, which has provided development credit within
certain INCORA projects. However, the Cordoba 2 project was not included
under this program and, in any case, funds available under this program would
be disbursed by the end of 1975 and consequently adequate development credit
could not be available to the project from this source.
4.04      The development credit funds would be required for on-farm devel-
opment, purchase of farm machinery, construction of infrastructure on live-
stock farms and purchase of breeding stock. The funds for on--farm development,
farm machinery and livestock would mainly be required on the 100 new community
enterprises to be established in the area. The repayment period on these
loans would be 5 years for farm machinery and 12 years for on--farm development,
infrastructure and breeding stock. The present interest rate under project
624-CO is 13% with an additional 1% for life insurance (Annex 3). This rate
was established in 1969 which, with inflation, would be a negative rate in
real terms at present. It would be necessary to increase the rate for the
new credit funds to 16% to reflect present Government policy on credit loans
to small farms. Since the farmers' incentive to borrow project funds depends
largely on other credit terms prevailing in the area, assurances were obtained
from Government that the proposed interest rate would be subject to revision
if Government's regulations of credit to the agricultural sector are changed.
Assurances were also obtained from Government during negotiations that (a)
INCORA would maintain a credit department satisfactory to the Bank to administer
these credit funds; and (b) INCORA would take the credit risk on loans from
the credit funds. INCORA would enter into a Project Administration Agree-
ment with the Caja Agraria providing for the Caja Agraria to act as the banking
agent. This agreement would be similar to the existing agreement whereby the
Caja Agraria acts as the banking agent for INCORA's Planned Credit Program
(624-CO) and would include provision of the same services for the development
credit loans. Signing of this agreement would be a condition of effectiveness.
A draft of the new agreement was submitted to the Bank during negotiations.
Extension Services
4.05      The project would include organization of an agricultural extension
service in the project area.  This service would basicallv be oriented to
providing assistance to farmers in farm management planning and improved
technology in crop production. Although INCORA provides some technical
assistance to settlers under its agrarian reform and credit programs andl



- 9 -
the larger farmers receive assistance from technicians employed by Caja
Agraria, Banco Ganadero and the Growers' Associations, this is inadequate
for the needs of the project (Annex 3). Nearly all of this assistance is
oriented to supervision of credit loans and it lacks emphasis on farm plan-
ning, improving practices and increasing production. The new service would
consolidate all of INCORA's existing assistance programs and complement
those of other agencies, in an effort to provide more effective assistance
to the farmers.
4.06      The service would be organized as part of the rural development
program recently initiated by the Instutito Colombiano Agropecuario (ICA),
the Government agency responsible for extension assistance to the country.
ICA, together with the Centro Internacional de Agricultura Tropical (CIAT),
would recruit and train extension agents and provide technical guidance
based on research programs at its stations in the Cordoba 2 area (Turipana)
and at Palmira in the Cauca valley. INCORA would supervise and administer
the services at the project level and provide funds for staff and operation
costs. The signing of an operational agreement between INCORA and ICA
providing for the formation and support of these extension services would
be a condition of effectiveness of the loan. A draft of this agreement
was submitted to the Bank during negotiations.
Consultant Services
4.07      Consultant services would be provided to assist INCORA with land
leveling, on which it has had limited experience, and in organizing the
extension services and training extension agents (Annex 2). In addition,
the project would include a specialist on organization to assist INCORA at
headquarters in Bogota to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the
organization, especially as this applies to implementation and management
of land development projects. There is also a need to improve INCORA's
general accounting procedures and to assist them in setting up a system for
assessment and collection of project charges to recover investment as well
as operation and maintenance costs (para 5.06). A specialist on fiscal
management would be provided for this purpose (Annex 1). The need for the
organization and fiscal management specialists was discussed during negotia-
tions. A total of 10 man-years of consultant services would be provided
(Annex 5). Training of local staff would constitute an important part of the
consultant's assignments. Assurances were obtained from Government during
negotiations that consultants would be employed by INCORA in consultation with
the Bank and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Improvement of Social Infrastructure
4.08      The project would include improvement and expansion of education,
health services, village water supply, rural electrification and telecommuni-
cations in rural communities in the project area. The objective of this part
of the project is to achieve integrated and balanced development in the
rural area where agricultural development is expected to expand rapidly with
the project. These improvements would be limited to the rural area, excluding



- 10 -
the larger urban centers within or adjacent to the project area, and the
proposed program would cover the minimum or essential needs until about 1985.
The program would be concentrated in the 25 villages in the project area with
populations less than 2,500 inhabitants and which all lack the essential
services. These villages serve as micro-economic growth centers where nearly
all of the small farm owners and workers live criteria for selection of the
villages are presented in Annex 2. The improvements would include construction
of 210 new classrooms and rehabilitation of 100 existing schools; construction
of six new health centers and rehabilitation of six existing centers; improve-
ment and expansion of the two principal hospitals serving the area; provision
of additional equipment, materials and supplies for schools, health centers
and hospitals; construction of water supply systems in 11 villages, power
connecting lines and distribution systems in four villages, and telecommunica-
tion systems for four villages.   Further, in order to improve the quality of
primary education, the project would support the introduction of an improved
curriculum and provide advanced didactic materials to all of the 220 primary
schools in the project area.
4.09      These improvements would be carried out by the Ministries of
Education, Health, Commucinations and Public Works, through the several agencies
or institutions which have responsibility for specific aspects of the program
(Annex 4). INCORA would renew or prepare new operational agreements with these
ministries and agencies which would define the responsibilities and operational
and budgetary procedures for carrying out the program. INCORA would channel
funds allocated in the loan to these agencies to cover costs of the program,
and the agreements would include commitments on the part of the agencies for
the Government's constribution to cover operation and maintenance costs of
new and improved existing facilities as well as construction costs. Assurances
were obtained from Government during negotiations that agreements for construc-
tion of social infrastructure and budgetary support for the social improve-
ment program, including annual operation and maintenance costs, would be
signed within six months of the date of loan effectiveness with the Ministries
and agencies responsible for this part of the project.
Cost Estimates
4.10      Cost estimates for major project works are based on estimates in
the feasibility report by Hunting Technical Services, Ltd., dated 1971. These
estimates were recalculated as of the appraisal date, February 1974, and sub-
sequently updated, by adding a price contingency of 35% to cover inflation,
to determine the base cost estimate as of May 1975. Cost estimates for social
infrastructure, equipment and consultant services were calculated as of May
1975. Cost estimates for local services for engineering and supervision and
extension services were calculated as of February 1974 and subsequently in-
creased by 40% to reflect recent salary increases granted by Government.
The agricultural credit component was estimated to cover requirements during
the construction period, from early 1976 through 1980 (Chart 9060). Estimates
for project works are based on performing the construction by local contractors,
as local firms are able to contract the work at a lower price than foreign



- 11 -
firms which have sihown little interest in civil works construction in the
country. Costs of equipment to be imported are estimated as CIF Colombia,
free of duty and taxes as the purchaser would be a Government agency.  Physical
contingencies are estimated as 10;o for civil works.  Price contingencies are
calculated using the projected rates of inflation, internally for local cur-
rency costs and externally for foreign exchange, from 1976 onward. The in-
ternal rates for inflation used are 18% in 1976, 16% in 1977, 14% in 1978,
12% in 1979 and 10% in 1980 and thereafter.  External rates for civil works
are 14% in 1976, 12% from 1977 through 1979 and 10% in 1980 and thereafter;
for imported equipment the rates are 10% in 1976, 8% from 1977 through 1979
and 7% in 1980 and thereafter.  A cumulative rate of 10% per annum was used
for consultant services. Project cost estimates are given in detail in Annex
5 and summarized below:
Col* (million)             US$ (million)        % Foreign
Local  Fore ign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
Major Project Works        179.5   128.8   308.3       7.1      5.1    12.2       42
Social Infrastructure       45.6        -    45.6      1.8        -      1.8       -
Agricultural Credit         64.6    87.2   151.8       2.6      3.4     6.0       57
Equipment                    9.0    45.6    54.6       0.4      1.8      2.2      82
Engineering and
Supervision               52.7        -    52.7      2.1        -     2.1        -
Extension Services          13.9        -    13.9      0.6        -     0.6        -
Consultant Services            -    17.5    17.5         -      0.7     0.7      100
Base Cost Estimate         365.4   279.1   644.5    14.6    11.0    25.6          43
Phvsical Contingencies    17.9    12.9    30.8         0.7      0.5      1.2      42
Expected Price
Increases                88.7    52.8   141.5        3.5     2.1      5.6       38
Total Expected
Cost of Proiect         472.0   344.8   816.8    18.8    13.6    32.4           42
Interest during
Construction                 -    83.6    83.6         -      3.3     3.3      100
Grand Total                472.0   428.4   900.4    18.8    16.9    35.7          47
Financing
4.11      Total project costs of US$35.7 million would be financed by a Bank
loan of US$21.0 million and a Governimient contribution of USS14.7 million, to
be met by annual budgetary appropriations.  The Government would be the
borrower and carrv the foreign exchange risk. The loan, which would be for
a period of 30 years, including a six-year grace period, would cover the
estimated foreivn exchange expenditures (US$16.9 million), 90% of tlhe local
currency component of the a-ricultural credit fund (US$2.3 million) and 70;H
of the total costs for improvement of social infrastructure (US$1.3 million).



- 12 -
The loan would amount to 59% of total estimated project costs, including
contingencies and interest during the five-year implementation period.
Procurement
4.12      Contracts for construction of major project works, including drain-
age systems, collector canal, roads, bridges, fencing, and drainage structures,
and purchase of major items of imported equipment would be procured through
international competitive bidding in accordance witlh the "Guidelines for Pro-
curement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits." It is expected that most
contracts for these project works would go to local contractors who have the
capacity to perform the work and are already working in the area and because
the overall value of the contracts would be too low to attract foreign firms.
These project works would probably be performed under three or four contracts;
with the primary and secondary drainage systems and collector canal (US$6.5
million) in two contracts and roads, bridges, and fencing (US$5.6 million) in
two. Contracts for on-farm development, except tertiary drainage canals when
constructed by the farmers, (US$3.5 million); for enlarging INCORA's project
headquarters building (US$0.10 million); and for all works for improving
social infrastructure (US$1.8 million) would be awarded on the basis of com-
petitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures,
which are satisfactory to the Bank. Farm machinery and livestock financed by
loans from the agricultural development credit fund (US$2.5 million) and ve-
hicles, equipment, materials and supplies (US$1.1 million) for the engineering
and extension work and improvement of social infrastructure (Annex 5) would
be procured locally by INCORA on the basis of not less than three price quo-
tations. Contracts exceeding US$50,000 would require the Bank's concurrence
prior to award. Consultant services amounting to US$0.7 million would be
procured through direct negotiations. For procurement of equiLpment, materials
and supplies under international competitive bidding, domestic manufacturers
in Colombia would be accorded preferential treatment in bid evialuation, limited
to 15% of the CIF price of imported goods or the actual tarifE application,
whichever is lower.
Disbursements
4.13      The Bank loan would be disbursed against 42% of the project works
and building cost, 70% of the cost for improvement of social infrastructure,
the CIF cost of directly imported equipment, and 80% of imported goods purchased
locally, 95% of ex-factory cost of goods and equipment manufactured locally,
100% of the foreign expenditures, 95% of local expenditures for consultant
services and 95% of amounts disbursed from the development credit fund. An
amount of US$3.3 million is allocated to capitalize interest during the five-
year implementation period and an amount of US$3.1 million would be unallo-
cated.  Any surplus funds remaining in the Bank loan on completion of the
project would be cancelled. The estimated schedule of expenditures on the
project and a disbursement schedule are presented in Annex 6. Table 4 in Annex
6 also sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds
of the proposed loan, the allocation of the amounts of the loan to each cate-
gory and the percentage of expenditures to be financed in each cate;orv.



- 13 -
Accounts and Audit
4.14      INCORA would maintain separate accounts for operations financed
under the project. Other Government agencies responsible for implementing
a component of the project would likewise maintain separate accounts on
their operations, and at the end of each fiscal year furnish INCORA certi-
fied copies of these accounts. During negotiations assurances were obtained
from Government that: (a) INCORA and other Government agencies participating
in the project would maintain separate accounts for the project and each
project component; (b) certified copies of the accounts of other agencies
would be furnished to INCORA at the end of each fiscal year; (c) INCORA's
accounts would be audited annually by an independent auditor; and (d) the
audited accounts, together with the auditor's report, would be submitted to
the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
Environmental Evaluation
4.15      It is expected that implementation of the proposed project would
have little adverse effect on the environment in the project area. In the
Cordoba 2 area, completion of the drainage systems would eliminate existing
swamps, which should help to control mosquitoes and water-borne diseases;
however, there is no evidence of bilharzia in the area.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Organization
5.01      The Instituto Colombiano de la Reforma Agraria (INCORA) would be the
executing agency for the project and have direct responsibility for implement-
ing the agricultural development phase of the project, including engineering,
supervision of construction and supporting services, and to continue with land
acquisition and settlement in the project area. INCORA would also act in an
advisory capacity to other Government agencies which would participate in the
project on implementation of the program for improvement of social infrastructure.
INCORA would coordinate and monitor this part of the project and be responsible
for fiscal management of loan funds provided for this purpose. Upon completion
of the project INCORA would have responsibility to operate and maintain the
agricultural project facilities and to insure that adequate technical assistance
and supporting services would continue to be available to the farmers (Annex
4). Other ministries and agencies, as relevant, would operate and maintain
the facilities providing social services.
5.02      It is expected that, with the new Government, which took office on
August 7, 1974, some change in the organizational structure of INCORA would
occur at the headquarters level. There are indications that with whatever
changes are made at the national level, a land development agency would be
maintained. It is essential that this agency not be restricted to construc-
tion of irrigation and drainage systems but to also have responsibility to
support integrated agricultural and social development within project areas
and to provide a range of supporting services. It is expected that this



- 14 -
change would not greatly affect the existing organization at the! project
level, which is generally satisfactory in the project area. INCORA has
proposed that the Project Director have more direct responsibility for all
activities related to agricultural development in the project area, as an
alternative to the present system which disperses authority over specific
activities between the Project Director, the Regional Director and headquarters
in Bogota (Chart 9059). INCORA also plans that the Project Director have
responsibility for only the project area and not for other areas under INCORA's
administration. Assurances were obtained from Government during negotiations
that an organization competent to implement and manage the project would
be maintained and the Bank would be afforded a reasonable opportunity to
comment on any proposed reorganization.
Participation of Other Agencies and Institutions
5.03      Other agencies or institutions which currently particiLpate in agri-
cultural development in the project areas would continue and expand their
activities. These would include the Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario (ICA)
for research and extension, the Central de Cooperativas de la Reforma Agraria
(CECORA) for management of the large cooperatives, the Servicio Nacional de
Aprendizaje (SENA) for vocational and farmer training, the Caja de Credito
Agrario (Caja Agraria) for agricultural credit and the Instituto de Mercadeo
Agropecuario (IDEMA) for processing and marketing (paras 3.08, 3.10 and 3.1l).
5.04      The Ministries of Education, Health, Communications and Public Works
would be largely responsible for implementing the program for improvement of
the social infrastructure through various agencies within these ministries.
These would include the Instituto Colombiano de Construcciones Escolares (ICCE)
for school construction and supply of education materials, the Servicio Seccional
de Salud for the Department of Cordoba for hospitals and health centers, the
Instituto Nacional para Programas Especiales de Salud (INPES) for village water
supply, the Instituto Colombiano de Energia Electrica (ICEL) for rural electri-
fication, the Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (TELECOM) Eor telephone
systems and the Fondo Nacional de Caminos Vecinales (Caminos Vecinales) for
construction and maintenance of primary roads within the area. However, INCORA
may elect to contract the work on roads directly.
Farmers' Organizations
5.05      The participation of the farmers in project management would pri-
marily be through the Junta General de Usuarios (Association of Users) of which
all farmers are members.  The general association is represented by a board of
directors (Junta Directiva de Usuarios) which meets regularly with INCORA
management and participates in the Advisory and Coordination Committee. This
committee, which acts basically as a coordinating body for activities at the
project level, includes local representatives from INCORA, ICA, IDEMA, Caja
Agraria, the Users' Association, the CECORA cooperatives and the Growers'
Associations. Many farmers are members of the national livestock or cotton
growers federations or associations and receive assistance through these
organizations. Further, all farmers, upon payment of a membership fee, may
become members of the CECORA managed Cooperativa Agropecuaria del Sinu
(COAGROSINU) from which they obtain credit for machinery services and other
inputs and marketing assistance.



- 15 -
Project _Charges
5.06      INCORA is empowered under regulations established by the Governing
Board (Junta Directiva) to impose project charges within irrigation and drain-
age districts for recovery of operation and maintenancecosts; all capital
investment cost, including past or historic costs as well as new investment;
and a valorization tax based on the increase in land value resulting from the
construction of land improvements and water control works. These regulations
(Acuerdo No. 10 de 1968) derive from the authority granted the Junta Directiva
in the original agrarian Reform Law 135 of 1961, and are flexible, leaving it
to the Junta Directiva to establish the conditions of cost recovery for each
improvement district, within certain limits, taking into account the producti-
vity of the land and the cype of agriculture for which the land is used.  The
regula-ions provide that ali lands benefitted by the improvement works are
sabj ect to cost recOvery over a period of 10 to 30 years and at a nominal
interest rate of 12X, however the regulations do not specify the percentage
of costs to be recovered from the districts or from individual farmers.  The
valorization tax is defined as 25% of the difference between the post-project
value o~ the land and ache sum of the pre-project value and investment for
Works .  7T .s estimate,& that in the Cordoba 2 project the investmernt plus pre-
proiert valtue per ha wil1 about equal the post-project value, with the result
t:hat there would be a mimum valorization tax and recovery of costs would
basicaliy cover investments in works. The regulations further stipulate that
lands acqLired and settled by INCORA are exempt from the valorization tax,
nowever. these lands are s-ubject to payment of operation and maintenance cost
anrd recovery of investTant.
.~07     The projected land tenure pattern indicates that 84% of all farms
in the area woulW- be less than about 12 ha (Annex 1). With this predominance
of relatively small farms, 100% recovery of investment with an interest rate
equal to tle oppcrtunt:.iy crst of capital, together with operation and mainte-
nance costs, would inuose a .arv curden on the total net income of these
rarmers and be beyonid their abi. Xv to Day, especially if some allowance were
cade to use parL of t       -hr in.2rcased income to improve their farms and standards
of living.  Governnmenc has proposed, therefore, that the recovery be limited
to 80% of investment over a period of 20 years at 12% interest.  On this basis
hr.e peroernt of project charges, including operation and maintenance, from total
net fo:i, income would vary from 68% for livestock enterprises (150 ha) to 29%
for mixed ^arming enterprises (130 ha) and 24% for privately owned farns with
average sizes of 1, 6 and 30 ha. The rate for livestock enterprises is clearly
beyond the ability of the farmers to pay and it would be necessary to use the
flexibility in the regulations to impose rates of recovery of less than 80%
for these enterprises, about 80% for the mixed farm enterprises and more than
80/Z, possibly 100%, for the larger private farms. These rates would be estab-
lished by the Junta Directiva, taking into account the productivity and value
of the land and farm income of the various farm types at full development of
the project. This would maintain the percentage of total net farm income
required for project charges at about 30% for all types of farms and still
provide for recovery of 80% of total investment. This would not include re-
payment of 100% of development credit loans at 16% interest.



- 16 -
5.08      Assurances were obtained from Government during negotiations that
a system of project charges would be progressively introduced, as works are
completed and project lands come into full production, at levels sufficient
to cover actual operation and maintenance costs and recover not less than 80%
of total investment cost over a period of no more than 20 years at 12% inte-
rest. These project charges would be reviewed in consultatiorl with the Bank
at least every two years to determine the adequacy of the charges and to make
the adjustments required to assure the recovery of investment in accordance
with the conditions stated above.
VI. PRODUCTION, FARM INCOME, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES
AND PROCESSING
6.01      Area Cultivated.  In the Cordoba 2 area, the project: would increase
the net usable area from 34,000 ha to 40,000 ha. This expansion would be
mainly used for livestock but a large area of existing pasture lands (17,000 ha)
would be converted to various field crops. The cropping intensity would rise
from 100% to 129% (Annex 7). Comparative data on the present and projected
cropping patterns and on production are as follows:
Cropped Area                     Production                   Incremental
(ha)                           (m ton)                   Net Value of
Present  Projected  Present                           Incre-    Production
(1973)    (1985)      (1973) w/o project w/project mental   (Col$ million'
 ---------1985       ---- ____- _______
Cotton       11,400   20,000      13,680  14,820         44,000   29,180       132.5
Maize         2,800    7,000       4,200   4,760         22,400   17,640        23.2
Sorghum         800    4,500        1,600   1,760        14,400   12,640        14.5
Soybeans        -       8,500       -        -           14,450   14,450        31.2
Sesame          -       1,300       -        -              910       910        3.4
Subsistence  2,000    2,000         n.a.    n.a.          n.a.      n.a.         8.0
Pasture      17,000    8,200        1,685   1,685          1,430    (-255)       6.9
34,000   51,500      21,165  23,025         97,590   74,565       219.7
6.02      Yields.  Without the project, yields in the project area are expected
to increase 10% by 1985.  With the project, yields at full development would
increase 45% to 88%, depending on the crop.  Estimated yields at present,
without the project, and with the project -- are presented in Annex 7. Yield
estimates with the project are based on current yields in welLmanaged farms
under good drainage conditions. They are 50% to 60% of the level achieved
under research conditions and are considered realistic.



- 1 7 -
6.03      Production.  Overall production in the project area would increase
from about 21,165 tons to about 97,590 tons.  Annex 7 details by crop, with
and without the project, the production costs, the net value of production and
the increment attributed to the project. It shows a net annual production
value of Col$ 278.6 million with the project, Col$ 58.9 million without the
project, and an incremental net value of Col$219.7 million. The value vithoUl-
the project assumes a one percent annual increase over the next 10 yeers,
until 1985, which would occur with gradual improvement under present conidi-
tions.
6.04      Farm Income.  The impact of the project on its beneficiaries hias
been analyzed for five farm types considered to be representative of the area.
Small farms are assumed to grow traditional crops, mainly for subsistence,
and on these farms, family labor (part-tinme only) would suffice for the non-
mechanized operations; medium and cooperatively operated farms would employ
hired labor. Assuming an average of six persons per farm family the :ier capita
income would after project charges increase from US$11 to US$49 on subsistence
farms, US$67 to US$247 on small farms, US$527 to US$1,202 on mediun: sized
farms and US$53 to US$437 on Empresas Comunitarias (10-12 ha farms). A de-
tailed analysis of representative farm budgets is given in Annex 7 and sum-
marized below:
Farm Type                     Subsistence  Small  Medium  E p-esas Comunitarias
(Crops) (Livestock)
Size of Farms (ha)              0-5         5-10   10-50        -          -
Number of Farms by Size         1076         334      399      146         41
Representative Farm Size (ha)   1            6        30      130 /1      150 /1
Area in Each Size (ha)          800         2,000  12,100   19,000    6,100
Percent in Each Size              2          5        30       48          15
-------------  Col$  -------------------------
Estimated Net Farm Income
w/Project (1985)          7,400       37,500    182,500  689,600  141,b00
Incremental Farm Income        5,700       27,500    102,500  602,600  141,800
US$ Equivalent                    243       1,087       4,051   23,818    5,605
/1   10 to 12 farms in each cooperative enterprise.
Market Prospects, Prices and Processing
6.05      Market Prospects.  None of the project's commodities aDpears to
face market constraint. The national demand and supply projections indicate
deficits in all products. In cotton fibers, the shortage reflects an
inability to meet the forecasted external demand, but cotton fibers would
continue to be an important export commodity. Beef is also primarily an



export commolity and projected to continue as such.  For all the other
commoditie,. the deficits imply import in the future.  Consequently, the
project's productil-n, except cotton fibers and beef, should be regarded as
import substitutes (Annex 8).
6.06      Prices.  It is expected also that the price situation for the
project's commodities would be favorable. In the domestic markcet, prices
are expected to be high as a result of inadequate supply. International
prices for exported beef are expected to increase slightly from 1979 onwards.
Real prices of cotton fibers are expected to increase at the beginning of
1975, wqhen domestic and export prices would be maintained at the same level
and then to decre_se to the level of 1972 by the early 1980s (Annex 8).
6.07      Processing.  It is .::pected that processing of the incremental
production of the project would be handled easily considering the existing
or potential caDacity of nublic atnd Private enterprises operating in the
area.  Wit.h an increase in the acreage in sovbeans and the production of
other oilseeds, processing facilities would be modified or expanded to handle
the increased production. CECORA would give more attention to the marketing
and processing of products grown by small farmers and the marketing channel
for grains would be improved (Annex 8).
VII. BENEFIT AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The project is located in a prime agricultural area where soils,
climate and water supply are favorable to high production. Thee project
presently has a significant production level and completion of the existing
works would permit an expansion and more intensive use of the land.
7.02      At full development, about 10 years after the beginning of construc-
tion, the annual net value of production from the project (expressed in 1974
prices) would be Col$ 278.6 million (US$11.1 million), compared to Col$ 58.9
million (US$2.3 million) under future conditions with-out the project. This
analysis is based on a shadow exchange rate 15%,' higher than the official rate
for the value of exported production, to offset export subsidies and controls
and hioher taxes on imiaports.  A shadow rate for labor was also used due to
the actual rate pai(i in the Cordoba area being lower than the o f icial m4 lim,u_
rate (Annex 9). The useful life of the project would be almost indefinite,
but for the analysis of econommic rates of return it has been assumed at 40
years.  Over this perio(d the economic rates of return for the agricultural
developmlent sector, hut excluding the social improvement progr,ar, would be
27%. To measLure the project's sensitivitv tG d-viations, several alternatives
have been considered:  (a) coTnstruction period extended by one year, investment
costs increased by 10% and incremental benefits delaved by one year; (b)
benefits decreased by 25%; (c) benefits increased by 25%; and combined (a)
and (b) tests. None of these alternatives would result in an internal rate
of return of less than 15%.  Annex 9 gives further details on the project
economic evaluation.



- 19 -
7,03      The Cordoba 2 area would be developed for rainfed farming by providing
.ainly drainage and on-farm development, wiiich would increase the production
,otential significantly, but below the maximum level that could be achieved
with irrigation. However, the drainag,e sYstems have been planned to meet the
requirements of irrigation, which could be introduced in the future as the
final stage in the course of the agricultural development of the area, after
the dry-farming possibilities wou0ld have been fullv achieved and the farmers
had gained sufficient experience to obtain the full benefits of irrigation.
7.04      About 3,800 farmers would benefit from the project, 2,000 of which
would be INCORA settlers and the rest private owners. All INCORA settlers,
as well as the majority of the private owners with less than 12 ha, are
considered small farmers for the purposes of this appraisal. It is estimated
that with the project 60% of the farm families in the area would have a per
capita income above the upper limit (US$250) for the poorest 40% of the popu-
lation in the country, as compared to 14% at present.
7.05      The project would require about 7,700 man-years of employment
annually compared to the existing demand is about 3,800 man-years. There is
a surplus of farm workers in the project area and adjacent cities sufficient
to meet the increased requirements with the project. The project would, in
fact, help to relieve problems of unemployment and underemployment.
7.06      Since most of the project products are either for export or for
use as import substitute for which deficiencies are expected in the future,
the projects would make a valuable contribution to Colombia's balance of
payments.
7.07      Additional employment and value added which would result from
crop marketing and processing, and other related commercial activities, as
well as secondary benefits due to acceleration of the general economic
activity in the region as a result of the project's construction, were not
quantified and consequently have not been included in the economic analysis.
7.08      The most serious risks for implementation of the project and
hringing it into full production would be the time required to develop the
unutilized lands and complete the settlement program. These are critical
factors in achlieving the projects objectives. The vagaries of the rainfall
distribution in any given year can also have a significant effect orn produc-
tion.
7.09      The program to improve social infrastructure and services would
contribute to better living standards for an estimated 35,000 rural inhabi-
tants ancd through land reform provide 1,000 landless families with farms.



- 20 -
VIII.  kECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, INCORA submitted draft operational agreements
to the Bank providing for the participation of Caja Agraria arid ICA in the
project (paras 4.04 and 4.06).
8.02      During negotiations the following assurances were obtained fromii
Government:
(a)  on the basis of existing plans, INCORA would prepare a phiased
program, within 18 months of the date of loan effect:iveness,
for completion of land acquisition and distribution in the
project area, to be agreed with the Bank, and this program
would be carried out, together with establishment of- new
settler's organizations, accordinlg to an agreed timetable
during the implementation period of the project (para 4.01);
(b)  interest rates on development credit loans would be subject
to revision by the Borrower and the Bank if Government's
regulations of credit to the agricultural sector are changed;
and INCORA would maintain a credit department satisfactory to
the Bank to administer the development credit funds and would
take the credit risk on loans from the credit funds (4.04);
(c)  consultants to assist with on-farm development, forrnation of
extension services, organizational improvements and fiscal
management would be employed by INCORA in consultation with
the Bank and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (para 4.07);
(d)  agreements would be renewed or signed with the Ministries of
Education, Health, Communications and Public Works For con-
struction of social infrasturcture and budgetary support for
the social improvement program including operation and mainte-
nance costs, within six months of the date of project effec-
tiveness. This would include agreements with agencies respon-
sible for specific components of the program, i.e., ICCE, INPES,
Servicios Seccionales, ICEL, TELECOM and Caminos Ve,inales
(para 4.09);
(e)  INCORA and other agencies responsible for the several components
of the project would maintain separate accounts for each
component and certified copies of the accounts of other agencies
would be furnished to INCORA at the end of each fiscal year;
the INCORA accounts would be audited annually by an independent
auditor, and the audited accounts, together with the auditor's
report, would be submitted to the Bank within six months of
the close each fiscal year (para 4.14);



- 21 -
(f) an organization competent to implement and manage the project
would be maintained and the Bank would be afforded a reasonable
opportunity to comment on any proposed reorganization (para
5.02); and
(g) a system of project charges would be progressively introduced,
as works are completed and project lands come into full
production, at levels sufficient to cover actual operation
and maintenance costs and recover 80% of the capital investment
in project works over a period of 20 years at an interest
rate of not less than 12% per annum. These project charges
would be reviewed in consultation with the Bank at intervals
of once every two years to determine the adequacy of the
charges and to make necessary adjustments to assure the
recovery of investment cost under the conditions stated above
(para 5.08).
8.03      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be:
(a) the signing of a Project Administration Agreement between
INCORA and the Caja Agraria to provide for the Caja
Agraria to act as the banking agent for development credit
loans under the project, in the same manner as under the
existing agreement for INCORA's Planned Credit Program
financed under Bank loan 624-CO (para 4.04); and
(b) the signing of an operational agreement between INCORA and ICA
providing for the formation and technical and financial support
of an extension service in each of the project areas (para 4.06).
8.04      With appropriate assurances, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$21.0 million with a repayment period of
30 years, including a six-year grace period.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
COLOMBIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Project Area
Soils and Land Classification
1.        Except for a small area near El Cerrito, the project area is covered
by young alluvial deposits brought in by the Rio Sinu. A semi-detailed soil
survey was carried out by Hunting Technical Services Ltd. in 1969, using
1:20,000 aerial photography and previous soil surveys covering 30,000 ha of
higher (levee) lands and 23,000 ha of lower lands (basin or cienega). Lands
were classified by Hunting for irrigation farming but in early 1974 they were
reclassified by INCORA for dry-farming conditions using U.S. Department of
Agriculture land use capability classification standards.
2.        On the basis of soil characteristics and drainage, the lands in
the project area were classified as follows:
Land Capability Class           Hectares        Percent of Area
I                     6,812                 15
II                    21,772                 48
III                     4,505                 10
IV                    10,444                 23
VI                     1,656                  3
VII                        204                 1
TOTAL                45,393                100
The 40,000 ha proposed for development in the project constitute a part of
the 45,393 ha classified by INCORA.
(a) Class I Lands: High lands, suitable for dry-farming of a wide
range of crops. Slightly undulated, deep, well-drained soils,
easy to work. Good water holding capacity. Soils have good
fertility level. These lands require ordinary management practices
to maintain their productivity.
(b) Class II Lands: High lands, suitable for dry-farming of a
wide range of crops but with some limitations because of
soil characteristics. They are heavy textured in the upper
horizon which makes land preparation difficult. In some
cases, they have drainage deficiencies. These soils also
have good water holding capacity and good fertility level,
but require control of excess moisture.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(c) Class III Lands: A complex of levee and basin lands associated
with former swamps. Lands suitable for dry-farming but
with severe limitations due to heavy textured soils and
poor drainage conditions. PH values vary from 4 to 5 in the
topsoil and from 3 to 4 in the sub-soil. These soils
require special management practices such as sub-soiling,
deep plowing, appropriate fertilizing, liming and intensive
artificial drainage. Under appropriate management, these
lands can be moderately productive.
(d) Class IV Lands: Basin lands with severe restrictions for dry-
farming due to clay-soils (difficult to work when wet)
and very poor drainage conditions. Land use is restricted
to permanent pastures under special management practices
such as: fertilizing, liming and artificial drainage.
(e) Class VI Lands: Basin lands of low productivity. Heavy
soils with very poor drainage, unsuitable for dry-farming
but suitable with severe restrictions for permanent pastures.
(f) Class VII Lands: Non-arable lands due to very steep
slopes and broken relief.
Land Use and Tenure Patterns
3.        It is estimated that, with the project, land use and tenure patterns
would undergo considerable change during the 10-year period preceding full
development, i.e., in 1985. Completion of the drainage system would accelerate
the conversion of land traditionally used for intermittent livestock grazing
to double-cropping for a variety of crops. A major benefit of the change from
pastures to field crops would be the increased intensity of land use and higher
production value. It is estimated that about one third of the area is presently
under-utilized as unimproved or intermittent pasture. This conversion began in
1967 with construction of the main flood protection canal and dike on the east
boundary of the area and the main drain through the area, with the result that
at present about 17,000 ha out of the total of 40,000 ha are used for crops,
mainly cotton. With the project, the cropped area is estimated Ito increase
to about 32,000 ha, which would cover the higher, better drained and more
fertile levee lands (Class I and II) and a part of the complex of levee and
basin lands (Class III). The balance of about 8,000 ha is low basin land
which would largely be restricted to use as pastures. Some 6,000 ha of these
lands are almost permanently inundated (cienegas) and would be reclaimed with
drainage and land leveling.
4.        The application of Agrarian Reform Law No. 4 of 1973, which limits
individual land holdings to 50 ha and prohibits deeding excess land to members
of the same family, would also have an important effect on land use and the
tenure pattern. The biggest change would be in privately owned livestock
farms, now covering about 9,200 ha, where some 7,800 ha would be subject to
acqjs'tion by INCORA to be distributed to settlers in tracts of 10 ha to



ANNEX 1
Page 3
15 ha per family. This new land under INCORA control, together with the 6,000
ha of reclaimed cienega land would permit the formation of about 100 new
Empresas Comunitarias (Annex 4) of which 60 would be mixed farming enterprises
on both levee and basin lands with some livestock, and 40 almost entirely
livestock located on former cienega lands. The remaining lands in livestock
retained by private owners (1,400 ha) would most likely be converted to cotton,
as a livestock operation on 50 ha would not be an economic enterprise. With
these changes the area controlled by INCORA would increase from about 43%
at present to about 62% and the number of INCORA settlers on farms of 10 ha
to 15 ha from about 1,000 to about 2,000. An additional 1,560 private owners
on farms less than 20 ha and about 240 private owners with farms of 20 ha to
50 ha would also benefit from the project, which would bring the total number
of farmers to be benefitted to slightly more than 3,800. Tables 1 and 2 show
the existing and proposed situation regarding land use and tenure in the
project area.
Rainfall and Crop Water Requirements
5.        Cordoba 2 Area.  The area is situated in the Inter-tropical Con-
vergence Zone, which is the zone of meeting near the thermal equator of the
trade winds of the two hemispheres.  Convergence of these air currents is
the major rain producing mechanism in the area. Mean annual rainfall, as
recorded in Cerete over the 50-year period 1918 to 1956 is 1,138 mm, with
the highest annual total of 1,573 mm in 1959 and the lowest, 664 mm in 1948.
There are two distinct periods, a wet season from mid-April through November
and a dry season during December to April. The mean monthly averages during
the 50-year period are presented in Table 3. A statistical analysis of
rainfall reliability, taking into account the wide variation from the mean
in the highest and lowest monthly totals, and the estimated evaporation from
data obtained at the Turipana Research Station in the area, indicates that
rainfall would always be sufficient to support crop growth during the period
May through November. This seven month period, however, is not long enough
to mature two crops unless residual soil moisture would permit some extension
of the cropping season into April and December-January. With two cropping
seasons, mid-April to the end of July and September through February, there
could be problems of adequate soil moisture at the beginning of the first
season in April and at the end of the second season in December-January.
The first constraint could occur in April when there is a 50% probability
that rainfall would be less than 50 mm or an amount sufficient to replenish
soil moisture after the dry season to germinate the first crop. If planting
is delayed until May, when sufficient moisture is assured a problem of timing
occurs. A May planting of maize or soybeans with a vegetative cycle of 130
to 150 days, brings the harvest in late August or early September. This allows
a minimum of time to plant the second crop before the end of September, which
also is the wettest month, in order not to prolong the growing season too far
into the dry season beginning in December, when soil moisture depletes rapidly
and yield losses due to moisture stress could occur.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
6t,       This combination of sufficient available moisture over a period of
only seven months would restrict the amount of double-cropping t:hat could be
achieved in the area to an estimated intensity of 129%. At present, the
major crop is cotton which occupies about 12,000 ha and is estimated to in-
crease to 20,000 ha at full development. Cotton is planted betwreen mid-August
and the end of September, usually taking advantage of a short dry season in
l6te July and early August for land preparation. Since cotton is a deep
rboted crop and not very sensitive to moisture stress it can wit:hstand the
depletion of soil moisture in December and January and be ready for harvest
during the dry season. Cotton growers normally do not take the risk of de-
layed planting in September and double-crop cotton with other crops.  Other
crops such as maize, soybeans, sorghum, sesame and vegetable, which have a
shorter growing season, could be double-cropped, particularly in years when
rainfall in late April permitted planting of the first crop such that harvest
of the second crop could occur no later than December. The probability studies
indicate that total rainfall during the first cropping season would always be
more than the cummulative evapotranspiration for these crops and the real
problem would be the soil moisture available in April to germinaLte the first
crop. The low rainfall in December would be more effective than. in April
since residual soil moisture following the wet season would be ait a higher
level.
7.        In view of the conditions described above, it may be seen that
supplemental irrigation could provide some benefit by extending the season
for double-cropping and the problem of timing would not exist. It would
eliminate the risk of starting the first crop in April and the deficiency
in soil moisture available to the second crop in December and January, which
in most years causes some reduction in potential yields. However, a study
of the incremental benefits to be gained with irrigation indicates that
the high cost would not be justified.



AN MI X 1
Table 1
COLOMBIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTURAL DVELOFPENT PROJECT
Present and Projected Land Use
Present                  Projected
Land Use           INCORA          PRIVATE     INCORA       PRIVATE
-- --ha - - - - - - _
Field Crops            3,500          13,500      16,900        14,900
Pasture                7,800           9,200       8,200          -
Unutilized             6,000             -           -             _
Total              17j300          22,700      25,l00       14 900
April 1975



COLOMBIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTURAL DEVELQPI.ENTPi QTECT
Present and Pro.ieoted Jand Distribution
Present                                          Projected
Farms                  Area                   _arms                         Area
hectares   hectarts
number    percgnt      hetars                   umber      percent     (gross)      (not)     percent
less than 3     1,076       38.3          812          2.3      1,076        28.1        812         812        2.0
3 -5            152        5.5          627          1.8        152         4.0        627         627        1.6
5 - 10          182        6.4        1,353          3.9        182         4.8      1,353       1,353        3.4
10 -20         1,15        411        :L4,510       41.6       2,172-       56.8     28,686      27,458       68.6
20 - 50          158        5.7        5,500         15.8        243         6.3      9,900       9,750       24.4
more than 50       85        3.0       12,076        34.6         -           _-                     - 
TOTAL :        2,809      100.0       34,878        100.0      3,825       100.0    41,378       40,000      lOOoO
lOf which 1,001 are INCORA settlers with a total of 12,203 ha.  These lands are managed in 87 comniunity
enterprises wi.t.h nn average of 1")'h 'each, coCMrpi'sIng about 12 settlers.
-/Of which 2,016 are expected to be INCORA settlers with a total of 26,379 ha. They would be managed in           o 
some 187 community enterprises with an average of about 140 ha each, comprising about 12 sett.lers.    
April 1975



COLOi<oL. IAi< ;A T
Table 3
CORDOBA 2 AGIGCULTUI?AL DLVELOPMENT PROJECT
1onthly Rainrall Data
Month                Mean            Highest annual       Lowest annual
(50 years)         total (1959)        total (1948)
January                   11.1                     0                    0
February                   9.7                     0                    0
March                     19.5                     3                   10
April                     75.1                   115                    7
Niay                     152.6                   113                   62
June                     146.0'                  227                  125
July                     148.4                   189                  111
August                   167.5                   290                   87
September                155.3                   31)4                 136
October                  137.7                   152                   84
November                  84.9                   170                   18
December                  30.2                     0                   24
Total                  1,138.0                 1,573                  664
Estimated American Class "A" Pan Evaporation Based on Turipana Data
Nonth             1966             1967       Tentative long-term value
-___________________- -m ----------- - --    -------
January                121              135                  130
February                132             143                  140
March                   165             194                  189
April                   14?             148                  150
May                     122             158                  140
June                    119             133                  125
July                   120              144                  130
August                  115             156                  130
September               110             135                  125
October                 113             117                  135
November                 97             119                  110
December                112             129                  120
April 1975



ANNEX 2
Page 1
COLOMBIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Project
Project Works
1.        INCORA started construction of drainage systems, flood protection
works and farm roads in the area in 1963 in an effort to reclaim about 50,000
ha for agricultural production. Prior to that time the area was occupied by
permanent swamps or inundated during the wet season each year, and was mainly
used for part-time livestock grazing. Completion of the flood protection
dike and collector canal at the base of the foothills of the east boundary
of the area and the main drainage canal through the center of the area (Map
11080) relieved the most serious flooding, and development of the area for
field crops accelerated rapidly. At present about half the area is cultivated
under rain fed conditions, with the balance still in unimproved pasture,
which now is used throughout the year, and about 6,000 ha are still in swamps.
INCORA has also completed the irrigation and drainage works for an area of
7,000 ha adjacent to the Rio Sinu and the city of Monteria which is known as
Stage I but which does not form part of the proposed project. Further, about
30% of the primary and secondary drainage canals have been completed or are
under construction (Zones 2 and 3) within the 40,000 ha comprising the project
area. Irrigation development would not be provided under the proposed project
but could be considered for a future stage of development. Works to be com-
pleted under the project would be as follows:
(a) construction of 128 km of primary drains;
(b) construction of 386 km of secondary drains;
(c) construction of the south collector canal and protection dike;
6.8 km
(d) construction of 24 culverts, syphons, bridges and other structures;
(e) construction of 168 km of all-weather farm roads;
(f) construction of 342 km of fencing along drainage canals and
roads; and
(g) rehabilitation of an existing building and construction of an
extension to enlarge project headquarters.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
On-farm Development
2.        On-farm development would consist of tertiary drainage systems for
40,000 ha and land leveling on 20,000 ha to improve drainage and eliminate
temporary ponding. The land leveling would be to the degree required for rain
fed farming practices, which would not be the same as required for
irrigation. On small farms up to 12 ha, this work would be performed
with development credit fund provided in the project for both INCORA settlers
and private owners. Due to INCORA's policy to restrict their direct financial
assistance to small farms and settlers, farms larger than 12 ha up to 50 ha
would be required to perform this work by means of their own resources or
medium-term credit loans obtained from public institutions such as Caja Agraria
or the Fondo Financiero Agropecuario (Annex 3). INCORA would assist the small
farms on surveys and planning for the on-farm works, organize farmers into
groups to facilitate the letting of contracts of a size that would justify
the purchase of suitable equipment by the contractors, select contractors and
negotiate contracts, help prepare loan applications, and supervise execution
of the work. Most of the work on leveling would be required on small farms
as the medium sized farms, especially those in cotton, are in reasonably good
condition for drainage and rain fed farming.
Improvement of Social Infrastructure
3.        General.  Under Law 135 of 1961, as amended by Law 4 of 1973, INCORA
has a direct responsibility to improve economic and social conditions in rural
areas, together with the other main objectives of reorganizing the agrarian
structure and increasing agricultural productivity through land development.
With this concept in mind, INCORA accepted the proposal to include a component
in the project for improving the social infrastructure in the project area.
It was agreed that this program would include the improvement, expansion and
new construction of primary schools, hospitals and health centers, village
water supply systems, rural electrification systems and telecommunications.
The program was envisaged basically as a means to meet the most critical
deficits existing in the rural areas for these services and to help social
development keep pace with the accelerated agricultural development which is
expected with the project. An inventory of total social needs in both urban
and rural areas projected over the next two decades revealed that this was
far beyond the scope of a program that could be included in the project, both
from the standpoint of cost and time required for execution. The proposed
program would, therefore, be restricted to the most critical and essential
needs for the short term, say to 1980, and to the rural area of the projects.
With the exception of some aid to existing hospitals, no assistance would be
provided for improvement of social facilities in the larger towns and cities
within or adjacent to the project areas. While a great need exists in these
urban areas and they do provide services to the rural population, assistance
to improve urban services would not conform with INCORA's official policy of
improving the living standards of the rural population and, as noted above,
the cost, even on the short term, would be prohibitive. The overall magnitude
of the problem in education is illustrated by the situation in both urban and
rural areas in the Cordoba 2 area. With 30,000 children in school, it is



ANNEX 2
Pa,ge 3
estimated that an additional 15,000 are not in school, mainly Eor lack of
facilities, and there is a current deficit of 500 classrooms. It is further
estimated that student population would increase 7,000 by 1980 and an additional
200 rooms would needed.
4.        The various elements of the program would be implemented by the
Ministry responsible, i.e., the Ministries of Health, Education and Public
Works, under operational agreements with INCORA (Annex 4). It is proposed
that 70% of the total costs for the social improvement program be reimbursed
from the Bank loan as Government budgetary appropriations at present cannot
begin to meet the needs of the whole country for social development programs
and for operational support of these facilities. This would also allow the
Ministries to increase the allocation of funds for operation and maintenance,
which is currently unsatisfactory and deficient. The situatiocn relative to
operational support of schools and health centers is critical and the agree-
ments with INCORA must commit Government to provide additional funds and
support for both the existing and new facilities to be constructed.
5.        Education.  In Colombia, participation in primary education is
apparently very high (99%), but 30% of the students are overaged, resulting
in a real participation rate of 70%. Drop-out rates are high and opportunities
in rural areas are limited, most of the rural schools having no more than the
third grade. The Government is expanding primary education in rural areas by
adding classrooms to existing schools and constructing new primary schools.
Teachers are inadequately trained and teaching materials are in short supply,
but student participation rate is very high. With an enrollment rate of growth
of 7.5% the deficit of classrooms is becoming a serious constraint.
6.        The project would provide for expanding and improving the education
facilities in the project area to cope with the increasing demand for primary
education. Although the project would influence both urban and rural areas,
the education component of the project would concentrate on the! rural areas
only. With this program, the lack of education opportunities in this area
would be less a limiting factor for agricultural development than at present.
The project would provide for constructing, furnishing and equipping 120 new
classrooms which would be sufficient to increase the student enrollment from
12,400 in 1973 to 14,100 in 1980. In addition, 90 existing classrooms would
be replaced and 100 existing classrooms would be improved. The pertinent
data are presented in Table 1.
7.        The most critical deficiency of primary education is its low quality,
in terms of the unsatisfactory curriculum currently applied, the lack of didac-
tic materials and the low qualifications of teachers. Therefore, the project
would support the introduction in all primary schools of the project area of
an improved curriculum, and provide sets of advanced teaching materials to all
220 schools. As a complementary effort, the Ministry of Education will organize
a special in-service teacher training program, without cost to the project.
Further, the project would support the nonformal education program of Accion
Cultural Popular (ACPO), a private, nonprofit organization that promotes non-
formal rural education through multi-media action. The project would provide



ANNEX 2
Page 4
two sets of ACPO's Biblioteca del Campesino, consisting of 27 basic textbooks
for adult functional literacy training, to each of the 220 primary schools
in the project areas. ACPO's complementary effort will consist of special
actions to promote participation in its nonformal education programs. The
education component of the project would be carried out by the Instituto
Colombiano de Construcciones Escolares (ICCE), the school construction agency
of the Ministry of Education. To this end, an agreement would be signed between
INCORA and the Ministry of Education, establishing (i) terms and conditions for
carrying out the project; and (ii) appropriate budgetary allocations in the
Ministry of Education to staff, operate and maintain the project schools.
8.        Expansion and improvement of primary education in the urban areas
would be carried out by the corresponding institutions under supervision and
coordination of the Ministry of Education. Education facilities at secondary
and higher levels, including agricultural schools and training centers, appear
to be adequate in the project area.
9.        Secondary schools in towns adjacent to the project area such as
Monteria, San Pelayo, San Carlos, Cerete and Cienaga de Oro may become central
education units of the "Concentraciones de Desarrollo Rural," a new approach
being initiated by the Ministry of Education whereby a central education
complex, at the higher level, provides technical and administrative support
to secondary and primary schools within a given area. Under this plan the
project schools would become satellite schools under the main administrative
center.
10.       Health Services.  Health services in Colombia are organized and
directed by a central office in each department, comprising hospitals, health
centers (permanent medical attention) and health posts (permanent nurse atten-
tion and medical visits once a week). In Colombia, 20% of the population
is unable to obtain adequate health services and in the project area 10% of
the population are not adequately served. More health centers and posts are
required, as well as expansion and improvement of the hospitals in Monteria
and Cerete.
11.       In the Cordoba 2 area, the project would provide for constructing
and equipping two new health centers and four new health posts, and improving
three existing health centers and three health posts. In addition, two
hospitals in Monteria and Cerete would be improved. The total cost of the
health component of the project is estimated at Col$ 6.6 million.
12.       The health component of the project would be carried out by the
National Health Fund (Fondo Nacional Hospitalario), under the Ministry of
Health through the Departmental offices in Monteria. To this purpose, an
agreement would be signed between INCORA and the Ministry of Health, estab-
lishing: (i) terms and conditions for carrying out the health component of
the project; and (ii) appropriate budgetary allocations in the Ministry of
Health to staff, operate and maintain the project health facilities.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
13.       Water Supply, Rural Electrification and Telecommunications.  Most
of the 25 rural communities in the Cordoba 2 area with less than 2,500 inhabi-
tants, classified as villages, lack a potable water supply system, a sewage
system, electric power and telephones. These villages were assigned first
priority by Government for improvement of the above mentioned services. Once
again, in consideration of the funds and time required to provide such services
to all the villages, it was agreed that some order of priority should be
applied to select a reasonable number of villages that could be included in
the project. The main criteria was a minimum population size which gave higher
priority to the larger villages which serve as micro-economic growth centers.
Further, some villages were excluded as being too small to justify the infra-
structure cost to serve a limited number of people. On this basis, 13 villages
were selected. A priority was also established for types of infrastructure to
be provided in these villages.
(a)  Water supply was given first priority because of the health
implications;
(b) Power was assigned second priority due to its importance for
both cultural and economic development; and
(c)  Telephones are a critical need in some villages which have
no means of communication with major centers.
14.       The program agreed upon for providing water supply, power and
telephone systems under the project in the Cordoba 2 area is presented below.
Community               Water Supply       Power     Telephones
1.   Cedro                        X               X            X
2.   Rabolargo                                    X            X
3.   Berastequi                                                X
4.   El Obligado                  X               X            X
5.   El Cerrito                   X
6.   Cotorra                      X
7.   Las Balsas                   X               X
8.   El Higal                     X
9.   Los Guamos                   X
10.  Pelayito                     X
11.  Sabanal                      X
12.  Los Mimbres                  X
13.  San Carlos                   X
15.       The estimated cost for this program would be Col$ 12.2 million, or
about US$480,000, less contingencies. Power supply in the area is limited,
with only one generating plant at Chinu with a capacity of 29,200 kw. However,
Government is working with IDB on a program to make more power available by
an interconnection with the primary power grid in the country. There would
be enough capacity at present to serve the proposed expansion of the system



ANNEX 2
Page 6
in the area. The proposed water supply systems would be drilled wells with
pumps, elevated tanks and pipe distribution lines to strategic points in the
village. House service would not be provided. Telephone service would
consist of lines connecting to the main existing system and one or two public
stations in the village. Power would include transmission lines to the
village, transformers as required, service on the main streets, with some
street lights, and drop lines and switch boxes for each residence, but no
wiring within the house.
16.       Existing rate schedules for power and telephone services to the low
income rural population cover operation and maintenance cost and there is no
provision to recover investment costs. It is assumed that the same conditions
would apply to the new water supply systems. The justification, therefore,
for this program must be on the basis of income distribution and improving
living standards of the poor rural families.
Consultant Services
17.       Consultants would be provided during the implementation period of
the project for specific activities where INCORA has not had previous ex-
perience or qualified staff. These activities are on-farm development,
more specifically land leveling, and organization of an extension service
and training of extension agents. In view of the importance of these acti-
vities in carrying out the project, a consultant in each of the two categories
would be provided.
18.       With the change in Government, as a result of recent elections,
it is very likely that there would be a change in the organizational struc-
ture of INCORA. As the present structure has evolved over a period of years
without the benefit of long-term planning, but more in response to political
circumstances and needs at the time, there is an opportunity to restructure
the organization, particularly that part dealing with land development, in
a rational way to make the organization more efficient and effective. It is
proposed that a specialist in organization and management be provided to assist
INCORA at headquarters level with this task. Further, with completion of
the drainage works and other infrastructure under the project, INCORA would
be in a position to impose a system of project charges for recovery of opera-
tion and maintenance and investment costs. The procedure and rate schedule
to be applied for the proposed project would be complicated since the recovery
of investment would depend on the services provided and the benefits which
would accrue to different categories of farmers. It is proposed that a
specialist in fiscal management be provided to assist INCORA in estabblishing
suitable rate schedules and to improve general accounting procedures for Bank-
assisted projects. The specialists in organization and fiscal management
would be assigned to headquarters in Bogota.
19,       The scheduled duration and estimated cost of consultants to be
provided are presented in Annex 5. The terms of reference would be as follows:



AN[NEX 2
Page 7
(i)  Irrigation Engineer - to assist with on-farm development as
this relates specifically to land leveling and lay out of
the tertiary drainage systems. For land leveling, to assist
in determining the type and amount of leveling needed,
depending on soils, terrain and crops to be grown; to determine
the appropriate scale and intensity of field surveys for
calculations of earth moving quantities; and to assist in
preparing specifications and contracts for this work. The
consultant would also provide training to extension agents
and farmers on suitable water conservation practices for
various crops and soil conditions;
(ii) Agronomist, Extension Specialist - to assist in organizing
an extension service and to develop programs and methodology
for training extension agents and farmers on improvecl agri-
cultural practices and farm management planning; to dlevelop
the capabilities of extension agents in specific fields of
agriculture and technical assistance; and to encourage
closer cooperation between ICA and CIAT with the extension
service with the main objective of obtaining more effective
transfer of research data to actual practice.
(iii) Specialist in Organization and Management - to assist: in
organizing the land development activities of INCORA to
effectively carry out the planning and implementation of
land development programs and projects;
(iv) Specialist in Fiscal Management - to assist in establishing
suitable rate schedules and systems for project charges for
the proposed project and to improve INCORA's general accounting
system as this applies to Bank assisted projects.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
COLOMBIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPBENT PROJECT
Education and Health Services
Primary Education Facilities to be Provided
Capacity Needs in Project Area
Student Enrollment, 1973                           12,,4oo
Existing Classrooms, 1973                             187
Student Enrollment, 1980                           14,100
Required Classrooms, 1980                             352
Deficit in Classrooms, 1980                           165
Facilities to be Provided
Didactic Materials for all Primary Schools
-  number of sets                                     220
-  cost (Col$ '000)                                 1,,500
Construction of New Classrooms
-  number of classrooms                               120
-  cost (Col$ '000)                                12,960
Replacement of Existing Classrooms
-  number of classrooms                                90
-  cost (Col$ '000)                                 9,480
Repair of Existing Classrooms
-  number of classrooms                               100
-  cost (Col$ '000)                                 2,760
Sets of Adult Learning Materials:
"Biblioteca del Campesino"
- number of sets                                      440
-  cost (Col$ '000)                                   108
Total Cost (Col$ '000)                             26,808
Health Facilities to be Provided
Hospitals             Improvement (NO)                      2
-  Cost (Col$ '000)                 3,240
Health Centers     -  New (NO)                              2
-  Improvement (N0)                     3
-  Cost (Col$ '000)                 2,694
Health Posts       - New (NO)                               4
-  Improvement (NO)                     3
-  Cost (Col$ '000)                   708
Total Cost (Col$ T0O0)                                 6,,642
Cost of Education and Health Facilities (Col$ '000) 33,450
April 1975



ANNEX 3
Page 1
COLOMBIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Supporting Services
Agricultural Extension Service
General
1.        The main responsibility for agricultural research and extension
in Colombia lies with the Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario (ICZA) but
budgetary constraints and scarcity of qualified extension personnel have
led ICA to limit its activity largely to research. It is only since 1973
that ICA has made a serious effort to intensify its extension activities
through the organization of a Rural Development Program. The concept of
this program is wider than agricultural extension, including also the
promotion of rural organizations, home economics, family planning and
youth activities. The program is administered by ICA's Rural 'Development
Division which has nine regional offices. It is extended through region-
ally defined projects of which there are about 20 operational, but none
of these are located in the project area.
2.        In the project area, ICA operates an experiment station (Turipana)
for both crop and livestock production. Its extension activity for the four
departments of the Atlantic coast region consists of five technicians super-
vising some 200 private extensionists, who provide technical assistance to
farmers using credit loans from Government sources. These private extension-
ists are hired as consultants and paid from the credit loans to the farmers.
ICA also employs 16 livestock technicians for the department of Cordoba. In
addition ICA promotes the adoption of new farming techniques and varieties
through occasional field days on demonstration plots in the area. It also is
presently organizing a rural development project for the lower Sinu valley
aiming at the provision of integrated technical and social assistance to the
farm population. Some assistance to farmers in the Cordoba 2 area is also
provided by INCORA's credit supervisors (16), Caja Agraria's technicians
(4), Banco Ganadero's livestock specialists (2) and by the Cotton Growers'
Association. Nearly all of this assistance is oriented to supervision of
credit loans and does not provide adequate assistance to farmers on farm
management planning and specific problems of crop production.
3.        The various forms of technical assistance available to the
farmers in the project area from different sources is inadequate for the
projected change in farming systems and production techniques, mainly
because of a lack of coordination between the institutions providing the
service, its lack of emphasis on improving farming practices and increas-
ing productivity, its low density and because it bypasses by and large



ANNEX 3
Page 2
the small farmer. The project would therefore include provision for
establishing an extension service exclusively for the project area and
tailored especially to its needs.
4.        The primary objective of this new service would be to consolidate
and coordinate the services now being provided and develop a comprehensive
program for farm management and technical assistance to the farmers, with
the supervision of the fiscal aspects of credit loans as a secondary
responsibility. During the development period, the service would consist
of:
(a) a service chief who would have overall responsibility for
the organization, administration and operation of the
service. He would be an agronomist or agricultural
economist with special training and experience in agricul-
tural extension;
(b) a group of five professionals, one each for:
i.   agronomy;
ii.   farm planning and management;
iii.   animal husbandry;
iv.   farmers organization and marketing;
v.   social services; and
(c) a group of 20 specialized technicians, including most of
the existing staff, of which five would assist the
agronomist, five the farm planner, five the social service
specialist, two the animal husbandry, two the farmers
organization and one the marketing specialists.
A consultant would be provided for three years to assist the service chief
in setting up the service and establish an adequate working program and
methodology (Annex 2). The service chief and the five professionals
including the techniclans for farmers organization and marketing would be
stationed at project headquarters, while the remaining technicians would
be outposted in five suitable locations in the project area.
5.        It is planned that the service would be part of and organized along
the lines of ICA's Rural Development Program. The staff required for the
service would-be hired by ICA. After adequate training, especially in agri-
cultural extension to be arranged by ICA in cooperation with the Centro
Internacional de Agricultura Tropical (CIAT), the staff would be seconded to
INCORA and incorporated into INCORA's project organization as part of the
agricultural services section for extension and technical assistance.  The
chief of the extension team would report to the head of the section and
orient the activities of the service fully to the project's needs. ICA
would actively support the project by making available the results of



ANNEX 3
Page 3
various research programs and provide backstopping of extension personnel
on matters of extension methodology. An operational agreement would be
entered into by INCORA and ICA which would formalize the terms and responsi-
bility of each agency in establishing the extension service and in carrying
out this plan. The extension and technical assistance program would be
financed by INCORA. Funds of Col$ 13.9 million (US$0.5 million) would be
included in the project to cover the cost of this service during the five-year
construction period (Annex 5). INCORA would have responsibility for continuing
this service after the construction period to the end of the project development
phase (year 10).
6.        The Centro Internacional de Agricultura Tropical (CIAT) at Palmira
has offered to conduct special courses for the training of extension agents
for this project as well as other INCORA projects in Colombia. These courses
would establish a close relation between research and technical assistance
at the farm level, in both general and specific aspects of agricultural pro-
duction, which would make the work of the extension services more useful to
the farmers. ICA and INCORA would collaborate with CIAT in planning and
financing these courses and arrange for extension staff from the project to
participate.
Agricultural Production Credit
7.        Institutional credit to farmers in the project area is provided
mainly by the Caja Agraria and INCORA. Other less important sources include
the Banco Ganadero, the Cotton Grower Association (FEDERALGODON), suppliers
of agricultural inputs including the regional Cooperativas Agropecuarias
administered by the Central de Cooperativas de la Reforma Agraria (CECORA)
and a few private banks. Although the project areas are well served with
banking facilities of various banking agencies, the existing lending programs
do not fully cover production credit requirements of all farmers and medium
and short-term development credit for small farms is virtually not available.
8.        The Caja Agraria serves the project area throuph a main office in
Monteria, two sub-offices in Cerete and Lorica and agencies int Cienega del
Oro, San Pelayo and San Carlos. This bank provides credit for crops, livestock
fattening and breeding, agricultural machinery, irrigation andl drainage facil-
ities, rural housing and electrification. In addition to its own resources
the Caja Agraria works with funds provided by IDB for agricultural machinery,
IBRD for livestock (651-CO) and the Fondo Financiero Agropecuario (FAA) 1/
1/   The FFA established by Law 5 of 1973 aims at directing substantially
larger financial resources to agriculture by a forced investment regime
under which the commercial banks are required to invest 15% of their
placements in 8% agricultural development bonds issued by the Central
Bank and administered by FFA. These funds are then relent to financial
institutions, including Caja Agraria, for making loans to agriculture.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
for a wide range of agricultural production and investments. Interest rates
charged vary in accordance with the size of the farm and terms between 12%
and 14% p.a. for loans financed with Caja Agraria's own resources and 10% to
15% for loans from FFA funds. The Caja Agraria which operates under its own
law rather than legislation pertaining to commercial banks has traditionally
concentrated its lending on larger farms and its operational regulations and
policy orientation have limited its capacity to adjust its lending to the
conditions and needs of small farms, especially within INCORA irrigation and
drainage districts.
9.        INCORA operates its credit program from the project headquarters
located in the project area. Its lending is primarily directed towards
INCORA settlers and small private farmers. In the Cordoba 2 area the program
is limited to the USAID financed Supervised Credit Scheme since the IBRD
financed Planned Credit Program (624-CO) does not include this area, and
a former joint INCORA-Banco Ganadero Credit Program for livestock fattening
and breeding came to an end as a result of shortages of funds and a change
of policy by the Banco Ganadero. Shortages of funds for the Supervised Credit
Program caused INCORA to restrict its lending mainly to short-term crop
financing for INCORA settlers, and to a large extent, only to supplement Caja
Agraria loans financed from FFA which generally covers only about half to
three quarters of the production cost.
10.       Banco Ganadero provides credits only to the livestock industry in
the Cordoba 2 area. It maintains offices in Monteria and Lorica and offers
credit lines for breeding, including the purchase of stock, pasture improve-
ments and livestock installations. In addition to its own and FFA resources,
it works with funds from USAID and IDB, mainly for breeding and investments.
Loans outstanding in the region, as recorded in the Monteria office in 1973,
amounted to Col$45.0 million (US$1.8 million), of which probably half were
loans to farmers in the Cordoba 2 area. Interest rates vary according to
the type of loan between 11% and 14% p.a. This cTedit program, together
with Caja Agraria's credit line for livestock, adequately covers the industry's
needs. However, small farmers, INCORA settlersf,and community enterprises
have had difficulties in obtaining credit for livestock development after
the joint INCORA-Banco Ganadero Livestock Credit Program was phased out as
the policy and operational regulations of the Banco Ganadero prevented
these groups from using these services.
11.       Other sources of credit include the Cotton Growers' Association,
the Cooperativa Agropecuaria del Sinu (COAGROSINU) suppliers of agricultural
inputs, and private banks, such as, Banco de Colombia, Banco de Bogota, Banco
del Oriente, Banco Cafetero and others. The combined lending of these insti-
tutions is limited and interest rates are higher than the one charged by
official agricultural credit institutions reaching up to 20% p.a., if all
fees and charges are accounted for.
12.       Credit requirements in the project area would increase considerably
with implementation of the project. Incremental short-term credit needs of



ANNEX 3
Page 5
farmers are estimated to increase to about Col$ 130 million 1/ at full devel-
opment. Medium and long-term credit required by the farmers to finance that
part of the on-farm investment to be about Col$161 million (US$6.4 million).
13.       The principal objective of the new FFA program is to increase
the supply of credit funds for agriculture and INCORA has received
assurances that this would be the major source for short-term lending
within their districts. This would improve the availahility of production
credit funds as required to meet the increased needs of the project, with
increased production.
Agricultural Development Credit
14.       The project would include development credit funds for medium and
long-term loans to small farms, generally up to 12 ha, both privately owned
and INOORA settlers, for on-farm development, farm machinery and livestock
development. With about 3,400 out of 3,800 farms in the project area clas-
sified in this small farm category, it is essential that funds be available
for the purposes noted above in order to fully achieve the production poten-
tial of the project. This would be especially true for the 1,000 new settlers
to carry out farm improvements and achieve reasonable levels of production
during the early part of the development period. The new Government has
taken the position that on-farm works within INCORA districts should be
financed with credit loans rather than by direct investment, for both small
and large (20 to 50 ha) farms. Since medium and long-term development loans
are not available to small farms, it is necessary to provide such funds in
the project, if it is to succeed. Large farms, which to a great degree have
already been developed and own machinery, mainly require production loans
and are able to obtain development financing from public or private sources.
15.       In addition to on-farm development, medium and long-term credit
would be required to finance agricultural machinery, mainly tractors and
plows, and livestock development, both infrastructure and breeding stock,
for the existing 87 Empresas Comunitarias and the 100 new ones which would be
established in the project area. INCORA would not have adequate resources
to assist these empresas in obtaining the necessary livestock and machinery
to begin farming operations.
16.       The agricultural credit funds provided under the project for
medium and long-term loans would be administered by INCORA through its
existing credit department under the same procedures as the existing
Credit Laan 624-CO, with the Caja Agraria acting as the banking agent
under a Project Administration Agreement, which would provide for transfer
of these funds to INCORA by Government and for the Caja Agraria to be res-
ponsible for fiscal management and granting of loans, upon reconmendation by
1/   50% of aggregate variable production costs, excluding labor, in 1974
prices.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
INCORA, keeping of accounts, fulfill legal requirements and follow-up on loan
repayment by the farmers. INCORA would assist the farmers and empresas on
surveys and planning for on-farm development, organize farmers into groups
for reasonable sized contracts, negotiate contracts, assist with loan appli-
cations and supervise implementation of the work. INCORA would bear the
financial risk and loans would be administered under the same terms and condi-
tions as the existing Planned Credit Program (Loan 624-CO) with a repayment
period of not less than five years for machinery and equipment and not more
than 12 years for on-farm development and livestock development, with two or
three year grace periods depending on local conditions. The interest rate
would be set in accordance with Government policy on credit loans to small
farms. This could require an increase, due to inflation, from the present
rate of 14% under the Planned Credit Program (624-CO) to 16%, which
could still be a negative rate but within a reasonable limit that small farms
could afford and would accept. An estimate of the amounts required for the
several purposes of the credit fund is presented below:
Estimated Cost
Item                                        ---Col$'000---
(a)  On-farm development                                        88,550
(b)  Farm machinery                                             37,950
(c) Infrastructure and breeding stock for
livestock farms                                          25,300
Total                                               151,800
US$'000 equivalent                                     6,000
Farmers' Training
17.       The Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje (SENA) is responsible for
vocational training including the field of agriculture. It is well
experienced in this task and maintains a training center in the Cordoba 2
area where about 200 young people are trained each year in the use of
agricultural machinery, general agricultural practices and the administra-
tion of community enterprises in two to three year courses. In addition
SENA operates courses in crop and livestock production techniques. INCORA
would, on the basi's of the existing agreement with SENA, prepare farmers'
training programs for the project area to be implemented by SENA. These
programs would be coordinated with the work of the extension service and
the special assistance provided to settlers by INCORA (para 4).



ANTNEX 3
Page 7
Marketing Services
18.       With increased production the existing marketing system, as
described in Annex 8, would require improvements in the project area in
order to improve the price structure for small farmers and to facilitate the
change from subsistence to commercial agriculture by INCORA settlers and
small private farmers. INCORA would therefore cause the Cooperativa Agro-
pecuaria del Sinu and the Instituto de Mercadeo Agropecuario (IDEMA), to
make appropriate arrangements to intensify their services in the project
area.
Machinery Services
19.       Agricultural machinery available in the Cordoba 2 area is adequate
to meet present needs. With the project the area under crops is expected
to increase from some 17,000 ha to about 32,000 ha at full development, and
the acquisition of additional farm machinery would be necessary. Since the
major part of the additional area will be managed in community enterprises,
which would be large enough to fully utilize machinery, the project would
include the provision of credit funds for the purchase of farmL machinery
by community enterprises and small private farmers. The funds provided for
this purpose would be sufficient to meet incremental needs of these enterprises
and private farmers accruing over the first five-year period of the project.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
COLOMBIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization and Management
Project Management
1.        The Instituto Colombiano de la Reforma Agraria (INCORA) would be
responsible for implementation and management of the agricultural develop-
ment phase of the project and act in an advisory capacity to other agencies
to facilitate and coordinate implementation of the program for improvement
of social infrastructure and services within the project area. INCORA is
an autonomous government institution under the Ministry of Agriculture,
on which it depends for financial support through annual appropriations.
Its board of directors is constituted to reflect broad political parity,
comprising 16 members representing several Government agencies involved in
agricultural development, farmers' associations and cooperatives, the
Catholic Church, and the Military Services. The Minister of Agriculture
is chairman of the board. The chief executive of INCORA is the General
Manager who is appointed by the President of the Republic. At headquarters
in Bogota the organization is structured in four main departments: Administra-
tion, Legal Affairs, Engineering, and Agricultural Development. There is
also an office for general planning and one for technical studies.
2.        With the creation of INCORA under Agrarian Reform Law 135 in
1961, the main objective were to achieve a more equitable land distribution
pattern and improve tenurial conditions for small farmers and landless
families in rural areas, increase utilization of unused lands, increase
agricultural productivity, and raise the standard of living of the rural
population by providing technical, economic and social assistance. Strong
political resistance to land reform, i.e., breaking up large holdings for
small farm settlement, has forced INCORA to diversify its operations more
into colonization on undeveloped public domain; land reclamation, irrigation
and drainage in areas predominately under private ownership; issuance of
land titles; providing technical assistance and credit to small farmers;
and organizing small farmers into communal farm groups (Empresas Comuni-
tarias). At present INCORA has 35 projects, of which 16 are land development
projects with infrastructural works serving about 150,000 ha. Most of these
projects require rehabilitation and completion, and extension of the arable
area is possible in certain projects. Within these areas INCORA has had some
success in enforcing the new Agrarian Reform Laws No. 1 of 1968 and No. 4 of
1973, whereby private owners are required to reduce individual holdings to
a maximum of 50 ha by selling excess land to INCORA or other private opera-
tors. As a consequence the land tenure pattern in most of these projects
has become more equitable in recent years and INCORA has acquired varying



ANNEX 4
Page 2
amounts of land in each project area for settlement.  While INCORA has not
been able to promote a significant and widespread change in the socially
and economically undesirable land tenure situation throughout the country,
it has become the only institution in the country capable of executing
large land development projects and providing assistance for small
farmers.
3.        It is possible that the organization and structure of INCORA would
undergo some important changes under the new Government that took office on
August 7, 1974. However, that is not expected to adversely affect the imple-
mentation of land development projects, which the new President strongly
supports, or INCORA's existing organizational structure at the project level.
It is anticipated that these changes would primarily relate to the agrarian
reform and land development functions of INCORA at the headquarters level.
The proposed organization at the project level would basically be the same
as at present, with some expansion and realignment of responsibilities. It
is proposed that the Project Director have more authority and control over
all activities pertaining to agricultural development. This would include
the sections for Administration, Settlers' Organization, Irrigation District,
Engineering and Construction and Agricultural Services (Chart 9059). The
future of the Legal Section will depend on the reorganization of INCORA at
the headquarters level but for the present it is shown under the supervision
of the Project Director. The Project Director should be responsible only
for a specific project and reside in the area. In Cordoba 2 the Project
Director operates basically under the direction of headquarters in Bogota
but also under the general supervision of a newly established regional office
in Barranquilla, which is of doubtful effectiveness. The role of- these new
regional offices is admittedly mainly political and whether they continue
under the new Government remains to be determined. More authority should be
assigned to the Project Directors for all activities at the project level.
Under the proposed project all sections at the project level would need to
be strengthened to meet their increased responsibilities. This would be
especially true for the Irrigation District, the Engineering and Construction
Section and the Agricultural Services Section where a new Extension Service
would be created (Annex 3).
Participation of Other Ministries and Institutions in the Project
4.      * Ministries and institutions participating in the project for the
program to improve social infrastructure and services would include the
Ministry of Education and the Instituto Colombiano de Construcciones
Escolares (ICCE) for schools; the Ministry of Health and the Servicio
Seccional de Salud for the Department of Cordoba for health centers, and
the Instituto Nacional para Programas Especiales de Salud (INPES) for village
water supply; the Ministry of Public Works and the Instituto Colombiano de
Energia Electrica (ICEL) for rural electrification, and the Fondo Nacional
de Caminos Vecinales (Caminos Vecinales) for roads; and the Ministry of
Communications and the Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (TELECOM)



ANNEX 4
Page 3
for telepboLnes. These agencies would operate independently for planning and
implementation of their part of the program and they all have offices and
representatives in or near the project area and are in a position to super-
vise the program. INCORA, as the executing agency with overall responsibility
for the project and the channel for loan financing, would monitor the progress
and quality of the work and certify claims for reimbursement for satisfactory
completion. This would be achieved through operational agreements between
INCORA and the participating ministries and institutions which would define
the specific responsibilities of each in carrying out the program, including
the counterpart contribution of each ministry or institution to the program.
Further, local representatives of these ministries and institutions would
become members of the Advisory and Coordination Committee at the project
level, which is presently functioning for the agricultural development phase
of the project. Currently members include representatives from INCORA, ICA,
IDEMA, Caja Agraria, the Growers' Associations, the Water Users Association
and the CECORA supported cooperative, namely the Cooperativa Agropecuaria
del Sinu (COACROSINU).
5.        In addition INCORA would enter into or update existing operating
agreements with the Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario (ICA) for providing
extension services, with the Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje (SENA) for
farmer training, with the Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero
(Caja Agraria) for acting as the banking agent to channel credit funds to
farmers and with the Centro Internacional de Agricultura Tropical (CIAT)
for the training of extension agents. The participation of the agencies
noted above in the project is shown graphically on Chart 9059.
Farmers' Organizations
6.        The basic agrarian reform law (Law 135 of 1961) provides for the
creation of irrigation districts (Districtos de Riego) in each of the areas
administered by INCORA for land improvement through construction of drain-
age, irrigation and flood control works, and implementation of an agrarian
reform program. These districts, under the direct management of INCORA,
are primarily charged with operation and maintenance of the project works
and administration of the use of water and the systems, by both INCORA
settlers and private owners. Regulations for creation of these districts
include the establishm.ent of an association of users (Junta General de
Usuarios) representing all farmers, both settlers and private owners, which
acts as an advisory and policy making body in consultation with INCORA
for administration and management of the project. The general association
is represented bv a Board of Directors (Junta Directiva de Usuarios) which
meets regularly with INCORA management and the Advisory and Coordination
Committee. These associations are empowered '- act only as advisors and
in consultation with INCORA, but lack any real authority to make decisions
affecting project management. This control over all activities by INCORA
may be justified during the implementation period for construction and



ANNEX 4
Page 4
agrarian reform but with completion of these activities and the projects,
INCORA would initiate a program to gradually transfer more responsibility
for management to the associations.
7.        Laws 135 of 1961 and 4 of 1973 both provide for INCORA to promote
the establishment of communal enterprises among new settlers with the
objective of joint management and exploitation of the land assigned to them.
According to the form of enterprise chosen by the members, they may or may
not receive titles to specific areas of land and manage part or atll of the
farm operations jointly. In the Cordoba 2 area, there are about 87 of
these enterprises which consist of 10 to 12 families, each with rights to
farm'10 ha to 15 ha, forming a contiguous block of 100 ha to 150 ha of
cooperatively managed land. With the project 100 new enterprisese, involving
about 1,000 families, would be created.
8.        INCORA and the Central de Cooperativas de la Reforma Agraria
(CECORA), an agency closely associated with INCORA, provide managerial
and technical assistance to the empresas and to the large cooperatives
managed by CECORA. This cooperative serves all farmers in the project area
who elect to become members and provides credit, machinery services and
serves as a channel for the purchase of inputs and marketing of produce.
This cooperative has been established by CECORA particularly to serve settlers
in the project area but all farmers in the area may use the cobperative by
paying a membership fee.
9.        Other farmersi organizations-which provide assistance and services
to the farmers are the associations or federations for the promotion of
specific commercial crops.  In the project area the most active are the
Federacion Nacional de Algodoneros (cotton growers) and the Federacion
Colombiana de Ganaderos (cattle growers). Members of these organizations
are primarily private owners with larger farms growing commercia'L crops.



Table 1
COLOMBIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTURAL D2VALLQf}EiT i-ROJi'OCT
Cost Estimates
Item                        Local  .oei         Total    Local   Forpi,n    Total
-       Co-$    -    - -          --- US$  -000 .
iai PectWorks
Primary and Secondary Brainage
Systems and Collector Canal       86,448    77,593   164,o0b       3,416      3,067    6,483
Roads and Bridges                     68,974    46,504   115,478    2,726        1,838    4,564
Fencing and Other Structures          22,235      3,990    26,225        879       158    1,037
Buildings                              19820        726      2,546        72         29      101
Sub-total                     179,477   128,813   308,290    7,09h         5,091   12,1n5
Social Infrastructure
Schools                               26,808        -       26,808    1,060         -      1,060
H'ealth Centers                        6,642        -        6,642       262        -        262
Village Water Supply                  10,400        -       10,400       i11        -        411
Rural Electrification                  1,560        -        1,560        62        -         62
Telecommunications                       260        -          260        10        -         10
Sub-total                      16,670        _       16,670    1,805         -      1,8o5
Sz::sul- ra1 Credit                     64,595    87,205   151,800    2,553        3,447    6,ooo
A.-icn1zura1 Development               2,200    30,816    33,016         87      1,218    1,305
_ocial Infrastructure                  6,780    14,775    21,555         268        584      852
7ungineering and Supervision            52,745        -       52,745    2,085         -      2,085
FItension Services                      13,930        -       13,930       550        -         550
Consultant Services                       -17,500    17,500                -          692      692
Base Cost Estimate                     365,397   279,109   644,506   14,442    11,032   25,474
ysical Contingencies                    17,946    12,880    30,826         709       509    1,218
Expected Price Increases                88,749    52,806   141,555    3,508        2,087    5,595
Total Expected Cost of Project         472,092   344,795   816,887   18,659    13,628   32,287
Interest During Construction              -        83,590    83,590        -       3,3014    3,304
Grand Total                   472,092   428,385   900,477   18,659    16,932   35,591
April 1975



ANiEX 5
Table 2
(Page 1)
COLOEIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTUPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Local Staff Requirements and Estimated Cost During Construction Period
Total
Calendar Year                Estimated
1976     1977    1978    1979   1980   Cost - Gol$'Qoo
------ man-,years --- 
1. Engineering and Supervision
Chief Engineer                     1        1        1       1       1         1,025
Design Engineers                   2        2        2       2       2         1,435
Field Engineers                    2        2        2       2       2         1,435
Administrative Ass't.              1        1        1       1       1            720
Ass't. Engineers, Design           2        4        4       4       4         2,000
Ass't. Engineers, Field            4        6        6       6       6         3,100
Agronomist, soils                  1        1        1       1       1            720
Inspectors, Construction          4         6        6       6      6          2,575
Survey Parties (number)            8       12       12      12     12         19,260
Draftsmen                          2        4        4       4      4.         1,240
Laboratory Technicians             2        2        2       2      2          1,010
Ass t Agronomists, soils           2        2        2       2       2            860
Laborator- Assistants             2         2        2       2      2            600
Secretaries                        2        2        2       2       2           575
Drivers                            6        8       10-     10      10         2  O50
Guards-Laborers                   10       20                       30 -O  4lhO
Sub-total      6,210    8,800   9,215   9,245  9,21.5          42,745
Operational Costs
for vehicle operation,
office maintenance, ma-
terials and supplies and
local support costs for
consultants                   2,000    2,000   2,000   2,000  2n0             10,000
Total         8,210   10,800  11,245  11,245 11,2415         52,745
2. Extension Services
Chaef Agronomist                  1         1       1        1      1            860
Agronomists                        2        5        5       5       5         2,160
Technicians                        8       12       20      20     20          6,900
Secretaries                       1         2       2        2      2            510
Sub-total       1,205    2,035   2,730   2,730  2,730          11.430
AIril  1975



ANNEXA 
Table 2
ag  2)
Total
Calendar Year               Estimated
]76    1977       1978  179   1980   Cost - Col$1000
man-years     
Cterational Costs
For vehicle operation, office
expense, rdaterials and
supplies and local support
costs for concultants            20 O             625    625    625           2,-00
Total       1,)L55   2,410    3,355  3,355  3,355          13,930
3.  O0oraticn and 1-Maintenance
Project Engineer                  1         1       1        1      1         1,010
Assistant -_:ngineer              1         1       1        1      1            730
Adrinistrative Asslt.             1         1       1        1      1            730
Accountant                        1         1       1        1      1            575
Account Collectors                2         3       4        4      4          1,435
Maintenance Foreman               1         1       1        1      1            500
M,"achinery Operators             4         6      10       12     12         3,160
1.chanics                         1         2       2        2      2           650
TMLechanics Helper                1         2       2        2      2            430
Drivers                           4         6       6        8     10         1,440
Survev "'arty (rnumber)           -         -       1        1      2         1,375
Secretaries                       2         2       2        2      2            575
Laborers and GTuards             10        10      10      10      30         3095
Sub-total      1,910    2,340   3,405   3,640  4,410           15,705
0Oerational Costs
For equipment and vehicle
operation. office main-
tenance, paterials and
supplies.                     2 .500    2,675  l,360   4,500  6.540          20,575
Total          4,410    5,015   7,765   8,140 10,950          36,280
4. Consultant Services
Irrigation Engineer,
Spoecialist On-farm
Developmrient                             1       1       1                 5,250
Agronomist, Specialist on
Extension Organization
and Training and Farm
Management Planning                       1       1       1                 5.250
April 1975



ANNEX 5
Table 2
(Page 3)
Total
Calendar Year                 Estimated
1976       1977    1978    1979    1980   Cost- Col$'000
------------ man-years
Specialist On Organi-
zation and Management
(INCORA Headquarters)    -          1        1       -                 3,500
Specialist On Fiscal
N4anagement (INCORA
Headquarters)                       51 100
Total                  -        7,000   7,000   3,500               17,500
April 1975



ANNEX 5
Table 3
(Page 1)
COLOMBIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRIGULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Equipment
Estimated
Number          Cost - US$'o00
1. Engineering and Supervision
Vehicles, station wagon,
4-wheel drive                                     20                  120
DIotorcycles                                        10                   10
Engineering and technical equipment                Lot                  40
Office equipment                                   Lot                   15
laboratory equipment                               Lot                  20
Sub-total                                              205
2. Extension Service
Vehicles, station wagon,1
h-wheel drive                                     10                  60
Motorcycles                                         16                   16
Technical and field testing equipment              Lot                   15
Sub-total                                               91
- 3. Operation and Maintenance
Draglines, 3/4 cu. yd., 40 ft boom                   3                  300
Graders, self-propelled, wheel type,
100 hp, 12 ft blade                                2                  100
lIader, wheel type, 1 cu. yd.                        1                   50
Excavator, track type, 1/2 cu. yd.                   1                   90
Roller, drum type, self-propelled                    1                   15
Tractors, 75 hp, track type, with angle
dozer                                              3                  180
Trucks, dump, 6 cu. yd.                              4                  100
Trucks, stake body, 4 ton cap.                       2                   20
Vehicles, 4-wheel drive station wagons
pickups and mini-busses                            8                  60
Motorcycles                                          4                    4
Shop and servicing equipment, including fuel
and oil storage, pumps, welding machine,
compressor, lubrication equipment and tools    Lot                     50
Spare parts                                        Lot                   40
Sub-total                                            1,009
April 1975



ALliIX 5
Table 3
(Page 2)
Estimated
IN-umber     Cost - US$tOOO
4.  T
Equipment, vehicles, materials and supplies:            Lot                   852
Local        Foreign          Total
Schools                            52             52              80
Health Centers                     78            310             296
Village Water Supply              117            180             178
Rural Electrification              16             26              32
Teleco-mmunications                  5            16              16
Sub-total                     268            584             852
Grand Total for Equipment                                         2,157
April 1975



COLOMBIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTURAL D8VELOPFENT PROJECT
Eslisoted Schedule of Expendituree
Calendar Years
1976                                1977                              1978                               1979                              1980                          1981                               TOTAL
Local    F-reign      Total        Local    Forcign       Total       Leol       -i          Ttl          Local    Ferrige       Total    Local    Foctign    T.trl   Loaol    Forcigo         Tutol       Local      Freign        Total
Pro-iet Worka
Pri-ory end Secoad-ay
Drafiage lysyeaza          5,450       4,880    10,338       27,912      22,783      58,695     24,323      21,938      46,261       23,405     21,912      45,317    5,358      6,072    11,430       -         -           -        86 448      77 593     164 041
Ruads and Bridges           11,243       6,605    17,848       21,383      13,323      34,706     16,674      12,191      28,865       16,674     12,191      28,865    3,000      2,194      5,194      -         -           -        68,974     46,504      115,478
Fe-cing sad Other
S-truc-ur.                   660         266        926       2,671       1,064       3,735      4,716       1,064      5,780        6,761       1,064       7,825    7,427        532      7,959      -         _           _        22,235      3,990       26,225
Buildings                       -           -       -             918         363     1_273         910          363       1,273          -          -                                                                                   1.820         726        2,546
Sub-totol                17,353      11,759    29,112       52,876      37,533     90,409      46,623      35,356      82,179      46,840      35,167      82,007   15,785      8,798    24,593       -         -           -       179,477    128,813      308,290
Social Iofr-str-ctrce
Schools                         -          -          -         6,000         -         6,000       7,000        -         7,000        7,808         -        7,800     6,8000       -       6,000      -          -          -        26,808         -        26,808
Uealth Cestcrs                  -          -          -          1,600        -         1,600       1,842        -         1,842        1,680        -         1,600    1,600         -       1,600      -         -           -         6,642         -          6,642
Village Woter Supply            -          -                    2,600         -         2,600      2,600         _         2,600        2,600        -         2,600    2,600        -        2,600      _         -           _        10,400         -         10,400
Rarel Electrific-tion           -          -          -            -          -           -           520        -           520          520         -          520       520        -         520      -          -          -         1,560         -          1,560
Teleceoeoueicatlnsu             -          -          -            -          -           -           -         _            -            130         -          130       130        -         130      -         _           _           260         -            260
Sab-tte.1                   -           -          -        10,200         -        10,200     11,962         -        11,962      12,658         -        12,658   10,850        -       10,850      -         -           -        45,670         -        45,670
Agricultural Credit            6,795      14,705    21,500        14,500     24,500      39,000      14,500     25,000      39,500       13,000     12,000      25,000   15,800    11,000    26,880        -          -          -        64,595      87,205      151,800
Esuipe.t
Agricultaral Developsent       600       7,984      0,584          800     12,736      13,536         800     10,096      10,896          -                           -          -        -          -          -                        2,200      50,816       33,016
Social Iefroatruecure           -          -          -          1,356      2,955       4,311       2,712      5,910       8,622        2,712      5,910       8,622       -          -         -                                        6.780      14,775       21,555
BEnie-ering aed Superyision   8,210          -        8,210       18,890        -        10,800      11,245        -        11,245       11,245         -       11,245   11,245         -      11,245      -          -          -        52,745         -         52,745
Estenesei  Services             1,455        -        1,455        2,410        -         2,410       3,355        -         3,355        3,355         -        3,355    3,355         -       3,355      -          _          -        13,930         -         13,930
Consultaet Services                                                           7,          7,000         -        7 000       7000           -         3,500      3,500      -        S                                                                17,500       17,50
Base Cost Estimate            34,413      34,448    68,861        92,942     84,724    177,666       91,127     83,562    174,759        89,810     56,507    144,387   57,035    19,790    76,533         -          _           -      365,397    279,109       644,506
Physiool Conting.ecies          1,735      1,176      2,911       5,287       3,753       9,040      4,662       3,555       8,217        4,684      3,516       8,200    1,578         880     2,458      -          _          -        17,946      12,880       30,826
Expented Price Jacreoses        2,4S4      1,222      7.706       18.655      1.102      29,757  23,177         16_998      407          2_          18.646     46.304   16.775       4,838    21,613      -                              88,749    5280          141.555
Total Espeeted Cost of
Project                     38,632      36,846    75,478       116,864     99,579    216,463    119,036    104,115    223,151         122,152     78,739    200,891   75,388    25,516   100,904         -          -           -      472,092    344,795       816,887
Intereet Duting
Co-structioc                    -          -          -            -        27443      2,443         _        11,131      11,131    _             21,689    21,689         -       30795   30_795                 17,-3      17 532        -        83.590      83_590
Greed Total                    38,632     36,846    75,478       116,884    102,022    218,906    119,036    115,246    234,282         022,152    100,428    222,580   75,388    56,311   131,699         -        17,532    17,532    472,092    428,385        900,477
April 1975



A17.,x  6
Table 2
COLOIIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                             Cumulative Disbursenents at
and Semester                                     End of Semester;_
US$ tOOiD
1976
June 30, 1976
1977
December 31, 1976                                        632
June 30, 1977                                          1,667
1978
December 31, 1977                                      4,068
June 30, 1978                                          6,647
1979
December 31, 1978                                      9,377
June 30, 1979                                         12,24-i
1980
December 31, 1979                                     14,717
June 30, 1980                                         17,277
1981
December 31, 1980                                     18,916
June 30, 1981                                         21,000
Based on Estimated Schedule of Expenditures (Annex 6, Table 1), with a
six month lag from expenditure to disbursement.
April 1975



Table 3
COLOMBIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Wdithdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Amount of the Loan             % of Expenditures
Category             Allocated (Expressed                   to
in Dollar Equivalent)                Financed
I  Major Project Works          5,100,000               42%, representing the
estimated foreign ex-
change component.
II Social Infrastruc-
ture                  1,300,000                70%
III  Consultant  Services           700,000               100% foreign expenditures or
95% local expenditures
IV Equipment, Vehicles
and Supplies            1,800,000
a)  Directly imported                                100% foreign (CIF)
b) Imported goods
purchased locally                                80% (representing the
estimated foreign ex-
change component).
c) Goods manufactured
locally-                                        95%  of ex-factory
prices.
V  Agriculture Credit          5,700,000                95% of amounts disbursed.
VI Interest and other charges
on the loan accrued on
or before November 30,      3,300,000                Amounts due
1980
VII  Unallocated                  3,100,000
Total               21,000,000
April 1975



ANfNEX 7
P eage 1
COLOMBIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPTENT PROJECT
Agricultural Production and Farm Budgets
A. Agricultural Production
Land Use, Cropping Pattern
1.        Table 1 slous the existihg and proposed cropping paltern in t.e
Cordoba 2 area. During 1973 there were 22,600 ha utilized in the first
semester and 30,400 ha in the second semester. Permanent pasture covered
50% of the utilized areas and cotton, a second semester crop, covered 34%
of the area.  The remaining land was used for maize (8%), sorg-hum (2%), and
subsistence and minor crops (6%), mainly sesame, soybeans, yams, cassava,
and plantains. Cotton, with an annual net production value of about
Col$ 38.3 million, is the most important cash crop; it also has the highest
net production value per ha. The cotton cropped area is therefore expected
to increase substantially with the project. Other crops (maize, sorghum,
and especially soybeans and sesame) are also expected to increase, replacing
most of the area currently under pasture, which at present has a very low
production value. In the future, the pasture areas will probably be limited
to poor class lands that are unsuited for cultivation. Thus, at full devel-
opment of the project, assuming 51,500 ha of double cropped area, the
cropping pattern would comprise cotton (39%), maize, sorghum, soybeans and
sesame (41%), subsistence crops (4%) and pasture (16%).
Cropping Intensity
2.        The cropping intensity was 100% in 1973, 39% during the first
semester and 61% during the second. Cotton was planted in fallow lands and
no double-cropping was practiced except in the areas with subsistence and
minor crops. With the project, under improved drainage conditions and inten-
sified farming practices, double cropping would be possible for rotations
such as maize, sorghum/soybeans and maize/sorghum/sesame. Double cropping
comprising cotton would be difficult to achieve because the deadline for
planting cotton is September 30. This means that the preceding crops (maize
or sorghum) ought to be planted as early as mid-April, when sufficient moist-
ure is not always available. ICA has developed a new maize hybrid variety
of short vegetative cycle (90-100 days) which could be planted in early Mlay
and harvested in time for planting cotton, but this new variety still has to
be adapted and introduced. Based on this possibility and considering early
rains in certain years, double cropping on 8.5% of the cotton area is esti.-
mated as an average. Thus, at project full development, the annual cropping



ANNEX 7
Page 2
intensity would increase to 129%, 42% in the first semester and 87% in the
second (Table 1).
Mechanization
3.        Although information on the quantity of farm machinery within the
Cordoba 2 area was not available, it appears to be sufficient for the present
needs. Farm machinery is in the hands of private farms, INCORA settler
groups and contractors. Most of the small farmers prepare the lands and
harvest the crops through custom hire work provided by machinery owners.
At project full development, however, farm machinery requirements would
increase substantially because of the cropped area expansion. Cotton and
soybeans being the principal crops, the peak period for machinery use is in
August and September during the final stages of land preparation and plant-
ing. With an increase of 8,600 ha of cotton and 9,800 ha of soybeans and
sesame, additional tractor requirements in September would be about 250 units.
At present, there are no adequate repair and servicing facilities in the
project area; maintenance of equipment is usually carried out on the farm
by the tractor drivers. However, with increased cropping intensity and
consequent introduction of new machinery in the future, better servicing
facilities are expected to become available in Monteria and Cerete, and
perhaps in San Carlos, San Pelayo and Cienega de Oro.
Land Preparation
4.        The project would provide land leveling on about 20,000 ha.  In
general, farmers have their land disc-plowed once and harrowed two or three
times before planting. With the project, land preparation would include
deep-plowing every year and subsoiling once every three years.
Crop Varieties
5.        The proposed cropping patterns include the following crops, most
of them currently cultivated in the project areas.
Cotton.  The Delta Pine 16 variety (short staple cotton) is used
on 95% of the existing cotton area. It has a vegetative cycle of 150 days
and a harvesting period of about 45 days. Because of insect attacks, the
planting period of cotton is limited to 45 days, from mid-August to the
end of September.
Maize.  Various hybrid varieties produced by ICA are common in the
project area, especially H-207, H-209 and F-154.  They have long vegetative
cycles of 120-130 days and produce high yields, but frequentlv farmers let
them degenerate through in-breeding; hence the average yields are low.  ICA
is now propagating a new variety (V-106) which has a short vegetative cycle
(90-100 days) which gives slightly lower yields.  Other new hybrid varieties
are being developed and would be available in the coming years.



ANNTF X 7
Page 3
Sorghum.  V7arious varieties (Nataima, Tolima, Mlotilonia, Cesar)
are cultivated in the project area with good results, but new high yielding
varieties, i.e., Sabana 2 and Pioneer, are now being introduced., Sorghum
culture is similar to maize although sorghum varieties have shorter vegetative
cycles (110-120 days) and are more resistant to insects and drought.
Soybeans.  This is a relatively new crop which has introduced in
1968. Since then, however, the soybean area has not expanded much due to
poor drainage and seed storage problems. ICA is experimenting with new
soybean varieties in the project area.
Sesame. Low yield varieties (Criolla, Calzado, Chino Rojo) are
common in Cordoba 2. They are planted in small areas because of poor drain-
age, lodging and dehiscence problems. ICA has produced and will soon dis-
tribute new higher yielding varieties (SMIG-169; SMG-167 and SCIC-150) which
are expected to be more widely used on properly drained lands.
Seed_uality
6.        Seed of good quality (cotton, maize) or acceptable quality (sorghum,
soybeans, sesame) are adequately supplied to the farmers by the Caja Agraria
and other public and private organizations, i.e., FEDERALGODON and IDEMA
(cotton); ICA and FPNALCE (maize); PROCAL (sorghum), the cooperatives, and
private firms (soybean and bean). The increased demand for improved seeds
with the project would be adequately supDlied by the above-mentioned organi-
zations.
Pest and Disease Control
7.        Fungicide treatment of seeds is currently a generalized practice.
Fusarium could be a threat to soybeans but it can well be controlled by using
resistant varieties and avoiding continuous planting of legumes in the same
land. Insect attacks could become more severe during project implementation,
especially on cotton, tomatoes and maize, requiring more intense treatment.
The present average of 12 insecticide treatments on cotton would probably
increase to 20-24 in the future. Pest control practices are well developed
and a wide range of insecticides is available.
Fertili2ers
8.        All fertilizers are readily available in the project area.  Urea is
commonly used as nitrogenous fertilizer. The use of mixed fertilizers with
nitrogen, phosphate and potash ingredients is less common. With the project,
the demand for nitrogenous and mixed fertilizers would increase substantially
due to the expansion of cropped area and to obtain the high yields which would
be expected. Research and extension would play a significant role in this
respect. In any case, no shortage of fertilizers is anticipated.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
Farm Labor
9.        Although most operations are mechanized, labor is still required for
weeding, thinning, harvesting and assisting with other mechanized operations.
Maize is usually harvested with a combine, but in small farms it is harvested
by hand. At project full development, the labor requirements per crop are
estimated as followrs:
Man-days/ha
Cotton                         86
Matze                           27 (39 if harvested by hand)
Sorghum                         18
Soybeans                       24
Sesame                         38
Pasture                         10
The annual labor requirements under the proposed cropping pattern
would be about 2.4 million man-days, or a 100% increase over the estimated
1.2 million man-days currently used. The highest labor demand would occur
in February when cotton is harvested, 535,000 man-days (22% of total) or
20,600 laborers. There is sufficient unused manpower available in both
areas to supply the additional labor required.
Yields Production
10.       At the level of current agricultural practices in the project area,
yields are assumed to increase 10% by 1985, without the project.  With the
project, due to drainage, land leveling and improved farming (better seeds,
intensive fertilizing, more effective pest control, etc.) yields would
increase by 45% to 88% depending on the crop. Estimated yields at present,
without the project and with the project are summarized below:
Present       Without Project         W4ith Project
(1973)             (1985)                (1985)
-(ton/ha)-------------------
Cotton                 1.2                1.3                   2.2
Maize                  1.5                1.7                   3.2
Sorghum                2.0                2.2                   3.2
Soybeans               1.0                1.1                   1.7
Sesame                 0.5                0.6                   0.7
11.       As a result of increasied yields and due to the expansion of the
cropped area, the overall production would increase by 1985 from 23,000 tons
to about 97,600 tons, an increase of 350%. The net annual production value
would increase from Col$ 58.9 million without the project to Col$ 278.6
million with the project, an incremental value of Col$ 219.7 million or 373%.
Yields and production levels are showm in Table 3.



COLOMBIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Present and Proposed Cropping Patterns
Proposed Cropping Pattern at
Cropping Pattern 1973                      Project Full Development
Semester I   Semester II    Total      %      Semester I      Semester II   Total      %
~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ - -(ha -    -  -___________ -        -          -(a- - - -   
:(ha----(ha)-
Annual Crops
Cotton                    -          11,400         11,400    34          -           20,000        20,000    39
Maize                   2,800           -            2,800      8        7,000          -            7,000    14
Sorghum                   800          _               800      2        4,5oo          -           4,500      8
Soybeans                  -                                                            8,500         8,500    16
Sesame                    -            _                                               1,300        1,300      3
Permanent Crops
Subsistence Crops       2,000       (2,000)          2,000      6        2,000        (2,000)        2,000     4
Pasture                    17,000      (L7,000)         17,000    5         800          (8,200)        8,200   16
Total          22,600        30,400          34,000   100        21,700       40,000        51,500   100
Cropping Intensity            39%           61%           100%                42%            87%          129%      ol
April 1975



COLOMBIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Costs of Production
Maize (hand    Maize (Combine)
Cotton     harvesting)    harvesting           Sorghum       Soybeans   Sesame
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - (Col.$/ha)- - - - - - - - - - -
Without Project
Seeds                              200            300            300                150           -        _
Fertilizers             1/         650             -              -
Pesticides & Herbicides-         4,100            500            500                500           -        -
Harvesting & Marketing           2,550            700          1,000              1,100           -        -
Machinery                        1,400          1,100          1,100              1,100           -         -
Labor                            1,000          1,000            700                45-                   -
Total       9,900          3,600          3,600              3,300           -        -
With Project
Seeds                              200            300            300                150          900       150
Fertilizers             1/       2,000          1,200          1,200              1,200          800        650
Pesticides & Herbicides-         4,800            700            700                700        1,100       700
Harvesting & Marketing           4,300          1,700          2,000              1,650          800        200
Machinery                        1,600          1,300          1,300              1,300        1,300     1,300
Labor                            1,000          1,000            700                500          600     1,000
Total      13,900          6,200          6,200              5,500        5,500     4,000
Note:  Livestock costs are estimated as follows:                                                                     1
Without Project:  Col.$ 1,650/ha, including purchase of steers.
With Project:  130 ha existing farms with 23 ha pasture - Col. $30,100 per farm.
130 ha new farms with 23 ha pasture        -Col. $30,600 per fanm.
150 ha new farms with 120 ha pasture       - Col. $282,500 per farm.
.~0 hApnew f      ih             top                             a
1/  Includes application.       April  1975



COLOMBIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cropping Pattern, Production, Farmgate Prices, Production Costs and Incremental Value of Production
Cotton     Maize      Sorghum      Soybeans      Sesame      Subsistence       Pasture      TOTAL
Without Project
Area (ha)                                          11,400      2,800        800          -             -          2,000           17,000      34,000
Yields (kg/ha)                                       1,300     1,700      2,200          -              -          n.a.               99          -
Production (ton)                                   14,820      4,760      1,760          -             -           n.a.           1,685       23,025
Prices (Col.$/ton)                                 10,200      3,200      2,900          -             -           n.a.          20,000           -
Gross Value of Production (Col. $'000)            151,200    15,200       5,100          -              -        21,7002/         33,700     226,900
Cost of Production (Col.$/ha)-3                     9,900      3,600      3,300          -             -           n.a.            1,650          -
Cost of Production (Col. $'000)                   112,900    10,100       2,600          -             -         14,400G=        28,000      168,000
Net Value of Production (Col. $'000)               38,300      5,100      2,500                         -         7,300            5,700       58,900
With Project
Area (ha)                                          20,000      7,000      4,500        8,500         1,300        2,000            800         51,500
Yields (kg./ha)                                      2,200     3,200      3,200        1,700            700        n.a.              174-         _
Production (ton)                                   44,000    22,400    14,400         14,450           910         n.a.            1,1430      97,590
Prices (Col. $/ton)                                 10,200     3,200      2,900        5,400         9,500         na 4           20,0005/        -
Gross Value of Production (Col. $'000)            448,800    71,700    41,800         78,000         8,600       38,700-/         28,600-    716,200
Cost of Production (Col. $/ha)3/                    13,900     6,200      5,500        5,500         4,000         n.a.             n.a           -
Cost of Production (Col. $'000)                   278,000    43,400    24,800         46,800         5,200       23,4004/         16,000-/   437,600
Net Value of Production (Col. $'000)               170,800    28,300                        03,400                                12,600      278,600
Incremental Production (ton)                          29,180    17,640    12,640        14,450            910         n.a.          (-255)       74,565
Incremental Net Value of Production (Col$'000)   132,500    23,200    14,500            31,200         3,400         8,000           6,900      219,700
1/  Beef and milk production expressed in terms of beef.
2/ Estimate Based on Maize (double-cropping)
3/  Excludes Technical Assistance, Interest and Pro3ject Charges
4/  Estimate Based on Maize and Sesame (double cropping)
5/  Based on:  87 Existing and 59 new farms (130 ha. each with 20% Pasture), and
41 new farms (150 ha. each, with 80% pasture)
April 1975



ANNEX  7
Table M/
COLOMBIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTURAL D]EVELOPMENT PROJECT
1 ha Farm Budget (Subsistence)
____                           GyP1'         ~~~~~~~~~~2/
Crop           Area        Yield    Price    W_       I  ut s-    Gross Benefit
( ha )    (ton/ha) (Col.$7ton)-----(Col. $ha -          Total Col.$)
Subsistence Crops,/   1.0        n.a.       n.a.   19,300    9,000         10,300
TOTAL       : 1.0
CROPPED AREA: 1.0                   Cropping Intensity:  100%
Col.$        Col.$
Gross Farm Benefit                                  10,300
Less:
-  Hired Labor                                  -
- Family Labor (1/6 jof available labor)        2,700
- Interest
Net Farm Benefits                                    7,600
Project Charges
-  Operation & Maintenance                        27h
Net Farm Income                                      7,326
Estimated Present Income                             1,700
Incremental Net Income                               5.626
1/ Gross value of production
2/ Production costs, excluding labor costs
j Estimate based on mnize and sesame (double cropping)
April 1975i



ANNEX  7
Table 5
COPCLOLA   AGRFCULTURAL DEVELO0P.qh2U PROJECT
6-ha Farm Budget
l/      ~~2/
Area        Yield      Price      GVP/   Input-    Gross Benefit
( ha  )    ( ton--) (-31-7-on'   --(0 .$/ha)           ----(Total Col.$)
Cotton                 3.0         2.2       10,200   22,400   12,900       9,500   28,500
Maize                 (2.5)        3.2         3,200   10,200    5,200       5,000   12,500
Soybeans               1.5         1.7        5,400    9,200    4,900        4,300    6,500
Sesame            3'  1.0          0.7        9,500    6,700    3,000       3,700    3,700
Subsistence Crops-    0.5           -            -     18,400    9,100      9,300   It,700
TOTAL          6.0                                                          55,900
CROPPED AREA  8.5            Cropping Intensity:  142%
Col.$              Ooi.$
Gross Farm Benefit                                                                   55,900
Less
-  Hired Labor                                              1,800
-  Family Labor                                             5,600
-  Interest                                                 4,700              12,100
Net Farm Benefits                                                                    43,800
Project Charges:
-  Operation & Maintenance                                  1,64h
- Repayment of Developmenlt Credit                          4,692               6 336
37,6
Net Farm Income                                                                      10,000
Estimated Present Income                                                             27, 61
Incremental Net Income
1/ Gross Value of Production
2/ Production Costs, excluding labor costs
j Estimate based on maize & sesame (double cropping)
April 1975



ANNEX 7
Table 6
COLCGXBIA
CO!RDOPA 2 AGRICULiLTRAL D_V 2l-OFE'0 NT PROJ-CT
30 ha Farm, Budget
Crop          Area       Yield       Price      GVP '    In uts./    Gross Benefit
(ha)    (ton/ha) (CoJ.7$ton)    -----(Co        ha)-    -    (Total Col.$)
Cotton                  20         2.2      10,200      22,400    12,900       9,500    190,000
Maize                  (7)         3.2       3,200      10,200     5,500       4,700      32,900
Sorghum                (5)         3.2       2,900       9,300     5,000       h,300      21,500
Soybeans                10         1.7       5,4oo       9,200      4,900      4,300      43,000
TOTAL            30                                                              287,400
CROPPED AREA:   42       Cropping Intensity:  14O%
Col.$                 Col.$
Gross Farm Benefit                                                               287,400
Less:
- Hired Labor                                       33,4oo
- Family Labo l                                        _
-  Interest                                          25,900                 59,300
Net Farm Benefits                                                                228,100
Project Charges
-  Operation & Maintenance                            8,220
- Investment Recovery (1.D)0/o)                      37,400                45,620
Net Farm Income                                                                  182,480
Estimated Present Income                                                          80,000
Incremental
Incremental Net Income                                                           102.480
1/ Gross value of production
2/ Production costs, excluding labor costs
3/ Fami ly labor in management
April 1975



ANNEX 7
Table 7
COLOMBIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTURAL DEV.ELMPFENT PROJECT
130 ha Farm Budget
Crop               Area      Yield    Price       GVPl/      In uts2/    Gross Benefit
(ha)   (tonha)(Col-$/ton) ----         (Col.$ ha)--         (Total Col$)
Cotton                  67        2.2     10,200    22,400    12,900         9,500        636,500
Maize                  (21)       3.2      3,200    10,200       5,500        4,700        98,700
Sorghum                (17)       3.2      2,900      9,300      5,000        4,300        73,]00
Soybeans                28        1.7      5,4oo      9,200      4,9c0       4,300        120,400
Sesame                   7        0.7      9,500      6,700      3,000       3,700         25,900
Subsistence Crops Y3     5                           18,600      9,800       8,800         44,0oo
Pasture                 23                            3,000      1,000        2,000        46,ooo
TOTAL            130                                                             1,0o44,,6oo
CIDPPED AREA    168                    Cropping Intensity:  129%
Co.$                      Col.$
Gross Farm Benefit                                                               1,044,600
Less:
- Hired Labor                                        97,800
- Family Labor                                       29,300
- Interest                                           90.600
_227,70P
Net Farm Benefits                                                                  b 20, i 00
Project Charges
-  Operation & Maintenance                           35,620
- Repayment of Developmrent Credit                  101,660                  137,260
Net Farm Ircome                                                                    6&5,620
Estimpted Present Income                                                            87,000
Incremental Net Income                                                             602,62C
1/ Gross Value of Production
2/ Production costs, excluding labor costs
3/ Estimate based on maize and sesame (double cropping)
April 1975



ANNFx 7
Table 8
COLOMBIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNALNT PROJECT
150 ha Farm Budget
Crop           Area    Yield    Price      GVP1     I           Gross Benefit
( ha ) (ton/ha)(coT.7ton)  --(Col.   a-(Total Col.$)
Cotton                22       2.2     10,200   22,400     12,900      9,500    209,000
Maize                 (7)      3.2      3,200   10,200       5,500     4,700     32,900
Soybeans               5      1.7       5,400    9,200      4,900      4,300     21,500
Subsistence Crops3     5                        18,600      9,800      8,800     44,000
Pasture              118                         3,900      2,200      1,700    200,600
TOTAL       150                                                        508,000
CROPPED AREA    157               Cropping Intensity:  105%
Col.$             Col.$
Gross Farm Benefit                                                 508,000
Less:
- Hired Labor                               4,500
- Family Labor                             48,400
- Interest                                 45,900
98,800
Net Farm Benefits                                                 409,200
Project Charges:
- Operation and Maintenance                41,100
- Repayment of Developinent Credit        226,350              267,450
Net Farm Income                                                    11,750
Estimated Present Income -- None (new)
Increme-ntal Net Income                                            1h1,750
1/  Gross Value of Production
2/ Production costs, excluding lqbor costs
3/ Estimate based on maize and sesame (double cropping)
April 1975



ANNEX 8
Page 1
COLOMBIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Markets, Marketing and Prices
A. Markets
1.        rhe project would reduce output of beef and increase output of other
crops, including cotton, maize, sorghum, sesame and soybeans. As may be
seen in the last column of Table 1, which relates the estimated production
at full development to the 1985 projected national demand, nonfe of these
commodities appears to face a market constraint.  The table also compares
the projected 1985 national demand production which indicates production
deficits in all the products, except sesame, for which the projections show
marginal surpluses. However, considering that a general shortage of oils
and oilseeds is expected and that sesame is a substitute for oilseeds,
apparently no surpluses of sesame would actually occur. In cotton fibers,
the shortage reflects an inability to meet the forecasted external demand
(some 117,000 tons in 1985), but cotton fibers would continue to be an
important export commodity. Beef is also primarily an export commodity
and projected to continue as such. For all the other commodities, the
projected demand deals only with the domestic market, and as a result, the
deficits imply imports in the future. Consequently, the project's produc-
tion, except cotton fibers and beef, should be regarded as import substitutes
and, as such, it is more economically advantageous.
B. Marketing
General
2.        At present, the marketing systems in the project area are suffi-
ciently .developed. The road networks within the project area and the high-
ways to the relevant outlets for the project's products are at a satisfactory
level. The national marketing organizations are active in the area, and the
basic infrastructure, including grain storage, ginneries and processing
factories, meet actual needs, except for soybeans for which there are no
processing facilities in the project area. It is expected that the incre-
mental production of the project would be hand-ed easily, considering the
existing or potential capacity of public and private enterprises operating
in the area. However, more attention would be given to the marketing of
products grown by small farmers and improvements would be made in the organi-
zation of the marketing channel for grains.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
3.        Cotton.  Seed cotton is delivered at the farmers' expense to the
ginnery owned by the Instituto Mercadeo Agropecuario (IDEMA), the national
marketing agency. The farmer, however, is not involved in any business
transaction with the ginnery since he deals only with one of the two cotton
producers' federations, 1/ which, in turn, deals with IDEM4A and carries out
the further marketing of the processed material. The export of fibers is
handled directly by the federations, and domestic sales of fibers to the
textile industry are made through DIAGONAL, 2/ a private company. Seeds are
sold by the federations to GRASAS S.A., or transported to Cartagena where
the federation operates its own oil extraction facilities. The federations
also take care of input supply, credit, extension and organizing services
for air spraying.
4.        Maize.  Some 70% of the maize production in the area is sold at the
field, either to wholesalers or to intermediaries, who carry out the further
marketing, mostly for direct human consumption in the region or for the pro-
cessing industries in Medellin. IDEMA also buys about 20% of the regional
production, according to its official policy. The purchasing is done at
IDEMA's facilities to which the farmer delivers his product. The balance of
maize production, some 10%, is sold by the Cooperativa Agropecuaria del Sinu
para. 13). The cooperative is involved in handling sales and transportation
arrangements for its members.
5.        Sorghum.  The outlet of sorghum is the concentrate industries, mainly
PURINA, a private company which operates plants in Cartagena and Medellin.
Part of the production is sold through IDEMA or the cooperative to the indus-
tries. Transportation from the farm is provided by trucking companies or inter-
mediaries if the farmers are dealing independently with them, or it is organized
by the cooperative if the farmer is selling through that channel.
6.        Grains.  In the case of the grains, small farmers suffer from in-
adequate credit and the disadvantages associated with having only small quanti-
ties to market. Intermediaries and wholesalers take further advantage of the
situation by offering low prices for the crops or short-term credit at a 10%
monthly rate of interest, one or two months before harvesting. This practice,
however, would be eliminated by the cooperative becoming more actively involved
in marketing operations, including supplying marketing credit and organizing
efficient sales, collections and transportation services for small farmers.
7.        Oilseeds.  At the present time, the production of soybeans and sesame
in the area is marginal. Small quantities of sesame are bought for processing
by GRASAS, S.A., but with the projected increase in the production of soybeans,
which are now transported to Buga in the Cauca Valley near Cali, new processing
facilities would be established in the area.
1/   Federacion Nacional de Algodoneros (National Federation of Cotton Growers)
and CORAL, a coastal federation.
2/   Distribuidora de Algodon Nacional.



A_ EX 8
Page 3
8.        Livestock.  Approximately two-thirds of cattle produced in the Cordoba
area are hauled to the Medellin cattle market where they are sold for local
consumption or shipped to other consumption centers, mainly in the Cauca Valley.
Some 30% are trucked to Barranquilla and sold to INTEGRAL, an export slaughter-
house. The balance is bought by butchers and consumed locally. Cattle are
sold at the farmgate only if they are bought by local butchers or if the lot
of cattle to be sold is too small for hiring a truck. Otherwise the sale
price is fixed on the cattle market in Medellin or Baranquilla and the truckers
work on a commission basis.
9.        Milk.  All the additional milk expected to be produced by the project
would be for on-farm consumption and not enter commercial charnels.
10.       Ginneries.  There are two cotton ginneries in the project area
(Mocari and Cerete), with a total capacity of about 480 tons per day, working
three shifts. Since this is hardly sufficient to meet preseni: requirements,
it would be increased in line with incremental regional production.
11.       Grain Storage.  The main storage installations in the area are
Operated by IDEMA. Total storage volume is 32,000 tons, 21,000 tons of which
is in silos. These facilities, which serve the regional storage requirements
for maize, sorghum and rice, are not fully utilized. There are also store-
houses and storage facilities on a smaller scale in the region.
12.       Oilseed Processing.  The GRASAS, S.A. processing plant at Cerete,
with a capacity of 120 tons a day, is equipped to process cotton seeds and
sesame only. Therefore, to justify modifications to enable it to also handle
soybeans, a minimal annual supply of 12,000 tons of oilseed, including cotton
seed, would be required. However, because the cotton federations prefer to
keep on processing the cotton seeds in their own plant in Cartagena, the
greatest part of the supply would be soybeans. Thus, expansion of the exist-
ing plant to handle the additional production of soybeans from about 6,000 ha
would be carried out (Annex 7).
13.       The Cooperative.  The Cooperativa Agropecuaria del Sinu (COAGROSINU)
is affiliated with the Central de Cooperativas Agropecuarias (CECORA), a
federation of cooperatives organized under the general management of INCORA
for settlers. There are 925 members in the Cordoba 2 area and they use the
services of the cooperative primarily to market their crops and to obtain
supplies of farm inputs. Marketing operations in 1973 included some 750 tons
of maize, 900 tons of sorghum, 200 tons of sesame and 2,700 tons of rice
(mainly from the irrigated areas of Cordoba 1) for a total value of about
Col$ 11 million. The cooperative operates closely with the existing INCORA
project management and it is expected that with the project it would partici-
pate more actively in the marketing operations, especially in the essential
area of marketing services to small farmers.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
C. Prices
Prices for the Economic Analysis
14.       All production from the project would be either for export or
import substitute commodities. Projections of the international commodity
prices, furnished by the Economics Department of the Bank, were used as the
basis for the calculation of the farmgate prices for the project. After
calculating the equivalent FOB or CIF prices, allowances were made for local
port expenses, transportation costs and processing costs in order to arrive
at the economic farmgate prices.
Prices for Financial Analysis
15.       Farmgate prices in Colombia are influenced by Government policies
such as minimum support prices, export subsidies, and import and export
controls. For this reason, internationa'l prices cannot serve as a basis for
farmgate price calculations to estimate the net farm income. Under the
assumption that basic Government policies are not going to be changed dras-
tically in the future, actual farmgate prices were used for all products ex-
cept cotton. The world market price was used for cotton fibers since the
differential between domestic and export prices, whereby domestic prices were
maintained at a lower level in the past, would be eliminated by 1975 and the
same price would apply to both markets. Economic and financial farmgate
prices are presented in Table 2.



COLOMBIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Comparison of the Estimated Current National Production,
Projected Demand and Supply and the Project's Production
Projected
Estimated    Projected    Projected   National          Cordoba 2      Cordoba 2 Production
National     National      National    Surpluses or   Production    as a Percentage of the
Productio,n   Producti/n   Demand       Deficie   ies   at Full        Projected National
1974 h         8           198_1iL.  ,985 2/ 1J 82 .  Development   Demand 1985
- - - -                         '000 metric tons - - - - - - - - -            -f
Cotton (fibers)    105            205           238          (33)             15.4               6.5
Cotton (seeds)      253           346           408          (62)             26.0               6.4
Corn                806           913        1,296          (383)             22.4               1.2
Sorghum             411           543           591          (48)            14.4                2.4
Soybeans            133           195           216          (21)             14.4               6.7
Sesame               36            43/           41/           2               0.9               2.2
(Carcass)  586/            6/         62~   7/      7~
Beef (Carcass)      58          1,000-          924/ -        756/            12.1               1.3
1/ Source: Programas Agricolas 197h, Ministerio de Agricultura.
2'' Source: DNCORA (the feasibility study).
3/ The difference between the national production and demand in 1985.
hi Including export demand of 117,000.
'/ Mission estimation.
6/ Mission estimation based on informat ion from USAID, and DANE.
7/ Including export demand.
April 1975



ANNEX 8
Table 2
COLOIBIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Producer's Prices!/
Economic Analysis2                           Financial
1975      1976     1977      197S     1979    1980    =9    Analysis3/
- -                        Col$mTetric ton - - - - - - - -
Cotton           13,000    14,000   11,400   11,550   11,600  11,900  12,150    10,200
Maize             4,300      4,200    4,100    3,950    3,850   3,700   3,800       3,200
Sorghum           4,200      4,000    3,900    3,750    3,600   3,450   3,500       2,900
Soybeans          5,100      5,100    5,200    5,450    5,750   6,100   6,600       5,1400
Sesamae          10,300      9,500    8,900    9,200    9,800   9,900  11,300       9,500
Beef11            5,550      5,450    5,400    5,500    5,650   5,800   6,450       4,000
At the first destination gate (factory, storage facilities, etc.)
2/ Producer's prices for the economic analysis were calculated on the basis
of the forecasted international prices in 1974 constant terms which were
furnished by the Com-Lmodities and Export Projections Division.
3/ Prices based on actual prices in 1972, 1973 and the beginning of 1974.
- Price of 24-36 month steer at the farm-gate.
April 1975



ANNEX 9
Page 1
COLOMBIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        The rates of return from the project to the economy has been
calculated on the following assumptions:
(a) Time Base. All prices and costs are in 1974 constant terms.
(b) Agricultural Output Prices. All the project products are regarded
as either export or import substitute commodities. After calculating the
equivalent FOB or CIF prices based on projections of the international com-
modity prices, allowances were made for local processing, marketing and trans-
portation costs in order to arrive at the economic farmgate prices.
(c) Exchange Rate. In view of the present negative balance of payment
situation which is expected to continue in the foreseeable future as well as
the Government policy to subsidize exports and to impose controls combined
with high taxes on imports, which results in an effective exchange rate higher
than the official one, it was decided to use a shadow exchange rate 15% higher
than the official rate. This adjustment offsets the existing export subsidy
and is considered conservative. Consequently, an exchange rate of Col$ 28.75
instead of Col$ 25.3 (the prevailing rate at the time the project was appraised)
per US$ has been used to convert foreign currency into local currency equivalent
in the computation of costs and benefits for the purpose of the economic analy-
sis.
(d)  Labor Costs.  Considerable unemployment exists in the Colombian rural
sector. This situation is especially serious in the Cordoba 2 area and is not
expected to change very much in the future. Consequently, a shadow price of
Col$ 15 per day, in comparison to the official minimum salary of Col$ 25 per
day, has been used in the computation of the agricultural labor costs in the
economic analysis.
(e) Development Schedule. Physical construction would be completed in
five years. Agricultural benefits would start to accrue one year after the
beginning of the construction due to the ieiprovement of extension and other
agricultural services. Full development would be reached by the 10th year
after the beginning of construction due to the combined effect of the physical
works and the Improved agricultural services.
(f)  ProJ ect Costs.  The investment and their timings are as shown in
Annexes 5 and 6. To obtain the economic irnvestment cost, the items of agricul-
tural machinery, social infrastructure and price contingencies have been ex-
cluded. However, agricultural machinery costs are implicitly included in the



ANNEX 9
Page 2
farm production cos's.  The shadow exchange rate has been used to convert the
foreign component of project costs into local currency. Incremental opera-
tional and ma-;ntenance costs corresponding to the developed and rehabilitated
areas have bee3 incluced in -he cslculations .
(g)  Profect    e.  In t-e economic analysis the project life has been
taken as 4C years7
(h)  TEnoect TeZst5.  These have been calculated considering the econo-
mic farngeea ;pricas  shsnadow exchange rate, labor costs, and the development
schedule mp-W.. sned abov-  P2roject economic benefits are assessed as the
increxente over the -oefits obtainable without the project.  Only direct
benefits atd  sh_r corrzspondin- costs were considered.
Econod.tc  .ze-te of 7Tetzndn ~Ln  Senzitivity Analysis
2.               u     on the basis of the assumptions detailed in paragraph 1,
the economic rzte of. retutn is estimated to be 27%. The cost and benefit
streane  Lnveew7c 1 in the calculation are shown in Table 1.
3.         To tJ-t th sensitivity of these results to variations in the basic
assumpti=s,.;.he fo.lowing tests were made:
es5Otion                                 Rate of Return
(a   ce riod Gatnded
by One ye ar     es,t
cos~-s incre':s_ y , c-  Eand
Zull >. nn    reached one
23%
(b3)  3ae:ffc s dezased by 25%                         17%
bs 2.5                       45%
(6"  =tO'mnn' (,sd -n       b)                        15%
4.        T11ase tests  wadiicate Tht,7 within a reasonable range of circum-
stances, the risk oc not achievi$J ng an acceptable rate of return for the pro-
posed project .s.7n)tssnS rbo  and (d) are unlikely to happen since
the estimated C  ta-and prieC  assumptions are conservative.



COLOMBIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJbC'T
Cost and Benefit Streams
(Co]$ million
I       2       3       4        5       6       7       8        9      10      31
------------------------ --  __---------Project  Years------------------------------------------
Without -roject
0 & M Costs    0.8     0.8      0.8     0.8     0.8     0.8      0.6     0.8     0.8      0.8     0.8     0.8
Production
Net Value  117.0  132.8    95.3   100.L   103.7   111.5   116.6   120.0   124.6   126.8   126.8   126.8
With Project
Investments   43.7   125.2    125.5  130.0   72.4    17.5                -       -        -       -       -
Agric. Devp't
Credit 16.2    29.3     29.6   18.6    20.1       -       -       -       -        -       -       -
0 & M Costs    4.4     5.0       7.8    b.1    20.9    10.9         10.9     10.9    10.9     20.9     10.9    ]0.9
Production
Net Value  114.6   169.7    147.2  190.&   194.9   236.4   275.9  314.1  352.5   393.6   394.3   394.4
Incremental
Stream     (65.9) (121.8)  (110.2) (65.5)  (11.4)   97.3   149.2  184.0   217.8   256.7   257.4   257-5
Ap(D i
April 1975



COLOMBIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED PROJECT ORGANIZATION
INCORA
PRJC   IRECTOR
| WCMMITERUSER---------                                                                                    - |------| ADVISORYANDCOORDINATION
_   _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _ I_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __COMMITTEE
|AGRICULTURAL D OELOPMENTIMPROVEMENT OF
SOCIAL
INFRASTRUCTURE
AN D SERVICES
SETTLER'S                                       ~~~~~~~~~~ENGINEERING              AGRICULTURAL                               SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION
LSE C T I O N               A D M I N IS T T I ON   l      l   O R G A N I Z A T I O N   l   l    I n R I G A T IO N   ||        A N D C O N S T R U C T I O N] |   |   S ER V I C E S   l                   H    SC H O OLC O N S T R U C T I O N C
_  SCHOOLROPERATION
L   ACGUISITION       l      2   PERSONNEL              l      L         SETTLEMENT OF               OPERATION AND                     SURVEYS AND DESIGN                EXTENSION SERVICE                      (MINISTRY OF EDUCATIONi
| OF LANDS            l       n  MANAGEMENT              l       [ FARMERS                l        | MAINTENANCE                       OF PROJECT WORKS                  (ICA)
CONSTRUCTION AND
OPE RATION OF
ASSIGNMENT                     FORGANIZATION OF                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUPERVISION OF  PRODUCTION CREDIT                        HOSPITALS AND
4   OF LANDS AND      l       A   ACCOUNTING            l      XCEMPRESAS                            O IRRIGATION  W                   CONSTRUCTION                      ICAJAAGRARIA -                           HEALTH CENTERS
TITLES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ GANADERO - CECORA -
_ C O L L E C TI O N   O F  O N -F A R(        I I T Y IN C O R A   -   P R O C E S S IN G   OIH A L H
COOPERATICDVCES                      ~                      EELPET                            NUSRESPIAT                               ILAE  AE
g   TO SETTLERS       l      _   STATISTICS                    i   (COCORAT                     _   PROJECT CR                                                           RANKSS   FARMER'S)                       SUPPLY IINPES)
COMMUNICATIONS74  VECINALESi              EL   IN                                RURAL ELECTRIFICAT-
e   (ICA  SENAI     _  FFA - BANCO GAINADEROI   ;TION (ICEL)
SOCIAL AND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
MARKETING IIOEMAI IICA- INCORA)
(ICAI trsidcstns agency or agencies earticiyatirrg in project                                                                                        L  TRAINING OF EXTENSION                          TELEPHONE
Indicatesexisting advisoryand coordinationfunctionor                                                                                     AGENTS(ICA-CIAT)                       |       Y(TELECDMS
(one-- atien operatidn agreemnts betwPee INCORA and participatng agencies
RESEARCH AND
_DEMONSTRATION
(ICA-CIAT)                        ~~~~~~~World Btank-9059(2R)






COLOMBIA
CORDOBA 2 AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT SCHEDULE
_  .                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CALENDAR YEAR
ITEM OF WORK                 ZONE
1976                       1977                       1978                       1979                       1980
Primary Drainage Systems                 2
3
4
5                                                                            -
Secondary Drainage Systems               2                 oe
3
4                                                                            -
5-
Collector Canal and Dike                 3
Roads-Type A                             2
3
B                                               4
o                                                5
0
X       Roads - Type B                           2
3-
4-
On-Farm Development                      2
3 
4                                                                            -
Fences and Structures                   All
Improvement of Social Infrastructure    All
Engineering and Supervision             All                                                                                                                        __
Consultant Services                     All
Extension Services                      All
Agricultural Credit                     All
World Bank-9060






COLOMBIA                                          tCG  A                                                                      .G O   A A/        F
,w,. .0 t I 4 / { 2 CR   'E 
C~ ~ N-- A 1      r                           -   
,.'  HYO~                     MOI. .C , Y\E/SEGA    -     ,   l.OIEADY
ANTICA)    ;,",@,      I' N-1N. .A                                  /               ,   f
5  'A   ~~~~~A' 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
g .- r , ~ANTIOOCUIA                                                                                                                                                     P -Ii  _     .=*U NTANADE
v   tj t *  = ot^EEna] bwnonEb   \\ *  1     i    ~~~.1NL'0 -   t          | '
K,                          I I
'tSAN                                                                                                                                 P \ OOio\9GA99/  L
,.j,PELAY,k           :       +,                                -.oHA
2:  PELYRW        }({. ( ;   ,x \ZON E,                                             -
(     ~           ~ ~~~~ FE        A-osti_S X tN,RLA
L                                                                                       LAW i  -RC2     AAAA  S. 6
~~~~~~~~S AlLOhT SE               ,       CNj O.
ii'< ~~~~~~~~~~ ''-                -71*-f_-"                                           {-, z:,
,, < la7{ |<' A CORDO'BA2
1%,AGI    A EZO
1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
VZONE 5 ~~~~~~~~~~~ON 
:~~~' ~ ~/,MATEOS EO
S SAN  /       S    JTDRCiEG
,EE ARC ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ANCRO
'A* ~  /           j        /          RABOARCOLO0MIRGA
AELAYVEO  A'ICUTUA /EVEOPENZONEEC
~~~~  ANG/ELITO                                  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTREIC C'A                     LNCUDATDARA
.1------  /    ..I  I-i    \7E,'~~~~~~~-OD POECIC   DKE                                    IGIN
ERRS       I                                                                                                                        GA CE 030~~~~~~~~~ERIT
/ ~~~~,. '~~~~~  RE 30 105 INSIOS~~RIGES0                                                       LLCE



