Document of-
The World Bank
Report No.13516-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
APRIL 26, 1995
Infrastructure Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  - Turkish Lira (TL)
December 1993 - TL 14,458 = US$1.00
June     1994 - TL 31,162 = US$1.00
December 1994 - TL 37,372 = US$1.00
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMM         Antalya Metropolitan Municipality
ASAT        Antalya Water Supply and Sewerage Authority
ASO         Antalya Water Supply and Bus Department
DM          District Municipality
DSI         State Hydraulic Works
EIB         European Investment Bank
GDRS        General Directorate of Rural Services
IB          Iller Bank (Local Authorities Bank)
Sirket      Management company for water supply, sewerage
and solid waste incorporated under the Turkish
Trade Law
SPO         State Planning Organization
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
ha          = hectare (2.47 acres)
km          = kilometer (.621 mile)
1           = liter (0.264 US gallon)
lcd         = liters per capita per day
m 3         = cubic meter (264 US gallons)
Mm3         = million cubic meters
mm/y        = millimeters per year
m3/d        = cubic meters per day
m3/s        = cubic meters per second
m3/c        = cubic meters per capita
t           = metric ton
BOD         = Biological Oxygen Demand
ppm         = parts per million
PE          = population equivalent
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT AND ISSUES   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Population . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Water Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Service Coverage   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Sector Institutions  in the Central Government  . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Sector Operating Agencies ..................... .  2
Sector Investment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Sector Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Private Sector Involvement .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Sector Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Environmental Issues ....................... . 4
Previous World Bank Involvement in the Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
Bank's Strategy in the Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
II. PROJECT AREA   SECTOR SERVICES AND DEMAND .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
Project   Area    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  7
Water Supply - Existing Facilities, Level of Services
and Demand ........... 8
Sewerage - Existing Facilities,  Level of Services and Demand.  . . . .  9
Stormwater Drainage - Existing Facilities,  Level of Services
and Demand   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
III.   THE   PROJECT   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  11
Background ...........                                                                    11
Project Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Approach to Project Preparation .12
Institutional Arrangements   .....................                                     . 12
Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Project   Costs    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  16
Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Land Acquisition   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Procurement    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  19
Disbursements .22
Accounts,  Audit and Reporting  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Supervision .24
Annual Project Review  . . . . . . . . . . .24
IV.    FINANCE    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   24
Past Financial Performance and Current Financial Position  . . . . . . 24



Project Financial Approach   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Future Finances and Project Financing Plan   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
V.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND RISKS   ...  .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 27
Project Benefits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Least Cost Solution  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Rate   of   Return   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  28
Affordability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Poverty and Gender Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Risks   .      .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .    29
Environmental Considerations   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Agreements Reached at Negotiations   ...  .                 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 31
Conditions of Loan Effectiveness   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Recommendation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
LIST OF ANNEXES
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT AND ISSUES
1.1    Municipal Water and Sewerage Service Indicators  . . .33
1.2    Water Supply and Sewerage Sector
Total Central Government  Investments   . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
1.3    Previous Bank Experience in the Sector   . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
II. PROJECT AREA,  SECTOR SERVICES AND DEMAND
2.1    Projected Population in Antalya  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
2.2    Monthly Household Income by Quintiles in Antalya   . . . . . . . 37
2.3    Projected Water Demand--Proposed Use of Water Sources  . . . . . 38
2.4    DSI  Investment   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
2.5    Sewerage Existing Facilities   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
2.6    Iller Bank Sewerage Work Program   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
2.7    Sewage Treatment Capacity--Estimated Sewage Load   . . . . . . . 44
III.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
3.1    Antalya Metropolitan Municipality  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
3.2    Proposed Institutional Arrangement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
3.3    ASAT     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .   48
3.4    Sirket     .     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   49
3.5    Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
3.6    Cost Estimates   . . . I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
3.7    Implementation Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
3.8    Allocation of Loan Proceeds  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
3.9    Disbursement Schedule of the Loan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
IV.    FINANCES
4.1    ASAT--Income Statement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
ASAT--Balance Sheet  ......             .      ..  ..  ..   .     ..   ..   ..   .   .  66
ASAT--Cash Flow Statement  .....  .                 .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  ..  .    . 67
ASAT--Financial  Indicators   ....  .               .  ..  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 68
ASAT--Water and Sewerage Monitoring Indicators   . . . . . . . . 69



V.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND RISKS
5.1   Rate   of   Return  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .    .  .  .  .    .    .    .  .  70
5.2   Environmental Assessment and Mitigation Plan  . . . . . . . . . 71
6.0   List of documents in Project Files  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
MAPS: IBRD  No. 26274   Sewerage Component
No. 26275   Water Supply Component
This report is based on an Appraisal Mission which visited Turkey in July
1994, consisting of Paul Andre Blanchet (Task Manager and Senior Municipal
Engineer), Henry Boldrick (Senior Financial Analyst), Vincent Lacour (Senior
Urban Planner) and Sunja Kim (Financial Analyst). Snezana Mitrovic
(Consultant EClIN) and Ahmet Gokce (Engineer EClTU) also participated in the
preparation of the project. The peer reviewers were Anthony Pellegrini
(Director, TWUDR) and Sergio Calegari (Principal Sanitary Engineer, MNIIN).
Supervising managers are Ricardo Halpeiin, Chief EClIN, and Rachel Lomax,
Director EC1. The financial assistance of the Government of Japan, which
provided a grant to help prepare the project, is gratefully acknowledged.



I



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:     Antalya Water Supply and Sewerage Authority (ASAT)
Guarantor:    Republic of Turkey
Poverty:      Not applicable
Loan Amount:  US$100.0 million equivalent
Terms:        Seventeen years, including five-years grace period, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Objectives:   The objectives of the proposed project are to: (a) meet at least
cost the demand for water supply, sewerage and stormwater drainage;
(b) develop new institutional arrangements for management of
municipal water supply, sewerage and stormwater drainage, and to
introduce private sector participation in the operation of the
services; (c) implement appropriate cost recovery policies; (d)
postpone the need to develop costly new water resources by
improving the efficiency of utilization of existing sources and of
water usage by reducing the volume of non-revenue water which is
presently too high (46 percent); (e) improve and sustain
environmental conditions and reduce health hazards that threaten
the local population and the tourism industry by: (i) eliminating
deficiencies in the collection and disposal of municipal sewage;
and (ii) improving stormwater drainage in areas suffering seasonal
flooding.
Project
Description:  The Project comprises water supply, sewerage and stormwater
components. While leaving the legal authority with the borrower
(ASAT), the administrative and financial management of the services
will be consolidated within a company (Sirket) owned by ASAT, AMM
and the District Municipalities (DMs) and incorporated under
Turkish trade law. The Sirket will also oversee the operation of
the services by a private operator under lease and management
contracts. The project represents the first phase, to be
implemented from 1995 through 2002, of a program designed to
continue to the year 2020. The project will: (a) renovate,
rehabilitate and extend the existing water supply network; (b)
provide a new sewerage network and a preliminary wastewater
treatment plant on the western part of the Municipality; (c)
improve operation of septic tanks in the eastern part of the city;
(d) upgrade the stormwater drainage system in flood areas and
elaborate a comprehensive master plan; and (e) provide technical



ii
assistance for project implementation (engineering services and
project management) and institutional development (particularly
training of Sirket personnel, and preparation of the lease and
management arrangements).
Benefits
and Risks:    The Project approach supports the Government's decentralization
objective in shifting investment responsibility from the government
budget to the Municipality, which will recover costs through user
charges. In addition, it will: (a) promote managerial efficiency
and improve service quality through new institutional arrangements
that will introduce private sector participation through lease and
management contracts in the operation of the water supply and
sewerage services; (b) reduce health hazards to the local and
tourist population; and (c) improve environmental conditions.
Project risks relate to: (a) the challenge of setting up, for the
first time in Turkey, lease and management arrangements for the
operation of public utilities; (b) the Sirket's institutional and
financial capacity to carry out a large investment program in view
of potential political interference; (c) the sustained willingness
of municipal authorities to maintain cost recovery measures
necessary to assure affordability and self-financing; (d) the
ability of Iller Bank and DSI to complete their investments within
the expected time; and (e) the time required to complete all land
acquisition. Project preparation and design have aimed to minimize
all these risks.



iii
Estimated Project Cost: US$ million
Local              Foreign            Total
Water Supply Works                                                             36.1                 43.0             79.1
Stormwater Drainage Works                                                       0.3                  0.3              0.6
Sewerage Works                                                                 44.7                 26.1             70.8
Preliminary Sewage Treatment Plant                                              6.6                  10.0            16.6
Water Supply & Sewerage Equipment                                               1.9                   6.2             8.1
Consultant Services and Engineering                                             2.9                 20.9             23.8
Land Acquisition                                                                1.4                  0.0               1.4
Total Base Costs (June 1994)                                         93.9                 106.5            200.4
Contingencies                                                        20.8                  23.4             44.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                   114.7                129.9            244.6
Financing  Plan:   US$  million
Total                of Total
World Bank                                                        100.0                    40.9
EIB                                                                46.0                    18.8
Iller Bank and DSI                                                 35.0                    14.3
Internal Cash Generation                                           63.6                    26.0
TOTAL                                                    244.6                   100.0
Estimated Bank Disbursements: US$ million
World Bank Fiscal Year            1995     1996      1997     1998      1999     2000     2001      2002      2003
Annual                             0.0      10.0     10.0     11.5      12.4      18.3     16.1      13.0      8.7
Cumulative                         0.0      10.0     20.0     31.5      43.9     62.2      78.3     91.3    100.0
Internal  Rate  of  Return:                    9 percent
(using tariffs and earmarked taxes as a proxy for benefits, and excluding taxes
and duties from project costs)
Maps:   IBRD  Nos.  26274,  26275






REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT AND ISSUES
Population
1.01        The population of Turkey in 1993 was estimated at 60.0 million, with
60 percent living in urban areas. Population growth averaged 2.3 percent per
year during the last decade. The overall growth rate is expected to average 2.0
percent during the 1990s and to reach 72 million by the year 2002. Rural
migration to urban areas is expected to continue and to constitute a major cause
of growing demand for developed land and for water, sewerage and solid waste
services in urban areas.
Water Resources
1.02        Turkey enjoys abundant aggregate water resources, but there are some
regions where water shortages are prevalent throughout the year, and others where
seasonal shortages occur. Water resources are estimated at about 200 billion
m3/year, including surface water that flows out of the country. At present,
withdrawals from surface water resources are estimated at about 15.6 billion
m3/year, with about 60 percent used for irrigation and the rest for municipal and
industrial use. Water abstraction from aquifers is regulated through drilling
licenses, but surface water intakes are not licensed. There are no fees for
underground or surface water.
Service Coverage
1.03        Service coverage levels for municipal water in Turkey, as indicated
in Annex 1.1, appear high (971 and 85% of urban and rural populations served with
public water), but the quality of the services received by the population is
often poor. Water pressure drops and cutoffs of service are frequent because of
source and distribution limitations. Average water consumption (77 lcd) is low
compared to developing countries in Europe (about 200 lcd). The number of
employees per thousand connections (4.3) is high compared to developing countries
in Europe (3.2), but low compared to most developing countries (5 to 6).
Sector Institutions in the Central Government
1.04        In the Central Government, the responsibility for water, wastewater
and solid waste is shared by six different organizations:
*     the State Planning Organization (SPO) is responsible for reviewing and
approving investment plans in the sector;
*     the State Hydraulic Works Department (DSI), under the Ministry of Public
Works and Settlements, is responsible for national water resources
management, development and operation of major water sources, and provision



2
of water supply to cities with a population greater than 100,000, except
for some of the largest municipalities (para. 1.06);
*     the Iller Bank (Bank of the Provinces, IB), also under the Ministry of
Public Works and Settlements, is responsible for water supply and sewerage
development for small cities and construction of solid waste disposal sites
in all urban areas, except for some major cities;
*     the General Directorate of Rural Services (GDRS), under the Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Village Affairs, is responsible for rural water
supply and sanitation programs;
*     the Ministry of Health is responsible for the control of quality of the
water sources and supply to consumers; and
*     the Ministry of Environment is responsible for controlling the
implementation of environmental legislation.
Sector Operating Agencies
1.05        There are at present two types of entities providing water supply and
sewerage services. In most of the municipalities, the services are generally
provided by departments within the municipal administration. In metropolitan
areas, however, the services are provided by autonomous, municipally-owned water
and sewerage authorities.
1.06        The municipal water and sewerage authorities have a short history.
The first was the Istanbul Water Supply and Sewerage Authority (ISKI), created in
1981 as an autonomous entity responsible for the planning, design, construction,
and operation and maintenance of all water supply and sewerage facilities in
Greater Istanbul. Creation of an autonomous utility reflected recognition of the
complex problems faced in large urban areas and was intended to enable an
increasing share of sector investment to be financed with internally generated
funds. Of particular significance, ISKI's enabling law gave the Municipal
Council the right to set water tariffs and sewerage charges without prior
approval by the Central Government, as had been required before. Also, 1981
legislation defining metropolitan municipalities enabled entities such as ISKI to
take over the water supply and sewerage services of smaller municipalities near
the metropolitan area. Initially, ISKI was relatively successful and this
approach became compulsory for all metropolitan municipalities. By 1993, there
were 15 metropolitan municipalities, including Antalya, which contained about 18
million peoples, or over 30 percent of the population.
1.07        The autonomous water authorities have not only substantially
increased the internal generation of funds in the sector, but they have also
obtained long-term credits for sector development. Ankara, Istanbul and Izmir
water authorities, for example, have financed with internally generated funds a
substantial percentage of their investment in recent years. Istanbul, Ankara,
Izmir and Bursa water authorities have r-ceived Bank loans and bilateral credits
from several countries, including France, Germany and Kuwait. In contrast, the
services provided directly by the municipal departments generally cover no more



3
than the operating expenses, and long-term capital is unavailable from sources
other than DSI and Iller Bank.
1.08        Although the institutional framework for water and sanitation
services provided by the 1981 legislation represents a substantial improvement
over the traditional municipal department, it is not fully adequate to meet the
challenge faced by sector authorities in the 1990s. Municipal political
influence still plays an important role, not only in major policy decisions, but
also in the entities' day-to-day operations.  In addition, the water authorities'
staffing plans and remuneration levels have to be approved by the Central
Government (Ministry of Interior), which results in delays in decisions,
insufficient consideration for the particular needs of the specific authority and
lack of accountability.  The commercial orientation of the utilities is often
constrained by political considerations. Future institutional arrangements
should take into account the lessons learned from the experiences of existing
authorities (paras. 1.21 through 1.23).
Sector Investment
1.09        Turkey invested substantial amounts in water supply and sewerage
during the 1980s. Total water and sewerage investments (Central Government and
water authorities) from 1980 to 1989 are estimated at over US$4 billion (at 1990
prices). Sector investments in the last four years of the decade represented
about 0.7 percent of the country's GNP, which is high by international standards
(0.5 percent). This relatively high level of investment is consistent with the
improvements in service coverage (para. 1.03), but some investments were
relatively inefficient as a result of inadequate project selection and execution
(para. 1.12) and, subsequently, of poor operation and maintenance.
1.10        The bulk (80-90 percent) of the sector investments were carried out
by the Central Government through Iller Bank, DSI and GDRS. The other 10-20
percent were undertaken by the respective municipal entities responsible for
water and sewerage. The breakdown, by executing agency, of Central Government
investments in the water and sewerage sector is shown in Annex 1.2.
Sector Financinq
1.11        Sector investment financing policy has been changing in a positive
direction since the early 1980s. Until that time, it was Central Government
policy to finance virtually all investments through Iller Bank, DSI and GDRS. In
recent years, however, the Government has reduced its investments in metropolitan
areas (paras. 1.06 and 1.07) and thus has encouraged the mobilization of local
financial resources. This was a much needed change in sector policy because the
Government-financed investments represented a heavy fiscal burden (between 1.8
percent and 4.1 percent of annual Government expenditures between 1980 to 1989,
or between 7.5 percent and 22.8 percent of annual investments during the same
time).
1.12        The Government policies undeL which Iller Bank, DSI and GDRS operate
contribute to allocative and technical inefficiencies. First, the financing
provided is heavily subsidized as the interest rates charged to the
municipalities are highly negative in real terms. Second, large investment



4
programs, involving over-contracting works in response to political pressures,
result in slowdown, and sometimes even in interruption, of work because of
insufficient funds. Third, water supply and sewerage networks are frequently
over-designed, assuming population increases, per capita consumption and periods
of time that are excessive.
Private Sector Involvement
1.13        Private sector involvement in the provision of services has been
limited. One municipal water authority (BUSKI) has recently contracted out the
reading of water meters and billing of service charges. To date, no management
contract, lease, concession or other form of contracting has been implemented for
water or sewerage system operation by the private sector.
Sector Objectives
1.14        The objectives of the central sector authorities are to ensure prompt
provision of: (a) safe water and sewerage to the population that is not currently
covered, and (b) sewage treatment facilities to most of the population. Due to
population growth, it is also necessary to serve an estimated 16 million
additional inhabitants by the year 2002. Simultaneously, the quality of the
services will have to be improved significantly. To address the above-mentioned
objectives, the ten-year total investment needs for new and upgraded urban water
supply and sewerage facilities during the 1990s are estimated to be approximately
US$10 billion equivalent (at 1990 prices), with half concentrated in the
metropolitan centers.
Environmental Issues
1.15        Water pollution is an acute problem in urban and industrial zones
around Istanbul and in the major metropolitan centers like Izmit, Izmir, Ankara
and Bursa; it also extends to the tourist areas of the southern Turkish
Mediterranean coast where Antalya is located. There is a growing concern not
only to better protect surface water resources because a major part of the
groundwater reserves has already been exploited, but also to protect natural
tourist attractions. Water supply, especially for major cities, will
increasingly have to come from surface water. Few systems have adequate
interception of sewage or any treatment. Domestic and industrial pollution is
also of concern, especially when liquid effluent is discharged in environmentally
sensitive areas such as coastlines.
1.16        In response to all these problems, both the Government and the
municipalities are beginning to take a much more aggressive stance toward
environmental protection. The General Directorate of the Environment (GDE) was
established in 1984 to oversee implementation of the Environmental Law and its
regulations and to manage the National Pollution Prevention Fund (NPPF). Another
indication of the Government's growing commitment to environmental protection was
the decision in 1991 to upgrade the GDE to the ministry level.
I
1.17        The Environmental Law (No. 2872 of 1983) -- which seeks to protect
and optimize land and natural resources usage, to prevent air, water and land
degradation, and to protect health, bio-diversity and cultural property --



5
provided the first general framework for environmental protection. Subsequently,
regulations governing air quality and noise (1986), marine pollution (1987) and
water pollution (1988) were promulgated. The Environmental Law stipulates that
polluters must cover costs associated with pollution abatement and prevention and
bear responsibility for all damages. Under the Turkish water pollution
regulations, national water quality objectives for inland waters were defined in
1991, specifying four classes of water quality: class I for high-quality water
suitable for water supply, recreation and fisheries; class II for fairly polluted
water suitable for irrigation and other uses after appropriate treatment; class
III for polluted water suitable for industries other than food and textiles; and
class IV for highly polluted water having no beneficial end use.
1.18        The enforcement of the regulations designed to protect the
environment is generally the responsibility of the municipalities and provincial
governments. The municipalities' capacity to implement the regulations
effectively has still to be developed. The most important role in enforcing
regulations regarding the protection of water resources in metropolitan areas has
been given to the municipal water and sewerage authorities (para. 3.04).
Municipalities and water authorities, which have made progress in evaluating the
quality of industrial effluent, are now requiring polluting industries to invest
in on-site treatment. Metropolitan municipalities, including Antalya, have
ambitious programs to improve sewage collection, treatment and disposal.
Effluent monitoring capacity and enforcement of regulations through inspection by
the water authorities remain to be improved.
Previous World Bank Involvement in the Sector
1.19        The Bank initiated water sector operations in Turkey over 20 years
ago (1972) with a US$37 million loan for the Istanbul Water Supply Project. It
has continued its operations through seven more loans to Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir
and Bursa water authorities, and to small municipalities in the Cukurova Region.
Five of the projects are still under implementation. To date, the loans provided
to the sector amount to US$946.3 million (Annex 1.3).
1.20        The Bank's participation in the water and sanitation sector has been
an important factor in encouraging the Government to establish municipal water
authorities. The Bank has also played an important role in assisting these
authorities during their early operation. The Bank-financed projects have been
generally successful in meeting their physical targets, and in encouraging much
needed investment in sewerage services. The concept of full cost recovery for
the services has contributed to progressively improved efficiency in the
management and operation of these public companies. Lessons learned from the
previous projects have indicated, however, a need to improve efficiency. At the
same time, the constraints to efficiency faced by public sector entities have
become increasingly evident and there is a growing consensus that private sector
participation would improve project management and financial discipline. On the
technical side, past projections of water sales and implementation schedules were
proved to be too optimistic. For timely and successful project implementation,
detailed designs should be prepared in the early stages of the project. It is
equally important to obtain a clear political commitment to cost recovery and
improvement of the water authorities' finances, accounting and audits. The
proposed project takes the above lessons into account and goes a step further



6
than previous projects by promoting important institutional changes to enable
significant private sector involvement. This concept responds to changes in the
Government's evolving vision of the respective roles of the public and private
sectors and it is fully supported by Antalya municipal authorities.
Bank's Strategy in the Sector
1.21        The Bank's strategy towards Turkey is outlined in the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) submitted to the Board on March 11, 1993. Within the
overall objectives of the CAS, the Bank had agreed with the Government to support
projects which improve the environment, promote sustainable use of natural
resources, and strengthen local institutions' capacity to achieve these
objectives. Recently, the Bank prepared a review of sector issues (Urban Water
and Sanitation Sector Review, March 26, 1993) which was discussed at a workshop
held in Antalya in October 1993. This workshop was designed to promote
discussions of institutional changes that may be required so as to remove the
central Government from its present close involvement (through Iller Bank and
DSI--paras. 1.10 thru 1.12) in the planning and funding of most water supply and
sanitation investments, and to promote decentralization of investment
responsibilities and service delivery provision to local utilities, which should
be financially autonomous and managed free from bureaucratic constraints, thereby
encouraging privatization wherever possible.
1.22        The Bank's strategy in assisting the Government has two objectives.
The first is to continue supporting the development of the newly-created water
authorities in the larger municipalities so as to enable them to provide adequate
services at affordable prices. The satisfactory development of these authorities
in areas of rapid population growth should have significant direct benefits for
about 30 percent of the country's population (para. 1.06). To provide this, the
Bank is now seeking to promote revised institutional arrangements and operational
practices which involve the private sector. The second objective is to help
address the needs of smaller municipalities. Given the severe budgetary
constraints of the Central Government, it is evident that the infrastructure
demands of these municipalities cannot be met without significant local resource
mobilization. In addition, the capacity for project implementation and operation
and maintenance of infrastructure must be developed. However, this capacity is
constrained by a wide range of problems, including: (a) lack of transparency of
the role of Iller Bank and DSI, and of their performance and financial
arrangements; (b) lack of flexibility in the legislation for setting up municipal
administrative structures; (c) lack of adequate municipal legislation to promote
local resource mobilization; (d) constraints stemming from the present
legislation on the sector's ability to set competitive salaries, thus limiting
the possibilities to promote development of the managerial and technical capacity
of municipal personnel; and (e) lack of a legal framework to promote the
involvement of the private sector. Correction of these problems is a massive
agenda that can only be carried out in stages. Accordingly, the Bank is now
working, for the Southwest Coast area, to establish a realistic basis for
priority investments and an appropriate institutional framework, including
financial intermediation arrangements, to reach smaller municipalities.
1.23        The proposed project would be an important step in the implementation
of the Bank's strategy in the sector. In particular, the institutional



7
development component of the project, which involves private sector
participation, takes into account the experience of previous projects and has a
significant potential for replication. The proposed project was prepared and
negotiated simultaneously with a solid waste management project for Antalya
(para. 3.01). The proposed solid waste management project would also be an
important element of the Bank support to the Government in its efforts to improve
environmental conditions and to strengthen local institutions capacity. The
solid waste management project would aim at: (a) improving solid waste
collection; (b) developing a new sanitary landfill; (c) improving land management
and pollution monitoring; and (d) contracting out with the private sector solid
waste operations and street sweeping. The solid waste management project is
expected to be submitted for Board consideration shortly, after Antalya
Metropolitan Municipality completes all the necessary requirements for acquiring
the land for the landfill.
II. PROJECT AREA. SECTOR SERVICES AND DEMAND
Project Area
2.01        The project area, which embraces the Antalya Metropolitan
Municipality (AMM) and surrounding districts, lies in the Antalya Province of
Turkey. Situated on a large fertile plain, the region is bound on three sides by
mountains rising to over 3,000 meters above sea level. The topography is unusual
in that the coastline in the central part of the Municipality is located on an
ancient travertine terrace which rises about 30 m vertically from the sea in
rugged cliffs and thence in successive terraces to the foot of the Taurus
Mountains about 40 kms to the north. The terraces are formed of a highly
fractured and porous karstic travertine several hundred meters thick. On the
east and west sides of the Municipality, the perimeter of the travertine
formation has eroded over the years and the flat valleys are covered with
alluvial deposits that vary from cobbles to stiff clay. Antalya is flanked by
extensive beaches (Lara Beach to the east and Konyaalti Beach to the west) and is
bounded by the Bogacay River on the west (800 km2 drainage basin) and the Aksu
Cayi River (6,472 km2 basin, average annual flow of 1,300 million m3/y) on the
east, which are continuous streams discharging into the Mediterranean Sea. There
are two dams on the Aksu Cayi River, Karacaoren I and II, each with a hydropower
plant. Of less importance are the streams of Sarisu (0.5 to 0.6 m3/s), Arapsuyu
(0.5 to 1.3 m3/s), and Duden (16.6 to 41.5 m3/s), which are fed by emerging
springs that eventually discharge, through spectacular waterfalls, into the sea.
The area enjoys a typical Mediterranean climate of hot, dry summers and
refreshing winters. Virtually all the annual rainfall occurs between November
and March. The average temperature varies from 10.20C in January to 28.10C in
July, and the average rainfall is 1,065 mm/y.
2.02        One of the ten most populous cities in Turkey, Antalya's estimated
1994 population of 491,000 has been growing at an average annual rate of 7
percent, the highest in the country. The high growth rate is due primarily to
migration from the rural areas and to the choice of Antalya as a retirement home
by large numbers of middle- and high-income pensioners from all over the country,
attracted by the natural beauty and favorable weather conditions. Future growth



8
is expected to result in the following population levels: 1995--530,000, 2000--
709,000, 2005--905,000, with estimated growth rates of seven percent in 1990 to
five percent in 2005 (Annex 2.1). The population in AMM is divided among the
three district municipalities (DMs) of Konyaalti (three percent), Muratpasa (62
percent) and Kepez (35 percent).
2.03        Presently, the Municipality encompasses 9,610 ha and has almost
extended to its natural boundaries. Land development has radiated inland from
the commercial and administrative center, which includes the historical Old City
(mostly a conservation area), and along the shore line. The current tendency is
to transfer industry outside the municipal boundaries to an industrial park of
197 ha (estimated 140 industrial plants for about 6,000 workers) located 26 km
north of the Municipality, along the Antalya-Burdur highway. The bell-shape
macro-form of the city is characterized by a densely populated center (500 to 600
inhabitants per hectare) and attenuating densities toward outer zones.
2.04        Some 80 percent of the region's population derives its income from
agriculture. A significant center for commerce and tourism, Antalya provides
services for the whole of Antalya Province. It is also the site of significant
industrial development, especially in agro-based industries. Total hotel bed
capacity reached 14,000 in 1989 and 28,000 in 1992. A comparison of national and
Antalya income by quintile distribution shows that average income in Antalya is
slightly lower and that the distribution is roughly similar to the country as a
whole (Annex 2.2).
Water Supply - Existing Facilities, Level of Services and Demand
2.05        Antalya's present water supply is from springs (about 17 percent) and
wells (83 percent). The estimated water produced over the last three years is:
1990--83,500 m3, 1991--87,300 m3 and 1992--100,500 m3.  After chlorination, clear
and clean water from springs and wells is pumped either to reservoirs at a high
elevation or directly into the distribution network. Magara, Meydan and Topcular
sources, which show traces, sometimes above allowable limits, of ammonia
nitrogen, orthophosphate, lead and zinc, will have to be abandoned soon. There
are 20 licensed wells producing some 11,600 m3/d and about 100 private wells at
various locations in the Municipality, especially to the east in the Dudenbasi
and Lara districts. Together they produce some 12,100 m3/d, of which 75 percent
is used for irrigation. Sources and pumping facilities are sufficient to meet
the Municipality's demand, but the water network does not have enough capacity
(Annex 2.3).
2.06        In 1975, Iller Bank designed and installed 155 km of PVC and asbestos
cement pipe, the first major extension of a diameter of 100 mm or less to the
existing cast iron pipe network. The network was divided into four pressure
zones. In 1987, DSI design proposed the same pressure zones as those recommended
in the 1975 Iller Bank study and added two more for the higher zones. After
1985, the Antalya Water Supply and Bus Department (ASO) laid more than 300 km of
pipeline (asbestos, steel, PVC pipes of diameter 100 mm or less), which were not
in compliance with the DSI design. As a result, the built network is undersized
and lacks reservoir capacity (presently there are seven reservoirs with a



9
capacity of 27,150 m3); the Duraliler sources cannot be used to their full
capacity, and polluted Magara, Meydan and Topcular sources have not been taken
out of service (para. 2.05). In addition, the system is poorly equipped with air
relief valves, becomes air-locked after each failure of the power supply, and
three of the pressure zones are interconnected at different locations to provide
water to customers. DSI initiated a construction program in 1992 including
construction of water mains, pumping stations and reservoirs (Annex 2.4).
2.07        In 1994, the number of connections was estimated at 143,000.  The
distribution within consumption groups is as follows: (a) domestic 88 percent;
(b) commercial 10 percent; (c) construction 1.2 percent; (d) institutional <1
percent; and (e) industrial <1 percent. An estimated 95 percent of the
population is served. The non-revenue water was estimated at about 46 percent of
total production; physical losses 41 percent (38 percent due to leakages and
three percent due to the estimated 10,000 malfunctioning and under-reading
meters) and commercial losses five percent. Commercial losses are estimated at
4,230 m3/d: about 3,960 m3/d for public fountains, parks, mosques, fire fighting
and street cleaning, and 270 m3/d for illegal connections.  Total water billed
per capita served is in line with urban areas in Turkey (100 to 120 lcd) and in
other middle-income countries, but it is low compared to developed countries in
Europe (about 200 lcd).
2.08        It is expected that water leakages could be reduced from 41 percent
in 1992 to 30 percent in 2005 with the replacement of part of the network and the
project's proposed program for reduction of unaccounted-for-water, which would be
included in the leasing arrangement for the operation and maintenance of the
network (paras. 3.08 and 3.10). Domestic water sold is conservatively projected
to increase from 94 lcd in 1992 to 98 lcd in 1998 and to 128 lcd in 2005. This
estimates take into account the projected tariff increases (para. 4.06) which are
expected to result in increased conservation efforts. Future gross demand also
reflects population growth, an increase service coverage (from 95 percent of
population served today to 98 percent by 2005), and increases in institutional,
commercial and industrial water demand in proportion to land development (1992--
92,846 m3/d, 1998--165,911 m3/d, 2005--252,530 m3/d, 2020--391,712 m3/d -- see
Annex 2.3). The resulting demand forecast has been used in determining the
technical criteria for the water supply and sewerage components of the proposed
project.
2.09        The future gross water demand is expected to be met mainly through
renovation of the existing Duraliler and Bogacay well fields and development of
Distas well fields, which postpones until after 2020 more costly alternatives.
Proposed use of water sources to satisfy the future demand and a chart of source
capacity compared to water net and gross demands are shown in Annex 2.3. To meet
the increased demand up to 2005, the required investment in water production
facilities is small, but the required investment in water distribution is
substantial.
Sewerage - Existing Facilities, Level of Services and Demand
2.10        There is no municipal sewerage in Antalya, except in small isolated
areas such as the industrial areas, the duty-free zone, the Old City (partly),
the university, and some blocks of apartment buildings where operation and



10
maintenance are the responsibility of users. Traditionally, because of the
unusual characteristics of the underlying karstic base-rock, effluent from septic
tanks or cesspits from each house infiltrates directly into the underlying
travertine formation (Annex 2.5). Some of the soaking pits (zerzemins) are
connected to faults, cracks or caverns in the rock, so effluent is indirectly
discharged into the sea.
2.11        Septic tanks are emptied by the Environmental Health Department of
the Municipality and three private contractors. Septage collected from septic
tanks is discharged into a 2,000 m3 pit, dug in highly permeable ground, in the
controlled solid waste dump site located upstream of the main potable water
source, Duraliler (para. 2.06). This poses a major health risk which will be
addressed under the project by disposing of the septage in the sewerage under
construction.
2.12         Inadequate wastewater disposal methods and harmful agriculture
practices have polluted the underlying karstic base-rock. This has forced the
authority to abandon some older potable water sources (yacht harbor and old
city), and it will soon have to abandon others as well (paras. 2.05 and 2.06).
2.13        The 1992 sewerage master plan has been designed and partly tendered
by Iller Bank. The proposed system is divided into two separate networks to
collect the sewage flow from the western and eastern parts of the Municipality
with wastewater treatment plants and sea outfalls. The construction of a portion
of the western network was started in 1992; it was limited to collectors larger
than 400mm and two of the 15 proposed pumping stations. Subsequently, in June
1993, complementary funds for constructing the missing secondary networks and
house connections to this proposed initial primary network were added (Annex
2.6). This Iller Bank network will cover 2,426 ha and cost US$32 million (1993
prices). According to the Iller Bank program, work will be completed in 2002.
2.14        An extension to the Iller Bank western network covering an additional
1,656 ha is part of the proposed project. This extension includes a preliminary
wastewater treatment plant with a long sea outfall south of the new harbor. It
will assure partial protection of at least three water supply sources and obviate
the difficulties of building individual systems in the saturated land of the
western part of the Municipality. Once construction is completed, the population
connected to the west side network in 2002 is estimated at about 400,000 or about
50 percent of the total population. Estimated wastewater treatment capacity and
population equivalent (PE) including BOD, COD and Suspended Solid for the years
1998, 2002, 2005 and 2020, are indicated in Annex 2.7. As at present, the
remaining part of the west side and all of the east side would continue to be
served by individual disposal systems.
2.15        According to the hydrogeol-'g4cal study, a groundwater flow of about
five m3/s discharges into the sea from the travertine along the coast. Surveys
have indicated that pollution is insignificant when this flow is diluted with sea
water, except in the old port, where sea water pollution is higher but still
rated as class I (para. 1.17). During preparation of the project, an
oceanographic investigation, including analysis of the assimilative capacity of
the sea using the Tgo die-away and dye-tracking method, was performed. Results
have indicated that the dilution factor is high, hence its assimilative capacity.



11
This first investigation has resulted in a preliminary design of the necessary
outfall and diffusor to the proposed preliminary wastewater treatment plant.
Further oceanographic investigations are planned during the final design phase.
Since only part of the population will be connected to the network, the dilution
factor with the sea water should be sufficient to maintain, at any time, a
pollution level of class I. Sea water quality will be monitored regularly,
particularly at the outfall location, and an activated sludge treatment plant
will be added when necessary. This solution is flexible and allows an
affordable, staged investment.
Stormwater Drainage - Existing Facilities. Level of Services and Demand
2.16        Natural drainage systems are abundant in the Antalya region.  Six
rivers, a canal and several deep creeks cross the Municipality and discharge
directly into the sea (para. 2.01). In spite of the fact that there is very
little formal storm drainage (except in the central part of the Municipality),
few flooding problems occur. This is because of the unusual characteristics of
the underlying travertine, which readily allows percolation of surface water.
However, runoff will increase due to urbanization. Curbs are unusually high and
the streets act as stormwater conduits. The risks of property damage and traffic
disruption will likely increase in the center of the city and in the western,
low-lying areas. Immediate corrective civil works have been identified, but a
comprehensive study will be carried out during the implementation of the project
to elaborate a stormwater drainage master plan.
III. THE PROJECT
Background
3.01        Following a request from the Government of Turkey in March 1992, the
World Bank secured a Japanese grant of JY310.5 million for the preparation of the
Antalya Water Supply and Sanitation Project and of a solid waste management
project (para. 1.23). In November 1992, the contract for the feasibility study
was signed with a consortium of foreign and Turkish firms. The consultant's
report was issued in April 1994, and a World Bank mission visited Antalya in July
1994 to appraise the water and sanitation and the solid waste management
projects. Loan negotiations for both projects took place from March 20-23, 1995.
Project Objectives
3.02        The main objectives of the proposed project are:
(a)   to meet, at least cost, the demand for water supply, sewerage and
stormwater drainage;
(b)   to develop new institutional arrangements for the management of
municipal water supply, sewerage and stormwater drainage, and to
introduce private sector participation in the operation of the
services;



12
(c)   to implement appropriate cost recovery policies to enhance self-
financing of water and sewerage services;
(d)   to postpone the need to develop costly new water resources by
improving the efficiency of utilization of existing sources and by
reducing the volume of non-revenue water which is presently too high
(46 percent); and
(e)   to improve and sustain environmental conditions and reduce health
hazards that threaten the local population and the tourism industry
by: (i) eliminating deficiencies in the collection and disposal of
municipal sewage; and (ii) improving stormwater drainage in areas
suffering seasonal flooding.
Approach to Project Preparation
3.03        The following principles guided the preparation of the proposed
project. First, to ensure sustainability, it was considered necessary to define
an institutional arrangement that would enjoy full support from the national and
municipal governments. Such arrangement should provide the necessary managerial,
technical and financial capabilities to achieve the required level of service
with full cost recovery at affordable prices. Second, the proposed institutional
arrangement should be replicable and serve as an example of self-financing in the
delivery of public services. Third, the Project should protect the environment,
promote sustainable use of natural resources, and strengthen the capacity of
local institutions to achieve these objectives. Fourth, the national water
quality objectives should be progressively reached within the framework of the
National Water Pollution Regulations (para. 1.17).
Institutional Arrangements
3.04        The September 1993 designation of Antalya as a metropolitan
municipality (Antalya Metropolitan Municipality - AMM) under Law No. 3030 had
important implications for the project. First, Law No. 3030 requires the
application of Law No. 2560 (the ISKI Law) for: (a) the development and operation
of public water supply, sewerage and stormwater drainage services, and (b) the
monitoring and control of liquid waste discharges and enforcing of water
pollution control regulation. Law No. 2560 requires the creation of an
autonomous water and sewerage authority under AMM (Annex 3.1). This entity
(Antalya Water Supply and Sewerage Authority - ASAT) was created in February 1995
by Decree 94/6516. And, second, under the Environmental Law 2872, AMM is
responsible for monitoring the quality of water supply, wastewater, sea and air
pollution in Antalya.
3.05        Project institutional arrangements (see organization chart in Annex
3.2) take into account the above laws. In addition, drawing on the lessons of
Bank experience cited above (paras. 1.19 and 1.20), they would limit the direct
involvement of AMM (and the DMs) in the day-to-day decision-making of service
provision, limit the size and role of ASAT in the project (para. 3.07), give
management responsibility to a commercially-oriented Sirket (para. 3.08) and give
operational responsibility to private operators under lease and management
contracts (para. 3.10). This would be a major step forward for the sector, as



13
high expectations are placed on private involvement as an instrument to improve
efficiency. The proposed institutional arrangement was the subject of a seminar
organized by AMM in Antalya, with the participation of the Bank, in May 1994.
This seminar was followed by a visit of representatives of AMM, DMs, Ministry of
Interior (MOI) and Treasury to privately-operated water and sanitation facilities
in France and the UK from May 29 to June 4, 1994.
3.06        ASAT.  The Antalya Water Supply and Bus Department (ASO) has been
dismantled and its assets and personnel have been transferred to ASAT and
AMM/DMs, respectively.  Contrary to similar institutions created in other
Metropolitan Municipalities, ASAT would remain very small. The number of
authorized positions is 19 but AMM will not fill all the authorized positions and
will limit the number of ASAT staff to a general manager, a deputy general
manager and three others required to complete the Board of Directors. This
arrangement provides the legal umbrella for the water supply, sewerage and
stormwater services.   While retaining its legal responsibility for service
provision, ASAT will delegate management of water supply, sewerage and stormwater
services to a Sirket (company incorporated under the commercial code). ASAT
would be a joint owner of the Sirket with AMM and the DMs. Further details on
the organization and structure of ASAT are found in Annex 3.3.
3.07        Sirket.  AMM, the DMs and ASAT will establish this commercial
enterprise as a means for consolidating administrative and financial management
of water supply, sewerage, stormwater and solid waste services and ensuring the
necessary commercially-oriented approach to service provision. Creation of the
Sirket will allow greater autonomy to sector management and will help to achieve
economies of scale. While the presence of ASAT and the proposed Sirket provide a
seemingly heavy structure, it is necessary under the law to have both entities.
As indicated above (para. 3.06), the heaviness of the structure will be
alleviated by keeping ASAT very small and by passing all administrative
responsibilities to the Sirket. To help ensure this efficient orientation, the
Board of Directors of the Sirket will include representatives of other important
agencies (e.g., DSI, Iller Bank) and of the private sector. The Sirket, with a
staff of ten professionals will manage, on behalf of AMM, the DMs and ASAT, the
bidding of civil works and equipment financed under the Project and will assure
supervision of such contracts. This ceiling of ten professionals has been agreed
at negotiations (para. 6.01 [a]). The Sirket will also provide billing,
accounting, contractor payment, preparation of withdrawal applications, reporting
and other administrative services to AMM, the DMs and ASAT.
3.08        The Sirket will engage the private operator for the water and
sewerage services. Bidding documents and draft contracts for the private
operator under lease and management contracts, will be prepared by a specialized
consultant (para. 3.10). The Sirket is expected to be assisted in its assignment
by a firm specialized in the management of water, sewerage and solid waste
services (preferably a twinning arrangement). This approach would maximize the
sense of responsibility and ownership as well as the self-financing effort of
AMM, the DMs and ASAT. It is expected also to result in a reduction of
dependency on Central government agencies, such as Iller Bank and DSI. It would
also minimize the bureaucratic and political constraints to which sector
institutions are typically exposed. The Sirket should be established before loan
effectiveness (para. 6.02 [a]). and its key staff be appointed not later than



14
November 30. 1995 (para. 6.01 [c]). The technical assistance for the Sirket
would be contracted not later than April 30. 1996 (para. 6.01 [d]). At
negotiations, it was agreed that invitation for bids by private operator would
take place no later than October 31. 1995 on the basis of documentation
satisfactory to the Bank and that the private operator would be hired not later
than May 31, 1996 (para. 6.01 [b]). Further details on the structure and
operations of the Sirket are found in Annex 3.4.
3.09        Pro-ect Management Unit (PMU).  The PMU, which is already in place
reporting to the AMM Mayor, will assist AMM, the DMs and ASAT, as well as the
Sirket, in implementing the project for about one year (or less if appropriate)
after the signing of the contract with the private operator for the operation of
water supply and sewerage services.  The PMU will assist AMM, the DMs and ASAT
in: (i) setting up the Sirket, including selection of its personnel and technical
assistance (twinning arrangement - para. 3.08); and (ii) supervising the
preparation of the bidding documents for the selection of the private operator.
Until the Sirket is fully operational, the PMU will advise and assist ASAT in the
implementation of the project and recommend any actions to achieve the project
objectives, including the preparation of loan withdrawal applications and reports
on operational and financial progress. PMU will be assisted by a high-level
expert experienced in project management and familiar with the Bank's procurement
and disbursement procedures and guidelines. The recruitment of this expert is a
condition of loan effectiveness (para. 6.02, [b]).
3.10        Private Operator.  A single private operator is expected to be
engaged under a single contract comprising a lease of the water supply system and
a management arrangement for the operation of the sewerage system. This operator
is expected to be a joint venture of an experienced international company and a
Turkish company. The operator will, under the lease and management contract: (a)
manage, operate and maintain all the water and sewerage facilities; (b) bill and
collect water and sewerage tariffs on behalf of ASAT/Sirket, retaining its
contractual share of revenues and remitting the balance to ASAT/Sirket; (c)
maintain detailed operating records and accounts and have the latter audited
annually by private auditors; and (d) provide water supply quality and sewage
treatment plant effluent test results. The private operator will not be
responsible for investments, either in terms of financing or construction.
ASAT/Sirket will be responsible for financing new investments and will engage
contractors and consultants to undertake the necessary civil works and
supervision. At negotiations it was agreed that as a condition of loan
effectiveness ASAT will hire the consultants to assist in the preparation of
bidding documents. bid evaluation, and conduct negotiations for the Private
operator (para. 6.02 [c]).
Proiect Description
3.11        The Project comprises water supply, sewerage and stormwater
components, with ASAT as borrower. The Project represents the first phase, to be
implemented from 1995 through 2002, of the water supply and sewerage investment
program designed to continue to the year 2020. Future Bank lending for the
program may be considered, subject to satisfactory achievement of the policy and
institutional objectives proposed under this project.



15
3.12        The project is described in Annex 3.5 and shown in IBRD Maps Nos.
26274 and 26275. This project includes the following components:
(a)   water supply works and equipment needed to:
(i)   urgently rehabilitate existing distribution networks by replacing
unsatisfactory sections of about 24 km, including repair of some
electrical installations, pumping stations and reservoirs;
(ii)  increase the production at three well fields by about 56 Mm3/y
through construction of about 24 new wells and replacement of eight
pumps at pumping stations;
(iii) construct about 40,000 m3 capacity of distribution reservoirs (three)
to provide the storage capacity required for increased water demand;
and
(iv)  replace and extend existing distribution networks (about 500 km) to
supply consumers, including construction of two new pumping stations
(eight pumps), replacement of four pumps in one existing pumping
station (four pumps) and replacement of all water meters;
(b)   sewerage works and equipment needed to:
Ci)   urgently construct a collection network of about ten km including a
small temporary wastewater treatment plant for the historically
important Old City and rehabilitate the existing network and septic
tank at Sanayi industrial area;
(ii)  extend the collection networks by constructing new collectors and
collection networks of about 380 km to serve 1,660 ha in the western
part of the city to complement the Iller Bank program presently under
construction;
(iii) dispose of sewage collected by the sewerage networks through
construction, in phases, of a preliminary wastewater treatment plant
with a capacity of 90,000 m3/d, located at the west end of the City,
including a sea outfall of 2,500 m with a diffusor of 400 m and a
capacity of four m3/s;
(c)   stormwater drainage works to:
(i)   correct deficiencies of the existing networks by constructing missing
sections on the networks such as culverts, curbs and channels and
removing debris from existing rivers, channels and ditches;
(d)   consulting services for:
(i)   technical assistance in proiect implementation for:
(1) detailed design and construction supervision for the above-
mentioned water supply, sewerage and stormwater drainage works;



16
(2) hydrogeological survey development of groundwater facilities;
(3) site survey and investigations for mapping of the water supply
systems; and
(4) preparation of a comprehensive stormwater master plan;
(ii) technical assistance in institutional development, including:
(1) staffing of the Project Management Unit to assist AMM, DMs, ASAT
and subsequently the Sirket in initiating, coordinating and
supervising project activities and in preparing periodic reports
required by the Bank;
(2) assistance to the Sirket in the preparation of bidding
documents, bid evaluation and contract negotiations for private
operation of water supply, sewerage and stormwater systems; and
(3) assistance to the Sirket through a twinning arrangement or
contract with a reputable water supply and sewerage operator for
the management of services, planning and administration of
contracts and in the implementation of a training program for
Sirket managers and staff.
Project Costs
3.13        The total project cost is estimated at US$244.6 million equivalent
(Table 3.1). Civil works costs represent about 83 percent of base cost,
equipment about 4 percent, and services (including technical assistance) about 12
percent. Land acquisition costs account for the balance of project base cost.
Detailed project cost estimates are given in Annex 3.6, and summarized in Table
3.2.
Table 3.1: Summary of Project Costs
(US$ million)
Water Supply                    102.4
Sewerage & Stormwater Drainage  98.0
Total Base Cost           200.4
Physical Contingencies           21.0
Price Contingencies              23.2
Total Project Cost        244.6
3.14        Base costs are as of June 1994 and are based on recent bids for
similar projects. Local costs include about nine percent of taxes and duties.
Physical contingencies of 12 percent, cc-rering unforeseeable increases in
quantities, have been added to base costs (sea outfall: 15 percent), except for



17
land. Because of high and volatile inflation in the Turkish economy and rapidly
changing exchange rates, base costs in Turkish lira have been converted into US
dollars. Price contingencies based on World Bank guidelines for international
price increases have been applied over the eight-year period of the project. The
escalation factors used are based on the latest Bank estimates (BP 6.50 of
October 1994).
Table 3.2: Project Cost Estimate
--TL billion--             -- US$ million--
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total    Foreign
CIVIL WORKS
Water Supply                                  1125.7   1340.6    2466.3   36.1       43.0      79.1      54
Stonnwater Drainage                             7.8      10.3       18.1    0.3       0.3       0.6      50
Sewerage                                      1396.2    813.1    2209.3   44.7       26.1      70.8      37
Preliminary Sewage Treatment Plant             204.1    312.0      516.1    6.6      10.0      16.6      60
Total Civil Works                    2733.8   2476.0    5209.8   87.7       79.4    167.1       48
EOUIPMENT
Water Supply & Sewerage Equipment               60.9    193.2      254.1    1.9       6.2       8.1      77
Total Equipment                        60.9    193.2      254.1    1.9       6.2       8.1      77
CONSULTANT SERVICES & ENGINEERING
Project Implementation                          77.0    514.9      591.9    2.5      16.5      19.0      87
Institutional Development                       13.3    134.1      147.4    0.4       4.4       4.8      92
Total Consultant Services & Engineering  90.3    649.0    739.3    2.9      20.9      23.8      88
LAND ACQUISITION                                44.3      0.0       44.3    1.4       0.0       1.4       0
Total Base Costs (June 1994)         2929.3   3318.2    6247.5   93.9    106.5    200.4         53
Contingencies                         646.5    729.0    1375.5   20.8       23.4      44.2      53
Grand Total                          3575.8   4047.2    7623.0  114.7    129.9    244.6         53
Prolect Financing
3.15             The approach  to project  financing  is  to make  the activities  self-
supporting with no  contribution  to investment  costs  from AMM or the DMs.   ASAT
will fund the local counterpart to the Project from net revenues raised from
operations. To ensure that resources and effort would be focused on the proiect,
no investment over US$200.000 ecauivalent in cost would be undertaken by ASAT
without the prior concurrence by the Bank (para. 6.01 [el).
3.16             Based on the above  financing approach and project  characteristics,
the financing plan would be as shown in Table 3.3:



18
Table 3.3: Project Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Total            of Total
World Bank                    100.0               40.9
EIB                            46.0               18.8
Iller Bank and DSI             35.0               14.3
Internal Cash Generation       63.6               26.0
TOTAL                          244.6             100.0
3.17        As shown in Table 3.3 above, World Bank financing of US$100.0 million
will amount to about 41 percent of total project cost.  The standard World Bank
loan terms for Turkey would apply:  17 years repayment, including five-years
grace period, at the standard variable interest rate. The Bank would finance
incremental recurring expenditures for the Sirket and the PMU (US$200,000 each)
for a limited period (until the end of August and November 1996, respectively).
The financing of the Sirket is required to cover its operating costs from the
initiation of operations until the flow of tariff-based income from the private
operator of the water and sewerage system becomes effective. The financing of
the PMU is required to substitute for the Japanese Grant until the Sirket is
fully operational. Retroactive financing in an amount of US$600,000 would be
provided to cover PMU expenditures after March 31, 1995.
3.18        The table above also shows the financing already approved by the
European Investment Bank (EIB). EIB loan will finance about 19 percent of the
project, covering approximately half the total cost of the wastewater treatment
plant and the entire cost of the sea outfall, as well as some sections of the
sewerage network. The EIB loan was approved in November 1994. The borrower is
the Government which will onlent to ASAT. The terms involve 20 years repayment,
including a five-year grace period, and a variable interest rate, currently four
percent.  Aqreement was reached at neqotiations that ASAT should confirm to the
Bank not later than December 1. 1995 that the EIB loan has become effective or,
if not, that other funds are available for the project to the borrower (para.
6.01 [f]).
Project Implementation
3.19        The Project will be managed by the Sirket with assistance from the
PMU (paras. 3.06 through 3.09). Preparation of the bidding documents for the
civil works and supply of equipment is in progress under the Japanese grant
(para. 3.01), and bidding documents for selection of the private operator will be
issued by October 31, 1995 (para. 3.08). The lease and management contract for
water supply and sewerage is expected to be signed by May 1996 in order to allow
the future operator a say on project implementation. To formalize these
arrangements it was agreed at negotiations that ASAT will enter into a subsidiary
agreement with the Sirket on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank not
later than November 30, 1995 (para. 6.01 [g]). Tendering, bid evaluation and
award of contracts, including loan withdrawal applications, would be carried out



19
by the Sirket with the assistance and supervision of PMU, and reviewed by the
Bank. Contracts for the first civil works would be signed in the first few
months of project implementation.
3.20        The Project will be implemented from 1995 through 2002.  The details
of the project implementation plan and programs of expenditures are in Annex 3.7.
The projected investment program takes into account Bank experience in the sector
in Turkey. The project completion date is December 31, 2002.
Land Acauisition
3.21        The site recommended by the consultants for the sewage treatment
plant would cover 25 ha of uninhabited agricultural land currently owned by many
private owners. The process for acquiring the land is well advanced. The land-
use implementation plan has been approved by Konaalti District Municipality and
the thirty-day public notice expired. There are no disputes pending regarding
the use of the land. Prior to loan effectiveness, ASAT should demonstrate that
all legal requirements for the acquisition of the land have been fulfilled and
there is no obstacle to the completion of the sewage treatment plant (para. 6.02
[d]).
Procurement
3.22        Procurement arrangements for the Bank financed project elements,
their estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement are summarized in Table
3.4 below and in Annex 3.7. All goods and works to be financed from the Bank
loan proceeds would be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement (January 1995), including amendments as of the loan signing date,
using the Country Standard Bidding Documents for Turkey. Consulting services
will be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981),
including amendments as of the loan signing date.



20
Table 3.4: Proposed Procurement Arrangementsl/
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
ICB         NCB          Other        NBF            Total Cost
1.0    Works2'
Water Supply. Sewerage and           119.2        6.9                       76.7          202.8
Stormwater Drainage            (65.2)      (3.8)                                     (69.0)
2.0     Goods
Water Supply and Sewerage             8.9         0.11'        1.3                         10.3
(5.0)     (0.05)        (0.55)                       (5.6)
3.0     Consultant Services
Project Implementation                                         19.4          4.7           24.1
(19.4)                     (19.4)
Institutional Development                                       6.0                         6.0
(6.0)                      (6.0)
4.0     Miscellaneous
Land Acquisition                                                             1.4            1.4
TOTAL                           128.1        7.0          26.7        82.8           244.6
(70.2)     (3.85)       (25.95)                     (100.0)
NOTE:  " Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the Bank loans.
Works includes supply and installation of equipment for pumping stations.
3/ Furniture
Other: Includes intemational/local shopping (US$1.3 million) and selection of consultants according to Bank Guidelines.
NBF: Not Bank Financed. Includes amounts financed by EIB (US$46.0 million),
Iler Bank (US$31.5 million), DSI (US$3.5 million), and internal cash generation (US$1.8 million)
3 .23         Civil Works/Supply and Installation.  An estimated US$119.2 million
equivalent of civil works, including supply and installation of water and sewer
pipes, will be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) . An
estimated US$6.9 million equivalent of small civil works contracts are not
considered to be of interest to foreign bidders. The estimated value of these
contracts would range from US$660,000 to US$3 million and their aggregated amount
would be less than US$7 million; they would be procured through local competitive
bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. For procurement under NCB,
foreign bidders from the Bank's eligible countries would be allowed to
participate. For contracts procured through ICB, bidding documents following the
Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Small Works (SBDSW) will be used. For the
contracts to be procured through NCB, the Standard Bidding Documents for National
Competitive Bidding will be used. For the supply and installation of equipment
for pumping stations (US$1 million), the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for
the Supply and Installation of Plant and Equipment will be used.
Prequalification of contractors would be used for large or complex civil works
contracts procured through ICB according to the World Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement Under IBRD loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, paras. 2.9 and 2.10).
To ensure the selection and hiring of qualified contractors under NCB, project



21
supervision missions would agree with the Borrower on satisfactory and clearly
defined postqualification criteria.
3.24      Goods.  Goods and equipment (US$11.3 million) to be financed from the
Bank loan proceeds would consist of water meters, vehicles, computer systems, and
office equipment. As far as practicable, these will be packaged in such a manner
that all packages are large enough to attract international competition and at
the same time will contain packages suitable for attracting small manufacturers.
An estimated US$8.9 million equivalent of goods and equipment (estimated average
contract value US$250,000 equivalent) will be procured through ICB. Turkish
manufacturers competing for the contracts for the supply of goods procured under
ICB procedures will receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent of the
CIF price or the prevailing custom duty applicable to non-exempt importers,
whichever is less, provided they can prove to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes more than 30% of
locally procured labour, raw materials and components. Furniture estimated to
cost the equivalent of US$125,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to US$125,000 will be procured through NCB using the Standard Bidding
Documents for Procurement of Goods through NCB. International Shopping (IS),
based on comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers
from three eligible countries, will be used for procurement of some water meters
and computer software estimated to cost less than US$250,000, with an aggregate
limit of US$1.0 million. National Shopping (NS), based on comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers, will be used for procurement
of computer accessories estimated to cost less than US$50,000, with an aggregate
limit of US$300,000. Table 3.5 gives for each project component the number of
contracts to be procured through ICB and NCB and the range of contract value.
Table 3.5: Number of Contracts and Value RanQe
ICB                   NCB
Project       Total No. of   ICB   Value Range  NCB       Value Range
Component       Contracts    No     (US$ mi.)     No        (US$ mi.)
Works
Water Supply              11      8        2.2-15.0     3         0.7-3.0
Stormwater                 1                            1          0.7
Sewerage                   2      2         3-16.8
Sewage Treatment           I      1         9.5
Equipment
Water and Sewerage        10      5         1-2.7       1"         0.1
"Funuture
3.25      Consultant services. An estimated US$28.8 million equivalent of
consultant services (up to 8 contracts) for civil works design and supervision



22
for water supply and sewerage; stormwater drainage design and master planning;
base mapping for water supply; hydrogeological studies; preparation of bidding
documents for private operator; technical assistance for the Sirket would be
awarded on a competitive basis according to World Bank Guidelines. The remaining
consultant services, totalling about US$1.3 million, will involve the award of
contracts to individual consultants (for technical assistance for the PMU) and
ranging from several weeks to 13 months in duration.   Details of the nature and
cost of the consultant services are found in paras. 3.08 and 3.09 and in Annexes
3.5 and 3.6.
3.26       Country Procurement Assessment.  A Country Procurement Assessment
Report (CPAR) which was completed in 1985 is presently being updated. Laws and
regulations regarding local procurement procedures and practices in Turkey are
being reviewed by the Bank in order to reach judgement as to whether local
procedures are acceptable for Bank-financed contracts. The findings of that
review will be discussed with Turkish authorities and agreement will be reached
regarding any changes needed to make procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Furthermore, ASAT will use the Standard Bidding Documents for the procurement
through NCB.
3.27       All contracts awarded through NCB in excess of US$1 million, all
contracts awarded through ICB, and contracts for technical assistance and
consultancy services valued in excess of US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for
individuals will be subject to prior Bank review. This limit will result in
prior review of about 95 percent of total procurement. Contracts for lesser
amounts will be subject to ex-post review. Also, terms of reference for all
technical assistance and consultancy contracts will be reviewed in advance by the
Bank. ASAT will promptly inform Bank staff regarding procurement plans,
solicitations, proposed contract awards and progress in the implementation of its
procurement activities. Contracting and purchase actions will also be summarized
in periodic submissions of operations reports prepared for the Bank by ASAT
(initially prepared by PMU and later by Sirket).
Disbursements
3.28       The proposed allocation of the proceeds from the loan is shown in
Annex 3.08. The Bank loan will finance:
(a)   civil works:  54 percent of expenditures;
(b)   goods:  55 percent of expenditures;
(c)   consultants' services: 100 percent of expenditures; and
(d)   incremental recurrent costs: 100 percent of expenditures for the
Sirket through August 31, 1996; 100 percent of expenditures for the
PMU through November 30, 1996.
3.29    Retroactive financing in an amount of US$600,000 would be provided to
cover PMU expenditures made after March 31, 1995.  Loan withdrawal applications
will be prepared by the PMU and the Sirket for ASAT.  These will be fully
documented, except for expenditures against contracts valued at less than: (i)



2 3
US$1,000,000 for goods and works; (ii) US$100,000 for consulting firms; and (iii)
US$50,000 for individual consultation, which will be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures detailing the individual transactions. Documentation
supporting these expenditures will be retained by the implementing entity for at
least the duration of the project.
3.30    To facilitate payments from the loan, ASAT will establish a Special
Account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank or in the Central Bank. The
account will have a maximum allocation of US$4 million, but until the pace of
activity in the project justifies a balance of this size, defined as when the
total of withdrawals from the loan account plus the value of any special
commitments made against the loan are equal to US$10 million, the maximum balance
in the Special Account shall be US$1 million. Documented applications for
replenishment of the Special Account will be submitted every three months, or
when two-thirds of the amount deposited has been withdrawn, whichever occurs
earlier. Monthly bank statements of the Special Accounts, reconciled by the
Sirket, will accompany all replenishment requests.
3.31    The estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Table 3.6 below.
The project will be implemented over a seven-and-a-half-year period while
disbursements will extend through eight years. The projected disbursement
pattern differs from the standard disbursement profile for the sector in Turkey
in duration (eight years instead of ten years) and in the amount of disbursement
in the early years of the project (higher in the project schedule than in the
profile). However, it differs only slightly from the Bank-wide sector profile in
disbursements in the early years (ten percent in the first year compared to six
percent in the Bank-wide profile) while being seven percent longer (six months)
in duration. The loan closing date is June 30, 2003. The estimated schedule of
disbursement is given in Annex 3.9.
Table 3.6: Estimated Loan Disbursement
(US$ million)
World Bank Fiscal Year  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003
Annual                 0.0  10.0  10.0   11.5  12.4  18.3  16.1   13.0  8.7
Cumulative            0.0  10.0  20.0  31.5  43.9  62.2  78.3  91.3  100.0
Accounts, Audit and Reporting
3.32        The Sirket will maintain project accounts to adequately reflect
project expenditures. The project accounts and the Sirket operational accounts
will be audited annually by independent private auditors, according to terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank. The Special Account will be audited by
Government auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit reports will contain a
separate opinion on the use of Statements of Expenditures. Audit reports in
English will be forwarded to the Bank not later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year. During negotiations, agreement was reached to have all these
above-mentioned accounts audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank (para. 6.01
[hi).



24
3.33        The Sirket, under the guidance of the PMU and on behalf of ASAT, will
provide quarterly reports to the Bank on progress of project implementation.
These reports will include a summary of implementation status; the Sirket's
financial statements including the Special Account; a description of progress on
restructuring the water and sewerage services; and data on their performance
indicators. Included in these reports will also be procurement information such
as: (a) contract award information; (b) revised cost estimates for individual
contracts and the total project cost; and (c) revised implementation schedule.
The Sirket will prepare an Implementation Completion Report and submit it to the
Bank six months after the closing date of the loan.  Durinq neqotiations,
agreement was reached on reporting recquirements (para. 6.01 [i]).
Supervision
3.34        Intensive Bank supervision will be needed because the Project has
significant policy and institutional requirements. Much of the day-to-day
supervision will be carried out by the Sirket assisted by the PMU, but intensive
Bank supervision of the Sirket will be required particularly in the early years,
during which time the technical assistance will be made operational and most of
the procurement contracts will have been awarded. Field supervision would take
place at least three times each year. Supervision requirements would be 5
staff-weeks in 1995, 25 staff-weeks in 1996, and 15 each year during the period
1997 to 2003, for a total of 135 staff-weeks. A Project Launch Workshop will
also be organized, along with a training seminar in procurement, disbursement and
accounts/audits soon after loan signature. Supervision cost economies will be
sought by relying as much as possible on the Bank Resident Mission for
consultations. Costs for follow-on projects should decline as the Sirket gains
experience in investment planning and implementation and Bank procedures. Each
supervision mission should normally include a sanitary engineer and a financial
analyst.
Annual Project Review
3.35        An annual review, between the Bank, ASAT and the Sirket, to assess
progress and problems towards achieving the objectives of the Project and to
consider further actions needed for this purpose, will take place before September
30 of each year. Agreement on this review was reached at negotiations (para. 6.01
[j]). The review of financial aspects of the project should focus on the results of
the previous four quarters of operation. The Bank financing for the water supply
and sewerage investment program for the coming year will be adjusted to match the
extent to which financial self-sufficiency (para. 4.06) is achieved or sustained.
IV. FINANCE
Past Financial Performance and Current Financial Position
4.01        The financial condition and performance of the Municipality's water
operations cannot be determined with accuracy since ASO has been a municipal
department with an accounting system which does not record asset values or



2 5
properly distinguish between water and transport revenues and expenditures.
However, it has been possible to estimate the results of water operations, to
extrapolate asset and liability values and to establish trends over the last
several years, thereby permitting an assessment of the pre-project condition and
performance of ASO.
4.02        At the end of 1993, ASO had a substantial asset base (estimated at
about US$38 million) and a relatively small, TL-denominated debt with DSI and
Iller Bank of about US$10 million equivalent. While debt has increased 3 times
since 1991 (due to a Iller Bank-financed sewerage project), the debt/equity ratio
at the beginning of 1994 was reasonable at 25 percent.
4.03        ASO's financial performance has been generally weak, with losses in
each of the last three years resulting in a deterioration of cash flow that was
worsened by the Municipality's practice of using ASO's cash for other purposes.
A more detailed look at ASO's historical performance shows decreases in water
sales revenue over the last three years while personnel expenditures increased.
The latter averaged about 85 percent of water sales and about 68 percent of total
operating costs, unacceptably high percentages that account for the very low
levels of maintenance and repair expenditures that the Municipality was able to
afford.
Project Financial Approach
4.04        Water supply and wastewater services will be fully self-supporting,
with cost-based tariffs chargeable to the users of these services. However,
initially significant loan financing is necessary to supplement internally-
generated funds as project investments are substantial. This financing scheme
will require substantial tariff increases. There will be no direct recovery of
stormwater costs which will be covered by sewerage tariffs. No AMM/DMs
contributions will be required to support ASAT's project and operations.
4.05        The operator of the water supply, sewerage and stormwater systems
should recover their costs from three different sources: (a) contractually-
defined charges (which form part of the tariff) to cover recurrent costs arising
from operating the systems and providing the services (personnel, energy, general
maintenance, chemicals and other consumables); (b) contractually-defined
assessments (participation fees) to direct beneficiaries of investments in the
water and sewerage systems; and (c) contractually-defined connection fees,
penalties and charges for repair and maintenance.  The operator would be
contractually recruired to periodically adjust water and sewerage charges and fees
according to the Consumer Price Index or other index acceptable to the Bank to
compensate for inflation. This was agreed at negotiations (para. 6.01 [k]). The
operator's charges should form part of the tariff.  Other elements of the tariff,
to be set by ASAT, should comprise ASAT's own operating costs (which would be
minor), Sirket costs, ASAT's debt service, and ASAT's contribution to investment.
The tariff and other fees and charges will be billed and collected by the private
operator. After retaining their contractual share of collected tariffs and other
revenues, the private operator should remit to ASAT/Sirket the balance of
revenues, including participation fees, which should cover ASAT and Sirket
operating needs, debt service and investment obligations.



26
4.06        In January 1994, the average water tariff was equivalent to about
US$0.44/m3 equivalent, with an increase to US$0.63/mr3 equivalent (June 1994
average exchange rate US$1 = TL 31,162) effective from July 1, 1994. The
increase was approved by AMM Assembly in July 1994. The average tariffs, as
envisioned in the feasibility study during the implementation of the project,
are: 1995-US$0.53; 1996-US$0.67; 1997 to 2000-US$0.85; and 2001 to 2002-US$0.91.
Agreement was reached at negotiations on the following criteria for tariff
setting: ASAT would implement ciuarterlv tariff adjustments for its services to
ensure that they are sufficient to cover (a) ASAT/Sirket operating costs; (b) the
operating cost of the private operator as set in the lease and management
contract; (c) a reasonable contribution to investment; and (d) debt service
(para. 6.01 [1]). The required contribution to investment is to be agreed, at
the annual review meeting (para. 3.35) so as to ensure that planned investments
are fully funded, and consistent with the project implementation schedule. The
operating cost of the private operator would vary according to inflation and
other variables as determined by the operator's lease and management contracts.
AMM Assembly has provided evidence of its agreement to the principles of autonomy
and financial self-sufficiency of water supply and sewerage operations.
4.07        For the customers connected to the sewerage network, a tariff equal
to 100 percent of the water tariff (the maximum sewerage charge permitted under
Turkish law) will be charged, beginning in 1998 when the first parts of the
sewerage system are commissioned. The calculation of the sewerage tariff should
follow the same criteria for water supply as would the adjustment of the tariff.
4.08        By law, all property owners benefitting from extensions or
improvements to the water network are required to "participate" in investment
costs. The participation fees are set by the Municipality based on declared
property values, as stipulated by the Municipal Revenues Law (No. 2464 of May
1981). Thus, under the Project, AMM would assess and collect participation fees
from all connected properties (95 percent of the population is currently served
by the water network) for the extension and rehabilitation of the water network.
For sewerage, participation fees would be collected only from properties to be
connected to the planned sewer network (about 50 percent of the population is to
be served by the sewer network by the end of the Project). Participation fees
have not been used in Antalya in recent years to help finance water network
improvements. Such fees have been used in the case of road improvements, but
generally have not been a significant source of financing as the fees have
typically been low (due both to low fee rates set by the Municipality and to low
declared property values) and have not been subject to adjustment for inflation
or interest during the payment period.
Future Finances and Project Financing Plan
4.09        ASAT/Sirket's financial requirements have been assessed taking into
account projected investment over the seven-and-a-half-year period of the project
(1995 to 2002). ASAT/Sirket is expected to adopt and implement sound operational
and financial policies which should enable the utility to: (a) improve the
quality of service and asset operation and maintenance practices; (b) internally
generate funds to finance the local counterpart funds required for project
investments; and (c) service local and foreign exchange-denominated debt (for the
proposed Bank and EIB loans).



27
4.10        ASAT/Sirket's total operating revenues are expected to gradually
increase from about US$7 million equivalent in 1993 to US$8 million in 1994, and
US$10 million in 1995 and continue increasing during the project period to US$42
million in 2002. To generate the required revenues and to contain costs, the
following assumptions have been used in the financial calculations:
(a)   total water sales will be increased from 17 million m3 in 1993 to 19
million m3 in 1995 and to 28 million m3 in 2002;
(b)   collection performance (collection ratio) will improve from an
average of 80 percent (for 1991-93) to 82 percent in 1996 and will
continue to improve by two percent annual increments to 90 percent in
2000 and by one percent increments to 92 percent in 2002;
(c)   labor productivity will improve from 3.5 employees/1,000 water
connections in 1993 to 2.5 in 1995 and 1.8 thereafter;
(d)   average tariffs for water supply will increase from US$0.46/mr3
equivalent in 1993 to US$0.53/mr3 in 1995, US$0.67/m3 in 1996,
US$0.85/m3 from 1997 to 2000, and US$0.91/m3 in 2001 and thereafter;
(e)   sewerage tariffs will be introduced in 1998 at levels equal to water
tariffs, resulting in total water and sewerage average tariffs of
US$1.70/m3 from 1998 to 2000 and US$1.82/mi3 in 2001 and thereafter.
4.11        The above operational improvements, resulting primarily from the
actions of the private operator, will be reflected in ASAT's financial
performance. Profitability (net income as a percentage of equity), which is
expected to be negative three percent in 1994, would become positive in 1996 and
would average about three percent in the second half of the implementation
period. ASAT's contribution to investment (self-financing ratio) would improve
from two percent in 1994 to 10 percent in 1996, 30 percent in 1998, and would
average 15 percent over the implementation period. Indebtedness (debt/equity
ratio) would increase, from 0.33 in 1994 to a high of 0.53 in 2000 and 2001
before declining to 0.51 in 2002. ASAT's performance in meeting these targets
would be reviewed at the annual project review (para. 3.38). Past financial
performance of ASO water operations and projected future performance of ASAT
water and sewerage operations are detailed in Annex 4.1.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND RISKS
Proiect Benefits
5.01        The Project approach supports the Government's decentralization
objective by shifting investment responsibility from the government budget to the
Municipality, which in turn, will recover costs through user charges. In
addition, the Project will: (a) promote managerial efficiency and improve service
quality through new institutional arrangements that would introduce private
sector participation in the operation of the water supply and sewerage; (b)



28
reduce health hazards to the local and tourist population; and (c) improve
environmental conditions.
5.02        The water component will increase water supply to the growing
population, which is already experiencing water shortages, and improve delivery
by maintaining network pressure at all times. Water consumption is expected to
increase from 22 million m3 in 1994 to 32 million m3 in 2002, and water sold is
expected to increase from 18 million m3 in 1994 to 28 million m3 in 2002.  Water
connections will increase from about 143,000 in 1994 to about 212,000 in 2002, by
which time service coverage will reach 96 percent. By the year 2002, sewerage
would be available to about 400,000 households, or about 50 percent of the
population. The network will be built mostly in the western part of the city,
where the water table is high and construction of septic tanks is not feasible,
and will extend to the north to protect the main water supply sources.
Improvements in public health will occur through reduction of potential of
drinking water contamination. Lack of reliable epidemiological studies makes it
difficult to quantify this benefit. The construction of the drainage facilities
will reduce the incidence of flooding in Antalya.
5.03        The proposed investments and technical assistance will strengthen
efficiency, financial viability, service quality, capacity to plan and implement
investments, and accountability to local consumers. Non-revenue water is
expected to decrease from 46 percent in 1994 to 36 percent in 2002. Through the
leasing arrangement, the number of employees is expected to be reduced
significantly, from 3.5 employees/1,000 connections to 1.8 employees/1,000
connections.
Least Cost Solution
5.04        The most economical alternative to meet the water demand has been
selected. This involves rehabilitation and extension of existing facilities
(well fields, pumping stations and network) and reduction of unaccounted-for-
water. In addition, optimal use of groundwater would postpone the construction
of the large-diameter water supply pipe from the Karacaoren Dam and water
treatment plant proposed by DSI until after 2020. For the sewerage network, only
the first phase which will serve about 50 percent of the population is
financially feasible. For the sewage treatment plant, a phased approach has been
adopted.
Rate of Return
5.05        The Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of the project has been calculated
using the incremental water and sewerage revenues as a proxy of the benefits
attributable to the investments. The average selling price which would apply in
1998, the year major project-financed water and sewerage investments are expected
to be operational (US$1.70/m3 at 1994 prices), has been taken in order to
calculate the revenues. The use of actual price charged as a proxy for benefits
is conservative since a high proportion of consumers would be willing to pay more
than this for essential water supply. The cost and benefit streams used to
calculate the IRR include the capital and operating costs, and benefits related
to investments additional to the project in order to meet the water and sewerage
demand up to 2020. All costs are at June 1994 market prices and exclude taxes.



29
Adjustment to border prices is not feasible for lack of data. The resultant rate
of return is 9.3 percent (Annex 5.1) and would range from 5.2 percent to 14.0
percent if costs and benefits were to be increased or decreased by 20 percent.
These rates of return, while lower than generally calculated for infrastructure
projects, are not unusual for water supply and sewerage projects. In this sector,
the actual returns to the economy, should also include those derived from
improved health and environmental conditions, and hence would substantially
exceed the returns derived from tariffs paid by the consumers. However, these
health and environmental benefits are impossible to quantify based on the
available data and are not included in the calculation of the rate of return.
The risk of occurence of the lower range of rates of return from the sensitivity
analysis is mitigated by contractual guarantees and loan conditionality which
safeguard the revenues on which benefits are based from shortfalls and from cost
increases through automatic tariff increases to reflect actual costs, operational
experience and inflation.
Affordability
5.06        Tariffs to residential customers will vary with consumption, and the
lowest (subsidized) tariff would apply to customers consuming up to 10 m3/month.
This low tariff level is intended to provide households with enough water to
satisfy basic needs and maintain minimum health and sanitary conditions. The
lowest tariff for water consumption in 1994 was US$0.32/m3 and in 2002 it is
projected at about US$0.50/mr3.  If the household is connected to the sewage
network, the tariff doubles, representing an amount of about two percent of the
monthly income of the households in the lowest income groups. This is well
within the five percent range of acceptability, by Bank standards, for water and
sanitation.
Poverty and Gender Impact
5.07        In 2002, 96 percent of the population would be connected to the water
network with about 60,000 new beneficiary households having been added, including
about 12,000 additional low income residents. In addition, the quality of the
water supply and distribution would be significantly improved. It has been
documented worldwide that lack of access to water tends to pose a greater burden
on women, so the gender impact of the project is also expected to be positive.
All the population would indirectly benefit from the construction of the new
sewerage network.
Risks
5.08        Project risks relate to: (a) the challenge of setting up, for the
first time in Turkey, lease and management arrangements for the operation of
public utilities; (b) the Sirket's institutional and financial capacity to carry
out a large investment program in view of potential political interference by AMM
and the Ministry of Interior; (c) the willingness of municipal authorities to
maintain cost recovery measures necessary to assure affordability and self-
financing; (d) the ability of Iller Bank and DSI to complete their investments
within the expected time; and (e) the time required to complete land acquisition.
To mitigate these risks, substantial up-front actions have taken place: (i) a
seminar was held in May 1994 to discuss private sector participation as an



30
instrument to improve efficiency in the operation of public services; and (ii) a
visit of representatives of AMM, DMs, Ministry of Interior and Treasury was
organized in May-June 1994 to privately-operated water and sanitation facilities
in France and the UK. In addition the project includes: (i) substantial
technical assistance; (ii) commitments from Iller Bank and DSI to the objectives
of the project; and (iii) a commitment from AMM to complete land acquisition
before loan effectiveness. Another risk relates to securing the full financing
required; this would be contained by requiring ASAT to secure that EIB financing,
which has already been approved, becomes effective by December 1, 1995, or to
come up with alternative financing arrangements satisfactory to the Bank and by
the proposed event of default (para. 3.18).
Environmental Considerations
5.09        The Project has been reviewed and classified in Environmental
Screening Category "B", consistent with the provisions of the Operational
Directive 4.01, Annex E "Environmental Assessment". Preliminary environmental
analysis of the components has been carried out to identify benefits, examine
potential negative impacts and propose mitigation measures where needed (see
Project File). Analyses consistent with the requirements for Category "B"
projects were undertaken during the preparation of the Project and the
feasibility study took into account the needed assessment and control of
detrimental effects of the marine outfall for the treated effluent from the
wastewater treatment plant. The Ministry of Environment has approved the
environmental assessment as prepared in the feasibility study. Satisfactory
designs would be submitted to the Ministry of Environment and the Bank for
approval before tendering. Civil works contracts will include appropriate
requirements to ensure that the works are carried out in such way as to minimize
any negative environmental effects. There are no resettlement issues and no dam
construction in the Project.
5.10        The Project strives to protect the unique environmental conditions of
Antalya, benefitting the local population and the tourism industry by: (a)
protecting and improving underground water quality through construction of
sewerage; and (b) improving water distribution and easing pressure on the water
sources by reducing water losses.
5.11        The sewage treatment plant Sjcations for the west and the east sides
were identified and incorporated in the Antalya urban development master plan
many years ago. The locations were confirmed by the feasibility studies
undertaken by the consulting firm hired for the preparation of the project. The
sites are not inhabited. The western location is used for mixed agriculture and
grazing, and procedures for its acquisition by the Municipality are well advanced
(para. 3.21). The site is large enough to protect the neighbors against the
potential odor. The eastern location, which is not part of the Project, is owned
by the Forestry Department, and the Municipality has already made a request for
its acquisition.
5.12        The measures planned to mitigate the project environmental impacts
are summarized in Annex 5.2.



31
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Aqreements reached at Negotiations
6.01        During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(a)    ASAT would limit Sirket professional staff to a maximum of 10
professional employees (para. 3.07);
(b)    ASAT would invite for bids by private operator not later than
October 31, 1995, and would hire the private operator not later
than May 31, 1996 (para. 3.08);
(c)    key staff of the Sirket would be appointed by November 30, 1995
(para. 3.08);
(d)    technical assistance for the Sirket would be contracted under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank not later than April 30,
1996 (para. 3.08);
(e)    ASAT agrees that no investment over US$200,000 equivalent in cost
would be undertaken by ASAT without the prior concurrence of the
Bank (para. 3.15);
(f)    ASAT agrees to come up with alternative financing arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank if EIB financing is not effective by
December 1, 1995 (para. 3.18);
(g)    subsidiary agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, would be signed by
ASAT with the Sirket for contract management and other project-
related administrative and financial services not later than
November 30, 1995 (para. 3.19);
(h)    ASAT agrees to annual audits of project, ASAT and Sirket accounts
and Special Account prepared by independent auditors (para. 3.32);
(i)    ASAT agrees to the preparation of quarterly reports and an
Implementation Completion Report (para. 3.33);
(j)    ASAT agrees on an annual review to assess progress of the project
(para. 3.35);
(k)    the water and sewerage operator should periodically adjust water
and sewerage charges according to the Consumer Price Index or other
index acceptable to the Bank to compensate for inflation (para.
4.05); and
(1)    ASAT agrees to implement tariff and other charges sufficient to
ensure full coverage of (a) ASAT and Sirket operating costs; (b)
the charges of the private operator as set in the lease and



32
management contract; (c) a reasonable contribution by ASAT to
investment; and (d) debt service (para. 4.06).
Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
6.02          Before effectiveness of the Project, the following conditions would
be fulfilled:
(a)    the Sirket for the management of the water, sewerage and solid
waste services would be created by AMM and ASAT under the Turkish
Trade Law (para. 3.08);
(b)    technical assistance for the PMU would be engaged by ASAT under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.09);
(c)    a specialized consultant for the preparation of the bidding
documents for the private operator would be contracted under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.10); and
(d)    the legal requirements for land acquisition will be completed and
no obstacles remain for the completion of the sewage treatment
plant (para. 3.21).
Recommendation
6.03          With the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan to ASAT in the amount of US$100
million. The loan would be for a period of 17 years, including a five-year grace
period, at the standard variable interest rate.



33
Annex 1.1
TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Turkey: Municipal Water and Sewerage Service Indicators (1989)
Total population a/                                           55,300,000
Urban population a/                                           32,627,000
Rural population a/                                           22,700,000
Population served with public water system                    51,150,000
Urban population served with public water b/                  31,850,000  (97%)
Rural population served with public water b/                  19,300,000  (85%)
Population having sewer connections c/d/                           56%
Population having septic tanks c/d/                                29%
Water Production and Consumption
Water produced e/                                               3,067 Mm3
Water sold e/                                                   1,284 Mm3
Unaccounted-for-water                                              58%
Number of water connections c/d/                                4,400,000
Number of water and sewerage employees e/                          19,300
Employees per thousand water connections                           4.3
Water sold per connection                                       292 m3
Per capita water sales (lcd)
(all sorts of consumption)                                      77.5
Sources:    a) State Institute of Statistics, Statistical Indicators 1923-1990
b) Water Supply and Sanitation Country Report, June 1990
c) Social Indicators, September 1990
d) Figures refer to 1984
e) Gas and Water Statistics, 1989



34
Annex 1.2
TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Water Supply and Sewerage Sector
Total Central Government Investments 1980-89
(US$ million - 1990 prices)
Year      Water Supply    Sewerage         Total         Total        Investment
Budget        Budget
1980              170.4           35.8         206.2            2.5           10.0
1981              186.5           22.1         208.6            1.8            7.5
1982              172.5           53.5         226.0            2.2            8.9
1983              212.9           43.3         256.2            2.1            8.2
1984              294.2           67.5         361.7            3.0           12.8
1985              305.6           97.0         402.6            2.8          15.3
1986              434.2          137.3         571.5            4.1          22.8
1987              441.9          138.9         580.8            3.4           20.5
1988              384.1          121.0         505.1            2.4           14.2
1989              339.1          101.1         440.2            2.1           12.9
Total             2941.4         817.5         3758.9
Source:  Turkey Water Supply and Sanitation Country Report
Sub-Regional Consultation on Post-Water Decade Strategies
Dubrovnik, Yugoslavia June 26-30, 1990.
Prepared by a Committee under the coordination of State Planning
Organization
Water Supplv and Sewerage Sector
Total Central Government Investments 1980-89
(US$ million - 1990 prices)
Executing Agency                     Water       Sewerage            Total
Iller Bank                           1,245            814            2,059
DSI                                  1,088             --            1,088
GDRS                                   608              4              612
Total                                                 818



35
Annex 1.3
TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Previous Bank Experience in the Sector
Loan                            Year of
Loan Title   Amount   Purpose                  Approval    Status                 Comments
844-TU,        37.0   Expansion of water    1972            Completed in 1981.   Performance Audit Report No. 4853,
Istanbul               suppLy system for                                           issued in 1983, concluded that the main
Water Supply            Istanbul.                                                  project objectives were achieved.
2159-TU,       88.1    Expansion of            1982         Completed in 1990.   Project Performance Audit Report No.
Istanbul               sewerage services,                                          10852 in August 1992 concluded that the
Sewerage                sewage treatment and                                       project was well-implemented and
disposal for                                               demonstrated the high degree of sector
Istanbul.                                                 self-financing capacity in Greater
Istanbul.
2537-TU,        9.2   Preparation Studies   1985            Completed in 1988.   Project design too complex.
Cukurova                for the Cukurova                                           Project Coordination Unit not
Region Urban           Urban Development                                           sufficiently accountable to project
Engineering             Project.                                                   entities. Project did not result in
Project                                                                            agreed reform program for Iller Bank.
2818-TU,      184.0   Water supply,            1987         Contracts awarded    Project implementation has faced
Izmir Water            sewerage and sewage                  amount to             significant managerial and financial
SuppLy and              treatment facilities                approximately 65%    problems and by now, it is clear that
Sewerage                for Izmir.                          of the estimated       the project objectives will not be
Project                                                     project cost.          achieved.  The project scope has been
substantially reduced and part (US$68
million) of the loan has been cancelled
at the borrower's request.
2819-TU,       120.0   Urban                    1987        Project was scaled   Overly ambitious project design and
Cukurova                infrastructure,                     down in 1991.          complex implementation arrangements
Urban                   improvement of                      Reduced project        combined with lack of commitment of
Development             policies,                           will be completed    Project Review, Implementation and
Project.                institutional and                   by June 1995.          Monitoring unit brought the project to a
financing                                                 virtual standstill and $91.5 million was
arrangements for the                                       cancelled in July 1991.
Cukurova Region.
2888-TU,      218.0   Additional water          1987        Contracts awarded    Progress was initially slowed down in
Istenbul               supply, sewerage and                 amount to              1989 by insufficient counterpart funds
Water Supply            sewage treatment                    approximately 67%    and change of site locations for some
and Sewerage            facilities for                      of the estimated       treatment plants now facing major
Project                 Istanbul.                           project cost.          financial problems.
3151-TU,       173.0   Sewerage and sewage   1989           Contract awarded       Progress initially slowed down for lack
Ankara                  treatment works for                 amount to approx.    of detailed designs.  As a result the
Sewerage                Ankara.                             70% of the project   project is behind schedule and facing
Project                                                     cost.                  financial constraints.
3565-TU       117.0   Water supply,            1993         Tendering underway   At the beginning of project
Bursa Water            sewerage including                                          implementation.
& Sanitation            sewage treatment,
solid waste disposal
for Bursa



36
Annex 2.1
TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Projected Population in AntalYa
Year         Population  Annual Growth Rates
1950           31,090
5.16*
1955           39,996
7.17
1960           56,404
7.02
1965           79,195
5.73
1970          104,088
6.61
1975          144,088
5.75
1980          190,542
6.50
1985          261,114
7.65
1990          378,000
7.00
1995          530,000
6 .00
2000          709,000
5.00
2005          905,000
4.00
2010        1,106,000
2.40
2015        1,245,000
1.80
2020        1,361,000



37
Annex 2.2
TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Distribution of Monthly Household Income by Ouintiles in Antalya
Quintile       URBAN - NATIONAL AVERAGE 1992               ANTALYA -- 1992
Avg. TL      Avg. $    % income    Avg. TL       Avg. $   e income
First 209      1,179,221          172       5.43   1,445,577          211       7.55
Second 20%    2,024,659           295       9.33   2,226,047          325      11.63
Third 20%      2,951,148          430      13.60   2,857,439          417      14.93
Fourth 20%    4,494,546           655      20.71   3,962,435          578      20.71
Fifth 20%    11,051,758          1612      50.93   8,642,697         1260      45.17
Total                                     100.00                              100.00
Source:   SIS update income Distribution of Antalya (1992), Table 4
Statistical Yearbook of Turkey (1991), page: 250
Average US$ in 1992 is 6,857 TL



38
Annex 2.3
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Projected Water Demand
Yrs    Population    Service    Domestic    Commercial    Industrial    Tourist    Special     Total     Loss       Total
Ratio                                                                     net                 gross
demand               demand
(number)     (%)         m3/d          m3/d          m3/d        m3/d      m3/d       Mm3/d      (%)       Mm3/d
1992     433,000       95        38,667        11,600         685        3,827        -        54,779      41       92,846
1998     631,000       95        64,741        19,422         685        14,076     5,600     104,524      37      165,911
2005     905,000       98        113,523       34,057          685       19,106     9,400     176,771      30      252,530
2020    1,361,000      98        213,405       64,021          685       23-858     11,400    313,369      !0      391,712
Proposed Use of Water Sources
Name of Sources           Existing Capacity          Proposed Capacity                  Service Year
I/s        m"d            I/s          m31d
Duraliler wells                    1,04e       90,20C         2,600       174,00 existing--to be developed in 1998
Bogacay wells                        42(       36,36?           524        45,00  existing--to be developed in 2000
Magara spring                        35        30,20C                            to be abandoned--already polluted
Meydan wells                         35                                          to be abandoned--already polluted
Altinova (Koyunlar) wells             71        6,50(                            to be abandoned
Topcular wells                        7         6,00(                            to be abandoned
Gurkavak spring                       6         5,20                ,300          sed as an alternative
Ermenek well                          2         5,                               to be abandoned
Yesilkoy well                         25        5,20                             to be abandoned
Cakirlar well                         25        5,20C                            to be abandoned
Kepezalti well                         9          80C                            to be abandoned
Hurma                                                           25,                               2006
Distas                                                          70(        60,00C                 2000
Cevre Yolu                              I     -1,04                        90,                    2005
Universite                                                     76          66,                    2014
Karain                                                          467        40,                    2006
Total                  2,453      212,00C



39
Annex 2.3
Page 2 of 2
TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Demand Supply Capacity Curves
5eo.000                                                                                                                4970
450.000 
400.000                                                                                                                     392
350.000 3                                                             3000
300.000 -
250.000   212000                     2  000
200.000 1 
5 0,000
0
191                           1990                          2000                          2005                           2020
-i--Total Ns DeMmni m 3Md                 Total GTmss Dem,a)d                   Supply CapadtyTm 3Md



40
Annex 2.4
TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
DSI Investment
The work includes: Pumping station (270 l/s); water mains (0500 mm - 650 m;
600 mm - 6,850 m; 0700 mm - 1,900 m; 0800 mm - 7,145 m; 4900 mm - 5,008 m;
01,000 mm - 9,695 m; 01,100 mm - 2,280 m; 01400 mm - 3,255 m); and four
elevated reservoirs (20,000 m3 and 10,000 m3 in zone III, and two 5,000 m3 in
zone IV and V, respectively). The pumping station and the water mains are
completed and the reservoirs are under construction according to the new
proposed consultant TBS design. Full benefit from DSI investment would be
achieved only if the distribution network is extended and partly replaced,
which is the aim of the proposed project.



41
Annex 2.5
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Sewerage--Existing Facilities
Installations constructed prior to 1975 are mostly equipped with single-
compartment pits dug in the travertine, with or without a zerzemin (soakage pit).
Most of the buildings constructed after 1975 are equipped with concrete septic
tanks, often of single-compartment type, although it was not an obligation at the
time. During the last 10 years, in order to conform with a Ministry of Health and
Social Works' regulation, septic tanks have had to be built to serve facilities
within 1,000 m of potable water sources or 500 m of the sea. This regulation
involves all buildings in Antalya since potable water is drawn up from the
underlying travertine. Owners are required to improve their sanitation facilities
whenever they ask for removal of septage. Since 1985, a total of about 7,200 modern
septic tanks have been built. At present, about 70 percent of the population is
served by some kind of concrete septic tank. The newly recommended concrete septic
tank is multi-compartment (generally three to four compartments) and is combined
with a traditional zerzemin of a small-diameter 20 m to 40 m deep-borehole for
percolating the effluent. Design criteria of one m3/c for a maximum of 100 persons
is appropriate, but not always applied during construction.
Disposal facilities receive not only domestic wastewater but also some
of the rainwater falling on the property, either directly into the septic tank or
into the zerzemin. Because it often is not protected by a screening device, solids
such as papers, plastics and other floating materials clog the zerzemin or the
underground channels. Although such facilities should be desludged on a yearly
basis (Iller Bank Regulation 1986), this in fact occurs only when odors indicate
that the zerzemin is clogged and the septic tank overflows. The system is then
cleaned with acid, which damages the travertine, or a new zerzernin is built.
Institutional and educational buildings (four hospitals, 129 schools),
except the university and the electricity company (TEK), have septic tanks, although
their load exceeds the design capacity of 100 persons as mentioned above.
Industrial activities have not developed, except for one ferro-chrome
and one battery factory. The construction materials industry developed in the early
eighties, in response to tourism development and the rapid population increase.
Most of the industries are located along the important access roads from the north
(Burdur-Ankara) and the east (Airport-Alanya) in four organized industrial zones of
370 ha, 120 ha, 32 ha, and 40 ha, respectively. The 370 ha and 120 ha industrial
zones, including the sewerage system, are under construction. The 32 ha zone is
served by a sewerage system draining the effluent into a large buried settling tank
that allows infiltration into the ground through three boreholes. The 40 ha duty-
free zone, near the port, is newly opened and is fully served by a sewerage system



42
Annex 2.5
Page 2 of 2
and a biological wastewater treatment plant (capacity about 3,000 P.E.). Except
for nine factories that have some kind of a pre-treatment, almost all scattered
industries merely have septic tanks with soaking pits or boreholes.
Tourism activities are served by large hotels and "pensions" (31) and holiday
camps (seven). Twenty-eight of these facilities are equipped with biological
wastewater treatment and ten have only septic tanks.



43
Annex 2.6
TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Iller Bank Sewerage Work Program up to 2002
Sewer diameter  Original Contract    Revision 1992  Adjustment in    Agreement
accordance with   June 1993
(ni)                        the Agreement *
(mm)                               (m)             (m)           (ni)
300(             555C                                             C.
240(             198
220(             2741 _
200(                (            1167,            (80F        1086'
160(             243              4481                         4484
140(             2521              89               0           892
120(             3094             398'          (1778)         2205
-00              158S             962            (1758T        7868
80(             342q            14191           (8374)        5824
70(             259                                              (
60(             2514             910           (5916          3188
50(             841               2           (10352         7270
40(             10181           36171          (19613        16565
1358'           13581           27721      41305*
20(             4400                           MI 21789:  257892*
- The negative figures represent sewers included in the original 1990
contract, but that are outside the area covered by the June 1993
agreement, and will not be constructed under the Iller Bank program
- These are tertiary sewers and they include parcel connections
- In addition, two pumping stations will be constructed:
TM1  (4 pumps  (3+1)  with a head of 18 m and a Q=120  1/s/pump
TM2  (4 pumps  (3+1)  with a head of   9 m and a Q=1751/s/pump



44
Annex 2.7
TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Sewage Treatment Plant Capacity (lls)
Description               1998   2002   2005   2020
Mean Waste Water Flow        405    958   1128   1979
Peak Flow                    810   1916   2256   3958
Infiltration                  71     83     83      84
,Total                       881   1998   2339   4042
Population Equivalent to be served by the western
wastewater treatment plant and its estimated sewaqe load
Year       Domestic       Tourist Industry  Total    BOD          COD      SS1
Iller Bank Project                               ton/day ton/day  ton/day
1998     93,423   39,958  10,300      8,000 151,300       8.2      20.5     13.6
2002    223,616  188,302  13,600    32,000 457,600    24.7         61.8    41.2
2005    250,603  214,536  16,100    41,000 522,100    28.2         70.4     47.0
2020  _ 391,450  286,804  18,700    88,000 784,700    42.4    105.9         70.6
Note: Based on a pollution discharge of 54 gr/capita/day of Biological
Oxygen Demand (BOD), plus an appropriate allowance for BOD discharge from
industries, and 90 gr/capita/day of Suspended Solids (SS), the total BOD
load and Suspended Solids would reach the loads indicated above. It has
been assumed that the general mix of industries will remain approximately
the same as at present.



45
Annex 3.1
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
ANTALYA METROPOLITAN MUNICIPALITY
Municipal Structure
The responsibilities are exercised through an institutional structure
which consists of the Municipal Council, an Executive Committee of Members, and
the Mayor as Head of the executive employees. In September 1993, the
Municipality of Antalya was granted the status of Metropolitan Municipality under
Law No. 3030. As a result, the Antalya Municipality receives a portion of the
nine percent national tax revenues which are distributed on the pro rata of the
population by Iller Bank. The elevation of the Antalya municipality to
metropolitan status established three new district municipal authorities, each
with a mayor, council and administration. These new district municipalities have
responsibilities for solid waste collection and street cleaning. Law No. 2560
requires the creation of an autonomous and self-financing water and sewerage
company under AMM. This entity was created in February 1995 by Decree 94/65/6
(Annex 3.3). Until the private operator is engaged, the personnel of ASO (former
water department) and Environmental Health Department (former sewerage
department) will remain as personnel of the Municipality.
The Municipal Council/General Assemblv
The Council consists of 38 elected members who serve for a five-year
period. Its function is to determine policy for the provision of the various
local services.
The Executive Committee
The Committee is chaired by the Mayor and is composed of members
elected of the Municipal Council, together with the head of municipal
departments. The Committee meets twice weekly to review the policy, monitor
operational and financial performance and examine administrative matters.
The Mayor
The Mayor is the institutional head and chief executive of the
Municipality. He is elected for a five-year period. He is required to ratified
all decisions of the Municipal Council. As chief executive, the Mayor has the
responsibility to implement the Council's policies. To manage the municipal
departments, he appoints six non-elected Vice-Mayors who have few departments
reporting to them.



46
Annex 3.1
Page 2 of 2
Personnel
The Municipality has a staff of 2,400 employees on a permanent basis.
About 380 are subject to Public Employee Law and have "civil service" terms and
conditions; the remaining 2,020 are subject to Union Law and have "general
worker" terms and conditions.



TUR_EY
ANTALYA WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
PROIUOSED INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
LEGAL                                                 ANTALYA
AUTHORITY                                           METROPOLITAN                   DISTRICT
ASAT                     MUNICIPALITY                 MUNICIPALITIES
(AMM)                       IDMMsl
PMU
MANAGEMENT                                              SIRKET
RESPONSIBILITY
OPERATION                                              PRIVATE
RESPONSIBILITY                                        OPERATOR
Note:    Contract for water supply and sewerage would be signed witli ASAT and the private operator



48
Annex 3.3
TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Antalva Water Supply and Sanitation Authority (ASAT)
Governing Entities
According to Law No. 2560, ASAT would be governed by:
o a General Assembly consisting of the Metropolitan Municipal Council;
o a Board of Directors consisting of the Mayor, as the chairman of the
Board, the General Director, as the vice-chairman of the Board, and
three municipal appointees nominated on a part-time basis mainly to sit
at Board meetings; and
o a General Director, who is appointed by the Ministry of Interior upon
nomination by the Mayor and, as the chief executive officer, is
responsible for the day-to-day operations of ASAT.
The General Assembly, which consists of 38 elected members who serve for a
five-year term, will approve ASAT's investment plans, operating budgets, tariffs,
borrowing and staffing prepared by the Sirket.
The Board of Directors will approve matters proposed by the Sirket before
being submitted to the General Assembly.
The General Director will implement the decisions of the General Assembly
and the Board of Directors and manage the day-to-day activities of ASAT.
ASAT's staffing plan, remuneration levels and personnel regulations are
approved by the Ministry of Interior.
ASAT's accounts will be maintained by the Sirket and will be audited
annually by independent accredited auditors approved by the Bank.
Main Issues
The autonomy of the Board has to be improved. Political influence
still takes precedence in the determination of the financial and operational
policies and the central government has control over manpower planning and levels
of remuneration. Such issues have to be addressed if cost-effective services to
customers are to be achieved.



49
Annex 3.4
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
ANTALYA METROPOLITAN MUNICIPALITY
SIRKET
Rationale for a Sirket
The past performance of the Antalya municipal departments, together with
the less than fully successful experience of the organizations created under the
ISKI Law in other metropolitan municipalities, help explain the decision of AMM
to contract out the operation of the water supply and sewerage services to the
private sector under lease (affermage) and management arrangements. The proposed
Sirket is needed to supervise the operation of the services under the private
operator and to enforce the provisions of the lease contract, ensuring that the
operator complies with all its commitments. The Sirket, incorporated under the
Turkish Trade Law, is not subject to staff regulations of the Ministry of
interior and the Law 657 on civil servants, but is regulated by the general Labor
Law 1475 which applies to private enterprises. Management and remuneration of
its personnel is only subject to the directives of the Board.
Governing Entities
The Sirket is expected to be incorporated as soon as possible following the
creation of ASAT. The Sirket will be owned by AMM, the DMs and ASAT. The Board
of Directors will comprise representatives of AMM (1), DMs (3), ASAT (1),
Sirket's Director General (1), DSI (1), Iller Bank (1), local chamber of Commerce
and Industries (1), local chamber of Artisans and Craftsman (1), and the
Association of Tourism (1). Each representative will have an equal voting power.
Boards members would not be appointed on a full time basis.
Staffing
The 565 employees of the municipal water supply and sewerage department
(ASO), the 54 employees of the Environmental Health Department responsible for
emptying the septic tanks, and the 314 employees of the municipal Cleaning Works
Department responsible for solid waste collection and disposal and street
cleaning, will remain with AMM, but only some of them will be transferred to the
DMs. The services will continue to be managed by AMM. When the private operator
is selected, the employees will have the choice to work with the private operator
or remain with AMM or the DMs. The private operator is expected to absorb about
50 percent of the previously mentioned employees. Sirket staff should not exceed
ten professional employees as agreed during negotiations. All professional
positions will be advertised and a special committee will be responsible for the
selection of the candidates. The operator under contract with the Sirket will
confront the Sirket staff with enforcement and control issues for which there is
no precedent in Turkey. Technical assistance from a single firm, specialized in



50
Annex 3.4
Page 2 of 2
the management of such services (twinning arrangement), is therefore essential
and will be provided by the proposed project.
Planning and Information Systems
The Sirket would be an autonomous company. It will have the overall
management responsibility for the development of the services, including physical
and financial planning and construction, while the private operator will be
responsible for the operation of the services, including maintenance and repair
of the physical assets. The information systems for managing operational and
commercial activities and reporting on overall financial results (accounting
system) will be shared by the Sirket and the private operator. The Sirket and
the private operator will agree on an accounting system generally accepted for
commercial enterprises and compatible with the information normally required by
the Municipality and the Ministry of Interior. The Sirket will request necessary
financial statements, including operational and financial indicators to evaluate
the performance of its operator. These indicators will be included in the lease
and management contracts. The Project will provide technical assistance to
establish the computerized accounting system and record keeping such as customer
billings, accounts receivable and payable, payroll, inventories and control of
budget execution. Accounts will be audited annually by independent accredited
auditors approved by the Bank. In addition, the Project will provide training
for the Sirket personnel to supplement on-the-job learning from the technical
assistance.



51
Annex 3.5
Page 1 of 5
TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Water Supply, Sewerace and Stormwater
DescripDtion
A.    Water Supply
1.    Immediate remedial work
Construction of immediate remedial work includes: (i) laying of about
24,000 m of PVC pipes of 0 100mm to 300 mm; (ii) repair of electrical
installations, pumps and leakages at five pumping stations; and (iii)
repair of leaks and repair/replacement of non-operating valves at ten
existing reservoirs.
2.    Renovation of existing groundwater wells
(a)   Improvement and reinforcement of the Duraliler facilities
(beginning 1996) to increase the water production from 1 to 2.6
m3/s, includes: (i) 11 new wells (80 m deep); (ii) connecting
lines between wells (700 m 0 400 mm and 1000 m 0 800 mm); (iii)
one transformer 630 KVA; (iv) 11 pumps and electrical
equipment; (v) a transmission power line of 2.5 km; and (vi) a
fence around the well field; and
(b)   rehabilitation of the Bogacay wells (beginning 1999) to
increase the capacity from 420 l/s to 524 l/s, includes: (i)
five wells (60 m deep); (ii) connecting lines between wells
(805 m 0 400 mm); (iii) one transformer 1,000 KVA; (iv) five
pumps and electrical equipment; (v) a transmission power line
of three km; and (vi) a fence around the well field.
3.    New groundwater wells
Development of the new Distas wells (beginning 2000) to increase the
total capacity of 700 l/s, includes: (i) nine wells (70 m deep); (ii)
connecting lines between wells (230 m 0 400 mm, 345 m 0 500 mm, and
345 m 0 600 mm); (iii) one transformer 1,000 KVA; (iv) nine pumps and
electrical equipment; (v) a transmission power line of four km; and
(vi) a fence around the well field.



52
Annex 3.5
Page 2 of 5
4.   EElevating pumping stations
(a)   Construction of two new pumping stations and a fence around the
installations: (i) (beginning 1998), TM3 consisting of four
units of 640 l/s with a head of 40m each; and (ii) (beginning
1999), TM6 consisting of four units of 250 l/s with a head of
4Om each;
(b)   replacement of pumping equipment in three existing pumping
stations: (i) beginning 1995), TM4 consisting of four units of
190 l/s with a head of 45 m each; (ii) (beginning 1996),
Duraliler consisting of four units of 900 ls with a head of 71
m each; and (iii) (beginning 1998), Bogacay consisting of four
units of 175 l/s with a head of 45 m each.
5.    Reservoirs
Construction of three reservoirs and a fence around the
installations: (i) (beginning 1996), DIA with a volume of 15,000 m3
in pressure zone I; (ii) (beginning 1996), DII-2 with a volume of
20,000 m3 in pressure zone II; and (iii) (beginning (2000), DVI with
a volume of 5,000 m3 in pressure zone III.
6.    Distribution network
Supply and laying of:
(a)   52,000 m of steel pipes:  (i) 20,000 m of 0 700 mm; (ii) 18,000
m of 0 800 mm; (iii) 14,000 m of 0 1000 mm; and (iv) 1,000 m of
0 1000 mm;
(b)   127,000 m of ductile iron pipes:  (i) 14,000 m of 0 250 mm; (ii)
32,000 m of 0 300 mm; (iii) 4,000 m of 0 350 mm; (iv) 42,000 m
of 0 400 mm; (v) 26,000 m of 0 500 mm; and (vi) 9,000 m of 0
600 mm;
(c)   318,000 m of PVC pipes:  (i) 233,000 m of 0 100 mm; (ii) 1,000 m
of 0 125 mm; (iii) 27,000 m of 0 150 mm; and (iv) 57,000 m of 0
200mm; and
(d)   replacement of all the household water meters as well as
repair/replacement of meters on the distributions lines and at
the sources.



53
Annex 3.5
Page 3 of 5
7.    Instrumentation
Design and installation of a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
system (SCADA). This includes: (i) instrumentation at critical
locations; (ii) control panel with indicators for the parameters
monitored; (iii) programmable logic controller in the pump stations
control panels to provide local control; (iv) computer-based work
station at each pump station; and (v) communication network for
transferring information to a central location.
B.    Sewerage
1.    Collection system
(a)   Immediate improvement measures: (i) construction of about 10 km
sewage network (8,000 m of 0 200 mm, 1,000 m of 0 300 mm, and
1,000 m of 0 400mm) and a small wastewater treatment plant for
the touristic Old City; and (ii) rehabilitation of the small
existing sewerage network and septic tank of the Sanayi Sitesi
industrial area; and
(b)   Construction of sewers to cover 1,656 ha and serve 190,000
inhabitants (in 2002) in the western part of the city to
complement the Iller Bank program presently under construction,
which covers 2,426 ha and serves 220,000 inhabitants (in 2002).
The work includes: (i) 15 km of primary sewers, above 0 800 mm;
(ii) 15 km of secondary sewers, from 0 400 mm to 0 800 mm; and
(iii) 350 km of tertiary sewers, of 0 200 and 0 300 mm;
2.    Disposal system
(a)   Construction of a wastewater treatment plant, of a modular
concept, at the west end of the municipality, with pre-
treatment facilities for a PE of 151,300 (40,000 m3/d, 8.2 t/d
of BOD and 13.6 t/d of suspended solid) in 1998, and for a PE
of 457,600 (90,000 m3/d, 24.7 t/d of BOD and 41.2 t/d of
suspended solid) in 2002. Treatment will consist of: (i)
coarse screening (40 mm); (ii) grit removal and floatables
removal (including oil--vertical velocity not exceeding 10
m/h); (iii) fine screening (5-6 mm), including automatic
cleaning and collection of solids; and (iv) effluent pumped
through the outfall; and
(b)   construction of a sea outfall, based on oceanographic survey,
for a designed flow of 4 m3/s; 2,500 m long and 0 1.2 m,
including a diffusor of 400m.



54
Annex 3.5
Page 4 of 5
C.    Stormwater Drainage
1.    Immediate Remedial Work
Construction of immediate remedial work includes: (i) a drain and a
culvert under the Gazi and Dumlupinar Boulevard; (ii) a curb along
the north side of the Yucunzu Blvd; (iii) 150 m of 0 600 mm pipe
under the road lC; (iv) a 500 m channel to the Bukludere Creek to
prevent the flooding of the Konuksever district; (v) six km of open
channels in the western part of Antalya; (vi) a two km curb along
Dumlupinar Boulevard; and (vii) clean debris from rivers and existing
drainage channels and ditches.
D.    Technical Assistance
1.    Technical assistance in prolect implementation for:
(a)   detailed design, including preparation of bidding documents,
and construction supervision for the above-mentioned water
supply, sewerage and stormwater drainage works;
(b)   hydrogeological survey needed to develop the groundwater
facilities at Duraliler, Bogacay, Distas and Cevre Yolu well
fields;
(c)   site survey and investigations to develop detailed mapping of
the water supply systems including preparation and calibration
of a reticulation model of the distribution network; and
(d)   preparation of a comprehensive stormwater master plan.
2.    Technical assistance in institutional development:
(a)   staffing of a Project Management Unit to assist AMM, DMs, ASAT
and particularly the Sirket in coordinating and supervising
project activities and in preparing periodic reports required
by the Bank. This activity will terminate one year after the
signing of the contract with the private operator for water
supply and sewerage;
(b)   consultant services to assist the Sirket in the preparation of
bidding documents, bid evaluation and contract negotiations,
for private operation of water supply, sewerage and stormwater
systems in order to enhance competition, efficiency,
accountability and commercial practices; and



55
Annex 3.5
Page 5 of S
(c)   consultant services or a twinning arrangement with a reputable
water supply and sewerage operator to assist the Sirket: (i) in
its role of services manager, planner and contracts
administrator; and (ii) in implementing a training program for
the new Sirket's managers and staff. This assistance will also
include the establishment of a joint work program for the
Sirket and the private operator consisting of: (a) designing
and implementing an action plan to increase the volume of water
billed as a proportion of water produced; (b) designing and
implementing an Asset and Capital Investment Management System,
which includes appropriate procedures for establishing
investment priorities; making efficient use of existing assets;
monitoring and controlling investment programs; and ensuring
the renewal of assets; (c) designing and implementing a
Management Information System, which provides adequate
information on the services' operational and financial
performance; and (d) designing and implementing a new water and
sewerage tariff schedule aimed at promoting water conservation,
controlling water pollution, and ensuring financial viability
of the services.



56                                                   Annex  3.6
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
AHTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Water Supply Seurrvr and Stormwater Thminnge              Total
Base Cost
& Contin-    Procure-'     %    Financed
TL million                    USt 1000            %      gencies    menl        rinanced  by Bank
Local    Foreign     Total     Local  Foreign   Total  Foreign  USS 1000    Melhod    by Bank USS 1000
1I ClVI llORKS
WATER SUPPIY
Duraliler                                    107,821    142.971    250,792    3.460    4.588    8.048    57%     10212       ICB          54%    5.56B
Bogacay                                        9.006     11.904    20.910      289      382     671      57%        851    ICB/LCB        54%      464
Distas                                        18,859    22,405     39.264      541      719    1260      57%      1.599      ICB          54%      871
T73 facilities                                15.456    20.505     35.961      496      658    1.154     57%      1.464      ICB           54%     798
TU4 facilities                                 3.618      4.796      8.414     116      154      270     57%        343      ICB          54%      187
Tli6 facilities                                4.300      5.671      9.972     138      182      320     57%        406      ICB           54%     221
Water reservoirs                              38,759     24.508    61.284    1.180      786    1.966     40%      2.495      LCB          54%    1.360
Water reservoirs (DSI)                       101.088      6.452    107,540    3.244     207    3.451      6%      3.451 Other (DSI)
DisLribution network                         782.500  1.037.267  1.819.767   25.111   33.286   58.397    57%    74.100       ICB          54%   40.384
Immediate measures                            41.365     54,832    98.197    1.327    1.760    3.087     57%      3.917      ICB          54%    2.135
Administrative Building                        8.988      9236      16.204     224      296      520     57%        660      LCB          54%      360
Tolal WaLer Supply                           1.125.738  1.340.547  2.466,285   36,125   43.019   79.144    54%    99.498                    54%  5Z345
SEBRACE
Collection network (Iller Bank)              892.408     88.260    980.668   28,638    2.832   31.470     9%    31,470 Other (IB)
Collection Network (EIB)                     187.95    248.673    436.268    8.020    7.980   14.000     57%     17.765 Otber (EIB)
Collection network                           177.519    235.315    412.834    5,697    7.551   13.248    57%    16.810       IC8          54%    9.162
Preliminary lreatment (EIB)                  112.090    161.837    273,727    3.597    5.187    9.060    57%     11.498 Other (EIB)
Preliminary treatmenl                         91.990    150.325    242.31B    2.952    4.824    7.500    65%      9.517      ICB           54%    5.187
Sea outfall (EIB)                             107.431    199.515    306.946    3.448    6.403    9.850   57%     12.499 Olher (EIB)
Immediate measures                            31.221     41.386    72,607    1.002    1.328    2,330     57%      2.957      ICB           54%    1.611
Stormnwater drainage improvement               7.772     10.302     18,074     249      331      580     57%        736      LCB           54%     401
Tolal Sewerage                               1.608.026  1.135.414  2.743.440   51.602   36,436   88.038    41%   103.249                    54%  16.361
TOTAL CIVIL WORKS                            2.733.784  2.475.961  5.209.725   87.728   79,455  167.182    48%   202.747                    54%  68.70B
2LEQUIPMENT
WATER SUPPLY
later Meters                                  12.465     49.859    62.324      400    1.600    2.000     80%      2.538    ICB/IS         55%    1.408
Scada System                                  13.287     53.150    66.437      426    1.706    2.132     80%      2.705      IC8          55%    1.501
Computer and software                         16.204     64.817     81.021     520    2.080    2.600     80%      3.299   ICD/IS/LS        55%    1.831
Furniture                                      1.246      1.870     3.116       40       60      100     60%        127      LCB          55%       70
Total laler Supply                              43.203    169.696   212,899    1.386    5.446    6.832     80%      8.669                   55%   4.810
SKFFRArE
Vehicles                                      17.728     23.500    41.227      589      754    1.323     57%      1.879      ICD          55%      932
Tolal Sewerage                                  17.728    23.500     41227       589     754    1.323      57%      1,879                   55%     932
55%
TOTAL EQUIPMENT                                 60.931    193.195    254.126    1.955    6.200    8.155    76%     10.348                   55%   5.742
TOTAL CIVIL WORKS AND EQUIPMENT              2.794.695  2.669.156  5,4B3,852   89.683   85.654  175.337    49%   213.095                    55%  74.448



57                                                       Annex  3.6
Page 2 of 2
TURKEY
ANTALYA VATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Water Supply, Sewerage and Storrnuater Drainal               Tolal
Base Cosl
& Contin-    Procure-        %    Financed
TL million                     us: 1000             %      gencies    ment        Financed  by Bank
Local     Foreign     Total     Local   Foreign   Totai  Foreign  USS 1000      Method     by Bank USS 1000
3. CONSULTANT SERVICFS AND FNGINEFRING
PROJECT IMPLEI4FNTATION
Water supply - Design & supervision             38.675    258.824    297,499    1.241    8.306    9.547      87%     12.114    Shortlist       100%   12114
Sewerage - Design & supervision  (EIB)          15.025    100.554    115.580      482    3.227    3.709      87%      4.706   Olher (EIB)
Sewerage - Design & supervision                 12.833     85.888     98.721      412    2,758    3.168      87%      4.020    Shortlist       100%    4.020
Stormwater drainage - Design & supervision         282      1.887      2.169        9       61       70      87%         88    Shortlist       100%       88
Water supply - Hydrogeological studies           2.026     13.555      15.581      65      435      500      87%        634    Shortlist       100%      634
Water supply - mapping                           6,077     40,666     46.743      195    1.305    1.500      87%      1.903    Shortlist       100%    1.903
Stormrwater drainage - Master Plan               2.030     13,555      15.585      65      435      500      87%        634    Shorilist       100%      634
Total Project Implementation                      76.947    514.930    591.878    2,469   16,524   18.993      87%    24.101                     100%   19.394
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
Bidding doc. ror private operators                   0     23.372     23.372        0      750      750    100%         952    Shortlist       100%      952
TA for PUU                                       3,116     12.465      15.581     100      400      500      80%        634      Other         100%      634
TA for Sirket                                   10.209     98.235    108.444      328    3.152    3.480      90%      4.416    Shortlist       100%    4,416
Total Inslitutional Strengthening                 13.325    134,071    147.396      428    4,302    4.730      91%      6.002                    100%    6.002
TOTAL CONSULTANT SERVICES AND ENGINEERING         90.272    649.002    739.274    2.897   20.827   23,723      88%     30.103                    100%   25.396
4. IAND ACQUISITION
Water supply                                     7.853          0      7.853      252         0     252       0%        252      Olher
Sewerage                                        36,460          0     36.460    1.170         0    1.170      0%       1,170     Olher
TOTAL LAND ACQUISITION                            44.312          0     44,312    1,422        0    1.422       0%      1.422
TOTAL BASE COST (JUNE 1994)                    2.929.280  3.318.158  8.247.438   94.002  106.481  200.482      53%    244.620
5. CONTINCENCIFS
Physical                                       306.719    345,875    652.595    9.843   11,099   20.942      53%
Prices                                         339.776    383,151    722.927   10.904   12.295   23,199      53%
TOTAL CONTINGENCIES                              646.495    729,027   1.375.522   20.746   23.395   44.141     53%
GRAND TOTAL                                    3.575.775  4.047.185  7,622,960  114,748  129.876  244.623      53%                               61%   99.844



58
Annex 3.7
Page 1 of 5
TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Project Implementation Plan
This annex contains the details, the timing of implementation of project components,
schedules of contract and other payments as well as procurement information. Descriptive
parts of the Implementation Plan have been incorporated into the text of the Staff Appraisal
Report and do not appear in this annex. These and other elements of the Implementation
Plan can be found as follows:
Scope, objectives and
description of the project     Ch. III: paras. 3.01-3.02, 3.11-3.12; Ann. 3.5
Project costs and financing plan     Ch. III: paras. 3.13-3.18; Ann. 3.6
Institutional structure and
implementation responsibilities    Ch. III: paras. 3.04-3.10, 3.19; Ann. 3.1-3.4
Detailed implementation and
procurement arrangements       Ch. III: paras. 3.22-3.27; Ann. 3.7, pp. 4-5
Role of Bank in implementation       Ch. III: paras. 3.34-3.35
Disbursement details                 Ch. III: paras. 3.28-3.31; Ann. 3.8- 3.9
Environmental mitigation actions     Annex 5.2
Accounting and auditing arrangements    Ch. III: paras. 3.07, 3.30, 3.32-3.33
Monitoring indicators:
Implementation progress        Annex 3.7, page 2
Financial performance          Annex 4. 1, page 4
Major loan covenants:
Water/sewer tariff adjustment  Loan Agreement, Section 5.03
Contracting of private operator    Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para. 2



~~i ~~~  0~   a U 4   a   Un  U      * -04 * m   
t~~~~~~~~~~   g
S[~EIJ iii si;IIIfJJit iii
X * f   x Li          69



60                                 Annex 3.7
Page 3 of 5
TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Water Supply and Sewerage
Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments
Implementation Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Total  Procur.
Project Element           1995  1996  1997  1998 1999 2000  2001 2002 Payment Method
CIVIL WORKS
Water Supply                3.6   9.0  11.4  13.0  14.7  15.9  13.0  9.3    89.9  ICB
xxxx  xxxx  xxxx  xxxx  xxx xxxx  xxxx xxxx
0.4   1.2   1.4   1.0  0.5  0.7   0.7  0.3         6.2  LCB
xxxx  xxxx  xxxx  xxxx xxxx xxxx  xxxx xxxx
3.5                                               3.5  NBF
xxxx                                                     (DSI)
Sewerage                    0.5   0.9   0.7   2.3  5.0  6.2   6.2  7.5    29.3  ICB
xxxx  xxxx  xxxx  xxxx xxxx xxxx  xxxx xxxx
0.7                             0.7  LCB
xxxx
6.0  12.1  18.5  16.5  6.5  4.3   4.3  5.0    73.2  NBF
xxxx  xxxx  xxxx  xxxx xxxx xxxx  xxxx xxxx            (EIB/IB)
EQUIPMENT
Water Supply                0.3   0.7   0.8   0.9  0.3  0.4   1.3  2.5         7.2  ICB
xxxx  xxxx  xxxx  xxxx xxxx xxxx  xxxx xxxx
0.1                                         0.1  LCB
xxxx
0.4   0.6   0.1               0.1         0.1      1.3  IS/LS
xxxx  xxxx  xxxx              xxxx        xxxx
Sewerage                                0.2   0.4  0.4  0.2   0.2  0.3         1.7  ICB
xxxx  xxxx xxxx xxxx  xxxx xxxx
CONSULTANT SERVICES & ENG.
Project Implementation      0.9   2.2   2.4   2.5  2.8  3.5   2.8  2.3    19.4  Short-
xxxx  xxxx  xxxx  xxxx xxxx xxxx  xxxx xxxx               list
0.4   0.9   1.7   1.5  0.2                        4.7  NBF
xxxx  xxxx  xxxx  xxxx xxxx                              (EIB)
Inst. Strengthening         1.4   1.9   1.2   1.0  0.5                         6.0  Short-
xxxx  xxxx  xxxx  xxxx xxxx                              list
LAND ACQUISITION            0.6   0.7   0.0   0.1                              1.4  NBF
xxxx  xxxx  xxxx  xxxx
TOTAL                      18.0  30.3  38.4  39.9  30.9  31.3  28.5 27.3   244.6



TURKEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
PROCUREMENT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Water Supply, Sewerage and Stormwater Drainage Components
Project Elements                    Est. Cost       No. of       Procurement       Bid Docs.   Invitation    Contract      Contract
US$ 1000       Contracts        Method        Preparation                 Award       Completion
1. CIVIL WORKS
WATER SUPPLY                                                                                    June 1995    Sept. 1995    June 1996
Duraliler wells                                                                                                                              2002
Bogacay wells                                        12,662        2         ICB/LCB
Distas wells
Pump Station (TM3 facilities)
Pump Station TM4facilities)  2,213  1   ICB                                            2002
Pump Station (TM4 facilities)                         21
Pump  Station  (TM6  facilities)_______________ _______
Water reservoirs                                      2,495         1        LCB
Distribution network                                 74,100        5         ICB
Immediate measures                                    3,917         1        ICB
Administrative Building                                 660         1        LCB
SEWERAGE                                                                                        June 1995    Sept. 1995    Jan. 1996           2002
Collection network                                   16,810         I        1CB
Preliminary treatment                                 9,517         1        ICB
Immediate measures                                    3,957         1        ICB
Stormwater drainage improvement                        736          1        LCB
(D~
p o
x
0



TURKEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
PROCUREMENT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Water Supply, Sewerage and Stormwater Drainage Components
Project Elements                   Est. Cost       No. of       Procurement      Bid Docs.   Invitation    Contract     Contract
US$ 1000      Contracts        Method        Preparation                 Award      Completion
2. EQUIPMENT
WATER SUPPLY                                                                                 June 1995    Sept. 1995    Jan. 1996
Water Meters                                         2,538        3        ICB/IS
Scada System                                         2,705        1        ICB
Computers and Software                               3,299        9        ICB/IS/LS
Furniture                                              125        1        LCB
SEWERAGE                                                                                    June 1995    Sept. 1995   Jan. 1996
Vehicles                                              1,679       1        ICB                                                    _
3. CONSULTANT SERVICES
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Water Supply - Design and Engineering               12,114        1        SHORTLIST
Sewerage - Design and Engineering                    4,020        1        SHORTLIST
Stormwater drainage - Design and Engin.                 88        1        SHORTLIST
Water supply - Hydrogeological studies                 634        1        SHORTLIST
Water Supply Mapping                                  1,903       1        SHORTLIST
Stormwater Drainage - Master Plan                     634         1        SHORTLIST
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING                                                                                                           _
Bidd. Docs. for private operators                       952        1       SHORT LIST    Dec. 1994    Dec. 1994   May 1995                          Id
TA for PMU                                              634        1        Other                                       Feb. 1995                    D z
TA  (D
TA for Sirket                                          4,416       1        SHORT LIST    Oct. 1995    Dec. 1995   April 1996                        0x



63
Annex 3.8
TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount of the Loan       % of expenditures
Category                        Allocated in US$          to be financed
1.  Civil Works                              57,800,000                  54
2.  Goods                                     4,700,000                  55
3. Technical Assistance
(a) Project Implementation              18,700,000                100
(b) Institutional Development            4,900,000                100
4.   Incremental Recurrent Costs
(a) for the Sirket                         200,000        100% of
expenditures
through August 31,
1996
(b) for the PMU                            200,000        100% of
expenditures
through November
30, 1996
5.  Unallocated                              13,500,000
TOTAL                             100,000,000



64                                Annex 3.9
TURKEY
Antalya Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Loan Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year
and                                           % of Total
Semester Ending       semester      cumulative    cumulative
FY1995
June 30. 1995                0.0           0.0           0.0%
FY1996
December 31. 1995            1.0            1.0          1.0%
June 30. 1996                9.0           10.0         10.0%
FY1997
December 31. 1996            2.0          12.0          12.0%
June 30. 1997                8.0          20.0          20.0%
FY1998
December 31. 1997            2.5          22.5          22.5%
June 30. 1998                9.0          31.5          31.5%
FY1 999
December 31. 1998            4.4          35.9          35.9%
June 30. 1999                8.0          43.9          43.9%
FY2000
December 31. 1999            8.3          52.2          52.2%
June 30. 2000               10.0          62.2          62.2%
FY2001
December 31. 2000            8.1          70.3          70.3%
June 30. 2001                8.0          78.3          78.3%
FY2002
December 31. 2001            7.7          86.0          86.0%
June 30. 2002                5.3          91.3          91.3%
FY2003
December 31. 2002            6.1          97.4          97.4%
June 30, 2003                2.6         100.0         100.0%



TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
ASAT - INCOME STATEMENT
(USS Thousands)
Actual                                                          Projected
1.991    1.992   1.993    1.994    1.995     1.996     1.997    1.998    1.999     2.000       2,001      2.002       2.003     2,004     2.005
Water revenues                     10,125    6.640   7.134    7,851    9.949    13,646    18.118   19.310   20,848    22,894      24.627     25,971      27.171    28.047    29.674
Sewerage revenues                     83       79      108     190       200      211      4.575   12,414   11.338    13.075      14.736     18.431      20.294    21.112    21.971
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES          10.208    6.719   7.242    8.041    10.149    13.857    22.693   31.724   32.186    35.969     39,363     42.402      47.465    49.159    51.645
Water operating costs              6.970    7.444   6.948    7.108    7.396      7.354     8.570    9.460   10.248    10.627      11.310     12.122      12.608    12.643    13.068
Sewerage oper. costs                  83       79      108     192       346      365     3.221     4.542    5.107      6.101      6.718      7.885       8.952     9.574    10.244
ASAT oper. costs                       0        0       0        0       507      701       929      949       970       992       1.013      1.036       1.059     1.082     1.106
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS              7.053    7.523   7.056    7.301     8.249    8.421    12.720   14.951   16,325    17.720      19.041     21.042      22.619    23.299    24.415
01 which: Personnel           4.609    5.055   4.717    4.772    5.424      5.393    5.838    5.684    6.076      6.324       6.709      7.253       7.514     7.704     7.930
Energy               1.975    2.004   2.004    1.828     1.730     1.726    2.991     4.101    4.390     5.097       5.339      6.126       6.435     6.621     6.815
Maintenance            250      259     160      407      682       869     3.041     4.210    4.782     5.094       5.658      6.194       0.957     7.162     7.755             U,
Consumables            219      205     175      294       413      434       850      956    1.078      1.204       1.335      1.470       1.713     1.811     1.915
Operating income                   3.155     (804)    186      741     1.900    5.436     9.974    16.773   15.861     18.249     20.322     21.360      24.846    25.861    27.230
Depreciation                         660      772     905    1.195       937    2.610     4.544    6.469    7.863      9.308      10,573     11,780      11.980    12.480    13.480
Interest expenss (18)                  0        0       0        0       283      681      1.417    2.231    3.243     4.269       4.985      5.327       5.226     4.728     4.137
Interest expenses (other)              0      183     338      448       837     1.267     1.940    2.124    1.914      1.725      1,550      1.389       1.238     1.095       959
NET INcoIIe                        2.495   (1.759)  (1.057)   (902)    (157)      878     2.072    5.949    2.821      2,947       3.213      2.84        6.402     7.557     8.854
oZ
Qq 
(D
x
0
-h,
U, S-



TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
ASAT - BALANCE SHEET
(USS Thousands)
Actual                                                          Projected
1.991    1.992   1.993    1.994    1,995    1.996     1.997    1.998    1.999     2.000       2.001     2.002       2,003     2.004     2.005
Fixed Assets                      23.401   28.648  40.218   51.932   69.932  100.232   138.632  178.532  209.432   240,732     269.232    296.532    316.580   349.759   378,844
Accum. Depreciation                 660    1.432   2.337    3.532    4.469    7.080    11.624   18.093   25.976    35.284       45.858     57.638     69.618    82.098    95.578
Net Fixed Assets                22,741   27,216  37.881   48.400   65.463   93.152   127.008  160.439  183.456   205.448     223,374    238.894    246.962   267.661   283.266
Accounts Receivable                1.266     830     892      981     1.494    1,956     2.962    4.091    4,148     4.621       4.92Z      5.300      5.933     6.145     6.456
Stocks                               97       96      57      127       159      199      894    1.211    1.382      1.490       1,662      1.828      2.078     2.151     2.324
Cash in hand                          0        0       0      592       616      614      983    1.166    1.280      1,377       1.487      1.754      1,885     1.942     2.035
Short-term Investment              2.663    2.227   1.891    1.301    3,998    2.615     8.537    8.811   10,092    10.243       7.540      2.605         87     3.197     2.265
Current Assets                   4.025    3.153   2.840    3.002    6.267    5.384    13.376   15.278   16,903    17,731      15.611     11.486      9.982    13.435    13.079
TOTAL ASSETS                      26,767   30.370  40.721   51.402   71,730   98.536   140.384  175.717  200.359   223,179     238.985    250.380    256.945   281.095   296.345       )
Capital                           15.680   15.680  15.680   15.680    15.680   15.680    15.680   15.680   15.680    15.680     15,680     15.680     15,680    15.680    15.680
Accumulated Profit                 2.495     736    (320)  (1,223)  (1.379)    (501)    1.571    7,520   10.341    13,288       16,502     19.365     25.767    33.325    41.979
Grants(lB)&Revaluations            5.190   10.066  14.782   19.362   27.493   33.382    38.486   43.210   47.613    49.664      51,460     54.355     57.560    59.697    68.489
Participation Fee and Other           0      118     475      832    5.253    9.473    13.769   18.144   22.605    25.562       27.830     33.162     39.585    41.056    46.449
Equity                          23.365   26.600  30.617   34.651    47.047   58.034    69.507   84.555   96.240   104.194    111.472    122.562     138.592   149.758   172.596
LT debt.end bal (other)            3.205    3.571   9.918   16.556   23.486   28.292    47.830   54.517   51.093    47.763      44.680     41.793     37.949    59.224    59.891
LT debt.end.bal (WB)                  0        0       0        0     1,000   12.000    22.500   35.900   52.200    66.135      73.505     76.575     70,845    62.515    54.185
LT Debt. End. Balance            3.205    3.571   9.918   16.556   24.486   40.292    70.330   90.417  103.293   113.898     118.185    118.368     108.794   121.739   114.076
LT Debt. LT Portion                3.155    3.449   9.806   16.431    24.135   39.999    70.081   87,375  100.177   110.753    115.072    114,926     105.380   118.340   110.682
LT debt. curr (other)                50      121      112     125       351      293      249    3.042    3.116      3.146       3.113      3.443      3.414     3.399     3.394
LT debt. curr (WB)                    0        0       0        0         0        0        0         0        0     4.165       8.330      8,330      8.330     8.330     8.330  o'
Accounts Payable                     197     199      186     195       197      210       547      745      827       922         999      1.120       1.229     1.269     1.342  rD S
Current Liabilities                247     320      298      320      549      504       796    3.788    3.943      8.232      12.442     12.892     12,972    12.998    13.067   
TOTAL EQUITY & UABIUTIES          26.767   30.370  40.721   51.402   71.730   98.536   140.384  175.717  200.359   223.179     238.985    250.380    256.945   281.095   296.345



TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
ASAT - CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(USS Thousands)
Actual                                                                    Projected
1.991    1.992    1.993    1.994    1.995     1.996    1.997     1.998     1,999     2.000       2.001      2.002       2,003     2,004     2,005
Operating Income                    3.155     (804)    186      741      1.900    5.436     9.974    16.773   15.861     18.249     20.322     21,360      24,846    25,861    27.230
Iller Bank Contribution                 0    3.596   3.642    3.689     4.724     3.821     3.821    3,821     3.821     3.821       3.821      3.821           a         0         0
Participation Fee                       0      118     357      357     4.421     4.220     4.296    4,376     4.460     4,956       4.268      4.331       3.424      3.114     3.749
Other loans                             0    1.727   7.544    7.641    10.462     7.225    21.115    7.839       200       200         200        200       5.800    25.181     14.500
World Bank Loan Disbursements           0        0       0        0      1.000    11.000    10.500    13,400    16.300    1l.100    15.700      11,400      2.600         0         0
External Sources                      0    5.441   11,543   11.687    20.607    26.266    39.732   29.436   24,781     27.077     23.989      19.752      11.824    28.295    18.249
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS            3.155    4.637   11.729   12.428    22.507    31.702    49.706   46.209   40.642    45.326      44.311      41.112     36.670    54.156    45.479
Waler Supply Investment               326      752   7.017    7.103     8.200    11.700    13.700    15.000    15.500    17.100     15,000      12.200      7.548    20.679    16.585
Sewerage Investment                     0    4.495   4.553    4.611     7.100    13.600    19.400    19.900    11.900    10.700     10,700      12.800     12.500    12,500    12.500
ASAT Inst. Strengthening                0        0       0        0     2.700     5.000     5.300    5.000    3.500      3.500       2.800      2.300           0         0         0               0
Investment                          326    5.247   11.570   11.714    18.000    30.300    38.400   39.900   30,900     31.300     28.500      27.300     20.048    33.179    29.085
Loan Amortization (other)             166       81     121       112      125      351       293       249    3.042      3.116       3,146      3.113       3.443     3.414      3.399
Loan Amortization (WB)                  0        0       0        0         0         0        0         0        0      4,165       8.330      8.330       8.330     8.330      8.330
Interest Expenses(WB)                   0        0       0        0       283      681      1.417    2.231     3,243     4.269       4,985      5.327       5.226     4,728      4.137
Interest Expenses (other)               0      183     338      448       837     1.267     1.940    2.124     1.914      1.725      1.550       1.389      1.238      1,095      959
Debt Service                        166      264     459      560      1.245    2.299     3.650    4.604     8.199     13.275     18,011      18.159      18.237    17.567    16,825
Working Capital                         0     (438)     36      743       566       486     1.733     1.432     261        600         503        589         903       300       501
TOTAL USES OF FUNDS                 492    5.073   12,065   13.017    19.811    33.085    43.784   45.936   39.361    45.175      47,014      46.048     39.188    51.046    46.411
SURPLUS                             2.663     (436)   (336)    (590)    2.696    (1.383)    5.922      274     1,281       152      (2.703)    (4,936)     (2.518)    3.110       (932)
SURPLUS CUMULATED                   2.663    2.227   1.891    1.301     3.998     2.615     8.537    8.811    10.092    10.243       7,540      2.605          87      3.197     22265
0
Hb 4jS



TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
ASAT - FINANCIAL INDICATORS
(USS Thousands)
Actual                                                          Projected
1.992   1.993    1.994    1.995     1,996    1.997    1.998    1.999      2.000       2.001      2.002       2.003     2.004     2.005
Operating revenues                          6.719   7.242    8.041    10.149    13.857    22.693   31.724   32.186    35.969      39.363     42.402     47.465    49.159    51.645
Operating income                             (804)    186      741     1.900    5,436     9.974   16.773   16.861    18.249       20.322     21.360     24.846    25.861    27.230
OperaLing income as % of operating revenues  -12%       3%      9%       19%       39%      44%       53%      49%       51%         52%        50%        52%        53%       53%
Net income                                  (1.759)  (1.057)    (902)    (157)    878     2.072    5.949    2.821      2.947       3.213      2.864      6.402     7.557     8.654
Net income as % of operating revenues        -26%   -15%      -11%       -2%       6%        9%       19%       9%        8%          8%         7%        13%        15%       17%
Net income as % of equity                     -7%     -3%      -3%        0%       2%        3%       7%        3%        3%          3%         2%         5%         5%       5%
Personnel costs as % of operating costs       67%      87%      65%      66%       64%      46%      38%       37%       36%         35%        34         33%        33%       32%
Working ratio                                 1.12    0.97     0.91      0.81     0.61      0.56     0.47      0.51      0.49       0.48        0.50       0.48      0.47      0.47
Operating ratio                               1.23    1.10      1.06     0.91     0.80      0.76     0.68      0.75      0.75       0.75       0.77        0.73      0.73      0.73         co
Debt service ratio                           -3.04    0.41      1.32     1.53     2.36      2.73     3.64      1.93      1.37        1.13       1.18       1.36      1.47       1.62
Self financing ratio                         -0.20   -0.02     0.02      0.04     0.10      0.16     0.30      0.25      0.16       0.08        0.12       0.33      0.25      0.36
Interest service ratio                       -4.39    0.55      1.65     1.70     2.79      2.97     3.85      3.08      3.04        3.11      3.18        3.84      4.44      5.34
Quick ratio                                   9.54    9.33     9.00     11.14    10.30     15.68     3.71      3.94      1.97        1.12       0.75       0.61      0.87      0.82
Current ratio                                 9.84    9.52     9.40     11.43    10.69     16.80     4.03      4.29      2.15        1.25       0.89       0.77      1.03       1.00
Rate of return on average total assets        -6%     -3%      -2%        0%        1%       2%        4%       2%        1%          1%         1%         3%        3%        3%
Debt/equity ratio                             0.12    0.25     0.33      0.34     0.41      0.50     0.52     0.52       0.53       0.53        0.51       0.46      0.47      0.42
Equity/total assets                           0.88    0.75     0.67      0.66     0.59      0.50     0.48     0.48       0.47       0.47       0.491       0.54      0.53      0.58  
Working ratio = operating costs / operating revenues                         Quick ratio = (cash + accounts receivable + short-term investment) / current liabilities                   X 
Operating ratio = (operating costs t depreciation ) / operating revenues     Current ratio = current assets / current liabilities                                                         x
0
Debt service ratio = operating income / debt service                         Rate of return on average total assets = net income / average current and previous year total assels         >
Self financing ratio = (operating income-debt service) / investment          Debt equity ratio = debt / (debt + equity)
Interest service ratio = operating income / inlerest expenses



TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
WATER AND SEWERAGE NONITOR1NG INDICATORS
Actual                                                      Projected
1.991    1.992    1.993    1.994    1.995    1.998    1.997    1.998    1.999    2.000    2.001    2.002    2.003    2.004    2.005    2.006
PUnulAtimi ARA CODIeontif
Population of Antalya (capita)                      105.000  433.000  463.000  490.780  520.227  548.238  573.550  602.228  832.339  863.956  890,514  718.135  748.860  776.734  807.804  832.038
Populion of North City (capita)                           0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0        0
Population including North City (capita)            405.000  433.000   483.000  490.780  520.227  546238  573.550  602.228   632.339  683.956  890.514  718.135  748.860  776.734  807.804  832.038
Populalion considered                               405.000  433.000  463.000  490.780  520.227  546.238  573.550  602.228  632.339  683.958  690.514  718.135  746.860  776.734  807.804  832.038
Service ratio (%)                                       95%     95%       95%      95%      95%     95%       95%      95%      95%       98%  96 %         96       97%       97%      98%      98%
Population served (capita)                          384.750  411.350   439.850  486.241  494.215  518.926  544.873  572.116  600.722  637.398  882.894  889.409  724.454  753.432  791.648  815.397   0)
Number of people per connection                           3        3        3        3        3        3        3        3        3         3        3        3         3        3        3        3   D
Number of connection                                121.717  126.500   135.338  143.459  152.066  159.670  167.653  176.036   184.838  196.122  203.987  212.126  222.909  231.825  243.584  250,891
New connection                                        7.006    8.300    8.838    8.120    8.608    7.603    7.983    8.383    8.802    11.285    7.845    8.159   10.783    8,916   11.759    7.308
Reconnection                                              0        0        0        0        0    2.000    4.000    4.000    5.000    6.000    5.000    6.200          0        0        0        0
New connection and reconnection                       7.006    8.300     8.838    8,120    8,608    9.803   11.983   12.383   13.802   17,285   12.845   14.359   10.783    8.916   11.759    7.308
&I=eu
Populaion connected to sever (number)                     0   20.329    40.657   60.986  104.853  148.719  192.586  236.453  280.319  324.186  368.052  411.919  432.515  454,141  478.848  495.922
Number ofpeople per connection                            3        3        3        3        3        3        3        3        3         3        3        3         3        3        3        3
Number of connections to sewer (domestic pop.)            0    6.255    12.510   18.765   32.262   45.760   59.257   72.755   88.252   99.749   113.247  128.744  133.082  139.736  146.722  152.591
Number of new connections to sewer                        0    6.255     6.255    6,255   13.497   13.497   13.497   13,497    13.497   13,497   13,497   13.4      6.337    6,654    6.987    5.869
Jnler                                                                                                                                                                                                >
Net demand (I/cap.d)                                    128      128      128      128      128      128      128      128       128      128      128      12        128      128      128      128 =
Net total demand (m3/d)                              49.056   52.447    58.081   59.46   63.012  68.163   69.471   72.945   76.592   81268   84.519   87.900   92.368   96.063  100.935  103.963 x
Net total demand (1 m3/y)                                18       19       20       22       23       24       25       27       28        30       31       32        34       35       37       38 >
Net total demand increae (%)                                     7%        7%       6'       6%      5%       5%        5%       5%       6%        4%       4%       5%        4%       5%       3%
Net total demand - design (m3/d)                     51.559   54.779   63.274   71.674   79.783   88.286   96,750  104.817   115.839   125.746  136,816  147.995  159.144  170.321   177.580  187.178
Net toald demand,7 design (M m3/y)                       19       20       23       28       29       32       35       38       42        48       50       54        58       82       65       68O
Non-revenue water                                        46       46       46       48       46       45       44       43       42        40       38       36        36       36       36       36 8D
Billed volume (1 m3/y)                                   17       16       17       11       19       21       22       23       24        26       27       28        29       30       32       33U4



70                               Annex 5.1
TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
ASAT - INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
(US$ millions)
Project   Other  Incremental
Investment Investment  Operating   Total  Operating    Partici-    Total  Net
Year    Cost      Cost      Cost     Cost  Revenues  pation fee  Revenues Cash Flow
1994      11.7       0.7       7.3    19.7       1.7       0.4      2.1    -17.6
1995      18.0       0.6       8.2    26.8       5.1       4.4      9.5    -17.3
1996      30.3       0.5       8.4    39.2       8.7       4.2     12.9    -26.3
1997      38.4       1.7      12.7    52.8      16.5       4.3     20.8    -32.0
1998      39.9       1.4      15.0    56.3      24.4       4.4     28.8    -27.5
1999      30.9       0.3      16.3    47.5      25.5       4.5     30.0    -17.5
2000      31.3       0.6      17.7    49.6       29.3      5.0     34.3    -15.3
2001      28.5       0.5      19.0    48.0       32.5      4.3     36.8    -11.2
2002      27.3       0.6      21.0    48.9       33.0      4.3     37.3    -11.6
2003                 0.9      22.6    23.5      33.5               33.5      10.0
2004                 0.3      23.3    23.6      34.2               34.2      10.6
2005                 0.5      24.4    24.9       35.5              35.5      10.6
2006                  1.7     25.1    26.8       37.0              37.0      10.2
2007                 2.2      25.8    28.0       41.0              41.0      13.0
2008                 2.9      26.5    29.4       45.0              45.0      15.6
2009                 2.9      27.0    30.0       50.0              50.0      20.0
2010                 3.0      27.6    30.5       51.3              51.3      20.8
2011                 3.0      28.1    31.1       55.9              55.9      24.8
2012                 3.0      28.7    31.7       61.0              61.0      29.3
2013                 3.0      29.3    32.3       66.5              66.5      34.2
2014                 3.1      29.8    32.9       72.5              72.5      39.6
2015                 3.1      30.4    33.5       79.0              79.0      45.5
2016                 3.1      31.0    34.2      86.1               86.1      51.9
2017                 3.2      31.7    34.8       93.8              93.8      59.0
2018                 3.2      33.3    36.5    102.3               102.3      65.8
2019                 3.3      34.9    38.2      111.5             111.5      73.3
2020                 3.4      36.7    40.0    121.5               121.5      81.5
2021                 3.4      38.5    41.9      132.5             132.5      90.6
2022                 3.5      40.0    43.5    144.4               144.4    100.9
2023                 3.6      42.0    45.6    157.4               157.4    111.8
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN VIRR):          9.3%
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
IRR (%)
Costs +20%             5.9
Costs -20%            14.0
Benefits + 20%        13.0
Benefits -20%          5.2



71
Annex 5.2
Page 1 of 6
TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Environmental Assessment and Mitigation Plan
1.0   Introduction
1.1      The Water Supply and Sanitation Project has been classified as a
Category B project under the environmental guidelines of the World Bank
(operational Directive 4.01). This summarizes the environmental review,
undertaken by the Consultant and the PMU, of the environmental impacts of the
proposed project and provides recommendations for impact mitigation as required
in Annex C of the directive.
1.2      The project includes the following components:
Water
The rehabilitation and expansion of the water supply and distribution in
Antalya Metropolitan Municipality includes construction of wells, pumping
stations, reservoirs and laying of pipes. The system will be controlled by a
centralized telemetric monitoring and control system (SCADA) which will allow an
integrated, automatic management of the water storage and transmission networks.
Sewerage
The construction of a new sewerage network and a preliminary sewage
treatment plant, including a long sea outfall for the western part of the
Municipality.
Technical Assistance
Provision of technical assistance for the implementation of the project and
institutional development.
2.0   Environmental Impacts
Water
Positive Impacts:
The impacts related to the upgrading of the water system which supplies
Greater Antalya are overwhelmingly positive. They include:
*     postponement of the need for developing costly new water resources;



72
Annex 5.2
Page 2 of 6
*     health and safety benefits associated with the provision of a secure supply
of clean water to the population;
*     savings in costs and manpower arising from the reduction of water-related
diseases;
*     extension of services to unserviced sections;
*     provision of water demand volumes through adequate pumping stations,
reservoirs and networks;
*     elimination of water service disruption caused by air-locked pipelines and
breaks; positive network pressure will be maintained at all times; and
*     provision of a telemonitoring system allowing the supply system to be run
efficiently.
Negative Impacts:
3     construction issues.  Many of the proposed activities will involve
short-term construction-related impacts;
-     increased water use.  Water consumption is expected to increase from 21.7
million m3 in 1993 to 32.1 million m3 in 2002, and water sold is expected
to increase from 18.2 million m3 in 1994 to 27.6 million m3 in 2002.  Water
connections will increase from 135,388 in 1994 to 220,000 in 2002, by which
time service coverage will reach 96 percent. Hydraulic sizing, air relief
valves and engineering concerns would be examined and acceptable solutions
incorporated into the engineering works related to the rehabilitation and
extension of the existing water system during design; and
*     increased wastewater.  The proposed sewage treatment plant will be designed
to handle the total flow of wastewater (see sewerage below).
Sewerace
Positive Impacts:
*     traditionally, because of the unusual characteristics of the underlying
karstic base-rock, effluent of septic tanks and cesspits from all
activities in the Metropolitan Area of Antalya infiltrates directly into
the underlying travertine formation through soaking pits (zerzemins)
connected to cracks or caverns in the rock. This situation is acute
because water supply is also provided from the same travertine. Already
some water sources have had to be abandoned and some others are now showing
traces of pollution. This problem will worsen quickly in the near future
due to the: (a) increase in population and (b) increase in tourism, and
commercial and industrial activities. Improvements in public health would



73
Annex 5.2
Page 3 of 6
certainly occur through reduction of potential drinking water contamination,
although lack of reliable epidemiological studies makes it difficult to quantify
this benefit;
*     Sewerage would be available for the first time in Antalya for about 400,000
households, or about 50 percent of the population. The network will be
built mostly in the western part of the city, where the water table is high
and construction of septic tanks is not feasible, and will extend to the
north to protect the main water supply sources; and
*     The construction of the sewage treatment plant will have a positive effect,
particularly on the development of the land in the western part of the
municipality which is mostly saturated due to the high water table.
Negative Impacts:
Impacts which arise from the construction of the sewerage and the sewage
treatment plant:
a     construction impacts are minimal, especially compared to the difficulties
of building septic tanks in high water table areas in the western part of
the municipality. Activities involve short-term construction-related
impacts; and
*     the western location for the proposed sewage treatment plant, already
incorporated in the Antalya urban development master plan several years
ago, is large enough to accommodate eventually a complete treatment plant
and is remote from residential areas to protect them against odors. The
land is unoccupied and in mixed agriculture and grazing use. Impacts
related to the construction and operation will be minimal as a consequence.
Technical Assistance
Positive Impacts:
*     the technical assistance will strengthen efficiency, financial viability,
service quality, capacity to plan and implement investments, and
accountability to local consumers;
*     non-revenue water is expected to decrease from 46 percent in 1994 to 36
percent in 2002; and
*     through the leasing arrangement, the number of employees is expected to be
reduced significantly, from 3.5 employees/1000 connections to 1.8
employees/1OO connections.



74
Annex 5.2
Page 4 of 6
Negative Impacts:
*     the technical assistance is costly and should be reduced to only essential
needs.
Mitigation Plan:
*     Engineering studies.  Environmental control measures will be reviewed by
the consultant and the Bank during the detailed design.
*     Construction Impacts.  The Consultant, in consultation with the PMU, will
develop a code of good practice for the civil works contractors and the
private operator which will be part of the tender documents.
3.0   Summary
A new institutional set-up will be put in place to manage the water
supply and sewerage. This project will have a positive net environmental impact.
However, a series of potentially negative impacts will be reviewed and a program
of mitigative measures will be established during the design for construction and
operation by the contractors and the private operator, respectively. Technical
assistance to the Sirket staff to improve capability to comprehend and mitigate
the impacts of the construction project will be provided by the project.



75
Annex 5.2
Page 5 of 6
Sewage Treatment Plant
Potential Environmental Impacts and Mitigation
POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS                                              MITIGATION MEASURES
Landtake                                                             1. Reduce overall landtake to a minimum.
2. Land acquisition is sufficient for future full treatment.
Effects on adjacent land use & viability of adjacent land users      i. Although land is minimum it is sufficient to establish a screen to
isolate the facility.
Increase in ambient noise levels both during the construction and    1. Undertake noise monitoring to identify existing ambient noise
he operational phases.                                              levels.
2. During construction, adopt acceptable working procedures &
techniques to reduce the level of noise generated.
3. Erect noise barriers to screen the site.
Loss ot/damage to archaeological features                            1. Complete an archaeological investigation to identify the presence
of archaeological sites within or close to the site boundary.
2. Removal or preservation of any finds for Turkish experts.
Loss of/damage to cultural and material assets                       1. Desk study to identify assets of importance--followed by field
investigations if deemed necessary.
Visual intrusion through the construction & operational phase        1. Screen the site to conceal the construction operations.
2. The design, color, shape and finish of the facility should be
planned to minimize possible visual intrusion.
Loss of damage to ecological habitats and individual species         1. Minimizing landtake for the construction site, as well as the
facility itself.
2. Complete the ecological surveys of the area to determine if the
location for the construction sites and the facilities avoid most
valuable ecological habitats and identify the species present.
3. Important species should be relocated.
4. Plans should include ecological habitat re-creation on site after
construction.
Water quality                                                        1. Plan construction work to allow phasing of the earthworks.
2. Enforce on-site operational procedures to help reduce the
potential for on-site accidents which would allow contaminants to
enter the local water bodies.
Traffic increase in vehicle numbers leading to nuisance with         t. Reduce the volume of construction traffic to a minimum and
ssociated side effects of noise, vibration and a deterioration in local air implement strict rules for drivers (e.g. speed limit, etc.)
uality.                                                             2. Maintain traffic planning throughout the duration of the
construction to allow rotation of the most heavily utilized routes.
3. Construct purpose-designed roads for vehicles if the existing
infrastructure is not sufficient.
4. Ensure vehicle movements spread evenly over working day.
Severance of human and natural populations and habitats              1. Complete desk study of the local environment to determine
optimum access routes.



76
Annex 5.2
Page 6 of 6
Sewer Construction and Operation
Potential Environmental Impacts and Mitigation
POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS                                            MITIGATION MEASURES
Landtake                                                           1. Minimize landtake to a minimum.
Detrimental effects on adjacent property                           1. Minimize the lateral effect of the placement of the sewers to
reduce any disruption to adjacent property and temporary services.
Increase in ambient noise levels both during the construction and  1. Use of equipment which complies with the necessary noise
the operational phases                                             regulations.
2. Work planning to reduce the overall level of generated noise,
especially at sensitive times of the day e.g. evening.
Loss of / damage to important archaeological sites.                1. Completion of archaeological study where finds are identified
during construction.
Loss of / damage to material assets, e.g., architectural sites.    1. Identify the locations of important sites with subsequent field
work as necessary
Increase in traffic volume with side effects of noise, vibration and  1. Reduce traffic movements to a minimum to optimize journeys.
eterioration in local air quality.                                 . Implement traffic control methods, e.g., speed limit.
3. Planned traffic routing using designated access routes.
Deterioration in air quality.                                      1. Optimize traffic routing to avoid population centers.
2. Optimize vehicle joumeys to reduce the number of journeys
made.
3. Optimize vehicle maintenance programs.
Loss of / damage to ecological habitats.                           1. Minimize land take.
2 Complete ecological surveys to identify the most important
ecological sites.
3. Relocate important species.
4. Include habitat restoration or recreation as an integral part of the
work program.
Severance of human natural habitats.                               I. Careful planning to determine the optimum lines for the pipes
regarding both human and natural habitats.
Disruption to access.                                              1. Install traffic management system.
. Ensure no severance occurs.
Disruption to tourism.                                             1. Reduce amount of working open at any one time.
2. Ensure no severance occurs and access for pedestrians is
arranged.



77
Annex 6.0
TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Selected Documents in Prolect File
A.    Feasibility Study by the Consulting Firm T.B.S.
Volume 1.       Executive Summary
Volume 2.       Institutional Issues
Volume 3.       Affordability and Financial Evaluation
Volume 4.       Water Supply and Distribution
Volume 5.       Wastewater Collection, Treatment and Disposal
Volume 6.       Financial Study
B.    Project Implementation Plan









I



IBRD 26274
ROMANIA  k  .                             0   RUSSIAN       I
To Burdur Ankara                                                                                  FEDERATION
>  BULGARIA
1%                  - v w    s   >   S  _GEORGIA  _
%%                                                                 A6AENIAi,AZERBAIJAN
s  -GREECE                I@~~ANKARA                          .,
%      GREECE
Z.  ISLAMI
- -, I  8Antolya                                                   _            ISLIREP.
l   S #  CYPRUS   'r  SYRIAN               --IRAQ AN
CYPRUS         ~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARAB  IRAQ
3                     REP.  _  LEBANON'   REPEP
0     2     4      6     8      10
J                    5                                            I  I  I  I   I  I  I  I   I  I  I
IOs                                                                          KILOMETERS
TO Korkutel, Mugln  %I
To Alanyo Mersin
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4--
Os                                                                                        I          __               II_
vi4.O                                                                                                                      / 
If
on~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
The boundaries, colors, denom- aFions ond any other inkrrmat-oa
,hoans anthi; nap da n,o imply, an the part of The World  ank
Gn-op, .ny odgesenton the legalb stog c o,fany erriory, or ary
endorseen  -n accptn-  of -uh b-oudrie.
TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
WASTEWATER COMPONENT
PROJECT:                                                              RIVERS
ILLER BANK ZONES                                                    ROADS
WB AND EIB ZONE                                               63    NATIONAL CAPITAL
_   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT                                    - - - -  METROPOLUTAN MUNICIPAUTY LIMIT
AND OUTFALL
-*-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
OCTOBER 1994






IBRD 26275
ROMANIA                                 40   RUSSIAN
FEDERATION
r  BULGARIA
J.                                                                                          GEORGIA  -.-.
%                                                               ARMENIAtAZERBAJJAN
|  %   _AO'40                      @ANKARA                             I      A
9  s   GREECE                          TURKEY                           I    C
u  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ . ~~~~~~~~~~ISLAMIC'
Anolva                    ,_v - al'    REP.
_ SYRIAN   \       A      -.IRAN
4I                           ~~~~~~~~CYPRUS       ARAB
I             z              _                        30,       LEBANON/   REP. AO
5 s                                          0     2    4      6      E    10
J.~~~~~~ I  I        I 
I                   8                                                     KILOMETERS
tR       ~~Calorlar *           922 Mo6ora   <      / Yslo           ree         
.5                                                                                               I~~~~~~J
-' 8                     HARBOR
pf r                        boundons, colors, deonom hos and ony otj.r inornOton
Ca-  -                                                                sho,ot, on rlar    toop do not osply, on thesoo idod Th.lWorldb Boon
oodorshorpnt or occ pthnce of such  Woundones
TURKEY
ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY COMPONENT
PROJECT EXISTING
TRUNK MAINS                                                  RIVERS
a)   Q  PUMPING STATIONS                                     (     NATIONAL CAPITAL
        o     RESERVOIRS                                           - - - - METROPOLITAN MUNICIPALITY LIMIT
WELL FIELDS                                             -   -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
OCTOBER 1994












