                  Document of
               The World Bank




                                            Report No: 27700

    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
         (TF-21388 CPL-38930 SCL-38936)

                     ON A

                     LOAN

     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 100.0 MILLION

                    TO THE

             REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                     FOR

ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT




                  May 28, 2004

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective 2003)

                  Currency Unit = Turkish Lira (TL)
                          US$ 1 = TL 1,387,347

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1     December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
     ALDAS         Antalya Commercial Project Management Company
     AMM           Antalya Metropolitan Municipality
     ANTSU         Antalya Water (Private operating company)
     ASAT          Antalya Water Supply and Sewerage Authority
     DSI           State Hydraulic Works
     EIB           European Investment Bank
     IB            Iller Bank
     SPO           State Planning Organization




                 Vice President:    Mr. Shigeo Katsu
              Country Director      Mr. Andrew Vorkink
               Sector Manager       Mr. Motoo Konishi / Lee Travers
          Program Team Leader       Mr. Sudipto Sarkar
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Mr. Alptekin Orhon

                                           TURKEY
               ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               10
6. Sustainability                                                                   12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  15
9. Partner Comments                                                                 16
10. Additional Information                                                          31
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                32
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                33
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                34
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                35
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                37
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   38
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               39
Annex 8. Project Components in the Loan. Agreement and Status of September 2003     40
Annex 9. Project Costs by Procurement Agreement                                     42
Annex 10. Updated Implementation and Financing Program by Year and Financier        43
Annex 11. Project Cost by Component and Source of Funds                             44
Annex 12. Forecast and Actual Disbursements                                         45

Project ID: P009093                                                  Project Name: ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND
                                                                     SANITATION
Team Leader: Alptekin Orhon                                          TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 28, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND                                 L/C/TF Number: TF-21388; CPL-38930;
                            SANITATION                                                               SCL-38936
   Country/Department: TURKEY                                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (51%); Sewerage (43%); Sub-national government
                            administration (5%); Flood protection (1%)
                  Theme: Water resource management (P); Other urban development (P);
                            Pollution management and environmental health (P); Other financial
                            and private sector development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/27/1991                                     Effective: 10/03/1995                12/22/1995
     Appraisal: 06/28/1994                                         MTR:
      Approval: 05/25/1995                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY/ANTALYA
                                           WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
                      Other Partners:      EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK (EIB), DSI, ILLER BANK

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Director:               Andrew N. Vorkink                              Rachel Lomax
Sector Manager:                 Motoo Konishi                                  Ricardo Halperin
Team Leader at ICR:             Alptekin Orhon                                 Paul Blanchet
ICR Primary Author:             Klas Ringskog


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Staff Appraisal Report, dated April 26, 1995, lists the original project objectives as to:
   a. meet, at least cost, the demand for water supply, sewerage and stormwater drainage;
   b. develop new institutional arrangements for the management of municipal water supply,
       sewerage and stormwater drainage, and to introduce private sector participation in the
       operation of services;
   c. implement appropriate cost recovery policies to enhance self-financing of water and
       sewerage services;
   d. postpone the need to develop costly new water resources by improving the efficiency of
       utilization of existing sources and by reducing the volume of non-revenue water which is
       presently too high (46%); and
   e. improve and sustain environmental conditions and reduce health hazards that threaten the
       local population and the tourism industry by: (i) eliminating deficiencies in the collection
       and disposal of municipal sewage; and (ii) improving stormwater drainage in areas suffering
       seasonal flooding.

The Loan Agreement lists the same objectives although the wording is not always identical to the
one in the SAR. The Loan Agreement shortens the fourth objective to read "to improve the
efficiency of utilization of existing water sources and of water usage in Antalya; and the fifth
objective to read "to improve and sustain environmental conditions and reduce health hazards in
Antalya."

Assessment: The objectives were clear and responded to the needs to satisfy the project's
economic feasibility (first and fourth objectives), its institutional feasibility (second objective), its
financial feasibility (third objective); and its environmental feasibility (fifth objective). The
technical feasibility was not in doubt for the water production and distribution works, nor for the
collection of wastewater. However, the difficulties to create the political support for the
introduction of the private operator (second objective) were underestimated. Interviews with
stakeholders and Bank staff indicate that the borrower and the political authorities in Antalya only
accepted the second objective (and subsequent loan condition) as necessary to receive the
investment financing.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The original components as described both in the SAR and in the Loan Agreement comprised:

    Part A: Water supply works

1. Rehabilitation of existing distribution networks, including repair of some electrical
    installations, pumping stations and reservoirs.
2. Construction of about 24 new wells and replacement of eight pumps to increase production of
    three well fields.
3. Construction of about 40,000 m3 of distribution reservoir capacity to meet water demand and


                                                - 2 -

4. Replacement and extension of about 500 km of existing distribution networks to supply
    consumers, including construction of two new pumping stations, replacement of pumps and
    replacement of water meters.

    Part B: Sewerage works

1. Construction of a collection network of about 10 km including a small temporary wastewater
    treatment plant in the old part of Antalya and rehabilitation of the existing network and septic
    tank at the small-scale industrial area.
2. Construction of new collectors and collection networks of about 380 km to serve about 1,660
    ha. in the western part of Antalya.
3. Construction of a preliminary wastewater treatment plant with a capacity of about 90,000
    m3/day at the west end of Antalya, including a sea outfall.

    Part C: Stormwater drainage works

1. Construction of missing sections on the networks, such as culverts, curbs and channels, and
    removal of debris from existing rivers, channels and ditches.

    Part D: Technical assistance

    Provision of consultant services for:

1. Project implementation:
     a. Detailed design and construction supervision for the water supply, sewerage and
         stormwater drainage works.
     b. Hydrogeological survey of groundwater facilities.
     c. Site survey and investigations for mapping of the water supply systems; and
     d. Preparation of a comprehensive stormwater master plan.
2. Institutional development:
     a. Strengthening the Project Management Unit to assist the Borrower, the Antalya
         Metropolitan Municipality, the district municipalities and the Sirket in initiating,
         coordinating and supervising Project activities.
     b. Preparation of bidding documents, bid evaluation and contract negotiations for the
         private operation of water supply, sewerage and stormwater systems; and
     c. Assistance to the Sirket through a twinning agreement or contract with a water supply
         and sewerage operator for the management of the services, planning and administration
         of contracts and the implementation of a training program.
3.4 Revised Components:
There were no major revisions to the components except under Part B (Sewerage works). Instead
of constructing a small wastewater treatment plant in the old part of Antalya the sewage from this
area will be directly pumped to the main collector which makes the intended small wastewater
treatment plant superfluous. Under part B ­ in addition to constructing the contractual preliminary
wastewater treatment plant ­ ASAT built the first stage of a secondary wastewater treatment
plant although it was not part of the original project. This biological, activated sludge treatment



                                                - 3 -

plant was initially considered unnecessary by the Bank to safeguard the necessary quality of the
seawater in the Bay of Antalya. However, the Antalya Metropolitan Municipality and ASAT
decided to finance and build it with the operational surpluses from ASAT because the local
environmental authorities conditioned the use of the submarine outfall and of the sewerage system
on the existence of biological, secondary wastewater treatment. On the total, US$ 27.5 million is
cancelled out of the total loan of US$100.0 million. Due to cost savings, and ASAT's request US$
14.9 million, and US$ 9.0 million out of the loan were cancelled as of February 23, 2001 and
March 11, 2003. Due to non-compliance with project conditions the Bank cancelled US$ 3.6
million out of the loan as of April 1, 2003.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
At the time of project preparation the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not exist within the
World Bank. A Japanese Project Preparation Facility Advance Grant was used to help prepare
the project. The total project preparation time was about two years and included procuring an
international consultant consortium. The Bank supervised the preparation of the feasibility study
fairly intensively with at least six Bank missions in the period 1991-1993, prior to appraisal. The
Bank identified weaknesses of the staffing and quality of work of the consulting consortium with
respect to the project's financial and institutional aspects and requested replacement of staff with
others more qualified. The political support in favor of introducing private sector participation in
the operation of services does not seem to have been as strong and sustained as thought at the
time of appraisal. The preparation of bidding documents and the supervision of the competitive
procurement was assisted by the consulting arm of a privatized UK operator. Because of
insufficient political support in favor of private sector participation and because of the fact that the
project investments were large in comparison to the size and payments capacity of the city of
Antalya the ICR rates the Quality at Entry "unsatisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Objective (a): "To meet, at least cost, the demand for water supply, sewerage and stormwater
drainage"
This ICR rates that this objective was met. For water supply the share of residential
households connected to the public water supply rose from an estimated 95% at the time of
appraisal to 100% from 1995 onwards. Total demand was met at all times as evidenced by the
fact that service was continuous for 100% of the water connections. Similarly, 100% of samples
from the distribution system have contained residual chlorine and are presumed bacteriologically
safe since 100% of water samples tested negative for e-coli in the period 1996-2003.
Given that tariffs are economically appropriate and collection rates are high water demand was
met at least cost because all connections were metered throughout the period which promotes
efficient water consumption. Annual water production rose by 12% from 64 million m3 in the
year 1996 to 71 million m3 in the year 2003 while the total number of water customers rose by
23% from 205,000 to 253,000 in the same period. Operating costs and investment costs
developed favorably compared to historical levels and projections. Energy consumption per m3
produced fell from 0.82 kWh in 1995 to 0.55 kWh in 2002. Staff productivity improved during
the period to reach 1.2 employees per thousand water connections. Finally, the quantities of water
supply works and equipment were surpassed (See Annex 1 for Key Performance Indicators) while



                                                  - 4 -

the actual investment cost for water was 54% of appraisal estimates (See Annex 2 for Project
Cost by Component).
Sewerage demand was also met at least cost. Before the project Antalya had no public sewerage.
At the end of the project in 2003 about 35% of the urbanized area had sewerage and about 24%
of total households in the sewered areas had connected to the sewerage network. The lag in
effective connection rates is a common phenomenon in sewerage projects and indicates that
households are slow in abandoning their existing septic tanks in favor of public sewerage. The lag
has been reduced in the most recent years 2002 and 2003. However, the actual number of
sewerage connections remained about half of projected levels in 2003 a fact that can be attributed
to overoptimistic demand projections during project preparation.
Antalya's topography and its porous travertine geology both facilitate stormwater drainage. With
this in mind stormwater drainage was not perceived as a major problem under the project.
However, with the city's rapid development and the paving of streets the risk for stormwater
damage has increased somewhat. ASAT is now taking mitigating measures that follows the
master plan under the project such as the construction of additional channels and culverts.

Objective (b): "To develop new institutional arrangements for the management of municipal
water supply, sewerage and stormwater drainage, and to introduce private sector participation in
the operation of services."
The ICR rates that this objective was not met. First, a sirket, the commercial enterprise
ALDAS, was created to manage the project investments and provide a more flexible complement
to ASAT that retained its statutory responsibility to manage water supply, sewerage and
stormwater services. ALDAS became the project implementation unit for the project and handled
project procurement and relations with the private operator ANTSU. However, ALDAS did not
acquire fully sufficient operating experience to monitor the contract between ASAT and ANTSU.
Second, private sector participation was introduced in Antalya under a contract signed in
November 1996 but the contract lasted only half of the ten-year contract period. Following
ANTSU's departure the contract is now in arbitration with ANTSU claiming compensation of
US$ 30 million from ASAT and ASAT having filed a counter claim of US$ 40 million. After
ANTSU's departure ASAT wished to contract again with a private operator but first wanted to
undertake a study to define the optimal form of private sector participation. However, due to the
substantial effort necessary to prepare for the arbitration procedures, ASAT deferred the options
study and the renewed effort to contract with another private operator.
NOTE: The ICR merely intends to record the facts of the private operator contract and take no
position on which party, ASAT or ANTSU, is to blame for the contract difficulties, including the
termination. The Bank should not be perceived in any way as wishing to influence the outcome of
the arbitration proceedings that are scheduled to be concluded by June 30, 2004.

Objective (c): "To implement appropriate cost recovery policies to enhance self-financing of
water and sewerage services."
The ICR rates that this objective was not met. On the positive side ASAT did contract with
the private operator ANTSU in November 1997 using a remuneration formula that would give
strong incentives for ANTSU to increase collections. ANTSU was to be paid an agreed
remuneration per cubic meter of water billed and collected from the ASAT customers. Second,
ASAT proposed and the Antalya Municipal Council adopted a tariff policy designed to generate



                                                - 5 -

substantial cash flow to enable ASAT to contribute to the large investment program. The water
tariff was close to US$ 1.00 for a number of years, an internationally high level. A sewerage
surcharge of 75% was added starting in the year 2002 when the sewage treatment plant began
operating. Because ANTSU was remunerated on the basis of a flat (and low) fee per cubic meter
collected, the working ratio (cash operating costs/cash operating revenue) was in the order of
0.33 during most of the project period. As a result the internal cash generation proved substantial.
Collections rose from an annual US$ 9 million in 1995 to US$ 33 million as a result of higher
sales and roughly doubled tariffs. Out of the total actual investment of US$ 205.3 million ASAT
financed US$ 56.0 million or 27%, close to the appraisal estimate of 26%. (Annex 11). In terms
of total internal cash from operations invested ASAT contributed US$ 63.9 million, or almost
identical to the appraisal estimate of US$ 63.4 million. The latter sum includes US$ 7.9 million
that ASAT paid for the construction of a biological wastewater treatment plant that was not part
of the original project. On the negative side, ASAT failed to meet all its financial obligations since
it failed to pay the debt service to the Bank and to the European Investment Bank on time.
Instead, the guarantor, the Turkish Treasury, had to step in and pay the debt service. The
Treasury subsequently obliged ASAT to refinance the debt service by paying back the amounts of
each debt service amount over a period of 12 months. Although ASAT at the present time is
current in its refinancing obligations with the Treasury this was not always the case.

Objective (d): "To postpone the need to develop costly new water resources by improving the
efficiency of utilization of existing sources and by reducing the volume of non-revenue water
which is presently too high (46%);
The ICR rates that this objective was not fully met. The first part of the objective was met
because the existing well-field proved sufficient to supply Antalya without having to implement
the Karacaoren surface water scheme that had been identified by DSI as the next supply scheme.
The second part of the objective - of reducing the volume of non-revenue water - was likely not
met. It seems certain that the level of non-revenue water was 63% at the closing of the project
which is obviously higher than the 46% estimated at the time of appraisal. However, the appraisal
estimate was uncertain. ASAT estimates the level of non-revenue water at the time of appraisal
might have been as high as 66%. ASAT claims that the level of physical losses has actually been
reduced from 46% in 1996 to 39% in 2002 and that the level of commercial losses has risen from
20% to 24% during the same period. In such a case non-revenue water has held roughly steady
during the project implementation, albeit at an excessive level. The matter is nontrivial and is at
the center of the dispute between ASAT and ANTSU. The private operator, ANTSU, claims that
the leakage remain at high levels due to the fact that ASAT (in charge of the investment program)
replaced too little of the existing distribution system. ASAT claims that the failure to reduce
non-revenue water is mainly due to ANTSU's poor performance. ASAT argues that ANTSU
failed to live up to its technical proposal where, without conditioning the reduction to the
investment program, committed itself to raising the network efficiency (the accounted water) to
70% within three years of taking over operations and to 85% at the end of the ten-year operating
contract.

Objective (e): "To improve and sustain environmental conditions and reduce health hazards that
threaten the local population and the tourism industry by: (i) eliminating deficiencies in the
collection and disposal of municipal sewage; and (ii) improving stormwater drainage in areas



                                                   - 6 -

suffering seasonal flooding.
This ICR rates that this objective was met. The wording of this objective in the Loan
Agreement is more succinct: " To improve and sustain environmental condition and reduce health
hazards in Antalya." Meeting this objective requires the potable water quality to be safe; for
wastewater to be collected and taken outside the urbanized area; and for the collected
wastewaters to be treated and disposed of in an environmentally sustainable fashion. The project
improved all of the three conditions. First, the distributed water has been continuous during the
project period and tested positive for residual chlorine. Second, the share of the population
connected to the sanitary sewerage system rose from negligible levels before the project to about
24% in the year 2003. Prior to the project, this sewage had contaminated the groundwater from
the septic tanks that leaked into the geological (karstic) formations. Third, the effluents from the
biological treatment plant comply with the Turkish standards of a maximum of 30 PPM (parts per
million) of Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) and 30 PPM suspended solids (SS). The existing
biological treatment plant has a removal efficiency of 92-94% and is operated by a private
contractor under the Design-Build-Operate contract. In accordance with the project monitoring
the Environmental Engineering Department of the Akdeniz University has monitored seawater
quality in the Bay of Antalya and concluded that "there is no serious pollution in the study area
both in Offshore and Nearshore locations."
In summary, two objectives (a) and (e) were fully met, and three objectives (b), (c), and (d) were
not met. Given that the project failed to achieve three major relevant objectives the ICR rates
outcome as "unsatisfactory".

4.2 Outputs by components:
The implementation by component is detailed in Annex 8. The project generally accomplished
more than what had been planned in terms of physical quantities with the exception of the water
supply component.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Annex 3 provides the economic cost benefit analysis for the project. Water supply benefits have
been taken as the incremental volumes of water billed and collected, valued at the average water
tariff for each year. This understates actual water benefits, because it does not capture consumer's
surplus in the incremental consumption. By not including the billed by uncollected volumes, it
also does not capture the consumption benefits to those who did not pay their bills. An offsetting
factor is that no attempt was made to measure decreases in consumption, hence economic value,
by originally connected consumers in response to higher prices. Wastewater benefits have been
taken as the incremental volumes of wastewater billed and collected each year, valued at the
wastewater tariff each year. It is assumed that the Antalya consumers were willing to pay such
higher tariffs because they perceived that they were receiving something that they had not had
prior to the project, collection, biological treatment and adequate disposal of a substantial portion
of the sanitary sewage. This estimate is conservative and does not attempt to quantify the external
benefits, such as environmental and health benefits, that most consumers have difficulties
appreciating fully and therefore will not be readily prepared to pay for. Incremental operating
costs have been actual operating costs less operating costs at the 1995 level (prior to project
investments). Incremental investment costs are taken as those of the project with the payments
profile from Annex 10. Incremental costs have been reduced by the VAT, or by an average 15%
over the 1995-2003 period since the VAT is taken to be a purely fiscal tax that did not produce


                                                  - 7 -

any benefits to ASAT and the consumers. Finally, the net benefits in current US dollars have been
deflated by the US consumer price index to produce a cash flow in constant prices. The economic
rate-of-return (EROR) of the net benefit stream is calculated as 4.3%, or somewhat lower than
the 9.3% rate of return forecast at appraisal.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate-of-return has been calculated because none was calculated at appraisal.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The ICR rates the institutional development impact (IDI) as "modest". The creation of a
commercial enterprise, sirket, ALDAS, represents a significant accomplishment. ALDAS
implemented successfully a large project within the budget and time frame allotted. Its value has
been proven in the ongoing arbitration proceedings with the former private operator ANTSU.
Without ALDAS' ability to employ world-class legal expertise it is unlikely that either ASAT or
the Antalya Metropolitan Municipality would have been in a position to argue their case
effectively. However, ALDAS was never able to become independent from the Antalya
municipality.

The IDI in the case of the legal borrower ASAT is rated as "modest". ASAT was established on
February 18, 1995 in accordance with the ISKI Law # 2560 of the year 1981. The trigger for the
establishment of ASAT was the fact the Antalya Municipality received the status of a
metropolitan municipality. ASAT became the official borrower of the Bank and EIB loans and
became ultimately responsible for project implementation and procurement. Another consequence
of the changed status, although not attributable to the project, was the requirement of creating
district municipalities (DMs). In the case of Antalya three DMs were established. The DM
administrations reflected municipal election results where the party affiliation of the three DMS
was different from that of the Mayor of the Antalya Metropolitan Municipality (AMM). The
divergent party mandates complicated the governance of ASAT that depended on the Municipal
Council for approval of the tariff and support on institutional matters such as private sector
participation.

ASAT's lack of autonomy influenced the Bank-financed project on three occasions. The first two
were the transfers or "loans" from ASAT to the AMM of US$ 14 million in the year 1996 and of
US$ 6 million somewhat later. The "loans" were used for municipal purposes not directly related
to the Bank water supply and sanitation project in contradiction of Sections 4.01 and 5.02 of the
Loan Agreement that prescribed that ASAT was forbidden to invest more than US$ 0.2 million
without the authorization from the Bank. Only US$ 1 million of the "loans" were repaid from the
AMM to ASAT. The third occasion was the construction of secondary wastewater treatment,
outside the original project design. The Ministry of the Environment approved the original project
design comprising only preliminary treatment on the basis of the feasibility study. The preliminary
plant was financed by the European Investment Bank and successfully completed in 1999.
However, already in November 1996 ASAT and the Antalya Metropolitan Municipality informed
the Bank that they wished to add a secondary, biological wastewater treatment plant in response
to complaints from local environmental groups that a preliminary treatment plant would not be
sufficient to ensure satisfactory seawater quality. After extensive discussion, the Bank agreed to
include the biological treatment plant but conditioned its approval on a satisfactory environmental


                                                - 8 -

impact assessment since the treatment plant investment would be an Environmental Category A.
However, ASAT did not want to delay further the building of the treatment plant and went ahead
and financed the entire investment cost out of its own cash flow. The financing of the entire
investment cost of US$ 8 million from its internal cash generation weakened ASAT's finances.

The most significant institutional development impact refers to the contracting of the private
operator, ANTSU. The decision to introduce a private operator seems to have had little political
support within ASAT and the AMM. The chosen form of private sector participation (PSP) was a
lease contract with a zero lease fee. Significantly, no options study was undertaken. The private
operator was to operate and maintain the existing water supply and planned sewerage systems on
behalf of ASAT with remuneration for each cubic meter billed and collected from the customers.
The procurement was based on a two-stage procedure where potential bidders were first
pre-qualified technically and then participated in the actual bid where contract award was based
on remuneration demanded per cubic meter collected. ASAT contracted with a private UK firm
to help out on the preparation of bidding documents and for advice during negotiations.

Four private operators were pre-qualified: a French operator Lyonnaise des Eaux in a joint
venture with the Turkish contract ENKA; another French operator SAUR in a joint venture with
the Turkish firm ALKE; a UK operator North West Water International in a joint venture with the
Turkish firm IDIL and another UK operator Thames International in a joint venture with the
Turkish firm Dogus.

Only the first three consortia submitted bids in mid-1996. The bid award criterion was the lowest
demanded remuneration during the stipulated ten-year operating contract where the estimated
quantities of water and wastewater billed and collected were fixed to make the financial proposals
readily comparable. The respective bid fees per cubic meter during the ten year contract are
shown in Table 1 with the total evaluated financial bid.

      Table 1 Financial Bids from the Private Operators, `000 TL/m3
              (Prices at the time of the bid in mid-1996, to be adjusted by a composite price index)

 Year of Contract              Lyonnaise des Eaux/ENKA             North West International/            SAUR/ALKE
                                                                            IDIL


                               Water             Sewage            Water              Sewage         Water      Sewage
             1                   31                NA              21.3                 NA           37.5        NA
             2                   24                NA               21                  NA            37         NA
             3                  19.5               3               20.6                 11.6          36          2
             4                  17.4               3               19.8                 11.6          28          23
             5                  14.5               2.8              19                  11.6         25.5        19.5
             6                  13.7               2.2             18.2                 9.9           24         16.5
             7                   13                1.8             17.3                 9.9          22.5        14.5
             8                  12.8               1.8             16.5                 9.9          21.5         14
             9                  12.5               1.7             16.5                 8.3          21.5         13
            10                  12.2               1.7             15.7                 8.3          21.5         13
 Total Evaluated Bid,          7,350                               9,366                             13,684
 billions of Turkish Lira


In accordance with the stated selection criterion ASAT awarded the contract to the Lyonnaise des



                                                            - 9 -

Eaux/ENKA consortium. SAUR/ALKE lodged a protest claiming that the Lyonnaise des Eaux
/ENKA financial bid was unrealistically low. However, ASAT rejected the objection and awarded
the contract to the Lyonnaise/ENKA consortium. The Bank gave its no-objection to the contract
in a communication on October 24, 1996. The operating contract was signed in November 1996
and the Lyonnaise des Eaux /ENKA private operator, ANTSU, took over operations in February
1997.

Contract implementation proved difficult and resulted in losses for ANTSU. None of ASAT's
operating staff transferred to ANTSU in order not to lose the job security and financial conditions
of municipal employment and ANTSU was obliged to recruit new staff. The Turkish partner
ENKA left fairly early into the contract, selling their shares in the joint venture to Lyonnaise des
Eaux. As a consequence, the private operator became synonymous with a foreign operator,
possibly weakening the political support among the population and the Municipal Council.
Towards the end of the first five years of operations ANTSU presented its case to the Antalya
Municipal Council and requested that the remuneration to be adjusted since ANTSU had, by its
own calculations, lost significant amount of money. The adjustment request was permissible
within the contract (Section 2.2) that allowed that " ...at the end of the fifth year of the Contract,
the Employer/Supervisor and the Operator will discuss the possibility ... and the inclusion, by
agreement of the Parties of the right to renegotiate prices". However, ASAT did not agree to
discuss to adjust contract prices.

On February 7, 2002, prior to its obligation to renew its performance bond of US$ 1 million by
the deadline of February 8, 2002 ANTSU obtained an injunction against renewing the
performance bond in a court in Istanbul. On February 15, 2002 ANTSU asked for arbitration
procedures to be initiated and claimed compensation of US$ 30 million from ASAT. On May 2,
2002 ANTSU notified ASAT that it was obliged to liquidate itself as required under Turkish law,
given that two thirds of its equity had been lost. ANTSU then declared to be prepared to "in good
faith ...continue to perform under the Contract " for another 30 days from May 2, 2002. ASAT
assumed responsibility for operations on June 1, 2002, taking over ANTSU's staff and operating
procedures. Subsequently, ASAT filed for damages of US$ 40 million with the arbitration panel.
The arbitration is now proceeding with a possible decision by June 30, 2004. The ICR rates the
overall IDI from the private operator as "negligible" since ASAT is operating the system with
much the same technical and commercial efficiency as ANTSU.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
During project implementation Turkey suffered two major macro-economic crises, in the years
2000 and 2001, respectively. The crises reduced both total GDP and per capita GDP and arguably
made it more difficult to collect for water supply and wastewater services. The deep devaluation
of the Turkish lira (in which collections were paid) with respect to the US dollar (in which debt
service was paid) meant that ASAT suffered the consequences of the foreign exchange risk.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The most significant government control was exercised by the Antalya Metropolitan Municipality
the Municipal Council of which approves ASAT's tariff. The water supply tariff did vary



                                                     - 10 -

substantially during project implementation, starting out at US$0.52/cubic meter and rising to
US$ 1.00/cubic meter. In between there were periods when the adjustment formulas failed to
compensate for high inflation rates. The variations could have been prevented had there been
more explicit criteria to set tariffs to automatically adjust for inflation.

The transfers of US$ 14 million and of US$ 6 million from ASAT's operating surplus in the
1995-99 period for use of Antalya's municipal expenditure weakened the ASAT cash flow. It
shows that ISKI-type companies (under Law 2560) are still prone to political interference from its
metropolitan municipal owners.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
ASAT and ALDAS managed the substantial investment program and supervised the performance
of ANTSU during most of the project implementation period. Their performance is rated
"satisfactory" judging by the cost efficiency of the investment program. Effective June 1, 2002
ASAT is in charge of operations and maintenance. Again, ASAT has operated the system as
efficiently as the previous private operator, ANTSU. ALDAS has played a particularly important
role in the arbitration proceedings from February 2002 and onwards. Its greater flexibility in
employing eminent experts and legal counsel has helped the case of ASAT in the arbitration with
ANTSU (under liquidation). Without ALDAS it would probably have been difficult and even
impossible for ASAT to defend itself given that its expenditures and hirings are subject to strict
restrictions of the Turkish Interior Ministry.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Annex 2 provides a comparison between project costs, as appraised and actual. Overall project
investments amounted to US$ 205.3 million or 84% of appraised investments of US$ 244.6
million while physical quantities were exceeded for most project categories. The three main
project cost categories were water supply where actual investments turned out to be 54% of
appraised investments; sewerage where actual investments amounted to 122% of appraised
investments; and consultancy services and engineering that resulted in 47% of appraised levels.
Sound procurement seems to explain a portion of the lower-than-expected costs. Annex 9
provides data on the project cost by procurement arrangements at appraisal. About 66% of the
investments were bid with international competitive bidding (ICB), about 7% with national
competitive bidding (NCB); about 21% with other procedures (as related to the components with
parallel financing from the European Investment Bank (EIB), DSI and Iller Bank), and the
remaining 6% with yet other procedures (related mainly to the biological treatment plant financed
by ASAT itself.) The lower-than-appraised investment costs are not due to favorable exchange
rate movements during the project implementation period as compared to domestic price inflation
as Table 2 indicates.
       Table 2 Devaluation and Inflation Rates during the Project Implementation, 1996-2003
      Year       Annual US$/TL Exchange Rate        Annual US$/TL Exchange Rate Index   Consumer Price Index, July of    Consumer Price Index,
                                                                                                each year                     1995=100
      1995                 44,800                                  100                             185                          100
      1996                 83,000                                  185                             334                          180
      1997                 153,400                                 342                             620                          335
      1998                 268,700                                 600                            1148                          620
      1999                 430,300                                 960                            1895                         1,020
      2000                 630,300                                1,410                           2960                         1,600
      2001                1,334,000                               2,980                           4628                         2,500
      2002                1,550,000                               3,460                           6538                         3,530
      2003                1,390,000                               3,100                           8331                         4,500




                                                                - 11 -

The five financing sources proved to be fairly close to the appraised shares with the exception of
the World Bank that financed a smaller share, both absolutely and relatively, following
cancellations of portions of the original loan on two occasions. Annex 11 gives the details of
amounts and project categories financed by each of the two financial institutes, the World Bank
and the EIB, by the Turkish financial agencies Iller Bank and DSI, and by ASAT itself from its
internal cash generation. Table 3 summarizes the volumes and shares of financing from the five
funding sources:
       Table 3 Appraised and Actual Financing of the Project Costs

   Financing Source          Appraised Amount   Appraised Share, %    Actual Amount          Actual
                             US$ millions                              US$ millions          Share,%
   World Bank                99.8                41                   72.6                  35
  EIB                      46.5                 19                    40.1                  20
  DSI &Iller Bank          34.9                 14                    28.7                  14
  ASAT                     63.4                 26                    63.9                  31
   Total                     244.6              100%                  205.3                 100%




As a result of a slower-than-expected start-up and lower total Bank financing, Bank
disbursements lagged forecasts during project implementation. Annex 12 compares actual
disbursements, in absolute and in relative terms, to disbursements forecast in the staff appraisal
report. Total disbursements reached US$ 72.6 million, or 73% of disbursement forecasts. On the
total, US$ 27.5 million is cancelled out of the total loan of US$100.0 million. Due to cost savings,
and ASAT's request US$ 14.9 million, and US$ 9.0 million out of the loan were cancelled as of
February 23, 2001 and March 11, 2003. Due to non-compliance with project conditions the Bank
cancelled US$ 3.6 million out of the loan as of April 1, 2003.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The ICR rates sustainability of the project as "likely". Since taking over operating
responsibility on June 1, 2002 ASAT has demonstrated its capacity to operate and maintain the
system satisfactorily. The environmental sustainability seems assured judging by the monitoring of
the quality of the seawater in the Bay of Antalya. The financial sustainability also seems "likely" as
evidenced by the substantial operating surpluses resulting from ASAT's working ratios of 0.32
and 0.35 for calendar years 2002 and 2003, respectively. The ratios signify that only about one
third of collections is expended to operate and maintain the system. The operating surplus could
be used for complementary investments and for debt service. Debt service on the Bank loan that
started on November 1, 2000 has not been paid on time by ASAT and the Turkish Treasury has
stepped in since it is the guarantor of the loan. Subsequently, Treasury has refinanced the debt
service it has paid and obliged ASAT to repay the debt service payment over a period of 12
months. ASAT has also failed to pay debt service to EIB. Overall, Treasury was forced to pay
US$ 7.0 million in 2000, US$ 8.8 million in 2001, US$ 10.5 million in 2002 and US$ 5.2 million
in 2003. However, ASAT has complied with the refinanced debt service payments since then and
does not have any overdue payments to the Treasury at the present time. ASAT's debt service
difficulties may partly be due to the fact that debt service under the Bank loan started before the



                                                - 12 -

entire project was concluded and the expected financial benefits from the sewerage investments
did not materialize as quickly as forecast. The grace period of five years was substantially shorter
than the scheduled project implementation period of seven years.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
No special transition arrangements are necessary. ASAT took over operations from the former
private operator, ANTSU, on June 1, 2002. Service quality has been maintained and it is unlikely
that the population of Antalya has noticed the operator change since ANTSU operated, billed and
collected in the name of ASAT.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project was identified during a reconnaissance mission in July 1991. It was originally
designed as an urban project with two components: a large water supply and sanitation
component and a small solid waste management component. At one time, the total estimated
project cost was US$ 287 million, where the plan for the World Bank was to finance US$ 112
million to the ISKI-type water supply and sewerage company and US$ 11 million to the Antalya
municipality for the solid waste component. Subsequent preparation with the use of a Japanese
Grant of US$ 2 million and a Project Preparation Facility of US$ 750,000 indicated that it would
be counterproductive to lump the two components together since the land acquisition for the
sanitary landfill proved lengthy. The water supply and sewerage project was then prepared by a
competitively procured consultant consortium, guided by at least five Bank preparation missions.
The project was pre-appraised in February 1994 and was presented to the Board in May 1995.
The relatively lengthy project preparation was explained partly by the difficulties in setting up the
sirket to manage the project. Bank project preparation was weak on two grounds. It does not
seem to have devoted sufficient time to explain and analyze the choice of a PSP model.

The second weakness during project preparation was the size of the project in relation to the
population of Antalya. This issue was flagged during a project preparation mission that questioned
whether project investments of about US$ 250 million would be affordable by a population that at
the time amounted to 0.5 million. Although there is substantial seasonal tourism its effect on
collections is not as significant as that of the all-year-round population. The result could only be
either high tariffs or deferred investments. In the end, both resulted.

Because of these two weaknesses in project design the Bank performance during lending is rated
as `unsatisfactory". Compliance with Bank safeguards was never an issue. The readiness for
implementation was fairly satisfactory since the project became effective five months after loan
signature.

7.2 Supervision:
The ICR rates Bank performance during supervision as "satisfactory". Procurement and financial
supervision was managed by staff from the Bank country office in Ankara and proved economical
and timely. The supervision also included missions from headquarters staff. Annex 4 provides a
list of preparation and supervision missions through the project preparation and implementation
periods. Bank supervision turned particularly intensive in the 2000-2003 period and resulted in



                                                  - 13 -

two suspensions of disbursements that attempted to help redress ASAT's financial difficulties.
The first suspension was on June 28, 2001 and was lifted on November 16, 2001. The second
suspension was made effective on December 23, 2002 and was never lifted. Instead it resulted in
the cancellation of about US$ 3.6 million on April 1, 2003.The trigger for the first suspension was
ASAT's failure to pay the first Bank debt service on November 1, 2000 and its decision to go
ahead with the construction of the secondary biological treatment plant even if it meant that its
financial situation would be weakened. The second suspension of disbursements had three
conditions for lifting disbursements:
l A demonstration that ASAT would be financially viable (which in the Bank's mind evolved
    around ASAT's ability to pay debt service to the Bank according to the Loan Agreement, i.e.
    without resorting to the Treasury guarantees;
l A decision of the General Assembly of the Antalya Metropolitan Municipality to support
    ASAT's decision to rehire a private operator; and
l A schedule to hire a private operator

Failure on the part of ASAT to meet the conditions, led to the cancellation of the Bank loan.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated as "marginally satisfactory". The weaknesses during project
preparation were largely offset by the active and timely supervision.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's participation during project preparation seems to have been limited. The staff of
ASAT were not fully integrated with the consultants' and the Bank's project preparation partly
because of their limited experience from preparing integrated infrastructure projects. In particular,
their understanding of the risks associated with the hiring of a private operator was limited.
Similarly, the understanding of what would be an affordable project size seems to have been
compromised by the desire of the municipal administration in favor of a large project that would
meet the city's need for a sewerage system.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government implementation performance dealt with three issues. The first was supporting
tariffs sufficient to generate the necessary counterpart funding. The water tariff roughly doubled
during the 1995-2003 period from US$ 0.5 per cubic meter to US$ 1.0 per cubic meter, a level
that is comparable to those in Western Europe and high relative to the population's income levels.
The second issue was the selected level of sewage treatment. During project implementation the
popular demands in favor of secondary biological treatment grew stronger. However, given the
negative environmental perception of the project, the Bank during supervision agreed to finance
the treatment plant. ASAT however did not want to follow the Environmental Category A
procedures of the Bank since it considered that these might be time-consuming. In the end, it
resulted in the decision to construct (successfully) the first stage of the biological treatment even
though it meant that ASAT was forced to finance the totality of the investment from its operating
surplus. The third issue was the decision of the Antalya metropolitan municipality and the district
municipalities to siphon off part of the operating surplus from ASAT to pay for municipal
expenditure unrelated to the water supply and sewerage project. This was detrimental to the



                                               - 14 -

project since it weakened the project's financial viability. AMM's decision was in line with the
imperfect governance of ISKI-type companies in Turkey where municipalities at times use
operating surpluses from water supply and sewerage operations for other municipal expenditure.
However, AMM's actions constituted a breach of the Bank Loan Agreement. Not paying back
the loan as a borrower was also in breach of the General Conditions of the Loan Agreement. On
balance, the performance of the Local government is rated as "marginally satisfactory", taking
into account the satisfactory support of higher tariffs and the unsatisfactory use of ASAT's
operating surpluses on two occasions.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The ICR rates ASAT's performance as "marginally satisfactory" and that of ALDAS as
"satisfactory" given the success of effective project implementation and economical procurement.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
On balance, the Borrower performance is rated as "marginally satisfactory."

8. Lessons Learned

The Antalya project teaches a number of lessons.

Lesson One: The Risk Analysis and Allocation of Private Operator Contracts in the Water
Supply and Sanitation Sector Must be Improved

    Table 4 Relevant Risks of the Operational Cash Flow and Their Allocation

    Cash Flow Item          Type of Risk            Level of Risk          Allocation of Risk
    Water Production,m3     Technical               Low                    ANTSU
   -Network Leakage,m3      Technical               Medium                 ANTSU
   -Commercial Losses,m3   Commercial               Medium                 ANTSU
   Water Billed,m3          Demand                  High                   ANTSU and ASAT
   * Water Tariff,$/m3      Political               High                   Antalya Municipality
   =Water Billings,$
   -Collections Losses,$    Commercial              Medium                 ANTSU
   =Water Collections,$
   - Operating Costs,$      Technical               Medium                 ANTSU
   - Investment Costs,$     Construction            Medium                 ASAT
   -Interest Costs,$        Financial               Low                    ASAT
   -Loan Amortization,$     Financial               Low                    ASAT
   -Foreign Exchange        Foreign Exchange Risk   High                   ASAT
   Purchases
    =Remaining surplus,$

Table 4 identifies and quantifies the risks affecting the project and shows the allocation of the
different types of risk. It is obvious that the level of risk was high for most of the risks that
ANTSU and ASAT assumed. Many risks became still higher because of the two deep
macroeconomic crises that affected Turkey in the years 2000 and 2002, respectively. The lesson
for all parties, including the Bank, is that the risk analysis must be strengthened where the
involved parties take on considerable risk with few means of mitigating risk such as renegotiating
the terms of the operating contract. For instance, the strict Turkish public procurement legislation
did not afford ASAT the opportunity of adjusting the remuneration to ANTSU even it had wanted



                                                 - 15 -

to.

Lesson Two: Projects Must be Affordable. The project was too big which led to the financial
difficulties. The project would better have been implemented in stages.

Lesson Three: Projects should have Limited Objectives. The project's five objectives made it
difficult to implement. The corollary is that the more objectives there are the more likely it is that
the project outcome will be rated "unsatisfactory" since it becomes increasingly difficult to meet
all of the objectives.

Lesson Four: The Selection Criteria in Private Sector Participation Must Be Carefully
Analyzed. In Antalya price was the driving criteria to select an operator. Provisions should be
put in place that will protect against undue low financial bids where the expectation may be that
initially low tariffs will subsequently be raised. Typically, public procurement legislation for all
countries support the selection of the bidder with the lowest price requiring remedial measures to
be put in place that would prevent against low-balling by the operator. Remedial measures might
include requiring bidders to provide higher performance bonds although the resulting benefits
must be balanced against the additional costs of higher bond amounts.

Lesson Five: Local utilities may not be able to bear the exchange rate risk where there is a
high risk of devaluation and where the revenue is in local currency but debt service is in
foreign exchange.

Such foreign exchange risks can at times be mitigated through swaps although this would hardly
have been possible in the case of ASAT. Alternatively, the Treasury might have assumed the
foreign exchange risk in return for an annual fee, commensurate with the level of foreign exchange
risk. In this way the risk allocation would have been better aligned with the ability to take
corrective action to reduce the foreign exchange risk. ASAT itself is not in a position to influence
the country's macro-economic management and political decisions that affect the foreign exchange
risk.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
ASAT's comments are attached. ASAT considers that the five development objectives were met. ASAT rates the
Bank's performance during preparation to have been "successful and satisfactory" and to have been "partially
successful on technical assistance and successful on supervision." Among Lessons Learned ASAT signals the
obstacle that the Bank correspondence in English reduces the effectiveness and participation of Borrower staff.
With respect to the private sector participation ASAT offers a number of modifications that might have turned the
private operator contract into a "win-win" scenario in contrast to what it became: a "lose-lose" scenario where both
ASAT and the private operator lost.




                                                       - 16 -

- 17 -

- 18 -

- 19 -

- 20 -

- 21 -

- 22 -

- 23 -

                                        English Translation of
              Legal Opinion on Contract clause 2.2 dated on September 24, 2001


A. Subjects Involving Article 2.2 of the Contract

1. The Operator, for the time being, has no right to re-negotiate the service fees.
Actually and speaking practically, the Operator has no right to ask for the increase of the service
fees. Pursuant to article 2.2, the service fees, as a rule, shall not be changed throughout the period
the Contract is in force. The Operator has, by relying on the second sentence of article 2.2, only
the opportunity to ask for the inclusion of a clause to the Contract that will enable him to require
the amendment of the yearly service fees.

A request to negotiate such an amendment may, pursuant to article 2.2, only be made, after the
fifth year of the Contract. Therefore, the Operator may make such a suggestion only after 26th
November 2001.

2. The Employer can acknowledge to the Operator the right to re-negotiate the service fees at the
earliest on 26th November 2001.

By way of confirming what we have said hereinabove, there exists no right concerning the re-
negotiate of the service fees. The Contract, through article 2.2 allows not only the Operator but
both sides to propose to start negotiations with a view to include in the Contract a clause that may
enable the Parties to re-negotiate the yearly service fees.

3. The provision contained in the second sentence of article 2.2 was thought as a counter balance
for the basic rule that the fees shall remain constant during the Contract period. The Contract was
signed for ten years and it is quite likely that events that may adversely affect the costs of the
Operator may materialise during this period. Taking into regard the likelihood of such events,
article "13 Compensation Events" was included in the Contract, so that any loss that the Operator
may suffer due to certain pre-defined events could be compensated.

Consequently, in case the option of amending the Contract to include an article providing for the
increase of the service fees, article 13 "Compensation Events" shall have to be deleted.

The legal regime governing the price structure of the Contract has been determined by article 2.2
and no material fact or event could create a ground to change these service fees. Furthermore,
since articles 2.2 and 13, created a particular balance between themselves, any discussion
concerning the modification of price structure should take into account this interrelation.

4. Only the Employer may concede to the Operator the option of starting negotiations involving
the service fees. Pursuant to article 2.2 both Parties have the right to ask for the inception of
negotiations concerning the inclusion in the Contract a provision which shall provide for
amending the service fees. The Employer has the right to invite the operator to negotiate for the
insertion of a clause allowing the Parties to make changes in the service fees, although the
Operator made no request under article 13. In the event the Operator accepts such an offer, it
may, ultimately become possible to insert a clause in the Contract to this effect and article 13
shall be removed from the Contract. Subsequently, the Employer may suggest the lowering of the
service fees.




                                                      - 24 -

5. Article 13 was inserted in the Contract to protect the Operator against any possible damage
occasioned while discharging the duties stipulated by the Contract or fulfilling a request from the
Employer. Only the occurrence of the events recited through "a" to "k" under article 13 may give
rise to the application of article 13. Events that were not specified in article 13 shall not provide a
ground for a claim by the Operator. Moreover, the occurrence of these events must have caused
an increase in the costs of the Operator. In addition to these conditions, the increase in the costs
must have direct connection with the discharge of the duties by the Operator assumed under the
Contract.

In order to claim compensation under article 13, the Operator must first prove his case. However,
the Employer has also the right to conduct a separate investigation and challenge the claim by the
Operator.

The Operator is under obligation to mitigate the effects of any event recited in article 13 and
therefore strive to reduce the damage it may consequently suffer. But, in the meantime is also
bound to proceed with performing its obligations arising from the Contract. In case the Operator
neglected to take such measures, then the compensation it may eventually be entitled to receive
shall be proportionally reduced.

6. The compensation envisaged by article 13 should be paid at once. However, based on
agreement between the Parties, such compensation may be divided into instalments and paid
together with the service fees. But, the payments under article 13 have a distinct nature and are
entirely different from the payment of regular service fees.

Taking this into regard, I recommend that payments under article 13 should be distinctly
separated from the service fees and no new price structures and/or categories that were not
envisaged by the Contract be created.




                                                    - 25 -

                                            The World
                                                Bank




                    ANTALYA

WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT

        PROJECT EVALUATION REPORT

                        for

                     PHASE I

         (covering the period 1995 ­ 2002)

                        by

Antalya Water and Wastewater Administration (ASAT)

                in association with

ALDAS Infrastructure Management and Consultancy A.S.

                  November 2003




                       - 26 -

                                          Contents


1  Introduction                                                                     50
   1.1   Method of Preparation and Structure of the Report                           50
   1.2   Understanding Proposed Institutional Structure for "Antalya Project"        50
   1.3   Some Basic Data on "Antalya Project"                                        51


2  Project Objectives                                                               52
   2.1   Achievement of Overall Goal of the Project                                  52
   2.2   Achievement of the Project Objectives                                       52


3  Appraisal of ASAT/ALDAS and the Bank's Performance                               54
   3.1   ASAT/ALDAS's Performance                                                    54
   3.2   The Bank's Performance                                                      56


4  Lessons Learned                                                                  56
   4.1   Rethinking the Antalya Model                                                56
   4.2   Rethinking the PSP Experience                                               58


5  Sustainability and Future Operations                                             59
   5.1   Operation Services                                                          59
   5.2   Investment Requirements and Potential Means for Financing                   59
   5.3   Institutional Structuring                                                   59

 Introduction

 1.1 Method of Preparation and Structure of the Report
 This report has been prepared in cooperation with ALDAS A.S. and aimed to provide a clear
 picture of what happened in Antalya Project from the point of borrower, namely Antalya
 Water and Wastewater Administration (ASAT). During the preparation of the report a series
 of interview with participants to the project were carried and consolidated ideas are presented
 here.
 For the aim of producing an objective report, we have decided to prepare the report based on
 the log-frame approach. Unfortunately, no log-frame matrix were prepared for the assessment
 of the project during the preparation of the feasibility study. This made us to produce one
 based on presentations given in Staff Appraisal Report and Feasibility Study of the Project.
 Therefore, we will call above mentioned log-frame as post log-frame.
 Additionally, we have tried not to make "one sided" judgement on private operator contract
 and its situation since there is an ongoing arbitration between ASAT and former private
 operator, namely ANTSU (a subsidiary company of Ondeo Services). But, it was not possible
 and at the same time would have no meaning to complete this report without saying anything
 on the Private Sector Participation experience lived in Antalya.
                                             - 27 -

We desire and expect fair judgement from the arbitration tribunal and believe that only
obstacle to have a fair judgement could be some external effects to the tribunal. The truth
should come into light and this will present a better way for all stakeholder including all other
water authorities planning to introduce PSP into their services. The decision of the tribunal is
expected to be issued by the end of June 2004.
We would like to emphasise that this is "mid-term" evaluation of the project since we have
only completed the first phase of AWSSP which covers the period between 1995 and 2002.
We intend to prepare a more detailed and comprehensive report within the year 2004, and that
report will be basis of next phase implementations.

1.2 Understanding Proposed Institutional Structure for "Antalya Project"
A special institutional structure were developed for the project and it was one of the main
characteristic of the project. The concept of introducing a joint stock company (ALDAS),
which supersedes the conventional PMU, into the institutional structure is unique in the
Turkey.
Antalya Municipality were awarded for metropolitan municipality status in September 1993
and it works under Law 3030. This law requires establishment of autonomous water and
sewerage authority and ASAT was,                 as a result of becoming metropolitan municipality,
established in February 1995.
However, ALDAS were established as a loan condition and is unique within its context in
Turkey. ALDAS was incorporated under the commercial code and it is jointly owned by
ASAT, Metropolitan Municipality, District Municipalities and Antalya Trade and Industry
Chamber. Majority of ALDAS's shares (95,4 %) is owned by ASAT.

The proposed institutional structure for Antalya Project is presented in below chart:

                                             Antalya Metropolitan Municipality           Kepez Municipality
                                                          (AMM)                        Konyaalti Municipality
          World Bank and EIB                                                          Muratpasa Municipality
       (IFI - International Funding
                Institutions)
                                                           ASAT
                                                         Barrower
                                                                                                     Technical
               DSI, Iller Bank,                                                                     Assistance
               (Other Funders )                                                                 (Twinning/Training)
                                                          ALDAS
                                                (Supervisor and/or Project
                                                      Management)



                 · Other Capital Works            Design and Supervision               Private Operator
                 · Procurement of Goods                 Consultant                (a management or lease contract)

                 · Procurement of Services        (Engineer for Capital Works)




                                                        Contract 1
                                                        Contract 2
                                                        Contract 3
                                                        Contract n




                                                     - 28 -

Both ASAT and ALDAS are quite "young" institutions and AWSSP is the first
comprehensive project carried by them. It should also be kept in mind that this was the first
time for ASAT to utilise a loan for its infrastructure investment and institutional structuring

1.3 Some Basic Data on "Antalya Project"
The data and tables provided to the Bank for the preparation of its Implementation
Completion Report will not be repeated here, however a brief table was produced and inserted
into this report in order to present a comparison of the situation before the project and after
the project.


 Table 0-1 Basic Data - Comparing the situation before and at the end of the first phase
 of project
                                                  Unit            1995        2002
     Population                                                  475.00     660.00
                                                                       0          0
     Employee per 1000 subscriber                                   3,09       1,18
     Operation Revenues                           million $         10,6       24,5
     Total length of water network                km               1100        1500
     Mapped water network                         %                   25        100
     Total length of sewer network                Km                  ---       550
     Mapped sewer network                         %                   ---       100
     NRW ­ Physical                               %                   45         37
     NRW ­ Commercial                             %                   20         22
     Collection Ratio (based on billed m3)        %                   82         84
     Average Tariff Rate                          $                 0,52       0,84



Project Objectives

2.1 Achievement of Overall Goal of the Project
Overall goal of the project, based on the feasibility study, can be summarised as follows:
     "to provide quality water supply and sanitation services, including institutional
     strengthening of the administrative organisation on a long term basis for citizens of
     Antalya, while at the same time meeting increasing environmental concerns and enhance
     the growth of the tourism industry on which much of the local economy is based."

AWSSP has contributed to the development and improvement of ASAT both technically and
institutionally.
The list of the technical improvements -physical outcomes of AWSSP- can constitute many
pages but brief of it includes; modernisation of water production facilities, production of water
network maps in digital format, rehabilitation of water transmission lines and construction of a
wastewater system. These are the outcomes of the AWSSP and which could not be obtained
without AWSSP.
Today, ASAT is an institution who can generate noticeable amount of revenues through its
services. The yearly revenue of ASAT increased from $ 10,6 million to $ 25 million during
                                            - 29 -

Today, ASAT is an institution who can generate noticeable amount of revenues through its
services. The yearly revenue of ASAT increased from $ 10,6 million to $ 25 million during
AWSSP period. ASAT is, now, able to do investments by its own revenues and it is one of the
authority out of 15 in the country who has no overdue debt services to the treasury.
ASAT could not do its debt services to IBRD and EIB directly due to its cash flow balance.
However, ASAT has paid its debts to treasury (guarantor) and yearly payment made by ASAT
is higher than its yearly debt services. It is thought that cash flow balance will be stabilised
within year 2004 since there will be less expenditures for investments with respect to previous
years.
Occurrences of waterborne diseases in Antalya city was lower than country average and now
even much lower. In fact, no epidemiological illness were reported due to quality of urban
water during the last years.
All the beaches around Antalya city has now "blue flag" which is a good indicator for
seawater quality as well as enhancements in tourism industry. Total number of tourists
visiting the city is getting more and more and records of previous years are broken every year.

We are in the opinion that main goal of AWSSP has been achieved.

2.2 Achievement of the Project Objectives
Five objectives defined in SAR are repeated below:
(a) meet at least cost the demand for water supply, sewerage and stormwater drainage;
The operation cost of water supply has been reduced by means of outcomes of AWSSP,
specially renewal and/or rehabilitation of water supply facilities. Additionally, better
management practices also decreased the operational cost of water supply. Number of
employee per thousand customers has been reduced from 3,5 to 1,18 The achievement is even
better than expectations because the target set in SAR section 5.03 is 1,8.
The ratio of sewered area to the total area of Antalya city is 35 % whereas as the population
lives in the sewered area is 45 % of the total population.
Since there were no wastewater system before the project, we can not compare the existing
operation cost, however the existing cost is in line with the predictions made in feasibility
study. Therefore, one can easily say that the sewerage investments were done both efficiently
and effectively.
The stormwater drainage investments mainly started in 2002 and now under progress. The
investments were prepared based on Master Plan Study completed in November 2000.
Therefore, it is our assessment that this objective of the project has been satisfied.

(b) develop new institutional arrangements for management of municipal water supply,
sewerage and stormwater drainage, and to introduce private sector participation in the
operation of the services;

As we mentioned in above sections, the thing which makes Antalya Project unique is its
proposed institutional structure and this special institutional structure were developed
satisfactorily. ASAT undertook all of its responsibilities for achieving this. However,
establishment of "Sirket" (ALDAS) and introduction of private sector participation into the
operation services were the pre-conditions of the loan, and therefore it might not be a correct
way to do assessment based on development of new institutional structure.
We think that the extent of support and sustainability to this new ­and unique to Antalya-
                                             - 30 -

We think that the extent of support and sustainability to this new ­and unique to Antalya-

arrangement is better indicator for the assessment of this objective.
The PSP were supported by both politicians and high level decision makers of ASAT. ASAT's
general assembly took all required decisions to introduce PSP and ASAT's executive bodies
followed the decisions.
The private operator contract was tendered in early 1996 and a management type of contract
for ten years duration was signed in November 1996. The private operator was in service till
May 2002 when they went into liquidation.
We prepared a ToR for the consultancy services for re-hiring a private operator in November
2002 but the services were not awarded due to the then existing situations. It was decided to
suspend the study during the ongoing arbitration.
Therefore, it is our assessment that this objective of the project has been satisfied.

(c)   implement appropriate cost recovery policies;
The ratio of operation cost to revenue (financial working ratio) was around 32% in 2002.
The micro economic crisis happened in early 2001 in Turkey effected the cash flow balance of
ASAT. ASAT's revenues are based on Turkish Lira whereas its debts to IBRD and EIB are in
US $ and Euro, respectively. The dramatic increase in exchange rates in 2001 had negative
effect on the cash flow of ASAT.
ASAT properly made its contributions to all investments during the course of the project and
has been doing its debt services since 2000. Some part of the debt services were done by
treasury due to cash flow problems.
The last four years average expenditures of ASAT for investments and debt services is more
than $ 15 million and in addition to this amount ASAT had to incur some unexpected
expenditures like the costs of taking over of the operation services due to liquidation of
former private operator. The debt services of ASAT to be due in 2004 to the treasury and
financers are in total less than $ 13 million.
Unfortunately, there were no improvement in collection ratio between 1997 and 2002. An
improvement is expected in collection ratio which is extremely important for the financial
performance of ASAT.
Under the existing conditions, it is planned to stabilise ASAT's cash flow in 2004 and then
ASAT will be able to do its debt services directly to the IBRD and the EIB without requesting
any restructuring from the treasury. It is worthy to say here that ASAT has no overdue debt
to the Treasury.
Therefore, it is our assessment that this objective of the project has been satisfied.

(d) postpone the need to develop costly new water resources by improving the efficiency of
utilization of existing sources and of water usage by reducing the volume of non-revenue
water which is presently too high (46 percent);
The latest water supply study carried out by DSÝ (State Hydraulic Works) showed that there
is no need for surface water resources for the city of Antalya at least till year 2010 and the
need for new sources can be easily extended till 2020 with some more improvements in the
system efficiency. All the existing water sources were protected against contamination and
production facilities were improved as an outcome of AWSSP. Inefficient wells were closed
and/or abandoned since there is no need to them. Some well field areas, like Bogacay, is not
used with the full capacity at the moment.
                                              - 31 -

This objective mainly were satisfied but the level of NRW, unfortunately, is still high with
respect to expectations and plausible targets. There were no improvement in reduction of
commercial part of NRW which was the responsibility of the private operator during the
period starting in 1996 and ending in 2002. One of the highest priority of ASAT is to reduce
both physical and commercial part of NRW to a reasonable level in shortest possible term.
Therefore, it is our assessment that this objective of the project has been satisfied at the
moment but special attention should be given to the reduction of NRW in next period.

(e) improve and sustain environmental conditions and reduce health hazards that threaten
the local population and the tourism industry by: (i) eliminating deficiencies in the
collection and disposal of municipal sewage; and (ii) improving stormwater drainage in
areas suffering seasonal flooding
AWSSP has fully successful for this objective. The quality of potable water has been protected
and no samples tested by ASAT or other independent institutions showed a bad quality of
water up to now.
A biological treatment plant which was not planned within the scope of AWSSP was also
constructed by ASAT's own financial resources and the system is providing even more
protection of environment than expected. All the beaches around Antalya has been awarded
for "blue flag" in 2003. The seawater quality monitoring studies carried by University of
Mediterranean, Antalya has showed that the quality of seawater is much better than standards.

There were very limited amount of stormwater drainage investments in original plan of
AWSSP. A master plan for stormwater drainage was prepared and some investment based on
the master plan were launched by Antalya Metropolitan Municipality and District
Municipalities in 2002. Nowadays there is an intensive work carried out by AMM, DMs and
ASAT for eliminating flooding problems and special attention is given to the high risk areas of
the city.
AMM has completed the construction of solid waste landfill area and it was commissioned in
year 2003.
Therefore, it is our assessment that this objective of the project has been satisfied.


Appraisal of ASAT/ALDAS and the Bank's Performance

3.1 ASAT/ALDAS's Performance
We feel that it would be difficult to make an objective assessment on the performances of
ASAT and ALDAS without taking into account that both of them are quite "young"
institutions and were inexperienced on working for such a comprehensive internationally
financed project.

3.1.1       Political Performance
As duration, the project covers the terms of two different political administrations who ruled
and provided the municipal services of Antalya. The former administration ­True Path Party-
was in power till 1999, and it is the one who initiated the AWSSP. The second administration
­ Republican People's Party ­ was started in 1999, and it is the one who completed the
                                             - 32 -

­ Republican People's Party ­ was started in 1999, and it is the one who completed the

AWSSP.
Tariff level is an good indicator for political support since it is determined by the general
assembly which is constituted by elected members. The general assembly has always kept the
tariff level within the limits ensuring cost recovery and financial viability during both terms.
The general assembly also took all required decisions for the proper and smooth
implementation of the project, like hiring a private operator.
Furthermore, the project was exposed to criticism time to time by politicians and even peoples
of Antalya. Nobody up to now said that there is no need for the project however they have
expressed their ideas on how it should be and this can not be taken as a worse thing but as
willingness of participation of the stakeholders to the project. It is our opinion that every kind
of participation should be welcomed.
In the case of no political support exist, it would not be possible to start and complete such a
comprehensive project. Therefore, we are in a position to say strongly that both
administrations have supported the project.

3.1.2 Institutional Performance
ASAT, as the borrower, fulfilled all of its responsibilities defined in Loan Agreement, SAR
and the feasibility study related to development of the institutional model.
ALDAS could not take over all managerial responsibilities of ASAT due to some legal and
social constraints. During the course of the project this kind of gaps were filled properly and
restructuring was made.
ASAT and ALDAS did work, in some cases, like an single entity by sharing the
responsibilities. ASAT as a successor of ASO (Antalya Water Supply and Bus Department)
had important experience and knowledge on the existing water supply system and commercial
side ­ e.g. customer services ­ of the services whereas ALDAS had opportunities to hire high
calibre staff who has fluent English and experienced on such a complicated projects. These
two advantages were combined for achieving the objectives.
ASAT and ALDAS would have totally 15 staff according to SAR, this was not enough to
undertake all responsibilities defined in the contracts and imposed by the legislations.
After the escape of former private operator, ASAT took the operation services. ALDAS is
now mainly dealing with completion (Final Acceptance) of some capex contracts, ongoing
arbitration on private operator contract and also providing some consultancy services to
ASAT. ALDAS has also started to do the programming of next phase of the project.

3.1.3 Technical Performance
ASAT/ALDAS has executed the capital investment programme with due diligence.
Although it is not easy to do that much of infrastructure investments within such a limited
time period in a living city environment, the planned investments were completed within their
time and budget. Additionally, the touristic characteristics of Antalya creates another difficulty
to the infrastructure investments and this was overcame by proper scheduling of the works.
As result of obtaining very competitive prices in all tenders for capex contracts, physical
outcomes of the project are even more than planned at the beginning. For example, total
length of water and sewerage networks constructed is more than planned.
Some disputes between us and our contractors arose during the implementation of the capex
programme but all of them were dealt with properly within the conditions of their contracts
                                             - 33 -

programme but all of them were dealt with properly within the conditions of their contracts

and at the end the disputes were settled amicable. Involvement of commercially oriented
company (ALDAS) has contributed greatly to overseeing potential problems and taking
remedial actions. Many problems were solved before they happens by taking proper remedial
actions. ALDAS's involvement increased the achievements in technical outcomes of the
project.

3.2 The Bank's Performance
We feel that it would be difficult to make an objective assessment on the performances of the
Bank without taking into account the general rules and conditions of the Bank. Therefore, the
assessments made in this section were done mainly within this context.

3.2.1 Performance on Identification (Preparation) and Appraisal of the Project
The Bank's support to the project can not be disregarded, in fact the project could not be
even started without its support.
We can say that "good start does not guarantee good implementation and completion but bad
start certainly guarantee bad implementation and completion". Therefore, it is very important
to start with correct definition and planning.
It was a very clever start and in fact The Antalya Model is certainly a product of clever mind.
In the designation of model, all main risks and weak points which were on the Bank's mind
were correctly addressed.
The concept of introducing a "commercially oriented company" (ALDAS) which supersedes
the conventional PMU, into the institutional structure is one of the indicator of well designed
institutional structure.
The detailed and comprehensive identification of capital investment programme is also
praiseworthy.
We assess the Bank's performance on identification and appraisal of the Project as successful
and satisfactory.

3.2.2 Performance on Technical Assistance and Supervision during the Implementation
The Bank has undertook its responsibilities successfully and satisfactorily with respect to
supervision of the project implementation and its supervision were helpful for highlighting the
potential problems which may occur during the implementation of the project.
Although, the Bank assisted to us in many areas; like assisting for proper procurement,
overseeing the potential problems and defining the remedial measures for them eventually the
Bank's extensive experience was not utilised fully. Unfortunately we have generally perceived
the Bank as a supervision/monitoring body because of the Bank's approach to the project.
As a good example to the importance of the Bank's technical assistance, we would like to
mention on October 2000 mission. The Bank's staff behaved like an mediator between us and
our former private operator during the October 2000 mission and as a result the private
operator provided their first comprehensive and acceptable system efficiency report in
November 2000. This was followed by our new investment packages prepared based on the
system efficiency report. The contract 13R1 and 13R2 ­water network rehabilitation
contracts- are the products of this joint study.
Contrarily, in the Bank's same mission report there is a judgement on customer information
software to be provided by former private operator though no expert on that kind of software
                                             - 34 -

software to be provided by former private operator though no expert on that kind of software

and systems was a part of mission team. This judgement was used as an Exhibit by the former
private operator for proving that the ICIS (International Customer Information Software)
software was ready at that time.
We assess the Bank's performance as partially successful on technical assistance and
successful on supervision.


Lessons Learned
The sequence of the lessons listed below does not imply their priorities.

4.1 Rethinking the Antalya Model

(a) Private Involvement
The Bank's expectations from the new institutional model is expressed in SAR section 3.05 as
"This would be a major step forward for the sector, as high expectations are placed on
private involvement as an instrument to improve efficiency."
It might have been better solution if different types of private sector participation were
analysed in more detail because high expectation were placed on private involvement. In fact
the expectations from private involvement were too high. Eventually, the former private
operator left the project ­ we can also say that escaped from the job- with leaving almost all
expectations in the air. The commercial part of NRW was not reduced during their term.
We must admit that as the water authority of Antalya, we have gained many valuable
experiences through private operator experience. The private operator contract and existence
of a commercially oriented company, namely ALDAS, proved to be more effective than
having a standard twinning contract for establishing commercially oriented operation culture.

(b) Definitions in ASAT and ALDAS Relationships
As ASAT will remain such a lean organization according to proposed institutional
arrangement, ALDAS was expected to take much of the management of the legal obligations
of ASAT. In other words, ALDAS were expected to play a key role in the new institutional
arrangement. This structuring created some legal and social problems.
The condition set for total number of ASAT and ALDAS staff as 5 and 10 respectively seems
unrealistic when we take into account the conditions imposed by related legislation and
responsibilities of these two institutions defined in the contracts and/or Loan Agreements.
Another point is that ALDAS was expected to be kept away from the political influence but
its executive board is constituted mostly by members from municipalities. In Antalya case the
politicians did not even try to influence day-to-day operations but there is always a risk of it.

(c) Language of the Project Documents
Almost all documents of the project were prepared in English language as a condition of the
Bank's procedure, and this is an obstacle to the participation of most of the stakeholders.
Additionally, according to the Law No. 805, all institutions in Turkey has to keep all of their
records and documents in Turkish, In the event of preparing any document in another
language than Turkish those documents can not be used in the favour of that institution.
Finally, there are some penalties (punishments) defined for entity who prepared any
                                             - 35 -

Finally, there are some penalties (punishments) defined for entity who prepared any

documents in contrary to the Law.
We propose that the documents shall be prepared bilingually ­in English and in Turkish. This
also provide more transparency in the tenders because most of the stakeholders has no ability
to read and understand in English.

(d) Rules and Conditions of the Bank
The rules and conditions of the Bank may have been prepared to ensure transparency and
competition but also creates an huge bureaucracy.
The four considerations which generally guide the Bank's requirements are stated in Clause
1.2 of the Guidelines The Guidelines refers to "Guidelines Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits":
"ensure that the proceeds of any loan are used only for the purposes for which the loan was
granted, with due attention to considerations of economy and efficiency and without regard
to political or other non-economic influences or considerations,"
......
     a. the need for economy and efficiency in the implementation of the project, including
         the procurement of the goods and works involved;
     b. the Bank's interest, as a cooperative institution, in giving all eligible bidders from
         developed and developing countries an opportunity to compete in providing goods
         and works financed by the Bank;
     c. the Bank's interest, as a development institution, in encouraging the development of
         domestic contracting and manufacturing industries in the borrowing country; and
     d. the importance of transparency in the procurement process.

We are agree and support the approach and considerations of the Bank with respect to the
transparent and efficient use of loans which are in reality public monies.
We are in the opinion that the main considerations should have precedence to detailed rules or
procedures. The borrower as well as the Bank should have right to use initiative where the
situation requires to use it for the aim of achieving objectives.
Additionally, the application of modern management techniques like project cycle
management embody periodic evaluations/reviews as specific stages near completion. The
experience gained during the implementation, together with additional recently collected data,
is sometimes requires redesign and planning of the next stage of the capex programme.
However, the Bank's procedures is not flexible enough to redesign the next stage and
generally it takes long time to obtain a "no objection" from the Bank for the
revised/redesigned next stages.
The case of insertion of the construction of a biological treatment plant into the wastewater
investment programme has a similar characteristics to the above mentioned approach. We
have requested to construct a biological treatment plant as a result of some legal conditions
and increasing requests from the people of Antalya. The Bank approached to the case
positively and was prepared to consider financing of the plant and the amendment of the
project description in the Loan agreement accordingly. But it was taking long time to
complete procedural conditions of the Bank. Therefore, at the end, we have decided to do it
by our own financial resources. The construction of the plant was completed in less than one
year and it was commissioned in 2001.
                                              - 36 -

Nowadays, there is a very positive perception of the plant by the people of Antalya and they
are happy with the existing situation.


4.2 Rethinking the PSP Experience
The failure at private sector participation (PSP) in Antalya is well known by all parties.
Instead of the `win ­ win' scenario for both ASAT and operator expected from PSP, Antalya
is now in a `lose ­ lose' situation. There is an ongoing arbitration between ASAT and former
private operator, namely ANTSU (a subsidiary company of Ondeo Services) at the moment.
This unsuccessful experience did not change our confidence to Private Sector Participation in
municipal water sector in fact we have gained valuable experiences for the future cases and we
believe that this will be very helpful for achieving a successful Public Private Partnership.
We are aware of the importance of the lessons learned from private operator contract. It is
important for all stakeholders including all other water authorities planning to introduce PSP
into their services. But, it is not possible ­ and fair- to list down all lessons learned due to our
aim not to create any effect on ongoing arbitration. Therefore, we are giving only a brief list of
lessons:
     a. There must be Shared Objectives which constitutes foundation to a right balance
         between Commercial Interests (private side's               main expectation) and Cultural
         Conditions (public side's main expectation);
     b. Global experience does not guarantee success, it has to be reinforced with local
         knowledge;
     c. The implausibly low bids can be rejected;
     d. Performance-related reward system should be adapted; payments should be done only
         if performance standards are met;
     e. The full performance guarantee of shareholders should be provided within the
         contract (joint liability of shareholders);
     f. As strategic partner the private operator should assist in planning of investment
         programme for achieving better efficiency and must                  have responsibilities with
         respect to it.


Sustainability and Future Operations

5.1 Operation Services
As a result of liquidation of former private operator, ASAT's executive board took a decision
at their meeting in May 2002 to take over the operation services temporarily.
At the moment water and wastewater services are provided by ASAT however ASAT is
intended to do a study for preparation of a model and contract future Private Sector
Participation.
A ToR for consultancy services was prepared based on option study in November 2002 after
some discussions done within ASAT and with the Bank. The ToR requires phased approach
and three phases defined in ToR are as follows:
Phase I : Data Collection and Review
Phase II. Development of PSP Options
                                              - 37 -

    Phase III. Preparation of Tender Documents
    This phased approach reflects the our idea on how should we do it in the next time in order
    not to lose again. ASAT formed study groups comprising personnel from different
    departments (customer relation, investments, GIS etc.) for preparing a schedule of the
    ASAT's expectations from a PSP contract. Selection of most suitable option will be done
    based on ASAT's expectations in conjunction with legal, financial and technical conditions.
    There is also intensive studies carried by institutions of central government together with
    some IFIs on Public Private Partnership, e.g. the treasury's study which is under progress in
    cooperation with GTZ. We are aware that it will be important ­both for us and for them­ to
    coordinate our studies with other relevant initiatives.

    5.2 Investment Requirements and Potential Means for Financing
    It is obvious that there is a need for financing the investments specially for the remaining part
    of wastewater system. The main finance will be ASAT's own resources however this does not
    seem enough to complete all investments in a shorter time period. Therefore, we are planning
    to provide some loan(s) from donors supporting the environmental and public health project.
    The first step of our main plan for remaining part of the investments is to update the feasibility
    study. We have made some studies and completed reports are ready but it would be better to
    update all of them and define the most suitable solution.

    5.3 Institutional Structuring
    ASAT is in dilemma for the institutional structuring; on one side ASAT took the operation
    services temporarily and on the other side ASAT has to do it at least for a few years.
    The AWSSP has helped increasing the institutional strength of ASAT/ALDAS which is
    essential for better governance, but studies of ASAT ­outside the scope of AWSSP- has been
    continued and a staff structuring and training programme has been developed during the last
    year in cooperation with University of Mediterranean, Antalya. The study aimed to provide
    best organisation structure for effective and efficient operation as well as detailed "job
    descriptions" of each positions defined in the organisation structure. The study will be sent to
    Ministry of Interior Affairs for approval after General Assembly's confirmation expected to be
    received in November 2003.
    For the case of ALDAS, there is a mutual understanding that its valuable experience should be
    utilised however there are some uncertainties for detail description of its role in the future.
    The new Public Procurement Law (Law No.4734) does not allow municipalities to award a
    contract to a company owned partially or fully by them. ALDAS will not be able to enter any
    new tender of ASAT or Antalya Metropolitan Municipality, if no change will be made in the
    PPL.
    The existing contract signed between ASAT and ALDAS will end in 2007. It is unclear that
    what will happen to ALDAS after the completion of its existing contract with ASAT. We are
    planning to restructure ALDAS in a way that it can enter bids of different public bodies;
    especially projects comprising the PSP in the operation of the services.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

                                                 - 38 -

10. Additional Information




                              - 39 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                  PROJECT OUTPUTS                          Appraisal Estimate        Actual Status       Percentage of
                                                                                                           Appraisal
CIVIL WORKS

A. WATER SUPPLY

Distribution Network (Rehabilitation & Extension)                       500 km               629 km                126%
Groundwater Wells                                                             24                  18                N/A *
Distribution Reservoirs                                              40,000 m3            47,600 m3                119%
New Pumping Stations                                                            2                  2               100%
Water Production                                                       2.6 m3/s             4.5 m3/s               173%
B. SEWERAGE

Facilities at Old city & Industrial Area                                  10 km              15.8 km               158%
Sewage Network & Collector Mains                                        380 km               489 km                129%
Preliminary Treatment Plant                                    90,000 m3/day        160,000 m3/day                 178%
Biological Treatment Plant                                           --               37,500 m3/day             --
Sea Outfall                                                       4 m3/s                4 m3/s                     100%


* The required safe annual yield of groundwater ensured by 18 wells instead of the estimated number of 24 wells.




                                                     - 40 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

                               Project Costs by Component (US $)

                                                                    TOTAL

                          Components                         Total Cost         % of

                                                         SAR         Actual    Appraisal


        I. CIVIL WORKS

        A. WATER SUPPLY

        Component Cost                                 99,498,000   53,335,846   53.60%

        B. SEWERAGE

        Component Cost                                103,249,000  125,728,384  121.77%

        CIVIL WORKS TOTAL                             202,747,000  179,064,230   88.32%

        II. EQUIPMENT

        A. WATER SUPPLY

        Component Cost                                   8,669,000   3,238,347   37.36%

        B. SEWERAGE

        Component Cost                                   1,679,000     263,255   15.68%

        EQUIPMENT TOTAL                                10,348,000    3,501,602   33.84%

        III. CONSULTANCY SERVICES AND ENGINEERING

        A. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION

        Component Cost                                 24,101,000    8,520,763   35.35%

        B. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

        Component Cost                                   6,002,000   5,549,436   92.46%

        CONSULTANCY SERVICES AND ENGINEERING TOTAL     30,103,000   14,070,199   46.74%

        IV. LAND ACQUISITION

        LAND ACQUISITION TOTAL                           1,422,000     744,224   52.34%

        V. BIOLOGICAL TREATMENT PLANT

        BIOLOGICAL TREATMENT TOTAL                         --        7,894,551



        PROJECT COSTS                                 244,620,000  205,274,806   83.92%




                                          - 41 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Economic Rate-of-Return Calculation for Antalya Water Supply and Sanitation Project
                                                     1995       1996      1997      1998      1999      2000      2001     2002     2003      2004     2005    2006 2007-33
BENEFITS
Water Supply
With Project Water Consumption, million cubic
meters                                               20.3       20.9      21.4      23.6      24.8      25.2      26.5      26.6     28.6     28.6     28.6     28.6     28.6
Without Project Water Consumption, million cubic
meters                                               20.3       20.3      20.3      20.3      20.3      20.3      20.3      20.3     20.3     20.3     20.3     20.3     20.3
Incremental Water Consumption, million cubic
meters                                                   0       0.6       1.1       3.3       4.5       4.9       6.2       6.3      8.3      8.3      8.3      8.3      8.3
Average Potable Water Tariff, US$ per cubic
meter, including VAT                                0.598      0.644     0.759    0.7935     0.782      1.15     0.736     0.966     1.15     1.15     1.15     1.15     1.15
Incremental Water Benefits Billed, US$ millions          0    0.3864   0.8349    2.61855     3.519     5.635    4.5632    6.0858    9.545    9.545    9.545    9.545    9.545
Collections Ratio (Collections/Billings)             79%        82%      106%       94%       93%       88%       88%       88%      90%      90%      90%      90%      90%

Incremental Water Benefits Collected, US$ millions       0 0.316848 0.884994 2.461437      3.27267    4.9588 4.015616 5.355504     8.5905   8.5905   8.5905  8.5905   8.5905
Wastewater
With Project Wastewater Billings, million cubic
meters, rising to 35% of water consumed                  0         0         0         0         0         0         0       3.2        5        7        9      10       10
Average Wastewater Tariff, US$ per cubic meter,
including VAT                                      0.4485      0.483   0.56925 0.595125     0.5865    0.8625     0.552    0.7245   0.8625   0.8625   0.8625  0.8625   0.8625
Incremental Wastewater Benefits Billed, US$
millions                                                 0         0         0         0         0         0         0    2.3184   4.3125   6.0375   7.7625    8.625    8.625
Collections Ratio (Collections/Billings)             79%        82%      106%       94%       93%       88%       88%       88%      90%      90%      90%      90%      90%
Incremental Wastewater BenefitsCollected, US$
millions                                                 0         0         0         0         0         0         0 2.040192   3.88125  5.43375  6.98625  7.7625   7.7625

Incremental Water and Wastewater Benefits
Collected, US$ millions in current prices                0 0.316848 0.884994 2.461437      3.27267    4.9588 4.015616 7.395696 12.47175 14.02425 15.57675    16.353   16.353
Consumer Price Index, for US$                            1     1.029     1.053      1.07     1.093      1.13     1.162      1.18    1.205    1.205    1.205    1.205    1.205
Incremental Water and Wastewater Benefits
Collected, US$ millions in constant prices               0 0.307918    0.84045 2.300408 2.994209 4.388319      3.45578 6.267539     10.35 11.63838 12.92676 13.57095 13.57095

COSTS
With Project
Operating costs, US$ millions                          5.9       5.7      10.5       9.4       7.9       7.4       5.6       8.2       10       10       10      10       10
Investment costs, US$ millions                         1.5       9.3      29.5      47.7      33.2      18.5      25.1      30.2      7.6        0        0       0         0
Total costs, US$ millions                              7.4        15        40      57.1      41.1      25.9      30.7      38.4     17.6       10       10      10       10
Without Project
Operating costs, US$ millions                          5.9       5.9       5.9       5.9       5.9       5.9       5.9       5.9      5.9      5.9      5.9      5.9      5.9
Incremental costs, US$ millions                        1.5       9.1      34.1      51.2      35.2       20       24.8      32.5     11.7      4.1      4.1      4.1      4.1
Less 15% VAT on investment costs                    0.225      1.395     4.425     7.155      4.98     2.775     3.765      4.53     1.14        0        0       0         0
Plus Central government subsidies on ASAT debt
service to World Bank                                    0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0        0        0       0         0
Incremental costs after adjustments, US$ millions
in current prices                                   1.275      7.705   29.675     44.045     30.22    17.225    21.035     27.97    10.56      4.1      4.1      4.1      4.1
Incremental costs after adjustments, US$ millions
in constant prices                                  1.275 7.487852 28.18139 41.16355 27.64867 15.24336 18.10241 23.70339 8.763485          3.40249  3.40249 3.40249  3.40249

Incremental Net Benefits, US$ millions in
constant prices                                     -1.275 -7.179934 -27.34094 -38.86314 -24.65446 -10.85504 -14.64663 -17.43585 1.586515 8.235892 9.524274 10.16846 10.16846

Incremental Rate of Return =4.3%




                                                                                                 - 42 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              7/15-18, 1991              1    Economist
              11/21-12/1, 1991
              Dec-92
              4/5-19, 1993
              9/9-10/2/1993
              12/3-8/1993
              3/2-23/1994


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              6/27-7/11/1994
              3/23/1995                  9    1 FA, 7 other specilaists, 1EIB
                                              co-financer

 Supervision

              06/18-20/1995              2    1 FA, 1 EGR                          HS             HS
              10/30-11/7/1995            3    1 FA, 1 EGR, 1 PSD                   S               S
              02/15-16/1996              4    2 FA, 1 EGR, 1 PSD                   S               S
              05/29-6/14/1996            4    1 FA, 2 EGR, 1 PSD                   S               S
              11/6-22/1996               5    2 FA, 2 EGR, 1 PSD                   S               S
              06/2-12/1997               2    1 FA, 1 EGR                          S               S
              12/15-17/1997              2    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);               S               S
                                              ENGINEER (1)
              06/1-8/1998                2    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);               S               S
                                              ENGINEER (1)
              11/30-12/7/1998            3    1 ECON/FA, 2 EGR                     S               S
              05/2-10/1999               3    1 FA, 2 EGR                          S               S
              10/29-11/6/1999            2    1 OPERATIONS SPECIALIST,             S               S
                                              1 FINANCIAL ANALYST
              2/28-3/3/2000              2    SR. FINANCIAL ANALYST                S               S
                                              (1); ENGINEER (1)
              10/23-28/2000              2    1 FA, 1 EGR                          S               U
              5/14-18/2001               2    1 FA, 1 EGR                          U               U
              6/21/2001                  1    1 FA                                 S               U
              7/13/2001                  1    1 FA                                 S               U
              7/20/2001                  1    1 FA                                 S               S
              10/6-8/2002                2    1 FA, 1 EGR                          U               U
              10/15/2002                 1    1 FA                                 U               U

 ICR
              9/10-23/2003               1     1 ECON/EGR                          S               S




                                               - 43 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                         $ 689
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                                        $ 789
  ICR                                                                  $ 20
  Total                                                            $ 1,498




                                            - 44 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 45 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 46 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

  Relevant information of supporting Bank and external project documents have been
  incorporated in the main text and in annexes. However, the following documents were also
  analyzed:

  World Bank/OCDE Roundtable, Presentation by ANTSU on the Antalya Water &
  Wastewater Contract Paris April 2002

  Operator Contract between ANTSU and ASAT signed in November 1996

  Payments Undertaken Due to the Treasury Guarantees, Statistics produced by the Turkish
  Treasury

  Monitoring of Seawater Quality Around Antalya Sea Outfall, Reports produced during the
  period 1999-2003 by the Environmental Engineering Department, Faculty of Engineering,
  Akdeniz University




                                            - 47 -

Additional Annex 8. Project Components in the Loan Agreement and Status of September
2003

ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT COMPONENTS IN THE
                       LOAN AGREEMENT AND CURRENT STATUS
                    SAR and LOAN AGREEMENT                                           CURRENT STATUS
                    SCHEDULE 2 REQUIREMENT
PART A : Water
Supply Works
    1               Rehabilitation of existing distribution     Completed through C11, C12, C13R1 and 13R2.
                    networks by replacing unsatisfactory
                    sections.
    2               Construction of about 24 new wells and      18 wells drilled and equipped in Duraliler well field under C15. Due
                    replacement of about eight pumps at         to contamination problems detected at Pinarlar well field area, C16
                    pumping stations to increase the            has not considered to be tendered.
                    production of three well fields.
    3               Construction of about 40,000 m3             47,600 m3 capacity reservoirs were constructed under Contract 11
                    capacity distribution reservoirs to provide by ASAT and DSI has constructed 60,000 m3 capacity reservoirs.
                    storage capacity to meet water demand.
    4               Replacement and extension of about 500      250 km 100-1000 mm dia pipelaying was constructed through C11,
                    km of existing distribution networks to     C12 and C15. 23 km 100-800 mm dia pipeline was constructed
                    supply consumers, including construction under efficiency program contracts C13R1 and C13R2. ASAT and
                    of two new pumping stations,                ANTSU have carried out 346 km rehabilitation and pipelaying in
                    replacement of pumps and replacement        local contracts . With 53.4 km of 500-1400 mm dia pipe laid by DSI,
                    of water meters.                            totally water network length has been reached to 629 km in city after
                                                                beginning of the Project. 120.741nos of watermeters procured
                                                                under contract C17. 8 nos of electromagnetic flowmeters, 101 nos
                                                                of woltman type flowmeters, 13 nos of insertion type flow meters, 1
                                                                unit pressure sensor, 86 nos of loggers and sensors for flowmeters
                                                                and various valves and dismantling pieces procured under C.17A
                                                                and C.17B.
PART B : Sewerage
Works
    1               Construction of a collection network of     15.805 m new sewer main and pumping station were constructed in
                    about 10 km including a small temporary     old town and small scaled industrial area under Contract C.29.
                    wastewater treatment plant in the old part  Sewerage from old town area will be pumped to the main collector,
                    of Antalya and rehabilitation of the        hence, small scale treatment plant will not be built.
                    existing network and septic tank at the
                    small scale industrial area.
    2               Construction of new collectors and          Under contracts 25 & 28; 233 km of sewers together with 2
                    collection networks of about 380 km to      pumping stations were completed. Under contracts 21 & 22; 223 km
                    serve about 1,660 ha in the western part    sewer network construction is completed. With 15.8 km sewer main
                    of Antalya.                                 constructed in C.29, 12.2 km sewer main constructed in C.200-1
                                                                and 5.4 km sea outfall constructed in C.27, totally about 489 km
                                                                network has been completed. About 8.000 house connections for
                                                                the above mentioned 233 km of completed sewerage network have
                                                                been completed through 3 contracts namely C20A, C20B and
                                                                C20C.
    3               Construction of a preliminary treatment     A primary treatment plant with a capacity of 160,000 m3/day under
                    plant with a capacity of about 90,000       C26 at the west end of Antalya and a sea outfall of 5,400 m under
                    m3/day at the west end of Antalya,          C27 completed and commissioned in Feb 99 and Dec 98,
                    including a sea outfall.                    respectively. A biological treatment plant with a capacity of 250,000
                                                                EP was completed in December 2001 by ASAT 100%
                                                                financing.Also second part for further 250.000 EP was tendered in
                                                                2003 by ASAT.
PART C : Stormwater
Drainage Works
       1            Construction of missing sections on the     Construction of stormwater works has to be implemented by AMM
                    network, such as culverts, curbs, and       and DM in accordance with the master plan study which was
                    channels, and removal of debris from        contracted and completed by ASAT/ALDAS in Feb,2000. Since
                    existing rivers, channels and ditches.      that, AMM and DM have investments on constructing stormwater
                                                                drainage system.




                                                           - 48 -

PART D : Technical
Assistance
   1                Project Implementation

          (a)       Detailed design and construction             Detailed design and construction supervision of the completed 8
                    supervision for the water supply,            civil work contacts (C11, C12, C15, C,26, C27, C29, C25, C28)
                    sewerage and stormwater drainage             were carried out under Contract C61. Stormwater master plan study
                    works.                                       carried out and completed under Contract 30. The detailed design
                                                                 and construction supervision of the ongoing 5 civil work contracts (
                                                                 C21, 22,13R1, 13R2 and 18) were carried out under contract C62.
          (b)       Hydrogeological survey development of        Hydrogeological studies were conducted under contract C19.
                    groundwater facilities.                      Studies for Duraliler and Pinarlar well fields were completed.
          (c)       Site survey and investigations for           Under Contract 01 the digitised maps for existing water network of
                    mapping of the water supply systems.         1164 km and part of the house connections were completed.
          (d)       Preparation of a comprehensive               A stormwater master plan study contract was signed on Nov 30,
                    stormwater master plan.                      1998 and completed in Feb, 2000.
   2                Institutional Development

          (a)       Strengthening the PMU to assist the          PMU unit was established and later on transferred to ALDAS
                    Borrower, the Antalya Metropolitan           (Sirket) which was founded on 13th Dec, 1995 with adequate
                    Municipality, the District Municipalities    technical and financial staff for handling and coordinating the
                    and the Sirket in initiating, coordinating   investments of ASAT and management of the Private Operator
                    and supervising project activities.          Contract.
          (b)       Preparation of bidding documents, bid        Preparation of bidding documents, bid evaluation and contract
                    evaluation and contract negotiations for     negotiations for the recruitment of private operator for water supply
                    the private operation of water supply,       and sewerage services was completed by the assistance of Severn
                    sewerage and stormwater systems.             Trent Water International by Dec 1996.
          (c)       Assistance to the Sirket through a twining A contract with Severn Trent Water International for assisting ASAT
                    arrangement or contract with a water         and ALDAS signed on Feb 24, 1997 and completed on Feb 29,
                    supply and sewerage operator for the         2000.
                    management of services, planning and
                    administration of contracts and the
                    implementation of a training program.
                    The Project is expected to be completed      The total project activities are scheduled to be completed on June
                    by December 31, 2002                         30, 2003.




                                                            - 49 -

Additional Annex 9. Project Cost By Procurement Arrangements - Appraisal Estimate (000
US$)

                                                           Procurement Method
                   Components                                                           Total Cost
                                                   ICB       NCB        Other     NBF

I. CIVIL WORKS

A. WATER SUPPLY

                                                  96,047      0         3,451      0      99,498   Total Cost
Component Cost
                                                 (52,345)    (0)         (0)      (0)    (52,345)  WB Financing

B. SEWERAGE

                                                  30,019      0         73,230     0     103,249   Total Cost
Component Cost
                                                 (16,361)    (0)         (0)      (0)    (16,361)  WB Financing

CIVIL WORKS TOTAL                                126,066      0         76,681     0     202,747   Total Cost
                                                 (68,706)    (0)         (0)      (0)    (68,706)  WB Financing

II. EQUIPMENT

A. WATER SUPPLY

                                                  8,669       0           0        0      8,669    Total Cost
Component Cost
                                                 (4,810)     (0)         (0)      (0)    (4,810)   WB Financing

B. SEWERAGE

                                                  1,679       0           0        0      1,679    Total Cost
Component Cost
                                                  (932)      (0)         (0)      (0)     (932)    WB Financing

EQUIPMENT TOTAL                                   10,348      0           0        0      10,348   Total Cost
                                                 (5,742)     (0)         (0)      (0)    (5,742)   WB Financing

III. CONSULTANCY SERVICES AND ENGINEERING

A. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION

                                                    0         0         24,101     0      24,101   Total Cost
Component Cost
                                                   (0)       (0)       (19,394)   (0)    (19,394)  WB Financing

B. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

                                                    0         0         6,002      0      6,002    Total Cost
Component Cost
                                                   (0)       (0)       (6,002)    (0)    (6,002)   WB Financing

CONSULTANCY SERVICES AND ENGINEERING TOTAL          0         0         30,103     0      30,103   Total Cost
                                                   (0)       (0)       (25,396)   (0)    (25,396)  WB Financing

IV. LAND ACQUISITION


LAND ACQUISITION TOTAL                              0         0         1,422      0      1,422    Total Cost
                                                   (0)       (0)         (0)      (0)      (0)     WB Financing

V. BIOLOGICAL TREATMENT PLANT


BIOLOGICAL TREATMENT TOTAL                          0         0           0        0        0      Total Cost
                                                   (0)       (0)         (0)      (0)      (0)     WB Financing


PROJECT COSTS                                    136,414      0        108,206     0     244,620   Total Cost
                                                 (74,448)    (0)       (25,396)   (0)    (99,844)  WB Financing




                                                          - 50 -

Additional Annex 10. Updated Implementation and Financing Program by Financier
(000 US$)

                                                                         Iller Bank &
 Contract                                 ASAT                    EIB
                   DESCRIPTION                    WB Financing                DSI
     No                                 Financing              Financing
                                                                          Financing
I.CIVIL WORKS - TOTAL                       49,879      60,568  40,097         -
A.WATER SUPPLY - TOTAL                      18,065      18,055     -           -
B.SEWER NETWORKS - TOTAL                    30,759      42,313  20,029         -
C.SEWAGE TREATMENT AND OUTFALL -
TOTAL                                        1,055       2,170  20,068         -

II.GOODS - TOTAL                             1,459       2,042     -           -

III.CONSULTANCY SERVICES - TOTAL             3,913      10,158     -           -

A.PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION - TOTAL             3,864       8,200     -           -
B.INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING -
TOTAL                                           49       1,958     -           -

TOTAL FOR I+II+III                          55,251      72,767  40,097         -
IV. LAND ACQUISITION FINANCED BY ASAT          744           0     -           -
V. ILLER BANK PROJECT                            0           0     -        11,504
VI. DSI PROJECT                                  0           0     -        17,216
VII. BIOLOGICAL TREATMENT PLANT              7,895           0     -           -

GRAND TOTAL for I+II+III+IV+V+VI+VII        63,890      72,567  40,097      28,720




                                            - 51 -

Additional Annex 11. Project Cost by Component and Source of Funds (US$)


PROJECTCOMPONENTS                   WorldBank                            EIB                            ASAT                            DSI,IB                             Total
                                       Amount                         Amount                          Amount                            Amount                           Amount
                               SAR             Actual         SAR             Actual          SAR             Actual          SAR              Actual           SAR              Actual
                         (contingenciesincl.)           (contingencies incl.)           (contingenciesincl.)            (contingencies incl.)             (contingenciesincl.)
I.CIVILWORKS

A.WATERSUPPLY


ComponentCost
                            52,345,000        18,054,860                              0    43,702,000         18,064,986      3,451,000        17,216,000       99,498,000       53,335,846

B.SEWERAGE


ComponentCost
                            16,361,000        42,312,986   41,760,000         40,097,300   13,658,000         31,814,098   31,470,000          11,504,000    103,249,000        125,728,384

CIVILWORKSTOTAL
                            68,706,000        60,367,846   41,760,000         40,097,300   57,360,000         49,879,084   34,921,000          28,720,000    202,747,000        179,064,230

II. EQUIPMENT

A.WATERSUPPLY

ComponentCost
                               4,810,000       1,854,790                  0           0       3,859,000       1,383,556                   0            0         8,669,000       3,238,346

B.SEWERAGE


ComponentCost
                                 932,000        187,169                   0           0         747,000          76,086                   0            0         1,679,000         263,255

EQUIPMENTTOTAL                 5,742,000       2,041,959                  0           0       4,606,000       1,459,642                   0            0        10,348,000       3,501,601

III.CONSULTANCYSERVICES
ANDENGINEERING


A.PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION


ComponentCost               19,395,000         7,799,571      4,706,000               0                   0     721,194                   0            0        24,101,000       8,520,765

B.INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGHTENINGANDTECH.
ASSIST.
ComponentCost                  6,002,000       2,358,083                  0           0                   0   3,191,353                   0            0         6,002,000       5,549,436

CONSULTANCYSERVICESAND
ENGINEERINGTOTAL            25,397,000        10,157,654      4,706,000               0                   0   3,912,547                   0            0        30,103,000       14,070,201


IV.LANDACQUISITION


ComponentCost
                                           0          0                   0           0       1,422,000         744,224                   0            0         1,422,000         744,224

LANDACQUISITIONTOTAL
                                           0          0                   0           0       1,422,000         744,224                   0            0         1,422,000         744,224

V.BIOLOGICALTREATMENT
PLANT

BIOLOGICALTREATMENT
PLANTTOTAL                       --                   0         --                    0         --            7,894,551         --                     0          --             7,894,551


GRANDTOTAL
                            99,845,000        72,567,459   46,466,000         40,097,300   61,966,000         63,890,048   34,921,000          28,720,000    244,620,000        205,274,807




                                                                                 - 52 -

Additional Annex 12. Forecast and Actual Disbursements

            Calendar Year Forecast                Actual Disbursements     Disbursement
            and Semester  Disbursements in                                 Lag in Percent
            Ending        Staff Appraisal Report                           of
                                                                           Total Bank Loan
                             US$     Cumulative      US$       Cumulative
                           millions       %          millions       %
            June 30, 1995    0.0          0           0.0           0              0
            Dec 31, 1995     1.0          1           0.0           0              1
            June 30, 1996    9.0         10           0.0           0             10
            Dec 31, 1996     2.0         12           2.2           2             10
            June 30, 1997    8.0         20           1.4           4             16
            Dec 31, 1997     2.5         22           4.6           8             14
            June 30, 1998    9.0         32           5.7           14            18
            Dec 31, 1998     4.4         36           5.9           20            16
            June 30, 1999    8.0         44           4.7           24            20
            Dec 31, 1999     8.3         52           4.0           28            24
            June 30, 2000    10.0        62           3.3           32            30
            Dec 31, 2000     8.1         70           3.8           36            34
            June 30, 2001    8.0         78           7.0           43            35
            Dec 31, 2001     7.7         86           7.4           50            36
            June 30, 2002    5.3         91           9.1           59            32
            Dec 31, 2002     6.1         97          13.5           73            26
            June 30, 2003    2.6         100            0           73            27

Note: On the total, US$ 27.5 million is cancelled out of the total loan of US$100.0 million. Due
to cost savings, and ASAT's request US$ 14.9 million, and US$ 9.0 million out of the loan were
cancelled as of February 23, 2001 and March 11, 2003. Due to non-compliance with project
conditions the Bank cancelled US$ 3.6 million out of the loan as of April 1, 2003.




                                               - 53 -

- 54 -

