Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3382 IND
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Water and Sanitation for Low Income Communities Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 22, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3382 IND
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 2000, between the REPUBLIC OF 
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the 
financing of the Project;
(B)  the Borrower intends to obtain from the Australian Agency 
for International Development (AusAID) a grant in an amount of US$ 
6,500,000 equivalent (the AusAID Grant) to assist in financing the 
technical assistance under the Project on the terms and conditions set 
forth in an agreement to be entered between the Borrower and the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (as 
Administrator of the grant funds provided by AusAID) (the AusAID Grant 
Agreement); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
Page  2
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as 
amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth 
below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read:
"If the Association shall at any time receive less than 
the full amount then due and 
payable to it under the Development 
Credit Agreement, the Association shall have the right 
to 
allocate and apply the amount so received in any manner and for such 
purposes under the 
Development Credit Agreement as the Association 
shall in its sole discretion determine."; 
and
(b)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second 
sentence, the word "radiogram" with the word "facsimile" and adding a 
new sentence at the end of the said Section to read:
"Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be 
confirmed by mail."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Affected Person" means a person who, on account of the 
execution of Part C.3 of the Project, has or would have his or her (i) 
standard of living adversely affected; (ii) right, title or interest 
in any house, land (including premises, agricultural land and grazing 
land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, 
temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work, or 
place of residence or habitat adversely affected.
(b)
"BAPPEDA" means any one of the Borrower’s Provincial 
Development Planning Agencies in the Project Provinces.
(c)
"Community Action Plan" and "Community Action Plans" mean 
singularly a community water and health action plan and collectively 
the community water and health action plans adopted by VITs in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(d)
"Community Facilitation Team" and "Community Facilitation 
Teams" mean singularly a team of facilitators and collectively the 
teams of facilitators appointed with in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(e)
"CPMU" means the Central Project Management Unit, 
established and operating within MOH pursuant to Director General 
Decree No. HK00.06.7.325 and maintained in accordance with paragraph 1 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, responsible for overall management of 
Page  3
the Project.
(f)
"DPMU" means a project management unit established within 
the Department of Health, or any successor thereto, in a Project 
Kabupaten, responsible for Project implementation activities at the 
Kabupaten level.
(g)
"Grant" means a grant made available by the Borrower out 
of the proceeds of the Credit to a VIT for a Sub-project under Parts 
B.3 and C.3 of the Project in accordance with the terms of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement.
(h)
"Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement" means the 
guidelines prepared by the Borrower, in agreement with the 
Association, for the provision of compensation to Affected Persons as 
set forth in paragraph 12 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in the 
Operations Manual, as such Guidelines may be amended from time to time 
in agreement with the Association.
(i)
"Implementation Agreement" and "Implementation 
Agreements" mean singularly an implementation agreement and 
collectively the implementation agreements referred to in paragraph 8 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and to be entered into among the 
relevant Pimbagpros and VITs in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraph 8, for the purpose of implementing Sub-projects under Part 
C.3 of the Project. 
(j)
"Isolated Vulnerable People" means those social groups in 
Indonesia that have a distinct social and cultural identity, and that 
are susceptible to being disadvantaged in the development process 
induced by the Project or any part thereof. 
(k)
"Kabupaten" means a district, an administrative division 
of the Borrower; and "Project Kabupaten" means a Kabupaten within a 
Project Province which is selected for inclusion in the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(l) 
"Kecamatan" means an administrative sub-district of a 
Kabupaten.
(m)
"MOH" means the Ministry of Health of the Borrower.
(n)
"Operations Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the 
Association, to be developed by MOH pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to assist the CPMU, the PCUs, the DPMUs 
and the VITs in the carrying out of their responsibilities under the 
Project by describing, inter alia, the following matters with respect 
to the Project: the financial management, procurement and disbursement 
arrangements and procedures; the Project Performance Indicators; the 
Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement; environmental criteria 
applicable to Sub-project design; criteria for the selection of 
Sub-projects; and maintenance procedures for works to be carried out 
under Part C.3 of the Project. 
(o)
"PCUs" means the Provincial Coordinating Units operating 
within the BAPPEDA in each of the Project Provinces and maintained in 
accordance with paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, 
responsible for the coordination of Project activities within the 
relevant Project Province.
(p)
"Participating Village" means a village or community in a 
Page  4
Project Province for which an Implementation Agreement has been 
prepared and signed.
(q)
"Pimbagpro" means the manager of a DPMU.
(r)
"Project Provinces" means the provinces of the Borrower 
set out in Annex A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and such other 
provinces of the Borrower which may from time to time be designated as 
Project Provinces by agreement between the Borrower and the 
Association, and "Initial Project Provinces" means the Project 
Provinces set out in Annex A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(s)
"Rupiah" or "Rp" means the currency of the Borrower.
(t)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in 
Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement.
(u)
"Sub-project" and "Sub-projects" mean singularly a 
specific investment sub-project and collectively the investment 
projects carried out under Parts B.3 and C.3 of the Project, eligible 
for financing out of a Grant in accordance with the terms of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement.
(v)
"VIT" and "VITs" mean singularly a village implementation 
team and collectively the village implementation teams established and 
operating in accordance with the terms of paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
fifty-seven million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
57,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open 
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or 
in a state commercial bank acceptable to the Association on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including, in the case of 
a state commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009, or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 
Page  5
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent 
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date 
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower 
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of 
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied 
from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places 
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions 
of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and 
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) 
per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, 
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semi-annual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1, 
commencing August 1, 2010 and ending February 1, 2035. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 
2020 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half 
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded 
for three consecutive years  the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy 
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and 
after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) 
above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first 
semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
months or more after the date on which the Association notifies the 
Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, 
provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of 
five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may 
revise the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, 
in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with 
the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained 
Page  6
under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association 
may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, health, engineering and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Notwithstanding the generalities of paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall take all necessary measures to:
(i) 
ensure that the financing of the Project from its 
own resources is maintained 
during the 
implementation of the Project at such levels as agreed between the 
Borrower and the Association; and
(ii)
make available an amount up to the ceilings 
specified in the Operational 
Manual to each 
Project Village on a grant basis. These ceilings may be 
reviewed periodically and may be revised with the 
agreement of the 
Association.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) 
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall 
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) 
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan designed 
to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to 
Page  7
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related 
to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section and the records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, 
but in any case not later 
than six months after 
the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such 
audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management 
Reports or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the 
Association has received the audit 
report for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to 
examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included 
in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph 
Page  8
(b) of this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the Project 
Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their 
preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of 
Section 4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a 
time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association for the 
strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, 
not later than January 31, 2001, or such later date as the Association 
shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month 
period following 
the period covered by said report, 
and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered 
by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the 
period covered by said report, and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association and furnish 
to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date: Termination
Section 5.01.  The following are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
an Operations Manual for the implementation of the 
Project, acceptable to the Association, has been issued; and
(b)
the CPMU, the PCUs for each of the Initial Project 
Provinces, and the DPMUs within each of the Initial Project Provinces 
have been established with terms of reference, facilities and staff 
acceptable to the Association.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Page  9
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P.O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN-IA
(21) 
381 2859
Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU-IA
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their 
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be 
signed in their respective names in Jakarta, Indonesia, as of the day 
and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ A. Anshari Ritonga
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  10
By /s/ Mark Baird 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the 
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
   1,270,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures 
(ex-factory
cost) and 80% of 
local 
expenditures for other
items procured 
locally
(2)
Grants under Parts
  32,580,000
90% 
B.3 and C.3 of the Project
(3)
Service delivery       
  19,730,000
100%
       contractors
(4)
Consultants’ services
     370,000        
100%
(5)
Project Management              370,000
100%
 
(6)
Unallocated
  3,480,000
TOTAL                 57,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; 
(c) 
the term "Service delivery contractors" means 
expenditures for the providers of services under Parts A, B and C of 
the Project; and
(d)
the term "Project Management" means expenditures by the 
CPMU, the PCUs and the DPMUs for administrative costs, including local 
travel and travel-related per diems for project staff and consumable 
Page  11
office supplies.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no 
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and 
(b) 
in respect of a Grant to a Participating Village unless 
an Implementation Agreement has been entered into with the VIT of such 
Participating Village in accordance with paragraphs 8 and 9 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures 
for: (i) Grants; (ii) contracts for goods valued at less than $50,000 
equivalent each; (iii) Project Management; and (iv) contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms valued at less than $100,000 equivalent  
each and contracts for the employment of individuals costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each; under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in 
providing safe, adequate, cost effective and easily accessible water 
supply and sanitary services to, and improving health behavior and 
health services in, poor communities in under-served rural villages in 
the Project Provinces through community participation, in order to 
improve their health status, productivity and quality of life. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree 
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Community and Local Institutions Capacity Building 
Support
1.
Provision of facilitation and training services to VITs, 
Community Facilitation Teams, community members, local government and 
non-government agencies in the Project Provinces for the development 
of skills to: (a) identify and prepare community-based water-supply 
and sanitation projects; (b) carry out fiscal and organizational 
management responsibilities; and (c) operate and maintain water-supply 
and sanitation infrastructure.
2.
Provision of training for Kabupaten and Kecamatan local 
government staff and NGO members in the Project Provinces to develop 
effective skills in community health care management, health education 
and planning operation and maintenance services for water supply and 
sanitation to support and facilitate community initiatives.
3.
Provision of technical assistance to local government staff at 
the Kabupaten and Kecamatan levels in the Project Provinces for the 
establishment of staffing profiles and operating procedures 
appropriate for supporting demand responsive and community based water 
supply and sanitation programs.
4.
Provision of technical assistance to government institutions at 
the Kabupaten in the Project Provinces involved in water supply and 
sanitation programs to improve program planning, implementation and 
Page  12
monitoring, including the development of mechanisms to maximize 
transparency in decision-making and financing processes. 
Part B:
Improving Health Behavior and Services
1.
Provision of technical assistance, training and materials to 
primary school staff and administrators for the development of a 
school-based hygiene and sanitation promotion program and the 
integration of such program into school curricula.
2.
Provision of technical assistance, training and materials to 
health workers, educators and local government and non-government 
institutions for the development and carrying out of hygiene and 
sanitation promotion and community outreach activities.
3.
Provision of grants to Village Implementation Teams for the 
carrying out in the Participating Villages of community based health 
and sanitation programs and targeted health center based programs.
4.
Provision of technical assistance to the Ministry of Health and 
local governments for monitoring the health impact of Project 
interventions.
Part C: 
Developing Water and Sanitation Infrastructure
1.
Provision of technical assistance to communities in the Project 
Provinces for the development of menus of options for technology, 
service levels and costs for water supply and sanitation services.
2.
Provision of technical advisory services to assist households 
and Participating Villages in the Project Provinces to evaluate water 
and sanitation infrastructure options and plan the construction of 
projects selected from such options.
3.
Provision of grants to Village Implementation Teams for the 
design and construction of water supply, sanitation and health 
infrastructure projects at the community level in the Participating 
Villages.
4.
Provision of training and technical assistance for operation and 
maintenance activities in respect of infrastructure investments 
carried out under Part C.3 of the Project.
*            *            *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008.
ANNEX A 
Initial List of Project Provinces
1.
East Java
2.
Nusa Tenggara Barat
3.
West Sumatra
4.
South Sumatra
SCHEDULE 3
Page  13
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and 
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs 2 and 4 of this Part, 
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Except as provided in paragraph 4 below, (a) goods to be 
procured under Parts B.3 and C.3 of the Project and (b) goods to be 
procured other than under Parts B.3 and C.3 of the Project and which 
are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Except as provided in paragraph 4 below, works shall be procured 
under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall 
be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for 
the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully.
4.
Community Participation
Goods and works for Part C of the Project may be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to 
the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement 
of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and 
Page  14
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and works 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods or works 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more which are to be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2, 3 or 4 of 
Part B of this Schedule 3:
(i)
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations 
received, a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and
(ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of 
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) 
the provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" 
published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999; and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of this Section II.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality - and Cost - Based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Part 
B, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of  Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, and the provisions of 
paragraph 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and 
cost-based selection of consultants.  Subject to the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of 
consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants.
2.
Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications
Services for project management start-up may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  15
 3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under 
the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 
1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as 
shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association 
for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only 
after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of 
this Part C, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project, the 
following units with terms of reference, facilities and staff, 
acceptable to the Association:
(a)
the CPMU;
(b)
the PCUs; and
(c)
the DPMUs.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
develop, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association for approval a manual of 
Page  16
operations for the Project;
(b)
thereafter carry out the Project in accordance with such 
manual as shall have been approved by the Association; and 
(c)
 shall not amend, delete, suspend or waive any part of 
such manual without the prior approval of the Association.
3.
The Borrower shall select Project Kabupaten in accordance with 
criteria acceptable to the Association, which criteria shall include: 
the percentage of impoverished households; the incidence of diarrhea; 
the percentage of households not served by an acceptable water system; 
and the adequacy of institutional and project implementation capacity 
and arrangements for the purposes of carrying out the Project in 
accordance with the Operations Manual, including, without limitation, 
the willingness to provide appropriate budgetary resources for 
carrying out the Project, and the establishment of a DPMU with 
appropriate terms of reference and adequate staffing, budgetary 
resources and facilities. A Kabupaten shall only qualify as a Project 
Kabupaten upon the approval of the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall cause Project Kabupaten to select 
Sub-projects from villages which have expressed an interest in 
participating in the Project and in accordance with the Operations 
Manual and with criteria and procedures acceptable to the Association. 
5.
The criteria referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule 4 shall 
include: the percentage of the local population to be served by the 
proposed Sub-project; poverty level; water scarcity; water quality; 
incidence of water-borne diseases; availability of alternative sources 
of financing; and willingness to manage and contribute to the costs of 
construction, operations and maintenance of the proposed facilities.
6.
The procedures referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule 4 
shall include:
(a)
issuing to all sub-districts and villages in a Project 
Kabupaten by not less than two months prior to the proposed selection 
of the Participating Villages, public information aimed at disclosing 
to villagers and their representatives, the objectives and all 
procedural, technical, administrative, financial and environmental 
aspects pertaining to the selection, design, preparation and 
implementation of Sub-projects;
(b)
establish or have appointed a water and health 
improvement team ("VIT") with appropriate terms of reference, staffing 
and facilities that meet the criteria set out in the Operations 
Manual; and
(c)
cause said VIT to prepare a community water and health 
action plan (a "Community Action Plan") for the proposed Sub-project 
that meets the criteria set out in the Operations Manual, including, 
without limitation: 
(i)
detailed engineering designs that meet appropriate 
engineering and 
environmental standards; 
(ii)
a detailed budget and financing plan for planning, 
construction and 
maintenance, which financing 
plan shall provide that:
(A)
at least 20% of the total capital costs of 
Page  17
the construction of the 
proposed 
Sub-project shall be covered by contributions by the relevant 
Participating Village, including a contribution in 
cash covering at 
least 4% of such total 
capital costs;
(B)
the cost of both routine operation and 
maintenance and replacement of 
assets shall be 
covered by the relevant Participating Village; and
(C)
communities and/or households requesting 
private water connections 
shall pay the 
full cost of the services provided, including the capital 
costs of connection;
(iii)
a physical investment action plan describing, 
inter alia, proposed management, 
payment and procurement 
arrangements and schedules; 
(iv)
a maintenance program based on appropriate 
environmental management standards 
describing, inter 
alia, the assignment of maintenance responsibilities in the 
relevant community, the preparation of training programs 
to strengthen the 
maintenance capabilities of 
the relevant community and the identification of 
available sources of financing to carry out such programs; 
(v)
a health improvement action plan describing 
proposed actions for promoting 
health behavior 
improvements in the community; and 
(vi)
a plan that is in full compliance with the 
Guidelines for Compensation and 
Resettlement, 
including, where applicable, a description of the measures taken 
or to be taken to avoid or minimize land acquisition and 
displacement of 
Affected Persons and the 
completion of appropriate compensation arrangements 
satisfactory to all Affected Persons as set forth in such 
Guidelines and in 
paragraph 12 of this Schedule 4.
7.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the 
Borrower shall enter into service delivery contracts in accordance 
with Schedule 3 to this Agreement under which, inter alia, qualified 
community facilitation teams shall be engaged to assist villages in 
the Project Provinces in the carrying out the following activities:
(a)
carrying out technical assessments of water supply and 
health services options;
(b)
facilitating community planning for proposed 
Sub-projects;
(c)
designing the water supply and sanitation systems to be 
constructed under proposed Sub-projects;
(d)
preparing a community water and health action plan; and
training for construction activities, financial management and 
operations and maintenance activities.
8.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 4 through 6 of this 
Schedule, a proposed Sub-project shall only qualify as such upon 
entering into an Implementation Agreement between the Pimbagpro of the 
relevant Project Kabupaten and the Leader of the VIT proposing such 
Sub-project that meets the criteria for said agreements set out in the 
Operations Manual. 
9.
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 8 of this 
Schedule 4, the Pimbagpro of a Project Kabupaten shall sign an 
Implementation Agreement with a VIT only when the Process Monitoring 
Consultant and Kabupaten Coordinating Committee have confirmed the 
following:
(a)
necessary funding to fully finance the proposed 
Page  18
Sub-project has been arranged, including approval of  a Grant and 
deposit of contributions by villagers;
(b)
appropriate engineering and environmental standards and 
practices that would minimize any acquisition of land and avoid 
involuntary resettlement of Affected Persons and adverse environmental 
impacts have been considered in the design of the Sub-project in 
accordance with the Operations Manual;
(c)
the Guidelines of Compensation and Resettlement have been 
complied with, and if applicable, appropriate compensation 
arrangements have been completed and are satisfactory to the Affected 
Persons as set forth under the Guidelines for Compensation and 
Resettlement and paragraph 12 of this Schedule 4;
(d)
an implementation plan for the Sub-project has been 
prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Operations Manual; 
and
(e)
a maintenance program for the works to be carried out 
under the Sub-project has been prepared in accordance with terms 
acceptable to the Association and will be included in the 
Implementation Agreement, which program shall include assignment of 
maintenance responsibilities in the respective village, the 
preparation of training programs to strengthen the maintenance 
capabilities of the village, and the identification of available 
sources of financing to carry out such programs.
10.
The Borrower shall cause each Project Kabupaten government, 
promptly after its selection for inclusion in the Project, to issue a 
decree authorizing and giving legal capacity to each VIT for a 
proposed Sub-project within such Kabupaten’s jurisdiction: 
(a) 
to collect the financial contributions by the relevant 
Participating Village to the capital cost of the construction and 
operation and maintenance of the facilities installed under a relevant 
Sub-project;
(b)
to enter into an Implementation Agreement with respect to 
such Sub-project; and
(c)
to enter into such other contracts as may be necessary 
for the implementation of the proposed Sub-project.
11.
The Borrower shall cause VITs to carry out approved Sub-projects 
in accordance with the relevant Implementation Agreement and the 
provisions of the Operations Manual.
12.
In carrying out Part C of the Project:
(a)
the Borrower shall take steps to avoid adverse effects on 
Isolated Vulnerable People;
(b)
through a process of informed participation, the Borrower 
shall involve concerned Isolated Vulnerable People in the design and 
implementation of Sub-projects so as to ensure that the benefits 
received by the Isolated Vulnerable People under the Project are in 
harmony with their economic, social and cultural preferences and 
protect their customary user rights;
(c) 
the Borrower shall take measures to avoid or minimize the 
acquisition of land or assets of any person and to avoid the 
displacement of said persons;
(d)
where the acquisition of land or assets or the 
displacement of any person is unavoidable under a proposed 
Sub-project, the Borrower shall, before carrying out the works which 
would result in such acquisition or displacement, make available to 
all such persons, compensation in accordance with the Guidelines for 
Page  19
compensation and Resettlement; and 
(e)
in the event that one hundred or more people are 
adversely affected by a Sub-project, the Borrower shall:
(i)
prepare a resettlement plan in accordance with the 
Guidelines for Compensation 
and Resettlement and 
furnish such plan to the Association for approval; and
(ii)
prior to the carrying out of the Sub-project, 
ensure that all Affected Persons 
shall have been 
compensated in accordance with the provisions of said plan.
13.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain adequate policies and procedures satisfactory to 
the Association, to enable the Borrower to monitor and evaluate on an 
ongoing basis the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof in accordance with the indicators set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement and with the Operations Manual;
(b)
furnish to the Association and make available to the 
public, by March 31, 2001 and every three months thereafter, a project 
management report in a form acceptable to the Association and in 
accordance with the Operations Manual;
(c) 
furnish to the Association, by June 30 of each year, 
commencing June 30, 2001, and until completion of the Project, a 
report, prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the Association 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this paragraph 13, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the preceding 
twelve months and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the twelve months following such date;
(d)
review with the Association, on or about July 30 of each 
year, commencing July 31, 2001, or such later date as the Association 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (c) of this 
paragraph 13, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the twelve months following the date of such 
report, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report and the Association’s views on the matter;
(e)
by July 31, 2003, prepare under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association and furnish to the Association, a 
mid-term report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph 13, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the remainder of the Project; and
(f) 
review with the Association, by August 31, 2003, or such 
later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
sub-paragraph (e) of this paragraph 13 and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following the date of such report, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of such report and the views of the Association 
Page  20
thereon.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) 
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount 
equivalent to $10,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $5,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to 
or exceed the equivalent of $20,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively 
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this 
Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it 
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the 
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis 
of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents 
and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in 
respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
Page  21
paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special 
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, 
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined 
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V 
of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 
(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to 
the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated 
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as 
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an 
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association 
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
Page  22
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund 
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the 
Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit 
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
