Page  1
ADMINISTRATION AGREEMENT
In pursuance of the Cofinancing, Technical Assistance and Consultant Trust Fund 
Framework Agreement between GOVERNMENT OF AUSTRALIA (“GOA”), and INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“IBRD”) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“IDA”) (collectively, the “Association”) dated 29 May 1996, (the 
“Agreement”), I am pleased to inform you of the intention of GOA to make available a 
grant (the “Grant”) of eleven million one hundred and thirty three thousand Australian 
dollars (AUD11,133,000) (approximately six million four hundred and fifty seven 
thousand one hundred and forty United States dollars), to be administered by the 
Association for the Indonesia Water and Sanitation for Low Income Communities Project 
- (Trust Fund No. TF023692; Credit No.3382-IND). The terms of the Agreement will apply 
to the Grant. The Association will administer the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of the Agreement, except as otherwise provided herein.
The Grant is for Recipient-executed Technical Assistance (as the term is defined 
in the Agreement) and will be used exclusively for the purposes as outlined in the 
attached Annex. 
GOA will deposit the Grant with the Association, upon request from the 
Association, in accordance with Section 7.02 of the Agreement, in IBRD’s Cash Account 
“T” ( Account No. 81715-3) maintained with the Reserve Bank of Australia in accordance 
with the following schedule:    
Suggested
By 20 June 2000 
AUD  1,500,000 
By 30 December 2000
AUD  1,500,000 
By 30 December 2001
AUD  3,000,000 
By 30 December 2002
AUD  3,000,000 
By 30 December 2003
AUD  2,133,000  
It is expected that the funds will be fully utilised in accordance with the 
provisions of this Administration Agreement by 30 June 2006. The Association will only 
disburse the Grant funds for the purposes of this Administration Agreement after such 
date upon the approval of GOA.
If, at any time, either party determines that the purposes of this 
Administration Agreement can no longer be effectively or appropriately carried out or 
if the Agreement is terminated, this Administration Agreement may be terminated at the 
initiative of either party by giving the other party three (3) months’ written notice 
to this effect. Upon the termination of this Administration Agreement, and unless the 
parties agree on another arrangement, any Australian Grant Agreement entered into by 
the Association, as administrator on behalf of GOA, will also terminate at such time, 
and any funds or other property of GOA held hereunder by the Association will be 
returned to GOA, and the Association’s administration will be considered terminated.
The offices responsible for the coordination of all matters related to this 
Administration Agreement are:
For the Government of Australia: 
The Director 
Indonesia Section AusAID 
GPO Box 887 Canberra ACT 2601 
AUSTRALIA
For the Association: 
Country Director for Indonesia 
World Bank Office in Jakarta 
P. O. Box 1324/JKT Jakarta  
INDONESIA
I would like to propose that this letter will, upon your confirmation in the 
Page  2
manner indicated below, constitute an administrative arrangement between GOA and the 
Association.
Sincerely yours,
By /s/ John McCarthy,  
Australian Ambassador to Indonesia
GOVERNMENT OF AUSTRALIA 
Date: June 20, 2000
Confirmed and agreed:
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mark Baird 
Country Director for Indonesia
Date: June 20, 2000
ANNEX
PURPOSE OF THE GRANT
The grant funds administered by the Association will be used to finance 
technical assistance special studies, and service contracts provided through 
international and Indonesian consultant services for assisting in planning and 
implementing the Second Water and Sanitation for Low Income Communities Project.  
Services to be financed as agreed at the time of signing this agreement are listed in 
Table A below.  The timing, duration, and type of services to be provided may by 
adjusted from time to time by mutual agreement between AusAID and the Association.
SPECIAL PROVISIONS
The International Development Association will administer the grant financed 
trust fund for WSLIC II.  The Government of Indonesia (GOI) will execute the project, 
with Association supervision.  The following provisions are between the Association 
and the Government of Australia, through AusAID.  Many relate also to the role of the 
GOI as the executing agent.  The role of GOI in aspects of this agreement should be 
reflected, where appropriate, in the administrative agreement between the Association 
and GOI.
It is expected that there will be semi-annual supervision missions for the 
Project. The Association will ensure that GOA, through the Counsellor Development 
Cooperation of the Australian Embassy Jakarta (the Post), is provided with adequate 
notice of supervision missions to enable the GOA to participate in such missions.
The Association will ensure, that in reporting to AusAID, it documents the 
performance of the project against the performance indicators as provided in the PIP 
and explains how the grant activities funded through the AusAID grant are contributing 
to this.  To facilitate this reporting, salient features of the project performance 
indicators will be included, where appropriate, in the Terms of Reference for the 
consultants.  The results of the training activities and the special studies (where 
relevant) will also be reported, and linked to overall performance indicators for the 
Project. 
All monitoring and evaluation plans and reports will be provided to AusAID.
At GOA’s option, GOA may initiate monitoring missions. GOA will ensure that the 
Page  3
Association and GOI are given adequate notice of monitoring missions, and will provide 
the Association the opportunity to participate in such missions.
The Association will obtain the Post’s agreement to the Terms of Reference and 
Scope of Service for all Special Studies to be funded from the GOA grant, before 
issuing letters of no objection and prior to commencement of the studies.
The Association will provide the Post with an outline of the processes to be 
implemented for the release of any and all GOA project grant funds, with respect to 
GOI, Association, and AusAID involvement.
The Association will require GOI to adhere to the Association’s standard 
procurement rules for contracting arrangements so as to ensure that open and fair 
competition occurs.  The Association will also seek the Post’s agreement regarding the 
initial start-up of technical assistance at project launch vis a vis the packaging of 
TA, timing of recruitment and eligibility or otherwise of short-term advisers (if they 
are required) for long-term positions.
The Association and the Post will jointly develop and agree a strategy to ensure 
appropriate Australian identity in the project.  The Association will outline how the 
strategy will be implemented both within the project and also more broadly, and will 
obtain assurances from GOI that it will carry out the strategy. 
The Association and GOI will ensure that links between WSLIC II and WASPOLA are 
maximised.  Inter alia, it is anticipated that WASPOLA and WSLIC II will collaborate 
in carrying out field trials financed by WASPOLA of variations to the WSLIC II project 
implementation model in a limited number of communities participating in WSLIC II.  
The findings and learning acquired from WASPOLA activities with WSLIC II and other 
projects will inform project management, GOI, and the Association and provide guidance 
for implementation design modifications, if necessary. 
