                                                             97751 April 8, 2011
Indonesia: Second Water and Sanitation for Low Income Communities Project




 From a flow of funds, a flow of water: improving water sanitation in
 Indonesia


Overview
In the 10 years to 2010, a World Bank project helped Indonesian communities to create the
technical capacity to plan, manage and sustain improved water programs, sanitation, and
community health services. It improved hygiene, health behavior, and community management
of health services related to water-borne diseases, and provided safe options for waste
disposal and clean water supply. Thanks to this project, Indonesia is now providing improved
access to sanitation services in 2,294 villages across 37 districts in eight provinces and
reaching over 5 million beneficiaries. The project also provided technical assistance to educate
local communities about the importance of managing their own water and sanitation in a
sustainable way.



Challenge
As a growing middle-income country, Indonesia needed to
                                                                   More Results
substantially increase access to sanitation services. On a
yearly basis, Indonesia lost approximately US$6.3 billion due

                                                                   5
to poor sanitation, including health care costs, lost
productivity, premature deaths, water resource and fishery
losses, declining land values and tourism losses. By

                                                                   million
improving sanitation in Indonesia, it could potentially
contribute an estimated US$4.5 billion toward overall
economic growth. The key challenge for Indonesia was for
                                                                   beneficiaries now have access
local governments to undertake important reforms, including        to improved water and
improved governance, to implement sector programs.                 sanitation services


Approach
                                                                   MORE INFORMATION
Using a participatory approach, the Bank project worked with
communities, schools and health centers to improve hygiene,         Second Water and Sanitation for
health behavior, and community management of health                 Low Income Communities
services related to water-borne diseases. It was also aimed         Project
at providing safe options for waste disposal as needed by           Country Website
communities.
                                                                    Country Brief

                                                                    Country Partnership Strategy
It worked with local communities to manage contracts with
local firms, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and              Data and Statistics
academic institutions. By doing so, local communities could
set up and run their own clean water supplies and sanitation
facilities. Besides providing block grants, technical assistance
was given to make sure that local communities could
manage their own water and sanitation in a sustainable way.
In addition, hygiene and sanitation was promoted through education and public information
materials.

Results
By the time of the project’s completion in 2010, it had:



       Assisted 2,291 villages with access to clean water, exceeding the appraisal target by
       15%. The percentage increase of poor households with improved water supply and
       sanitation also exceeded the appraisal estimate.

       Assisted communities to organize and to obtain the technical capacity to plan, manage,
       and sustain water programs, sanitation and community health through service contracts
       with local firms, NGOs and academic institutions. Participatory methods at the
       community level were linked with hygiene and sanitation promotion. In addition, these
       methods also developed and produced information and education materials as well as
       public information activities.

       Improved hygiene, health behavior and community management of health services
       related to water-borne diseases through service contracts as well as to provide safe
       options for waste disposal as needed by the communities. Sub-components included a
       school health and hygiene program and a community health program.

       Provided clean water to the communities, through technical assistance service contracts
       to identify technology options and adequate levels of service. Furthermore, service
       contracts selected and planned the construction of health infrastructure according to the
       communities' needs. Financial and technical assistance supported the construction of
       infrastructure and its operation and maintenance.

Beneficiaries
This program expands the reach of the first Water Supply and Sanitation program for Low
Income Communities. Beneficiaries have gained access to more convenient, higher quality,
and more accessible water supply and improved community sanitation services.


The program also aimed to protect health services that are essential for the poor and public at
large, while initiating key sector reforms and ensuring health sector financing. A second
objective was to help the Ministry of Health carry out its new role in a decentralized system
that encompassed the analysis of key issues, the advocacy of best practices and standards,
and support for local initiative and innovation.

Bank Contribution
Reaching more than 2,000 villages across 37 districts in eight provinces over the ten years to
2010, the project was backed by a credit of US$77.4 million from the International
Development Association (IDA), a grant of US$6.5 million from Australia’s AusAID, and funding
from local beneficiaries of US$10.6 million. In response to public health concerns, the project
aimed to improve health status, productivity, and quality of life in under-served rural villages in
Indonesia through better provision of water and sanitation services.

Partners
The Project built on 10 years of Bank financial and technical experience in integrated water,
sanitation and health programs in Indonesia implemented in six provinces through consultation
with the Ministry of Health. The project supported demand-based improvements to water
supply and to household and community sanitation and hygiene, with funds being channeled
through block grants directly to the village level with separate budgets for district-level
technical support.
Toward the Future
In supporting Indonesia to further strengthen the health system as a whole, the Bank focuses
on the achievement of those Millennium Development Goals that will be most difficult for
Indonesia to meet. The Bank will be continuously working with the Government to strengthen
the health system as a whole, focusing on health financing, the health work-force and service
delivery.
