Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rep'rt No. 7699-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
FOREST SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 17, 1989
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offici;l duties. Its contentn ' v nnt ot -rwi - I' * -it    ' It i   I 'r' '      -   *It



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency unit - Sri Lanka Rupees (SL Rs)
US$l.OO - SL Rs 33
SL RS 1 - US$0.0303
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)           -  0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)                -  1.09 yards (yd)
1 square kilometer (km2)  -  100 hectares (ha)
1 hectare (ha)             -  10,000 m2 (0.01 km2) - 2.471 acres (ac)
1 cubic meter (m3)         =  35.315 cubic feet (ft3)
1 kilogram (kg)            =  2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric (m tons)          =  1,000 kg - 2,205 lb
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB      =  Asian Development Bank
BFO      =  Beat Forest Officer
CF       =  Conservator of Fo-est
CIDA     =  Canadian International Development Agency
CPC      =  Ceylon Plywood Corporation
DBH      =  Diameter at Breast Height
DCF      =  Deputy Conservator of Forest
DFO      =  Divisional Forest Officer
DWLC     =  Department of Wildlife Conservation
FAO      =  Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FD       =  Forest Department
FINNIDA  =  Finnish International Development Agency
FMP      =  Forestry Master Plan
FPU      =  Forestry Planning Unit
GOSL     =  Government of Sri Lanka
IUCN     =  International Union of Conservation of Nature
MASL     =  Mahaweli Auithority of Sri Lanka
MLIMD    =  Ministry of Lands, Irrigation and Mahaweli Development
NFC      =  National Forestry Commission
, -      =  Non Government Organization
NPC      =  National Paper Corporation
ODA      = Overseas Development Administration of the United Kingdom
FRDP     -  Forestry Resources Development Project
RFO      =  Range Forest Officer
Sob      =  Solid over bark
STC      =  State Timber Corporation
UNDP     -  United Nations Development Program
USAID    =  United States Agency for International Development
USJ      =  University of Sri JTayawardenepura
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
- I
SRI LANRA
FOREST SECTOR DVVmLOPMZNT PROJ'ECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND  PROJECT  SUMhARY .................................   iv-v
I.   BACKGROUND .................................................                                  1 
A.  Introduction ............................................                                 1
B. The Forestry Sector .......................                              .                 1
C.  Forestry  Sector  Institutions ............................ S
D. Development  Constraints .................................                                 5
E. Ongoing  Development  Programs  and External Assistance ....                               6
F. Medium  and Long-Term  Programs ...........................                                7
G. Rationale  for  IDA  Involvement ...........................                               9 
II.   THE  PROJECT ................................................                                11
A.  Project Area ............................................                               11
B.  Project  Objectives  and  Description ......................                            11
C.  Project  Features ........................................                              12
D.  Technical  Assistance  and  Fellowships .......                       .............     18
E.  Implementation  Schedule .................................                              18
III. COST ESTIMATE AND FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS                                   .        .           20
A. Cost  Estimate ...........................................                               20
B.  Financing  Plan ..........................................                              21
C. Procurement .............................................                                23
D. Disbursements .......... .            ...............................                    25
E. Accounts  and Audits .....................................                               25
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEEN ................................                                   27
A. Project  Organization ................... ................                               27
B. Monitoring,  Evaluation  an.  Reporting ....................                             29
V. PRODUCTION. MARKETING AND PRICES                                    .           .              32
A. Yields  and  Production ...................................                              32
B. Marketing ...............................................                                32
C.  Prices  ar. Revenues .....................................                              35
VI.   BENEFITS.  JUSTIFICATION  AND  RISKS ..........................                              37
A. Project  Benefits ........................................                               37
B. Economic  Analysis .......................................                               37
C. Environmental  Impact ....................................                               39
D. Risks  and Remedies ......................................                               40
VII.   AGREEMENTS  AND  RECOMMENDATIONS .............................                                41
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission of January/
February 1989, which consisted of Messrs. Orhan Baykal (mission leader), Colin
Rees (IDA,' Frank Peacock, Richard McCharty. Roy Henriksen, Chandra
Wijesekera, Randal Webb (consultants) assisted by Mr. Horace Darmawi (LEGAS),
and Ms. Suzanne Morris (LOAAS).
TIHis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perform.ance
of their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii-
Tables in the Text
2.1s  Plantation Establishment Program .............................   14
3.1:  Project Cost Summary .........................................   19
3.2:  Project Cost by Category .....................................   20
3.3:  Tentative Financing Plan .....................................   21
3.4:  Procurement ..................................................   22
6.1:  Sensitivity Analysis .......... ..............................   38
Annexes
1.    Detailed Cost Tables
Table 1:  Forest Inventory and Management Plans.                  42
Table 2: Forest Management .43
Table 3: Environmental anagement .44
Table 4: Plantation Establishment .45
Table 5:  Education and Training - University of
Sri Jayawardeniepura .47
Table 6:  Education mnd Training - Forestry School
Nuwara Elia .48
Table 7:  Institutional Support - Forest Departmnt .49
Table 8:  Institutional Support - Forest Planning Unit .50
Table 9:  Institutional Support - Forest Department
Information System .51
Table 10: Institutional Support - State Timber
Corporation Information System .52
2.    Project Cost Summary
Table 1:  Project Components by Year .53
Table 2:  Summary Accounts by Project Components .54
Table 3: Summary Accounts by Year .55
3.    Financing Plan
Table 1:  Proposed Credit Allocation .56
Table 2:  Financing Plan by Project Components .57
Table 3:  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements.                    58
4.    Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 2:  Economic Analysis - Output and Revenues .59
Table 3:  Economic Analysis - ERR Calculation .60
5.    Details of Technical Assistance and Overseas Training
Requirements ..........                ....................   67
6.    Details of Forestry Sector Institutions           .      .        68
Charts
1.  Organization Chart--Forest Department ....................   71



xiii-
1.  IBRD 21471:  Forest Sector Development Project (Forestry II)
Technical Annexes (Available on request)
1. Plantation Establishment
2. FinancJal Aspects Pertaining to State Timber Corporation
3. Information System
4. Education and Trainingl/
5. Environmental Management Component 2/
1/ Prepared for FINNIDA by FINNIDA Consultants.
2/ Prepared by IUCN for ID/



- iv -
SRI LANKA
FOREST SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Democratic Soc:ialist Republic of Sri Lanka (GOSL)
Beneficiaries:            Ministry of Lands, Irrigation and Mahaweli
Development (MLIMD), Forest Department (FD), State
Timber Corporation (STC), and University of Sri
Jayawardenapuira (USJ)
Amount:                   SDR 15.5 million (US$19.9 mill4.on equivalent)
Cofinanciers:             The Finlaad International Development Agency
(FINNIDA) will provide US$2.8 million of grant
funding.
Terms:                    Standard, with 40 years' maturity
Project Description:      The project is designed to:  (a) strengthen the
management of forests and established plantations,
and inventory additional natural forests and young
plantations for management purposes; (b) establish
an environmental management system to ensure
conformity of forestry operations with environmental
guidelines; (c) establish and maintain 17,900 ha of
new plantations; (d) expand and augment resources for
professional and technical education and training
facilities; and (e) strengthen the Forestry Planning
Unit of the Ministry of Lands, Irrigation and
M4ahaweli Development, reorganize the management and
strengthen the field organization of the Forestry
Department, and upgrade information and data process-
ing 6t the State Timber Corporation. The project
also includes an applied research program consisting
of species trials, as well as technical assistance,
civil works, vehicles, equipment, materials, and
additional staff to be used for the project.
Benefits and Risks:       Through the project modern, economically, environ-
mentally and scientifically sound forestry practices
would be introduced in Sri Lanka. These practices
would increase the production of wood, provide
greater protection to the environment, and create
employment opportunities for the rural population.
Altogether they would allow the country to meet most
or all of its requirements for wood and wood products
over the long run. The investments to be made under
the project do not convey any major risk. However,
implementation could fall short of expectations if
the current political situation does not improve in
the near future.



E6timated Proiect Cost:
Local    Foreign    Total
-(US$ million) -----
A.  Forest Management               1.3        1.2         2.5
B.  Environmental Management        0.2        0.8         1.1
C.  Educatior and Training          1.2        3.4         4.6
D.  Institutional Support           3.8        2.3         6.1
E.  Plantation Establishment        6.6        2.9         9.5
Total Baseline Costs               13.2       10.6        23.8
Physical Contingencies            0.7        0.3         1.0
Price Contingencies               5.1        1.5         6.6
Total Project Costs                19.0       12.4        31.4
/a Including taxes and duties of US$2.1 million.
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
------- USS million ------
IDA                                           11.3         8.6      19.9
FINNIDA                                        0.2         2.6       2.8
GOSL                                           7.J         1.2       8.7
Total                                      19.0        12.4      31.4
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA fiscal year         1990   1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996
---------------- (US$ million) -----------------
Annual                   1.7    4.8   3.8   4.1   4.4   1.1   0.1
Cumulative               1.7    6.5  10.3  14.4  18.8  19.8  19.9
Economic Rate of Return: 28Z
Staff Appraisal Report:   Report No. 7699-CE, dated May 17, 1989.
Map:                        IBRD 21471.



SRI LANKA
FOREST SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.1      The Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) has requested IDA's assistance in
financing a project which will implement part of its five-year forestry
investment program. The project consists of forest management, plantation
establishment, education and training, and institutional support and
environmental management. Under the forest management component, mapping,
inventory, and management plans will be prepared for 35,000 ha of young
plantations and for 100,000 ha of natural forests in the Dry Zone. An
indicative inventory will be taken of about 500,000 ha of forests in the Dry
Zone, and about 60,000 ha of established plantations will receive
silvicultural treatment. Under the plantatior componcnt, 18.000 ha of new
plantations will be established and maintained, 1,200 ha of established young
plantations will be maintained, and 22 million of seedlings will be produced.
Under education and training, forestry education at the University of Sri
Jayawardenepura (USJ) will be strengthened and forestry .raining facilities at
the Nuwara Eliya Forestry School will be expanded. Under institutional
support, the Forest Department's (FD) management will be reorganized, field
organization will be expanded, and both FD's and the State Timber
Corporation's (STC) information systems will be upgraded. Under environmental
management, all forest operations will be programmed and implemented in
accordance with envirormental protection guidelines.
1.2      Community furestry operations and some forest management and planta-
tion establishment activities in the upcountry already are being carried out
under projects financed by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the Overseas
Development Adtministration of the Government of the United Kingdom (ODA).
Therefore, they are not in:luded under this project.
B. The Forestry Sector
Forestry in the Economy
1.3      In 1988, the forestry sector contributed about Rs 4.7 billion to the
country's economy, or 4.2Z of GDP. Industrial processing of timber and paper
products contributes an additional Rs 1.4 billion. Forestry employs about
170,000 people and forestry products are the country's major source of energy,
accounting for about 71X of total energy consumption and 94Z of the energy
used in households.
Forest Cover and Land Area
1.4      The natural vegetation follows the pattern of the country's climatic
zones. In the Wet Zone, the tropical rain forest is the original vegetation
type. From this area in the soutnwestern lowlands, the vegetation undergoes a
gradual change up to the central mountains. Thus, at elevations of 1,000 to



- 2 -
1,800 meters, the original vegetation is classified as tropical highland rain
forest. At still higher elevations, with lower temperatures and higher humid-
ity, tropical mountain forests occur. The Dry Zone is located along the
northwestern and southeastern coasts and is characterized by tUa tropical dry
evergreen forest. This forest receives less than 1,200 mm of rainfall within
a poriud of three months per year.
1.5      The forest land area of Sri Lanka has been shrinking over the last 25
years, primarily due to the clearing of land for agricultural development.
However, illicit felling and shifting cultivation also have contributed to the
reduction of forests. According to the Forestry Master Plan CFMP)
(para. 1.28). the total forest land area of Sri Lanka is estimated at about
2.5 million ha, including scrub land. This represents 39Z of the country's
total land area, down from 46.52 in 1956. The area of natural high forest,
particularly in the Dry Zone, fell by almost 42,000 ha a year between 1956 and
1983, from 43Z to 271 of the total land area. The forest land area by forest
type and zone is shown in Table 1.1.
Table 1.1: FOREST COVER AND FOREST LAND AREA /a
Total           Protection areas           Production
Forest type/zone               area     Under DWLC lb   Under FD /c         area
Natural High Forest
Wet zone, upcountry         278,000        63,000          96,000         119,000
Dry zone                  1,471,500       478,000          39,500         954,000
Total Natural         1,749,500       541,000          135,500       1,073,000
Other Forests
Scrub land                  663,800       108,200          22,100         533,500
Forest plantations          104,000         6,000             350          97,650
Mangrove forests              7,900         1,200           6,700                -
TOTAL FOREST LAND    2X525,200        656,400          164,650       1.704,150
/a Based on aerial photography of 1981-83 and plantation survey of 1984-85.
Lb Including proposed jungle corridor proposed by the Department of Wildlife
Conservation (DWLC).
/c Forest Department.
Natural Forests
1.6      Most of the natural forests in Sri Lanka have been logged over sev-
eral times. In the Dry Zone, natural forests have diminished considerably
because of the large-scale agricultural development taking place there. In
most of the Wet Zone, the growing stock has reached such a low level that
sustained yields will only be realized through enrichment planting to rehabi-
litate overcut and degraded forest areas.



-3-
Forest Plantations
1.7      According to FD reports, about 148,000 ha of forest plantations had
been planted by 1984, excluding 20,000 ha of mahogany line plantings to enrich
the natural forests. The most comon species planted are Teak (about
70,000 ha), Eucalyptus (about 35,000 ha), and Pine (25,000 ha). Altogether
these types account for 88 of the total plantation area. The Forestry Master
Plan (FMP) estimates existing forest plantations at about 104,000 ha, of which
6,450 ha are classified as protected forest areas. The difference between the
two estimates is explained by the loss of plantations due to c7clone, fire,
elephant damage, and neglected maintenance.
1.8      Approximately 59,400 ha had been inventoried by 1984.  Of this area,
37? was fully stocked, 35Z was understocked, and 281 had failed or was damaged
by cyclone or elephants. The composition of tree species in the productive
forest was: Teak 43Z, Pine 192, Eucalyptus (sawlog species) 9Z, other hard-
wood species 82, and fuelvood species 212. The age class distribution of the
plantations was unbalanced; about 30? of the plantation was inventoried as
young trees and 102 was recorded as ove.mature trees in the Upcountry.
Nonforest Wood Resources
1.9      Nonforest wood and biomass resources cover 2.9 million ha, or 452 of
the total area of Sri Lanka. These resources supply a large amount of the
country's timber, fuelwood, and biomass fuel   Nonforest wood resources con-
sist mainly of the major plantation crops (rubber, coconut and tea), homestead
gardens, and areas classified as mixed trees and other perennial crops. Other
nonforest wood resources include woody material on sparsely used lands and
lands used for crops other than paddy, urban trees, and roadside trees. Bio-
mass fuel also is available from the residues of agricultural crops.
Forest and Plantation Management
1.10     Management of the forest plantations in Sri Lanka has been far from
adequate. Most existing plantations have received no attention after planting
and are now in acute need of silvicultural treatments. In addition, there are
7,525 ha of failed plantations which should be cleared and replanted and
11,700 ha of cyclone-damaged Teak plantations wbich require rehabilitation.
Certain operations for the forest plantations such as cleaning and precommer-
cial thinning cannot be postponed further without risking fire or reduced wood
yield.
1.11     The country's forest resources have been managed primarily for timber
production. The yield in the Wet Zone was regulated under a selection felling
system based on minimum exploitable girth and a specific rotation period for
commerrially acceptable species. In the Dry Zone, exploitation has been car-
ried out through clear felling due to the low density of commercially accept-
able trees in the natural forest. Land released by clear felling has been
either planted to exotic species or transferred to agricultural use.
1.12     In the Wet Zone, less than half of the natural forests has been clas-
sified for production purposes (119,000 of 278,000 ha) and the balance has
been put under protection. Since the implementation of the Forestry Resources



- 4 -
Development Project (FRDP) (pare. 1.22), management plans have been prepared
for about 40,000 ha of the Wet Zone na.ural forests.  These plans entail the
selective cutting of trees over 60 cm DBH at 30-year intervals. During the
cutting cycle, one improvement cutting is to be carried out on defective trees
and inferior species of the overstor7. This cleaning and thinning is designed
to promote the growth of young trees. In addition, the plans call for
enrichment planting to be made in areas lacking natural regeneration.
Implementation of these plans began on a limited scale this year. After the
30-year period, the whole 119,000 ha should be ready for sustained yield
management.
1.13     In the Dry Zone forests, more than one-third of the area (5i7,000 ha)
has been reserved by the FD or the Department of Wildlife Conservation (DWLC)
for the purpose of wildlife preservation. The remaining forests, amounting to
959,000 ha, are designated for production and are being exploited. Dense
forests can be exploited under a rotational management system. Open scrub-
type forests are not suitable for long-term management and therefore will have
to be converted into forest plantations or agricultural land. At present,
management of the Dry Zone forests is limited to protecting trees and
scheduling conversions to agriculture and foreat plantations. The future
development of Dry Zone forests will depend on how the government responds to
the competing needs for new agricultural land, conservation of forests to
protect the environment, and supplies of timber and fuelwood to meet the
growing demand.
1.14     Erosion already is taking place in the poorly managed or abandoned
tea lands in the Upcountry and on cultivated land where slopes exceea 20?.
During the past 25 years, the areas exposed to erosion have rapidly increased
due to the abandonment or poor management of tea areas. About 181,000 ha in
the Upcountry are considered vulnerable, not counting permanent cropping
areas. This area represents 282 of the total area of the region. Vegetative
cover is needed to protect most of it.
1.15     On the positive side. Sri Lanka has put under protection a large area
representative of the main ecological zores. The protected areas under the
Fauna and Flora Protection Ordinance of 1937 consist of national reserves and
sanctuaries covering 795,400 ha. Of this area, a41,000 ha are natural high
forests, 1,200 ha are mangrove forests, 6,000 ha are forest plantations, and
108,000 ha are scrub forests. This means that 262 of the forest land and 312
of the natural high forests in Sri Lanka are under the supervision of DWLC.
The present pclicy governing natural reserves and sanctuaries allows no form
of forest utilization in the protected areas.
Forestry Environment
1.16     The soils and climatic conditions of Sri Lanka ensure a dense natural
forest cover over much of the land. The different ecological zones host a
large numbar of plant and animal species. However, because of conversion to
agriculture, the area of natural forest has been markedly reduced. This situ-
ation may continue, especially in the Dry Zone, if rational land use decisions
for the remaining forest areas are not taken.



- 5 -
1.17     The FD also has preserved forest communities representative of each
climatic zone under the International Man and 3iosphere Program. The goal of
this program is to preserve genetic resources. Under it, abouc 164,600 ha
have been protected. So far, the FD has prepared conservation plans for the
Sinharaja and Knuclea forests and aims to do the same for the other protected
forests.
C. Forestry Sector Institutions
1.18     Five ministries are involved in the forestry sector in Sri Lanka:
the Ministry of Lands, Irrigation, and Mahaveli Development (MLIMD); the
Ministry of Industries and Scientific Affairs; Ministry of Public
Administration; the Ministry of Education; and the Ministry of Fisheries.
1.19     The MLIMD is the mAin agency involved in the sector through the FD,
the STC, the Land CommisLioner's Department, the Mahaweli Department and DWLC.
The latter oversees settlement projects in the Dry Zone forests under the
Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka. The Ministry of Industries and Scientific
Affairs is involved by virtue of controlling the Ceylon Plywood Corporation
and the National Paper Corporation. The Ministry of Public Administration
uses its government agents in the districts to administer small forest areas
and to allocate government land for reafforestation.  The Ministry of
Education provides for forest education at the USJ. The Ministry of Fisheries
is involved through its work in the Coast Conservation District. In addition
to the six primary ministries and their attached entities, four other bodies
are involved in wood production: tle Ministry of Coconut Industries, the
Plantation Industry, the Janatha Estates Development Board, and the State
Plantations Corporation.l/
D. Development Constraints
1.20     The many agencies involved in the forestry sector make planning and
coordinationt difficult and have constrained the development of the sector.
Some of the major constraints are noted below:
(a) Lack of Data. Proper inventories and a limited number of forest maps
are only available for 119,000 ha of natural forests and about
60,000 ha of plantations. The basic data required to manage the
remaining 600,000 ha of natural forests and 35,000 ha of young
plantations are not available.
(b)  Limited Management Capability.  A large portion of the FD staff lack
the technical training needed to implement and update existing
management plans; only 40Z of the 800 technical staff have received
basic training.
(c) Lack of Functional Organization. The headquarlers of the FD is not
structured in line with its main functions and it has an inadequate
number of trained staff. Thus it is unable to prepare comprehensive
development plans, detailed annual programs, or to provide guidance
or effective control cver field operations.
1/ Details or forestry sector institutions are provided in Annex 6.



(d)  Weak Management.  The weak management of the FD makes it difficult to
formulate medium-term plans and programs to integrate its operations
with the STC. This reduces the efficiency of operations and results
in irregular wood supply. The latter discourages investment in
developing the forest industries.
(e)  Lack of Interministerial Coordination.  There is no formal forum for
securing cocrdination between the agencies responsible for managing
forest resources. As a result, land use decisions usually are based
on short-term political preferences rather than long-term economic
and social considerations.
E. Ongoing Development Programs and External Assistance
1.21     Until the late 1970s, development activities in the forestry sector
were limited primarily to plantation establishment by the FD using government
funds. Since 1977, however, several new forestry development projects have
been started which contain a broader scope. Most of them have been externally
financed.
The Forest Resource Development Project (FRDP--Credit 1317-CE)
1.22     IDA has financed tree planting components under three agricultural
and integrated rural development projects in Sri Lanka. However, the most
comprehensive forestry project is the Forest Resources Development Project,
conceived after a forestry sector review conducted by IDA in 1979. The FRDP,
which became effective in 1983, was designed to address the main problems
identified in the sector review, particularly the nonavailability of basic
data and the lack of trained staff which limited the scope of forest
management activities. The project's objectives were to formulate a master
plan and a five-year investment program for the forestry sector; strengthen
forestry education and training; establish 8,000 ha of industrial plantations;
and introduce silvicultural treatment for over 25,000 ha of established
plantations. The project cost was estimated at US$15 million, US$9 million of
which was provided by IDA.
1.23     The FRDP has achieved most of its key objectives.  It has prepared a
Forestry Master Plan for the sector (para. 1.28-1.33), a Five-Year Investment
Program, and management plans for the natural forests in the Wet Zone. It
also has generated information for managing forest plantations, started
scientific thinning and felling programs, and stepped up forest education and
training. Furthermore, it has generated information and experience on
successful techniques for preparing iand and establishing and maintaining
plantations on difficult sites of the Dry Zone. The project is scheduled to
close on December 31, 1989.
Other Proiects
1.24     The Community Forestry Project, financed by ADB, was designed to
establish block fuelwood plantations, raise fuelwood on farmers' woodlots, and
establish village community woodlots for demonstration purposes. The project
has established about 5,000 ha of block fuelwood plantations and 450 ha of
farmers' woodlots. In addition, ADB recently fielded an identification



mission to formulate a social/community forestry project, as a follow-up to
its ongoing Community Forestry Project.
1.25     USAID has provided financing for the forestry sector in at least four
ways: (a) by establishing 9,700 ha of plantations for land and water
conservation in the Upper Mahaveli Catchment Area (1980-67); (b) by
establishing 14,150 ha of fuelvood plantations within and adjacent to the
Mahaweli development area (1980-87); (c) by developing national forestry
extension services; and (d) by supporting forestry research and the
establishment of the Forestry Institute in Nuwara Eliya.
1.26     Other development activities have included plantations under the
Integrated Rural Development Project, financed with assistance from IDA, the
Netherlands, Finland, Norway, and Sweden.
1.27     Recently the Government and ODA signed an agreement to implement a
five-year forestry project. The project is designed to establish about
4,000 ha of pine plantations, undertake inventories, and prepare and implement
management plans in the upper watersheds of the Mahaweli River Basin. The
project also has a research component related to the establishment and
management of pine plantations. It also includes a pilot social forestry
component.
F. Medium and Long-Term Programs
Forestry Master Plan
1.28     Although a national forest policy has not been officially defined for
Sri Lanka, the objectives for the forest sector are spelled out in the Fores-
try Master Plan prepared under the Forest Resources Development Project (Cr.
1317-CE) by the Forestry Planning Unit (FPU) of ?ILIMD assisted by local and
foreign consultants be-ween 1983 and 1986. The main objective of the plan is
to make Sri Lanka self-sufficient in wood and wood products while maintaining
an ecological balance. The plan compares alternatives for future development
and recommends a development perspective calling for intensive management of
all productive forests, especially plantations.
1.29     The data base for the plan was developed through forest inventories,
an inventory of nonforest wood sources, market and demand studies, industry
surveys, and technical studies covering all aspects of forestry operations
from silviculture to logging. The draft plan has been reviewed widely and now
has been provisionally adopted by the MLIMD with the endorsement of the
Central Environment Authority of Sri Lanka.
1.30     In its present form, the Forestry Master Plan has five major objec-
tives:
(a) to create, maintain, and conserve forests in order to: preserve and
repair the environment, conserve soil and water resources, and
protect local flora and fauna for aesthetic, scientific, historical
and socioeconomic purposes;



(b) to protect and augment the supply of small wood for agricultural
requirements and fuelvood for domestic consumption;
(c) to maintain, as far as possible, a sustainable yield o' timber and
other forest products to meet the country's needs for general
housing, industrial, communication, and defense facilities;
(d) to exploit forest resources for maximum economic benefit without
sacrificing environmental, aesthetic, and scientific objectives; and
(e) to institute a program of social forestry which involves the local
community in developing private woodlots and forestry farms.
1.31     The long-term development strategy outlined in the plan emphasizes
the establishment of plantations on public and private lands in order to
expand the productive forest base. The plantation program recommended by the
plan includes the regeneration of J5,000 ha of existing mature and failed
plantations and the establishment of 45,000 ha of new pl&ntations by the State
and about 63,000 ha of new plantations by the private and commercial sectors
before the year 2000. It also targets 10,000 ha of plantations for
protection. The plan sets targets and development strategies for forest
management, forest protection, wood production, industrial development, and
organizational and manpower development. It also emphasizes the need for
forest research.
1.32     The proposed devel3pment program carries an estimated rate of return
on investment of 172 using financial prices and 26Z using economic prices.
Expansion of nonforest wood resources and intensive management of existing
plantations would be the most profitable operations. However, reasonable
returns also would be obtained from investment for new plantations and rehabi-
litation and expansion of forest industries as demand grows. The plan links
the protection of forest resources with the availability of wood and wood
products at reasonable prices.
1.33     The Forestry Master Plan represents a first sitisfactory and
comprehensive effort at formulating a development perspective for the sector.
When put into practice, it should go a long way towards institutionalizing
rational management of Sri Lanka's forest resources. As a first step in
implementing the plan's objectives, a five-year investment program for the
sector has been developed.
The Five-Year Investment Program
1.34     The Five-Year Investment Program has been developed as a follow-up to
the Forestry Master Plan. The cost of the program in 1986 prices was
estimated to be Rs 2,483 million (US$83 million), 40X of which would be in
foreign exchange. The program consists of:
(a) reforestation efforts whicri involve: departmental plantation on
26,100 ha, block fuelwood plantation on 8,100 ha, and private
plantation on 5,450 ha of farmers' woodlots;
(b) scientific management of 119,000 ha of natural forests;



(c)  strengthening of extension activities to promote nonforest planting
at a rate of 13,670 ha a year;
(d)  conservation of 127,000 ha of declared Man of Biosphere Reserves;
(e)  protection of forests from fire and illicit cutting of timber;
(f)  strengthening of education and training facilities; and
(g)  improving technology for wood harvesting and the construction of
roads and wood industries.
1.35     At the request of the Government, an FAO/CP team visited Sri Lanka in
February/March 1988 and prepared :he forestry project described in this report
to implement the Five-Year Investment Program. However, the investment
program actually included in the proposed project is smaller than the one
proposed by the Five-Year Investment Program in three ways. First, the
proposed project does not include private sector investment, especially in
forest industries. Second, community forestry programs are deliberately
excluded because of the ADB-supported community forestry project and an
Jnvestment commitment of about US$6 million For this purpose made by the
Government for the next three years. Third, some of the upcountry pine
plantation establishment and silvicultural treatment programs are excluded
since these operations are included in the ODA-supported forestry project for
1988 to 1994.
G. Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.36     IDA has been deeply involved in the sector.  As indicated before
(para. 1.28) it conducted a Forestry Sector Review and identified a
development course for the forestry sector of Sri Lanka. It initiated the
first phase of development by providing support through the Forest Resources
Development Project (Cr. 1317-CE) in 1983. Under this project, the Forestry
Master Plan was prepared, the Five-Year Investment Program formulated, the
education of professional foresters started, and initial steps taken to
introduce modern forest management practices.
1.37     As a result of the ongoing IDA-led support, Sri Lanka is now the
first country in South Asia with an up-to-date resource data base, a compre-
hensive sector development plan, and an integrated sector investment program.
IDA is in the best position to continue to lead the external support efforts
needed to translate these plans into action. Furthermore, Sri Lanka's experi-
ence has already been used to formulate forestry projects in Nepal,
Bangladesh, and Korea. Further IDA assistance to Sri Lanka would help in
guiding establishment of this development pattern elsewhere in the region.
1.38     Forestry Master Plan Projections show the wood balance for industrial
wood deteriorating after 1990, making Sri Lanka a net importer of industrial
wood and wood products. Unless a forestry development program in line with
the national needs is embarked upon soon, the country will remain a net
importer indefinitely. The supply of fuelwood, which is adequate at present,
also will fall short of demand after the year 2000 if plantation programs are
not begun now.



- 10 -
1.39     The ongoing ADB-supported Community Forestry Project and the proposed
ODA-supported upcountry pine plantations project are in line with the develop-
ment perspective identified by the Forestry Master Plan. However, the proj-
ects are location-specific and do not address all the development needs of the
sector. Therefore, the Forest Sector Development Project is proposed in order
to close the gaps and to integrate isolated efforts under one unified develop-
ment scheme. The Government also needs further financial and technical sup-
port to realize this development program. Therefore, continuation of IDA
support to the forestry sector in a follow-up project would help to channel
assistance from other donors and aid agencies into the sector more effec-
tively.
1.40     Finally, IDA's involvement would help to ensure that the development
undertaken is consistent with strict environmental protection principles.



- 11 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Pro'ect Area
2.1      The project will be implemented country-wide.  Sri Lanka has a land
area of about 6.5 million ha. Topographically, the country is characterized
by two divisions, a highland area in the interior which rises above 2,500 m,
and the lowland plains surrounding it. The climate is tropical and maritime.
The rainfall is characterized by the southwest monsoon during May/September
and the rortheast monsoon during October/January. Three major ecological
zones may be distingitished, based on rainfall patterns: the Wet Zone (over
2,500 mm/year), the Intermediate Zone (2,000-2,5000 mm/year), and the Dry Zone
(less than 2.000 mm/year). In the driest areas along the northwestern and
southeastern coasts, rainfall, which is received within a three-month period,
may be slightly less than 1,000 mm/year. Mean annual temperatures vary from
about 280 C in the lowlands to 180 C at an altitude of 2,000 m. At elevations
of over 2,000 m, night temperatures may drop to as low as 20 C.
2.2      Sri Lanka is well served by roads.  All project operation sites are
accessible throughout th-e year by motor transport. Similarly, electricity is
available at all locations for household as well as industrial uses. In most
of che project operation sites labor is available, except in certain locations
in the Dry Zone labor shortages are expected for large scale labor-intensive
operations where human settlements are sparsely distributed.
2.3      Maps for general use, Landsat, and Spot imageries taken at various
times during the last five years are available. Most of the island is covered
by aerial photos taken at a scale of 1/50,000 in 1981. Limited new aerial
photos are available, and the Survey Department has the capability of
obtaining new photos on request.
B. Proiect Obiectives and Description
2.4      The main objective of the project is to assist the Government to
improve the performance of the forestry sector in line with the economic,
social, and environmental requirements of Sri Lanka by implementing part of a
five-year time slice (1990-94) of the Forestry Master Plan. To attain this
objective, all plantations and selected natural forests, will be brought under
intensive management, the resource base will be expanded by establishing new
plantations, forestry education and technical training will be intensiried,
and the institutional base will be strengthened.
2.5      Current forestry programs, especially those formulated and imple-
mented with external financirg, have been taken into consideration in
designing the project.
C. Project Features
2.6      The project includes five main components:  (a) forest management;
(b) environmental management; (c) plantation establishment; (d) education and
training; and (e) institutional support. The project also provides for a
technical assistance program to support the institutions involved in



- 12 -
implementing the project. It contains financing for a civil works program to
establish inErastructure for office space and staff accommodations, and to
expand training and education facilities. Equipment and vehicles required for
project implementation also are provided for.
Forest Management
2.7      This component includes silvicultural treatment for about 60,000 ha
of established plantations and 40,000 ha of natural forests; and mapping,
inventory,  and preparation of management plans for about 35,000 ha of
plantations and 100,000 ha of natural forest in the Dry Zone. It also
includes mapping and an indicative inventory of about 500,000 ha of degraded
forests in the Dry Zone. The latter especially will generate valuavle
information to assist decision makers in the formulation of a balanced land-
use policy and programs in the Dry Zone, where forest lands have been
constantly subjected to conversion under several past development programs.
The base cost of the forest management component is US$2.5 million.
2.8      The FD will carry out silvicultural treatment on about 10,000 ha of
existing plantations each year, in accordance with the forest management
plans. The silvicultural treatment progran. financed under the project
consists of about 3,000 ha of precommercial thinnings and 7,000 ha of
commercial thinnings annually. The FD will be responsible for marking trees
for thinning and carrying out some of the precommercial fellings. STC will be
responsible for carrying out all commercial thinnings and final fellings.
2.9      About 40,000 ha of natural forests in the Wet Zone will be managed
under a 30-year selection felling cycle, as prescribed in the existing forest
management plans. The FD will allocate the felling areAs and trees, review
and approve logging plans, and supervlce the logging and extraction operations
executed by STC. The Department will pay special attention to ensure that STC
logging, roading and extraction operations are consistent with conservation
principles. At negotiations agreement was reached with the Government that by
January 1, 1992 all forestry operations will be undertaken according to forest
management plans (para. 7.1( ))
2.10     The FD will be assisted by an internationally recruited Forest
Management specialist (24 months) to prepare forest management plans, improve
growth and yield data, and train staff in forest management. An
internationally recruited Cartography specialist (12 months) will assist FD in
establishing a Cartography Unit and training staff. In addition, FD will
maintain a locally recruited cartography specialist for a duration of five
years for the preparation of forest maps.
2.11     The project will finance the cost of vehicles, labor used for
inventory, equipment, office furniture, technical assistance, and incremental
staff costs.
Environmental Management
2.12     This component was prepared in collaboration with the International
Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), a Switzerland-based international
non-governmental organization (NGO). Following the preappraisal of the



- 13 -
project in June 1989, IDA developed a program with IUCN to prepare the
Environmental Management Component cf the project. As a first step T.UCN
carried out a reconnaissance mission in Sri Lanka in line with the terms of
reference drawn up jointly with IDA and submitted a study proposal to IDA.
Following the review of the program, IDA obtained grant funding from the
Government of the Netherlands to finance the study. A three-person IUCN team
was fielded during the appraisal of the project, which collaborated closely
with the IDA appraisal mission, government agencies, and the local NGOs. IUCN
has completed and submitted its draft report to IDA for comments before
finalizing it. The scope, extent, key inputs, and estimated cost of the
component included in this report are based on information gathered during the
appraisal and that provided by the IUCN report.
2.13     The MLIMD will reorient and strengthen its existing Forest and
Environment Division.  Furthermore, the FD will establish an Environmental
Management Division within its headquarters. The division will be headed by a
Deputy Conservator of Forest. The division will, initially, develop
environmental guidelines and relevant procedures to be followed during the
preparation and implementation of all forestry programs. It will also be
responsible for enhancing the standard forest inventory of the .'D in order to
expand the scope of the existing resource data base and to generate
information to monitor the environmental impact of forestry operations. The
first operational task of the new division will be to carry out a
reconnaissance survey to identify the envir3nmentally critical forest areas
and locations. These selected areas later will be surveyed in detail to
determine their management objectives. Special forest management plans will
be prepared for those forests found to be important for the protection of the
environment and/or the biodiversity of the country. Commercial utilization or
any other disturbance of the habitat in some of these forests would be
severely restricted or completely banned. The Division will also initiate and
maintain research to enhance existing knowledge about the biodiversity of the
country and how it is affected by the activities of man. Finally, it will
assist and monitor programs for wildlife management within the forests managed
by the FD to complement the work of the DWLC. The project will finance
vehicles, equipment, and a technical assictance program consisting of 32
months of international and 40 months of local consultancies to assist the FD
in institutionalizing this new operation. The base cost of the environmental
management component is US$1.1 million.
Plantation Establishment and Maintenance
2.14     This component includes establishment and maintenance of 17,900 ha of
new plantations, and maintenance of 1,200 ha of young plantations over the
five-year project period. The base cost of this component ±s US$9.5 million.
The plantation activity will take place within the three major climatic zones
and will be implemented by the FD. Table 2.1 presents the phased plantation
establishment program.



- 14 -
Table 2.1: PLANTATION ESTABLISHMENT PROGRAM
Climatic zones             Unit   1990    1991    1992    1993    1994   Total
Dry Zone (manual)            ha    550      450     600      500       -   2,100
Dry Zone (mechanical)        ha      50     400   1,400   1,900   3,000   6,750
Dry Zone (mounding)          ha    300      450        -       -       -      750
Up Country (pine)            ha    100      100     100      100     100      500
Up Country (Eucalyptus)      ha    150      150     150      150     150      750
Wet Zone                     ha    700   1,050   1,400   1,850   2,050   7,050
TOTAL                       1,850   2,600   3,650   4,500   5.300  17,900
2.15     Dry Zone.  The preferred technology for plantation establishment in
this zone would be mechanized land preparation followed by manual planting and
a combination of manual anj mechanized weed control. In the first year of the
project mechanized land preparation will be carried out only in Monaragala
site using the equipment procured under the ongoing Forest Resources
Development Project. In all other sites only labor intensive plantation
establishment techniques will be employed. Starting from the second
implementation year, new equipment such as roller choppers, disc plows,
mounding plows, and ripper-mounders will be introduced. However, the
transition from the existing technology to the new technology would be gradual
in order to train staff and to develop a country-specific operation. Starting
from the fifth year of the project, all project plantations will be
established on sites prepared by machines. Adoption of this technology is
essential in order to increase organic matter in the poor dry zone sites and
conserve moisture. Under the proposed technology existing grass and shrubs
will be chopped on site by roller choppers and sites will be plowed by heavy
disc plows drawn by crawler tractors hired from local contractors. This
operation will be folllowed by establishing mounds along the contour. Mounders
will be drawn by crawler tractors. On steeper slopes and/or where hard-pans
exist, ripper-mounders will be used to increase soil depth. About one-third
of the planting sites selected are expected to fall in this category. Weeding
will be carried out from the first through third years by diskharrows pulled
by farm tractors between the mounds and by hand labor along the rows. All
plantations will be protected against fire by establishing clear-cultivated
external and internal fire breaks. In addition, during the fire season
special fire fighting crews and equipment will be employed.
2.16     Plantations will be established by using proven species such as teak
(Tectona grandis), Eucalyptus teriticornis, and indigenous hardwoods in
accordance with site conditions. It is estimated that teak will cover about
252, Eucalyptus 50Z, and the remaining 25Z will be indigenous species. For
environmental protection reasons only indigenous species will be planted along
the water courses and natural drainages.



- 15
2.17     Up Country.  Only labor intensive plantation establishment techniques
will be employed in the Up Country. This method has been proven successful in
establishing plantations here. Moreover, due to the relatively small size of
operations and high population density, labor will be available in all
seasons. New plantation, will be established on clear felled over-mature
plantation sites. Pines (Pinus caribaea. Pinus patula) and eucalyptus species
will be planted depending on the s'te conditions. No special site preparation
will be required to establish planting in this area. Seedlings will be
planted in the pits opened by spades and will be weeded from the first through
third years using hoes and machetes.
2.18     Wet Zone.  All plantation establishment activity will take place
within the existing natural forest. Degraded natural forest stands as well as
stands subject to periodic felling operations will be enriched by planting
indigenous Dipterocarpus spp. and mahogany (S. macrophylla). Large openings
with a heavy grass cover and border areas adjacent to human habitation will be
planted by pines and to a lesser extent by Alstonia spp. The labor intensive
technology developed by the .'D, which is satisfactory, would be employed.
Lines one meter wide and five meters apart will be opened by labor, and
seedlings will be planted at 2.5 meter intervals. Lines will be tended by
clearing competing vegetation from year one through year three.
2.19     Seedling Production.  The project would produce about 22 million
seedlings to supply planting stock for establishing plantations and
maintaining them. Three new nurseries in Ampara, Anuradhapura, and Galle will
be established. Nursery operations will be improved by introducing smaller
and black colored polypots, amproving water management, establishing shades,
and improving scheduling of nursery operations.
2.20     Plantation Trials.  The existing species and proveriances trials at
two locations, Dry Zone and Up Country, will be maintained. In addition, two
new similar trials will be established--one in the north central part of the
Dry Zone and the other in the Wet Zone. Scheduled measurements and
observations will be carried out by the FD staff.
2.21     The FD will be assisted by two internationally recruited
Silviculturists. One (for 36 months) will be responsible for introducing and
establishing mechanized plantation establishment technology in the Dry Zone
and the other (for 24 months) will be responsible for overseeing all
silvicultural operations in the Up Country and the Wet Zone. Both
silviculturists will also be responsible for improving plantation maintenance
and seedling production. A short-term consultant (6 months) will develop site
assessment tec.iniques and train FD staff to improve the match of site and
species.
2.22     The project will finance the cost of plantation labor, civil works,
equipment and materials, technical assistance, site preparation contracts, and
incremental staff salaries.
Education and Training
2.23     This component includes:  (a) education of professional foresters:
(b) training of FD staff; and (c) training of STC staff. The base cost of the
component is US$4.6 million.



- 16 _
2.24     Education of Professional Foresters.  The project will extend IDA's
support for educating professional foresters at the USJ.  The Forestry MSc
course started under the ongoing IDA-assisted project will continue admitting
15 students a year, aa this number is consistent with the increase in staff
required for the PD. Teaching facilities at the university will be expanded
through construction of an annex building to house a library, a computer room
and staff offices, a field station and an arboretum to facilitate practical
training. In addition, vehicles, equipment, furniture, computers, books and
journals for new facilities will be financed by the project. Six graduates
will be selected to receive two-year scholarships for PhD education at
appropriate universities overseas in order to strengthen the faculty of the
forestry course. The project also will finance the cost of visiting
international and local lecturers (40 and 120 months, respectively) and 40
months of study tours. In the third year of the project, the university,
under the supervision of the University Grant Commission, will review the
status of the Forestry MSc course to attain better integration of professional
forestry education with the national university system. At negotiations
agreement was reached that USJ will carry out a study to assess the future
direction of the Forestry MSc course and discuss it with IDA not later than
January 1. 1994 (para. 7.1 (b)).
2.25     TraininR of the FD Staff.  The Forestry School at Nuwara Eliya needs
to be expanded to accommodate the backlog of untrained foresters at the FD.
The project will finance a civil works program to construct a workshop, an
extension dormitory, an administrative building, staff quarters, a guest house
for visiting lecturers, and an auditorium to augment existing classroom space.
The cost of furniture, vehicles and equipment for laboratory, office, and
field training and technical assistance will be financed by the project. The
project also provides 120 months of overseas training for teaching staff and
144 months of technical assistance to hire international education and
training specialists. The expansion of the teaching and accommodation
facilities is expected to take two years. In the meantime, the FD is to
increase the annual number of its trainees from 25 to 50 Range Forest Officers
(RFOs), and from 50 to 100 Beat Forest Officers (BFOs). When class space and
accommodations are available (during field exercises of the students), in-
service training of the FD staff will be carried out at the Forestry School.
2.26     The teaching staff will be increased from 4 to 12.  One teacher will
strictly be responsible for training field staff on the job. In addition,
three regional workshops will be held each year by renting out commercial
facilities. The workshops will be designed for joint participation by the STC
and FD staff and will be financed by the project.
2.27     Training of STC Staff.  STC's training will be carried out on the
premises of the FD's Forestry Training School at Nuwara Elia. The training
program will be structu:ed to improve the performance of field officers,
sawmill and machine operators, sales and office support staff, and selected
contractors. Vehicles, equipment and furniture required to furnish the
training facility will be allocated to STC. Training staff will be provided
by STC and the technical assistance specialist hired to improve STC's field
operations will contribute to the training programs. STC will also receive a
24 manth fellowship for overseas training and a 10 month study tours.



- 17 -
Institutional Support
2.28     This component includes sutpport to:  (a) the FPU; (b) the FD; and
(c) the STC. The base C03t of the component is US$6.1 million.
2.29     Forestry Planning Unit will be strengthened to coordinate program
development and monitor its implementation. It also will review and revise
the Forestry Master Plan targets as new information becomes available. The
project provides for an internationally recruited Forest Economist for 12
months to assist FPU in program development, in updating the Forestry Master
Plan, and in preparing the next Five-Year Investment Program (1995-1999). For
this purpose, FPU will receive 24 months of local consultant services. In
addition, six months of local consultancies will be provided to develop a
monitoring system for FPU and 5 months of international consultancies will be
provided to carry out a mid-term review of the project. FPU will be allocated
48 months of fellowship to train staff in the field of Economics and Planning.
At negotiations agreement was reached that MLIMD will maintain the FPU to
coordinate project implementation (para. 7.1(c)).
2.30     The Forest Department.  The headquarters of the FD will be expanded
and reorganized in line with the functions of the department (para. 4.5-4.6).
Staff efficiency wi . be increased by providing a computer-based information
system. The project will provide 6 months of internationally recruited
expertise and 12 months of local expertise to develop software and train the
FD staff for this purpose.
2.31     All field operations within the program for FD will be implemented
through 4ts territorial organization. Additional technical and supervisory
staff, vehicles and equipment will be allocated to each forest division
according to the needs of its work program.
2.32     The existing territorial forest divisions will be increased from 15
to 18 by creating three additional forest divisions within the area currently
covered by the Up Country, Matale, and Western divisions. The project will
provide houses for 26 range officers and 29 beat officers in locations where
forest management and plantation establishment activities are intensive. The
project will replace 31 old, unservicable vehicles used by the field staff and
will provide an additional 50 new vehicles and motorcycles. The project also
will finance part of the cost of the incremet .al staff, office and field
equipment and office furniture for the new buildings.
2.33     The State Timber Corporation is in the process of upgrading its
accounting system. Under the project STC will computerize its new accounting
system and expand it by developing management information systems. The
project will provide computer hardware and software for this purpose. At
negotiations agreement was reached that by January 1, 1990 STC wil establish
separate profit centers for its: (a) logging; (b) sawmilling; (c) wood
treatment; and (d) furniture manufacturing operations (para. 7.1(d)). Under
the ongoing IDA project (Cr. 1692-CE) the Government is presently carrying out
an extensive review of its manufacturing enterprises to explore the
possibility for privatization industrial operations including those of the
STC. At negotiations agreemeait was reached that STC will undertake a more
detailed. study to explore possibilities for privatization of its sawmilling



- 18 -
operations and assess the efficiency of its management, reporting its findings
to IDA by December 31, 1990 (para. 7.1(e)).
D. Technical Assistance and Fellowships
2.34     Implementation of the project will require a large technical
assistance and fellowship component because of its broad scope and the current
shortage of trained staff in the sector. The total input of specialists
recruited from international sources will *imount to 347 months, and locally
recruited specialists, 138 months. The fellowship program consists of 465
months of overseas training and 98 =onths of study tours.  The cost of both is
estimated to be US$6.2 million, about 20S of the cost of the project.
However, US$3.1 million of this will be included in the training and education
component, which would generate benefits far beyond the five-year
implementation period of the project. The balance of US$3 I million would be
a modest input in relation to the anticipated modernization of the sector,
which will also generate long-term benefits. Appointment of the technical
assistance team will be a condition of effectiveness for the IDA Credit
(para. 7.2(a)).
2.35     FINNIDA would finance the cost of the investment program, excluding
civil works, for the Forest School in Nuwara Eliya and the investment cost of
the program for the FPU under a grant (US$2.8 million). UNDP agreed, subject
to approval of its management, to finance the foreign exchange cost of the
Environmental Management component (US$0.9 million) and 2 months of
international consultancy for the mid-term review of the project. UNDP will
also consider, in conjunction with tle Government, financing 57 months of
international consultancies to prov:de technical assistance in the field of
silviculture, road and logging engineering, and log grading. ODA agreed in
principle, subject to approval of it^ management, to finance with grants about
1,250 ha of the plantation program in the Up country and the technical
assistance it.puts for Forest Management, Silviculture (Up-country), mid-term
review, and Cartography, and to assume full responsibility for preparing all
forest maps. CIDA expressed interest in continuing the dialogue with the
Government to finance with grants the technical assistance program for the
University- lqvel forestry education and the development of an information
system for FD and limited equipment inputs. Due to the lack of firm
commitment by potential donors except FINNIDA, the project is being processed
by including only FINNIDA as a cofinancier. The Government will conclude all
dialogues and will seek to reach firm agreements with the other potential
donors within six months of IDA's Board approval of the Credit. If such
agreements are reached IDA would consider, upon the request of the Government,
cancelling part of the IDA Credit corresponding to the respective category(s)
and/or component(s) picked up by these donors and revising disbursement
percentages as required.
E. Implementation Schedule
2.36     The project operations are expected to start by November 1989.  This
will create a slight overlap (less than three months) with the ongoing Forest
Resources Development Project. However, It would provide continuity of IDA's
support, enable STC's involvement in the development process as early as
possible, and give the Government enough lead time to include in the budget
the investment programs included in the project. The proposed project is
expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.



- 19 -
III. COST ESTIMATE AND FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
A. Cost Estimates
3.1      The total project cost is estimated to be US$31.4 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$12.4 million, or 392 of the total. A summary
of project costs is presented in rable 3.1 by component and in Table 3.2 by
category.
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Local     Foreign       Total
----- (US$ million) -------
A.  Forest management               1.3          1.2         2.5
B.  Environmental management        0.2          0.8         1.1
C.  Education and training          1.2          3.4         4.6
D.  Institutional support           3.8          2.3         6.1
E.  Plantation establishment        6.6          2.9         9.5
Total Baseline Costs               13.2         10.6        23.8
Physical contingencies            0.7          0.3         1.0
Price contingencies               5.1          1.5         6.6
Total Project Costs                19.0         12.4        31.4
3.2      Base investment costs over the five-year project period are expected
t, be US$19.1 million and base incremental operating costs US$4.7 million.
Duties and taxes are estimated at US$2.1 million.
3.3      The cost inc'udes physical contingencies of 102 on the construction
and maintenance of buildings, plantation establishment activities performed by
contractors, allowances, materials, equipment maintenance, and office
operating expenses, and 5Z on the costs of equipment, labor, and vehicle
operation. Price contingencies are based on the following IDA inflation
projections: for local expenditures, 20Z in 1989, 15Z in 1990, 1OZ in 1991
and SZ thereafter; for foreign expenditures, 5.32 in 1989 and 1990 and 4.1Z
thereafter.



- 20 -
Table 3.2: PROJECT COST BY CATEGORY
(USS million)
Local         Foreign          Total
I.  Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                      1.21           0.21            1.42
B. Vehicles                         0.93           1.73           2.67
C. Equipment                        0.73           1.35           2.08
D. Technical Assistance             0.14           3.98            4.12
E. Fellowships                      -              1.26           1.26
F. Labor                            3.53           -              3.53
G. Contracts                        2.24           -              2.24
H. Materials                        0.65           1.09           1.74
I. Rent                            54.5
Total Investment Costs              9.42           9.64          19.06
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                         2.26           -              2.56
B. Allowances                       0.25           -              0.25
C. Vehicle Oper. & Maint.           0.83           0.83           1.67
D. Building Oper. & Maint.          0.15           -              0.15
E. Office Expense                   0.10           0.01a          0.14
F. Equipment                        0.18           0.08           0.26
Total Recurrent Costs               3.77           0.95           4.72
Total Baseline Costs                   13.19          10.59           23.78
Physical Contingencies                0.70           0.37           1.07
Price Contingencies                   5.10           1.42           6.52
Total Project Costs                    18.99          12.38          31.37
B.  Financing Plan
3.4      The proposed IDA allocation for the project is SDR 15.5 (US$19.9 mil-
lion equivalent). FINNIDA will provide US$2.8 million as a grant under a
separate agreement signed between the Government of Finland and the Government
(para. 7.2(a)). The balance of US$8.7 million will be financed by the
Government.  If the potential donors agree to finance part of the project cost
IDA would consider cancellation adjusting disbursement percentages accordingly
(para. 2.35). However, the Government's contribution would be maintained
around 20? of the total project cost.



- 21 -
Table 3.3 TENTATIVE FINANCING PLAN
(USS million)
Financiers           Local      Foreign   Total        Z
IDA                 11.3          8.6     19.9         63
FINNIDA               0.2         2.6       2.8         9
Government            7.5         1.2       8.7        28
Total             19.0        12.4      31.A       100
3.5      The proposed credit of SDR 15.5 (US$19.9 million equivalent) will be
to Government under standard IDA terms with a 40 year maturity period.  The
credit will be passed on to the FPU, the FD, USJ, and the STC as budget
grants. FINNIDA funding will take the form of a grant to the Government and
co-financing arrangements satisfactory to IDA for the commitment of FINNIDA
financing will be a condition of effectiveness (para. 7.2(b)).



- 22 -
C. Procurement
Table 3.4: PROCUREMENT
(US$ million)
Procurement Category        ICB      LOB     Other La  N/A       Total Cost
1. Goods
Vehicles                2.94    -         -         0.17 lb      3.11
(2.48)                      (0.00)       (2.48)
Equipment               0.8     0.87      0.4       0.44 /b      2.51
(0.70)  (0.70)   (0.29)   (0.00)         (1.69)
Materials               -       1.30      0.96      -            2.26
(1.00)   (0.70)                 (1.70)
2.  Works
Civil Works             -       1.84      0.2       -            2.04
(1.38)   (0.15)    -            (1.53)
Site Preparation                3.58      -         -            3.58
Contracts                       (2.15)    -         -           (2.15)
Plantation/Forest       -       -         5.12      -            5.12
Management Labor                         (4.61)                 (4.61)
3.  Services
Technical               -       -         2.96      1.66 /b      4.62
Assistance                               (2.96)   (0.00)        (2.96)
Fellowships             -       -         1.07      0.52 lb      1.59
(1.07)   (0.00)       (1.07)
Salaries                -       -                   3.13         3.13
(1.56)       (1.56)
Allowances              -       -                   0.38         0.38
(0.19)       (0.19)
Operating  and                                      3.014        3.014
maintenance                                        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                   3.74    7.59    10.71       9.314       31.4
(3.18)  (5.23)   (9.78)   (1.75)        (19.9)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
/a "Other" includes shopping procedures, consultant contracts, and force
account.
/b Procurement under FINNIDA funding.



- 23 -
3.6      Goods.  Vehicles to be financed by IDA, totalling US$2.9 million, and
site preparation equipment, totalling about US$2.2 million, will be grouped
into appropriate bidding packages and procured by ICB in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Other equipment and materials totalling US$2.2 million are not
suitable for ICB because of their limited quantities and low unit cost. They
will be procured under local competitive bidding. However, contracts for
equipment, furniture, materials and plantation inputs estimated to cost less
than US$30,000 each may be procured after quotations are solicited from at
least three independent suppliers, provided that the aggregate expenditure for
such items does nct exceed US$1.2 million. Specialized items in small value
such as books and seed, amounting to about US$0.2 million, may be procured
using direct contracting from qualified suppliers. In bid evaluations under
ICB, eligible domestic manufacturers will receive a preference of 15? or the
import duty, whichever is lower.   The remaining vehicles and equipment,
totaling US$0.6 million, will be financed by FINNIDA and procured according to
its own guidelines.
3.7      Works.  Contracts for civil works and plantation site preparation
totalling US$5.6 million will be awarded following locally-advertised
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA.  In areas where works are
small and dispersed, or whe,e no contractors can be found, construction will
be done by force account. Such works will be limited to an aggregate of
US$0.2 million.
3.8      Labor for plantation and forest management activities totalling
US$5.1 million also will be procured by force account or using farmers under
contract. However, the FD will make contractual arrangements (US$3.6 million)
with tractor owners for site preparation. Wherever appropriate, the FD will
utilize "Chena"l/ agreements with local farmers who are landless. Under the
chena agreements, farmers inter-crop plantation sites for about two years and
thereby provide effective weed Rnd fire control for the plantations. The
Chena agreements will apply for plots of three ha or less and will specify the
mutual responsibilities of farmer and FD, the criteria ior making financial
awards, and the amount and timing of payments.
3.9      Services.  The technical assistance and the fellowship components
will be financed by IDA and FINNIDA. Procurement under IDA financing (US$2.8
million) will be made in accordance with IDA Guidelines for the Use of
Consultar,ts. Procurement under FINNIDA funding (US$2.2 million) will be made
in line with FINNIDA's procurement guidelines, which will be specified in the
FINNIDA Grant Agreement.
3.10     General.  For all ICB items (162 of IDA credit) and each contract
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, prior review by IDA
would be required. The remaining contracts would be subject to selective post
1/  Chena is a cooperative arrangement between the Government and rural
landless farmers, where the Government allocates forest land to the
farmer to grow crops, and in return the farmer protects the plantation
and provides weeding.



- 24 -
review by IDA. The estimated number of contracts, which will require IDA's
prior review, would be about 6 per annum for the first three years of the
project.
D. Disbursements
3.11     The performance of the Government in implementing the ongoing Forest
Resources Development Project indicate that the procurement of vehicles,
equipment, civil works and services of ocal consultants could be completed in
time to meet SAR targets. Disbursements under the ongoing project have been
below the SAR estimates, but this has been mainly due to the interruption of
rlantation activities by the civil disturbances that have occured since 1985.
The closing date for the project is December 31, 1995.
3.12     Disbursement of IDA funds would be made on the following basis:
(a)  752 of local expenditures for building construction;
(b)  601 of local expenditures for plantation site preparation contracts;
(c)  100Z of local expenditures for incremental staff salaries and
allowances until January 31, 1991, 701 until January 31, 1992, 50Z
until January 31, 1994, and 202 thereafter;
(d)  902 of local expenditures for plantation and forest management labor;
(e)  1002 of foreign expenditures; 100? of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 70? of local expenditures for other items procured locally
for vehicles, equipment, and materials including plantation inputs;
and
(f) 100? of expenditures for consultant services and training.
3.13     Disbursements will be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
(SOE) for plantation labor, incremental staff salaries and allowances, and
expenditures on contracts valued at less than US$100,000 equivalent for
buildings and construction, plantation works under contract, equipment and
materials. All other disbursements will be made against full documentation.
3.14     In order to facilitate disbursements, a Special Account will be
established at a bank acceptable to IDA in the amount of US$0.8 million
equivalent. This represents IDA's share of four months of estimated average
expenditure during the project disbursement period, to cover the categories
funded by IDA. Funds from this account will be withdrawn in proportion to the
percentage being financed. The MLIMD will be responsible for administering
withdrawals from the credit and for operating the Special Account. The funds
will be maintained in the Special Account in US dollars and will be converted
to other currencies only to make payment for eligible expenditures. No
withdrawals will be made for the Special Account to pre-finance anticipated
expenditures.



- 25 -
E. Accounts and Audits
3.15     The financing of FPU, FD, USJ, and STC will be made through budgetary
grants. The annual budgetary funds allocated to these organizations will be
consolidated within the budget of MLIMD under separate headings. MLIMD,
through FPU, will reallocate funds to the appropriate organizations in
accordance with their approved budgets. FPU therefore will maintain a
consolidated account of the project. Each implementing agency will maintain
separate project accounts in a readily identifiable form to facilitate
expeditious accounting. For identification and monitoring purposes.
development expenditures should be categorized as they are in the appraisal
report. At negotiations agreement was reached with the Government that
separate project accounts, including separate records for items disbursed on
statements of expenditures, would be maintained by the implementing agencies,
and consolidated accounts would be maintained by MLIMD (para. 7.1(f)). All
records of expenditures, deliveries, and payments should be retained until one
year after IDA receives the Audit Report for the fiscal year in which the last
disbursement was made and the rccords should be made available for inspection
by IDA.
3.16     In keeping with current practices, project accounts will be audited
by the Auditor General of Sri Lanka or by independent external auditors
acceptable to IDA. This arrangement has been found to be satisfactory to IDA.
At negotiations, agreement was reached that MLIMD will submit certified copies
of annual audit renorts including a separate opinion on withdrawals made on
the basis of Statements of Expenditure to IDA within nine months after the end
of each fiscal year (para. 7.1(g)).



- 26 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Proiect Organization
The Ministry of Lands, Irrigation and Mahaweli Development
4.1      The MLIMD will be responsible for overall implementation of the
project. The existing Interministerial Forestry Master Plan Steering
Committee, under the chairmanship of the Secretary of the MLIMD, will be
maintained with participation of the chief executives of FD, STC, the Land
Commission, the DWLC, representatives of USJ, CPC, NPC, the Ministry of
Agriculture, the Mahaweli Developmient Authority, and other participants which
the Government may wish to include.  The Steering Committee would hold two
annual meetings. FPU would be the secretariat of the Committee. At
negotiations agreement was reached that the Interministerial Forestry Master
Plan Steering Committee will be maintained (para. 7.1(h)).
4.2      All funds under the Government's budget provision will be channeled
to the executing agencies through the b<:get of the MLIMD. The existing FPU
within the MLIMD will administer the project budget, consolidate project
accounts, and consolidate the applications of implementing agencies for
disbursement of IDA funds. The FPU, the FD, the STC, and the USJ will share
the execution responsibility of the project in accordance with their
respective components as detailed in the following paragraphs.
Forestry Planning Unit
4.3      The FPU of the MLIMD would be maintained throughout the project
period. FPU would be headed by the Director of Planning, who would be
supported by a Deputy Director in charge of planning and two Assistant
Directors responsible for Program Development and Monitoring, and Data
Management. The Director of FPU would be responsible for monitoring the
progress of the project through project coordinators established in FD, STC
and USJ. Appointment of project coordinators will be a condition of
effectiveness for the IDA credit (para. 7.2(c)).
4.4      The FPU would review the annual program of the forestry sector,
monitor its implementation. and coordinate the activities of FD and STC. In
addition, FPU would monitor annual programs implemented under several projects
financed by different dcaors.  FPU would review new project proposals,
especially those proposed under donor assistance, in order to ensure their
consistency with the long-term development perspective given in the Forestry
Master Plan. Additionally, FPU would receive resource, production, and other
key data from the FD and STC and would periodically collect other relevant
information from other pertinent departments and the private sector to update
the existing data base. FPU would be responsible for updating the Forestry
Master Plan and preparing a follow-up Five-Year Investment Program for the
Forestry Sector in the forth year of the project.
Tho Forest Department
4.5      The Conservator of Forest would have primary re_ponsibility for
implementing the forestry component of the project. The two existing



- 27 -
Additional Conservators would share the responsibility of managing the
Department under the supervision of the Conservator of Forests. FD's
headquarters will be reorganized on the basis of key functions; a chart of the
proposed reorganization is given in Chart 1. The number of forest divisions
will be increased from 15 to 18. The three new divisions will be established
in the Upcountry, vhere about 502 of the Department's work is expected to take
place over the next five years. Planning, Forest Management, Silviculture,
Education and Extension, Research, and the new Environmental Management
Divisions would report to the Additional Conservator in charge of operations.
The Finance, Personnel and Protection and Law Divisions would report to the
Additional Conservator in charge of administration. All divisions would be
headed by a Deputy Conservator of Forest. At negotiations agreement was
reached that by January 1, 1990 the Fr will reorganize its headquarters and
expand the number of divisions according to a plan acceptable to IDA.
(para. 7.1(i)).
4.6      The Planning Division will be responsible for preparing the consoli-
dated annual program of the FD and for monitoring its implementation. A new
Forest Management Division will be formed from the existing Working Plans
Unit. The Division will have three desk officers responsible for: (a) forest
inventory and working plans; (b) data processing; and (c) cartography. This
division will prepare forest management plans and annual thinning and felling
programs and supervise their implementation. The Silviculture Division will
be responsible for establishing nurseries, producing seedlings, and
establishing and maintaining plantations. The Education and Extension
Division will be responsible for developing annual programs for community
forestry operations and for promoting tree planting through public relations,
and the production of relevant publications. It also will handle manpower
development and supervise the Forestry School in Nuwara Eliya.  The Division
of "Special Projects' will be abolisned and all development projects will be
integrated as a consolidated program of FD, regardless of their source of
financing. A new division would be established to implement the environmental
management program and to plan and oversee the development of parks, man and
biosphere reserves, and other protected forests. At negotiations agreement
was reached that by January 1, 1990 the FD will establish and maintain an
Environmental Management Division with responsibilities described in this
report (para. 7.1(j)).
4.7      Annual programs would be implemented by the territorial organization
of the FD. The DFOs would have the responsibility for program implementation
within their respective divisions. They would be assisted by additional
professional and technical staff in the divisional headquarters. DFOs would
allocate the annual program by assigning physical targets to each Range. RFOs
would have final responsibility for making sure targets are attained.
State Timber Corporation
4.P      The structure of STC will remain as is.  However, its accounting and
information systems will be computerized and legging operations, sawmills,
wood treatment plants, dnd furniture factory will be grouped as four separate
profit centers.



-28-
STC and FD Cooperation
4.9      STC's Logging Manager and FD's Assistant Conservator of Forest in
charge of the Forest Management Division would maintain close cooperation. As
new management plans were completed, FD would allocate a five-year felling/
treatment area for each group of forests under one or several management plans
to STC. Each year FD would update the five-year felling/treatment area
allocations. STC would inspect the allocated areas and develop a utilization
program. This program would be discussed with FD and implemented by STC
after FD's approval. FD would supervise STC operations to ensure their
consistency with the agreed program.
4.10     FD would be responsible for marking all the areas to be felled by
STC.   Prior to marking, FD would carry out an inventory check to verify the
management plan prescription. If any discrepancy is found, correction wotld
be made in accordance with the standard silvicultural prescriptions.
Following the completion of STC operations FD would carry out a post-logging
inventory to update the resource data base. Both pre-logging and post-logging
records would be reported by7 nn to the Forest Management Division in Colombo.
STC would also collect and report production data to its headquarters.
Information from these two separate sources would be made available to both FD
and STC to verify field reports and to update the data base for resources,
production, stocks, etc. This would provide a basis for control and
monitoring. There would be a formal data exchange among FD, STC and the FPU's
data banks.
University of Sri Jayawardenepura
4.11     The Forestry Course Director would be responsible for implementing
the professional training component under the project. He would be Project
Coordinator for this activity and a member of the Project Coordinating
Committee. For better coordination within the University and between the
higher university and education authorities and the project, the existing
University Coordinating Committee will be maintained. Its chairman would be
the chairman of the University Grants Commission cum Secretary of the Ministry
of Higher Education, and the committee would include the Vice Chancellor, the
Dean of the Faculty of Applied Sciences, the head of the Department of Botany,
and the Forestry Course Director. The committee would help to solve potential
conflicts between the project objectives and those of the education
authorities and improve the decision-making process as well as provide a forum
for review and discussion of im,plementation of the professional foresters
training component. At negotiations agreement was reached that USJ will
maintain the existing University Coordinating Committee (para. 7.1(k)).
B. Monitoring. Evaluation and Reporting
4.12     As indicated (para. 2.39), the FPU will be responsible for overall
monitoring of the project. Based on progress reports submitted by the project
coordinators of FD, STC, and USJ twice a year, the Forestry Planning Unit
will prepare consolidated semi-annual and e~nnual progress reports on the
project for the government. A copy of the report will be forwarded to IDA.
4.13     The FD will collect financial data related to the cost of relevant
forestry operations such as seedling production, areas planted and maintained,



- 29 -
data on the performance of plantations, the location and type of silvicultural
treatments, and selective and final fellings.   Plantation areas will be
surveyed a year before the activity begins, and drawings at 1/10,000 scale
will be prepared and plotted on standard forest maps. If standard forest maps
are not available, sketch maps at the same scale will be prepared with
distinct reference points. This information will be conveyed to the National
Land Commissioner to obtain fermal land allocations for plantation
establishment. At negotiations agreement was reached that all new plantations
will be established on lands formally allocated for forestry purposes by the
Borrower through its appropriate agencies (para. 7.1(1)). When plantation
operations begin, a plantation registry will be opened detailing the time,
material inputs, and cost of each separate activity. When the establishment
of plantations is completed in the first year, the Range Forest Officier (RFO)
will inspect the area, ,iate the map, and register the vigor and survival
rate of plantations. This information will be endorsed by the DFO and
conveyed to headquarters to update the plantation register. Plantation
registers will be maintained until all plantations are surveyed and management
plans are prepared.
4.14     Range Forest Officers will reinventory the stands and record their
findings after each silvicultural treatment or final felling/clearing
operation is completed.  Their findings will be endorsed by the DFO and
forwarded to headquarters to update the plantation register. The same data
will be used to update the Forest Management Plans.
4.15     Natural forest stands will be enumerated by the RFO in charge
following felling operation. Enumeration would aim to establish the number,
species or species group, and diameter classes of the remaining stand. Trees
above 30 cm in diameter at DBH would be measured and recorded. The number of
smaller diameter trees and species distribution would be determined by
counting within the selected sample plots. DFO would endorse this information
and convey it to headquarters for updating the data base.
4.16     All nurseries will maintain a nursery register and record the timing
and cost of distinct activities. Registers will also include the number of
seedlings available in the nursery based on data generated through periodic
censuses.
4.17     All progress reports would be sent to the Planning Division of FD,
which would distribute information to relevant sections. Each section would
process operational data and report back to the Planning Section, which would
prepare the periodic report to be submitted to the Additional Conservator of
Forests, who would discuss the report with the Conservator of Forest for
action and information.
Mid-Term Review
4.18     A review team will be set up by the FPU to carry out a mid-term
review of the project in its third year of operation. The team will consist
of a Forest Management Specialist, a Silvi.ulturist, an Education/Training
Specialist, an Economist/Forest Planning Specialist, and an Ecologist. All of
the specialists will be recruited internationally except for the ecologist.
The review team will observe the project operations for about four weeks in
the field, then submit a report to the government. After review the



- 30 -
Government will forward a copy cf the report to IDA.  At negotiations
agreement was reached that the FPU will carry out a mid-term review of the
project in March 1992 and discuss the findings with IDA (pars. 7.1(m)).



- 31 -
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Yields and Production
5.1      Natural Forest.  The Forestry Master Plan identifies some 1.7 milliun
hectares of productive natural forest, of which 1.5 million hectares is in the
Dry Zone and the balance of 273,000 ha is located in the Wet Zone and
Upcountry. Under the project, 40,000 hectares of wet zone forest will be
brought under systematic management with the remainder of the Wet Zone and
Upcountry forest being protected for at least 30 years to allow for
regeneration and recovery. The annual yield from the managed forest will rise
to 22,500 m3 of saw logs and 7,250 m3 of smallwood by 1997.  At present there
are no management plans for the Dry Zone forest; the extent of forest
management with n the Dry Zone will be determined as a result of forest
inventories to be carried under the project (para. 2.7).
5.2      Existing Plantations.  Some 60,000 ha of existing plantations will be
subject to thinning, felling and -eplanting under the project. Output from
these existing plantations will rise to 120,000 m3 of saw logs and 120,000 m3
of smallwood by 1997.
5.3      New Plantations.  Under the project, a total of 10,875 ha of new
plantations and 7,050 ha of enrichment plantings will be undertaken.
Harvesting of these plantations will then take place over the next 48 years,
with small wood production commencing in 1997, saw log production in 2003, and
a peak output in 2019 of 350,1-0 m3 of saw logs and 117,000 m3 of smallwood.
Annual production is shown in Annex 4 Table 1. The total production over the
life of the project iS 3.9 million m3 of saw logs and 1.3 million m3 of
smallwood.
B. Marketing
5.4      Saw Logs.  The STC, as the monopoly supplier of saw logs from State
forests, is the major player in the sawlog market. Although it accounts for
only thirty percent of the total sawlog supply, this thirty percent consists
overwhelmingly of graded timber, with as much as sixty percent of the
remainder of the market being made up of inferior timbers, particularly
coconut and rubber wood. This gives STC a dominant position in the supply of
the preferred grades of sawlogs.
5.5      STC sawlog sales are at controlled prices that are changed
infrequently. The most recent price increase was June 1988, but this applied
to a few grades of timber only, with the last general price increase in 1985.
This control kept STC sawlog prices some fifty of sixty percent below free
market prices. The result of the price control is a reduction in potential
revenue for both the STC and the Government and windfall profits for timber
merchants or sawmillers who are able to purchase STC timber. The arguments
advanced for the controlled sawlog price is that of keeping the price of
timber low for housebuilders. Even if such an argument were valid, there is
no evidence that the individual housebuilder is the beneficiary of price
control. At negotiations agreement was reached with the Government that STC
will deregulate log sale prices and deregulation of STC's log sale prices in a
manner satisfactory to IDA will be a condition of effectiveness
(para. 7.2(d)).



- 32 -
5.6      Traditionally in Sri Lanka, the source of sawlogs has been the
natural forests. Over the recent past, the clear felling of forest in the Dry
Zone, particularly for the Mahaweli development, has supplied sawmills with
Satin, palu, halmilla, milla, panakka, ranai, and k.lon sawlogs.  The slowing
down of land settlement with its clear felling, together with the depletion of
dry zone forests has left the sawmilling industry short of raw material, with
most mills working at well below capacity. Rubber wood and coconut have been
substituted in part, but so far the plantations under the control of the
forest department have barely been exploited. The project will begin
selective extraction from existing plantations as well as planting to meet
future needs. At present, the demand for sawlogs is generated almost entirely
from the domestic market, particularly by the housebuilding sector. Due to
the low quality and poor finishing of sawn timbers and the ease with which
timber is sold to the domestic martet, there is virtually no Export sales of
timber. Indeed, Sri Lanka is a net importer of timber and wood products, to
the order of around twenty percent of total demand, by value, in 1987.
Imported items include plywood for the tea chest industry, railway sleepers,
transmission poles and sawn wood. Sixty percent of the domestic demand for
paper and paper products is also imported.
5.7      With sawn wood demand projected to grow by around 4 percent p.a. for
the foreseeable future, the demand for sawlogs should remain strong. The
Government is committed to a major housebuilding program that has attracted a
great deal of donor support and this should continue to drive demand. The
project will produce sawlogs frcm thinning of existing plantations plus the
management of natural forest, this production peaking at 142,000 m3 in 1997 to
meet 11 percent of the domestic demand of 1.25 million m3 of sawlogs. The new
plantations will not produce sawlogs until year thirteen of the project, that
is 2003, and then the volume will start at 1,600 m3;  this will increase to
20,000 m3 in 2010, to meet a scant one percent of total demand. A large
increase will commence in the year 2015 with an output from the plantations of
200,000 m3, but even this will only account for ten percent of the 2 million
m3 projected demand for sawlogs at this time.l/ In an environment in which
demand is projected to rise rapidly, no problem is foreseen in absorbing the
increased timber supply that will result from the project. In fact, the
present demand projections would indicate a continuing shortage of timber in
Sri Lanka. The project will go some way towards meeting this shortfall in
demand. However, it will not meet all of the shortfall, so some timber
imports are likely to remain necessary in the foreseeable future.
5.8      Fuelwood.  Fuelwood is the most important source of energy for the
majority of households in Sri Lanka, prcviding seventy percent of energy needs
for the country. Current consumption is estimated to be 13.5 million m per
annum. Most of this is used by domestic consumers, but around ten percent
being used by the industrial sector. It is expected that fuelwood will remain
the major source of energy in rural areas for the foreseeable future, although
within urban areas there will be a shift into other energy sources for
cooking. Overall, the demand for fuelwood is expected to rise slowly and
level off at around 15.5 million m3 a year from the year 2000. The project
1/ If Sri Lanka continues to establish new plantations beyond the project
period and manage established plantations effectively, it will
eventually become self-sufficient in wood and wood preducts.



- 33 -
will increase fuelwood production by 127,000 m3 by 1997 from thinnings from
existing plantations. This is not a significant figure in relation to demand
and should be absorbed easily within the domestic market. Production of
fuelvood from new plantations will reach 27,000 m3 in the year 2000, and
28.000 m3 in the year 2009; once again this level of output is not significant
relative to demand and should be absorbed easily, with little or no impact on
prices.
5.9      Saw Wood.  The production of sawn wood is carried out by more than
900 small mills in Sri Lanka.  Typically the private mills cut to order and do
not maintain stocks of sawn timber, this is largely due to the lack of
standardization in the building and furniture industries, the major end users
of timber.  As a result of this practice of sawing to order, most private
sawmills are located close to the users and not close to the resource.  STC
sawmills produce d standard product, maintain stocks of sawn timber, and are
located close to the forest resource. Prices of sawn timber, including timber
produced by STC, appear to be largely market determined, unlike the pricing of
sawlogs. Overall, the technical standards of sawmills are low; most are
equipped with a single blade circular saw. Some of the mills located in
Colombo are equipped with ban saws and edgers.  Around 65 percent of the
sawmills operate less than 200 shifts a year with a short iog supply,
patticularly in the wet season, being cited as the limiting factor in capacity
utilization.
5.10     STC mills utilize around thirty percent of the logs they produce. The
remainder are sold to the private sector.  With only arolnd six percent of the
market for sawn timber, STC is not the major plaver in the sawn timber market
that it is in the sawlog market, and it is not able to influence sawn timber
prices. The demand for sawn timber is closely correlated with building
activity, as the construction trades take some sixty five percent of total
output. A further 25 percent is taken by the woodworking industry, part of
which is also producing builders' woodwork. The estimated demand for sawn
timbez in 1991 is 481,000 m3.
5.11     Pulpwood.  The present installed capacity of the paper and
paperboards industry is 37,500 tons, with the National Paper corporation
running two mills--one in Valaichchenai and the other at Embilipitiya. The
two mills were originally set up to utilize rice straw but, as hybrid short
stem varieties of rice have replaced the traditional long stem varieties, the
supply of straw has fallen. The mills are now able to pulp wood and the
Embilipitiya mill is purchasing pulpwood from STC. This pulpwood has
consisted of pine thinnings which would otherwise only be suitable for
fuelwood, and eucalpytus, the latter being potential sawlogs. The forecast
demand for paper and paper products is for rapid growth, with a more than
doubling of the demand by the year 2000. Domestic pulp production could
replace some 20,000 tons of imported pulp at an estimated finished pulp cost
of Rs 15,000 per ton. Presently, the mill pays STC Rs 500/i3 stacked at the
roadside; this gives a stumpage of Rs 200-300/i3. STC should have no problem4
increasing its output of pulpwood, mainly from pine thinnings, to 20,000 tons
by 1997, and the mill has shown every indication of wanting to increase its
supply from this source.



- 34 _
5.12     Panel Products.  The wood-based panels industry is dominated by the
Ceylon Plywood Corporation (CPC) whose production in turn is dominated by the
need to produce tea chests. Small amounts of sa-wn wood are also produced as
is chipboard. The CPC has two mills, with a total rated capacity of 34,000 m3
annually.  However, 1. operates at only fifty percent cf rated capacity due to
the shortage of peeler logs. In part, this has been the result of the removal
of the original concession given to CPC to log aieas at Sinharaja. The other
concession held by CPC at Kanneliya is believed to be largely depleted and
experiencing a falling output. The demand for plywood is not expected to grow
strongly since it is determined by the demand for tea chest, and no strong
growth is seen in tea markets. At present the demand for plywood is about
29,000 m3 a year. With a limited supply of peeler logs it would appear that
an increasing part of this demand will need to be met by imports. Meanwhile,
STC should have no problem disposing of all the peeler logs it can produce.
5.13     Poles and Posts.  STC currently supplies some 35,000 transmission
poles for low voltage overhead lines to the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB).
The demand is largely a function of the pace of rural electrification, as
within urban areas lines are buried. The Board demands poles that meet
international standards for strength and quality, which limits the ability of
STC to meet the total demand and thi shortfall is met by imports. A less
rigorous requirement would allow STC to meet more of the demand from its
eucalyptus plantings.  In addition to transmission poles, STC also supplies
some 500,000 other poles and fencing posts a year.  There appears to be a
ready market for these types of timber, with demand estimated to increase by
around 3 percent a year.
5.14,    STC is producing around 150,000 railway sleepers a year for the Sri
Lankan railways. The railway estimates that some 500,000 sleepers need
immediate replacement and, on top of the supply from STC they are also
importing sleepers. Potentially, there is high demand and the opportunity for
STC to increase production. However, the railways have not paid for the
sleepers delivered for several years now. This is clearly not a situation
that should be sustained, with one parastatal effectively subsidi.-ing the
other. If the payment question can be resolved, STC is capable of greatly
increasing sleeper production, substituting for imports. If it cannot be
resolved, there is no valid commercial reason for STC to continue its
production of railway sleepers.
C. Prices and Revenues
5.15     The present controlled price of sawlogs introduces a series of
distortions within the market. The most obvious of these is that sawlog
prices are too low, and it can be safely predicted that if there is a move to
let the market determine prices there will be an increase of the order of some
fifty to sixty percent. What is less predictable is the price changes that
may occur between the different species and grades of timber. There is no
reason to think the relative prices are correctly set at present; indeed there
is some evidence that the luxury and super luxury grades of timber are the
ones that are most underpriced. Therefore, there will be both an overall
increase in prices and a change in relative prices and this should have some
marked impact on demand. There should be substitution away from the top
grades of timber and into the lesser grades and also some substitution away



- 35 -
from solid timber and into wood-based panels. As Sri Lankan teak plantations
mature, the use of local teak in domestically produced furniture may cease as
the timber finds more profitable export markets; this would give the best
financial return to STC and the best economic return to the country. There is
no reason why this shift should harm the furniture industry, which will be
able to substitute other timbers for teak. The present controlled price of
sawlogs leads to a lavish use of a scarce resource; this is undesirable on
both economic and environmental grounds. For the super luxury grades of
timber, a free market price will probably mean a top price of Rs 14,000 ml for
logs over 45 cm, Class I timbers will range from Rs 4,200 m3 to Rs 4,350 m3,
and Class II timbers will be around Rs 3,000. Given the strong and rising
demand for timber in Sri Lanka, the higher price is not expected to curtail
demand to a point where the market is unable to absorb the output of the
project. Even in the unlikely event that demand would fali, much of the
timber to be produced, from hardwoods to pines, would find ready export
markets.
5.16     Under the controlled pricing in use at present, the value of output
due to the project is shown in the rows darked 'Revenues - current prices" in
Annex 4, Table 1. The rows marked "Revenues market prices" are the estimated
revenue when sawlogs are sold at market prices.
5.17     Revenues fluctuate over the life of the project, reflecting the early
output from the management of existing plantations, followed by the different
stages at which industrial timber is produced from the diversified plantings
of the new plantations. There is an early peak in revenue in 1997 and then
other peaks in 2002, in 2024, and again towards the end of the plantation
cycle when the teak is felled. There are also periods when the plantations
generate no revenue. Over the entire life of the project, assuming that a
system of market pricing for sawlogs is implemented, total revenue would be Rs
14,000 million



- 36 -
VI. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Prolect Benefits
6.1      The project will have a broad impact across the spectrum of forest
activities in Sri Lanka. Specifically it will:
(a) Increase the capability of the FD as a resource management agency by
improving and expanding training and education of staff at both the
technical and postgraduate level; by providing modern forestry
management tools in the form of a computerized HIS; and by providing
assistance with institutional restructuring and development.
(b) Improve the ability of the FD to manage the forests in an
ecologically sound way by assisting in the setting up of an
ecological management unit within the department with the necessary
equipment and training to carry out the task.
(c) Increase the production, availability, and dependability of timber as
a raw material through improved management of existing plantations
and natural forest to enhance yield and output, and a program of
establishment and planting of new plantations to meat future needs.
(d) increase the efficiency and productivity of the wood processing
sector through institutional support to both the FD and the STC
specific.lly aimed at increasing their ability to plan and manage
timber output and allocation in the longer term.
(e) Create employment, particularly in the rural sector.
B. Economic Analysis
Economic Analysis
6.2      The economic rate of return (ERR) has been estimated as follows:
Component                  ERRZ
Forestry Management        45
New Plantations            13
Total Project            28
Net Present Value (at 12Z) Rs 597 million
(constant 1988 prices)
Cost and benefit streams are shown in Annex 4, Table 2. The main
assumptions made are summarized below.
6.3      Proiect Benefits.  These include the following:
(a) The output of sawlogs and small wood from the new plantations to be
established under the project; and



- 37 -
(b) The output from existing plantations and natural forests that will
result from management and silvicultural treatment to be carried out
under the project. For the calculation of benefits it has been
assumed that without the project, the management and silvicultural
treatment would commence five years later than with the project and
thus benefits will be delayed by 5 years.
6.4      The following output price assumptions have been made:
(a) Logs, which are presently sold by STC at a below market-controlled
price, were adjusted upwards by 30Z to arrive at a sawlog price from
which the felling and transport costs (adjusted by 0.75 SCF) was
deducted; and
(b) The economic stumpage value of smallwood (used for pulpwood, poles
and fuelwood) is arrived at by deducting the felling and transport
cost (adjusted by 0.75 SCF) from market prices.
6.5      In the absence of reliable price trend projections for the future,
and based on past price movements, no changes in real prices will take
place throughout the lifetime of project investments.
6.6      Project Costs included inter alia institutional support, training
and education, as well as the cost of technical assistance. Recurrent
costs throughout the economic lifetime of each component/investment were
also included. Taxes and other transfer payments were excluded. The
economic price of tradeable inputs was derived from their border price; the
economic price of other inputs was derived from their financial price,
adjusted by using a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.75. In the case
of unskilled rural labor, a conversion factor of 0.65 was used to convert
from financial to economic values.
6.7      Other Assumptions.  The investment period and economic lifutime of
project investments were assumed to be:
New Plantation - 5 years inveL-ment; 45 years
In the case of the Forest Management component, it was assumed that
benefits will increase gradually over a seven-year period, and reach the
"full development" level from year eight.
Sensitivity Analysis
6.8      A sensitivity analysis was carried out to assess th^ impact of
variations in the incremental cost and benefit streams on the project's
viability. The results are presented in Table 6.1.



- 38 -
Table 6.1: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Case                                  Economic Rate of Return
Component       Project
Forest Management
Forest Management base case                       452            28Z
Forest Management benefits minus 20Z              34Z            202
Forest Management cost plus 2OZ                   36Z            232
New Plantations
New Plantation base case                          13Z            28Z
New Plantation benefits minus 202                 12Z            282
New Plantation cost plus 20Z                      122            25Z
Tests have been conducted to assess the impact of changes in benefits and
costs for the Forestry Management and New plantation components. The tests
indicated that the project will remain economically viable even with a
relatively high reduction of benefits or increase the costs. Overall, the
rate of return on the project is sufficiently high that, even with a major
setback occurring, the project will still remain viable.
C. Environmental Impact
6.9      The overall environmental impact of the project will be positive.
About 20,000 ha of land will be brought under plantations, and about 60,000 ha
of existing plantations will be managed in accordance with silvicultural
prescriptions. Effective fire control measures will be introduced to reduce
fire damage. Improvements in the road design and construction together with
well planned logging operations will minimize erosion and excessive run-off.
Establishment of an Environment Management capability within the FD will also
institutionalize the management of all Man and Biosphere Reserves and other
protected forest areas. Moreover, this Division will complement the wildlife
management activities of the DWLC by undertaking wildlife-related programs
within the forests controlled by the FD.
6.10     There has been a concern by some conservationists about the impact of
logging of the 40,000 ha of natural Wet Zone forests. However, all logging
operations within these forests will be carried out in accordance with the
forest management plans, which have been designed with a strong awareness of
environmental protection. These plans limit the number of trees to be removed
on a given operation, prescribe a minimum diameter for felling, and exclude
all areas with a slope equal to or greater than 30 degrees and areas adjacent
to natural drainages. In addition, a continuous monitoring of the impact of
logging operations on environments will be carried out under the Environment
Management program to review, and if required, to revise management
prescriptions.



- 39 _
D. Risks and Remedies
6.11     The main risks to the project and the proposed remedial measures are
as follows:
(a) The continuation of political disturbances could delay the start-up
of operations and could prevent ta::gets from being reached at certain
locations. This risk is minimized by using conservative targets for
these localities in the early years of the project. Therefore, even
if political problems continue at the present level and at the
present locations, neither the economic viability nor the impact of
the project in the development of the sector will be reduced
significantly.
(b) There may be delays by the FD in establishing the required
organizational structure and enforcing standards for proper forest
management and protection. However, these risks will be minimized by
encouraging the FD to start taking action under the ongoing project
and establishing an effective project progress monitoring system.



- 40 -
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.1      During negotiations, agreements were reached with the Government
on the following:
(a)  All forestry cperations will be undertaken according to management
plans by January 1, 1992 (para. 2.9).
(b)  USJ will carry out a study to assess the future direction of the
Forestry MSc course and discuss its findings with IDA by January 1,
1994 (2.24).
(c)  The Government will maintain the FPU under the MLIMD to coordinate
project implementation (para. 2.29).
(d)  STC by January 1, 1990 will establish separate profit centers for
its: (i) logging; (ii) sawmilling; (iii) wood treatment; and
(iv) furniture manufacturing operations (para. 2.33).
(e)  STC will undertake a study to explore possibilities for privatization
of its sawmilling operations and assess the efficiency of its
management, reporting its findings to IDA by December 31, 1990 (para.
2.33).
(f)  Separate project accounts will be maintained by all project
implementing agencies and consolidated accounts will be maintained by
MLIMD (para. 3.15).
(g)  Statements of expenditures will be audited annually by the Auditor
General or an independent auditor acceptable to IDA (para. 3.16).
(h)  The Interministerial Forestry Master Plan Steering Committee will be
maintained (para. 4.1).
(i)  FD will reorganize its headquarters and expand the number of
divisions according to a plan acceptable to IDA by January 1, 1990
(para. 4.5).
(j)  FD will establish and maintain and Environmental Management Division
by January 1, 1990 (para. 4.6).
(k)  USJ will maintain the existing University Coordinating Committee
(para. 4.11).
(1)  All new plantations will be established on lands formally allocated
for forestry purposes by the Borrower through its appropriate
agencies (para. 4.13).
(m)  FPU will undertake a mid-term review of the project in March 1992 and
discuss the findings with IDA (para. 4.18).



- 41 -
7.2      Conditions of effectiveness are:
(a) a technical assistance team wit'. membership, resources and terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA has been appointed (para. 2.34); and
(b) the Government has made arrangements satisfactory to IDA for
commitment of the FINNIDA financing (para. 3.4);
(c) the Project Coordinators for the Forestry Department, STC, and the
USJ have been appointed and have been in their respective positions
(para. 4.3);
(d) STC's log sale prices have been deregulated in a manner satisfactory
to IDA (para. 5.5).
7.3      With the above conditions and assurances and covenants, the project
is suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 15.5 to the Government of Sri Lanka at
the standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.



- 42 -
Annex1
#I LSA                                                                 Table 1
Ff51 KECTO  ELIWICT ICCT
Tble 1. FrUs  MINTY I IWiT KM
bulaod Cat Tebll
4381 '0tO)
Pareters
bant:t4                                                       XYbs  Costs                          Phu.
----- -------------  --                  ----------------------------  -------------  Cant. For.  6rous Ta: Suar,
LAit       "/?    91/92   92/93  n94    94/             Total    tilt Cost   9Q/91    91/92   92/f3   94    94/95    Total    Rat.  EOch.   Rate    kcouwt
gs:wsa ......mn.   nn... ...nn  t,lflm                    fi            n..,a........................ .. S..... .;............
1. I[MSTEl! COSTS
A. VEHICCLES
4-iEL 3I8 VEHI3C.LE            No.              a        2        -        -        -                   V0   6.400.01.,600.0            -        -        -  0,000.0        0  0.65       0.15        oE
ffTWCY00ES                     Ml.             20        5        -        5        5        35          75   1,500.0   375.0           -   375.0   375.0  2,625.0          0  065       0.15 V°
Sub-Total 0NICLES                                                                                                7,900.0 1,975.0          -   375.0   375.0 10625.0
B. EQUIPMENT
IAN4TORY EOUIPENT              5IL              3        1        1        3        1                   140      420.0   140.0   140.0   420.0   140.0  12f60.0   0.05  0.65              0.:!       E0
CMRTOsRNI4Y E8UIPsEMT          SUM              I        I        I        I        1         5          30       30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    150.0   0.05   o!.5             0.15       t-
AERIAL PllOTO lRAPHY           S                2        1        -        -        -         3           5       10.0      5.0         -        -        -      15.0   30.5  O.t5         0.15       E0
D6AF1TI6 STATIONiS             sa               5        3        1        1        1        11          25      125.0    75,0    25.0    25.0    25.0    275.0   0.05  0l5o               0.15       EJ
Fl STA1TIS                     su               4        -        -        -        -         4         7,5       30.0         -        -        -        -      30.0   0.05  T.6O        0.15        SO
CROCOPUTI                      SWE                               1-- I                        1         200      200.0         -        -        -        -    200.0   0.05  o05s          0.1        Ea
CADW SOFTSW!                                    I        -1                                              50       50.0 1                                         50.0   0.05   oS6        0.10        EC
RAFTINO6 gLtIES                Sim              I                I            I              5         190      190.0   190.0   190.0   190.0   190.0    950.0 o0.o  'O.65               0.02        E0
Suo-Total EGUlOFtAT                                                                                               1,055,0   440.0   385.0   6tS.0   305.0  2.930.0
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTAICE
CARTOSGRAPER                    00             12        -        -        -        -        12         396   4,752.0          -        -        -        -  4.750          s
LOCAL CAFT06T  PER              mm             12       12       12     12 0    2            60          30      360.0   360.0   36.O       I 360.0   360.0  :,00.0         2     s
S..-Total 'ECHNI0CAL ASSISTAcE                                                                                    5,112.0   360.0   360.0   360.0   3bO.C  6552,0
8 LAOO
INVENTORY CREA                  AD 6: 060 6f060   6.060   6.060   6,060   30.300                        0.1      424.2   424.2   424.2   424.2   424.2  2121.0    :.05
50t-TotalI 9A                                                                                                       424.2   424.2   424,2   424.2   424.2  2.1210
tRo'                              srT                       I        I                 I !       5         360      360.0   360.0   360.0   360.0   360.0C  1,800.             C      :                  Rl
Tcta  IMviSTrFn' COSTS                                                                                              14,851.2 3,559.2  1,529.2 2,104.2 1,904.2 24,02S.0
11. RECLORRAT COSTS
Al SALARIES
ACF                            MY              0        3        3        3        3        15        60.3      18009   180.9   1          I0N9 10.9   180.9    904,5     0      2          o    SAL,
RAK4E FOEST OFFICERS           MY             10       10       10       10       10        50        33.1      331.0   331.0   331.0   331 o   331.0  I,655.C 0                 o                SA0  X
BEAT FOREST OFFICERS           mY             10      10       10       10       10        50         30.8      300.0   30.0   300.0   300.0   308.0  1,540.0             00                s    sAL,
5R0U64hStw                     MY              6        6        6        6        6        30          33    I69,O    900  19.O   19E.0 09 0                  90.0       0      0          0    SAL;
PH3O0 IATERPRETER              tt              2        2        2        2        2        10          45       90.0    90.0    90.0    o0.0    90.0    450.0            0      0          0    SAt.
Sub-Total SALARlES                                                                                               1,107.9 1,107.9 l.I0'.9 1,107.9 l.1 9  5,539.5
8. ALLOWiCES
AGF                            my              3        3        3        3        3        Is        16.2       48.f    4.6    408.6    40.6    48.6    243.0    0.1            0          C      ALX
RUM6   FOREST OFFICERS         tt             10       10      It        10       10        50         0.6       06.0    86.0    B6.0    06.0        6.0    430.0    0.l        0          0      ALX
KEA  FORESrT aFFICES           87             10       10       10       10      10         50         0.3       03.0    83.0    83.0    83.0    83.0    415.0    0.1            0          o      ALA
MA6STSlN                       KY              6        6        0       6         6        30           3       18.0    18.0    10.0    18.0    10.0          So.0    0.0       0          0      AL,
PMlTC INTERPRETER              my              2        2        2        2        2        10           5       10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0          50.0    o.l       o          0      ALX
Suc-Total ALLO3TCES                                                                                                245.0   245.o   245.6   245.6   245.f  1,220.0
. E1I11CLES CPER I 0INT4
4-(EEL EIRIV              20000 KtS            -       e        10      1       10        30        129.5          - 1,036.0 1.291.0 .12501 ,295.0  4,921.0   0.05   0.5                 0.3      VEi
MITORCYCLES               20000 It4            -       20       25      25       30       :0            II          -   240.0   300.0   300.0   360.0  !,200.0   0.05   0.5               0.z      309
Sub-Total  1EHICLES DPER  MI 8 1T                                                                                       - 12-76.0 1.595.0 1,595.0 1o455.0  6,12I.0
Total RECURIiT COSTS                                                                                                1.353.5 2.6295 2.94s,5 2,948.5 35,00.5 12.3M.5
Tot;l                                                                                                                1.'04.7 6;18.7 4,477.7 5,132,7 4,912.7 36,916.5



- 43-                                                         Ann-I
Table  2
31 LMA
-          ran nF      n KNu    MUiECT
l1. 2. f75   ANVtT
ied Cot T1ble
rrmetm..
batato                                           Sate~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D   Constsp
--------------------------------                                    ------------------------------------------------  Cant. For.  Bross Tax S,_ar
urnit    90/I    91/nn      92/93    94                 T Ttal    (it Co0t   tcnfl    1I       t9Q3 /   9/94   94/95   Total    Rate  L.a.  late    Acnt
n._.a..   n.. *ass   saaa an_................ ..sss.n  a..an...  .in. -. .s  555   asamn  .3.-af. =8::::::::  ::::::
1. IMiTIET CtTS
A. CItICES
4-dEL WIVE PISW                    No.             I        3        3        3         3 3     I           0    100.0  2,400.0 2,400.0 2,40.0 2,400.0 10-400.0          0  0.65      0.3       V
NTWiCTS                            N.             4        21       17        12       12      7n          75      00. 0  2,100.0 1,275.0   900,0   900.0  5,475.0       0  0.65      0.15       VE
6mb-Total UNICLES                                                                                                  1,100.0  4,500.0 3,6r.0 3,300.0 3,300.0 15,875.0
CAIN     I mlSIs                   SD.             i        I        I         I        I        5         300    300.0   34000   3000   300.0   300.0  i,SO.O   0.05  0.6!           0.15       (a
Sub-Total E(i39 1                                                                                                    300.0    300.0   300.0   300.0   300;0  1.5000.
C. TEDCMICL ASISTWNCE
FEST W       RiENT SECIALIST        3              6       12        6         -        -       24         396  2,376.0  4,752.0 2,376.0        -       -  9.504.0       0     I         0       '0
Sutbfotal TECNICAL MSSISTME                                                                                        2,376.0  4,752.0 2,376.0        -          9.504.0
D. LWCR
flO1                                1C       18.000   10,000   18-00t   10,000   18,000   90.000          0.1  1.260.0  1.260.0 1,260.0 1-2h0.0 1i260.0  6.300.0   0.05        0         0       LA
PRE-CCIOERCIAL T$I1I5i              40        9.320    9.320    9-320    9.320    9.320   46,600          0.1    652.4    652.4   652.4   652.4   52t.4  3.2e2.0   0.05        0         0       .0
Sub7-Total LAW                                                                                                     1,912.d  1,912.4 1,912.4 1,912 4 1912.4  9,562.0
lot'i IWASTAENT COSTS                                                                                                5.60.4 11,464.4 8,263.4 5.5124 5.512.4 36,441.0
11. RECURRET4 COSTS
A. SALARIES
jC                                 my            2         4        a        8        10       30         54    100.0    21I.0   324.0  432.0   540.c 1.20.0           0     0         0    SkLt
RSE  FOREST OFFICERS               ml            2        10       15       27        22       69                 5'.s    288.0 0 43.0   576,0  a  e.la   1.9072        0     2         0    SOAtL
S.,b-Tota1 SblbIES                                                                                                  165.a    504.0   756.0 1,00.0  ,173,e  3,607.2
D. kL L O0 S
4CF                                MY                                                                                -          -              -                      0.1    0         0           Ax
RW    FORESToFICERS                HT            -         -        -        -         -        -                    -        -       -        -                     0.1      0         0      t.'
SuC-T:tai aLLWCEE5
A. AHICLE OER I sloT
4-WHEEL  9                      20000 l KM                 1        4        7        10       22      129.5         -    129.5   518.0   906.5 1,29540  2,849.0   0.05   0.5         0.3     AE
UOT9VTCLES                      20000 KM         -         4       32       49        al      146         12         -     48.0   384.0   500.0   732.0  1.752.0   0.05   0.5         0.3     VE 5
Sb-Total VEHICLE OER I MINT                                                                                             -    177,5   902.0 1,494.5 2,027.0  4,601.0
TotsI RECURRE0T COSTS                                                                                                   165.;    68;15 1,650.0 2.502.5 3.200.6  8,200.2
Total                                                                                                                  5,654. 012,145.9 9.921.4 8014.9 8.7330 44649.2



LA                                                                                   Z.~ 
tZ                                               A   A                                                         ICA  ~ 
3  7  ~        A 
1~~~~~~~el3~~~~~~~~8
VifI
ass ~ ~ ~ I-
0t                                   n
0                                                   3ff~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;Z
-                     -~~~~~x         -                                                   I



- '5 -
AnnulI
Table 4
pap. 1
Table 4. KWAMIAU inaiLIo
b4..led Cot Tel.
hatat.                                          I..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B   Caste       Pipe.
Unit     90Al  93/M    MMIS 13           94/IS  1.4.      boOCCst  901/9        P1/92    KM4     93/94    94/1"      TtuI    BeaU  lExc.   Rae    acounat
I. IN651M MCOTS
A. CIVIL MOS
NURvirv6                                      46D  .       2       I 1                              3        44.2      68.4      44.2        -                         32.4    0.1  0.15        0.1       Cc
T36T/P573( M                                  C.           -       3       -                                  i25         -    3750   .0 .            00    256.    1125.0    0.2  0.25         0.2      CA0
N3510  CT36TT(S                               9O.          2       I                                3         240     4410.0    26.0         -         -        -     644.0    0.2  0.25        0.1       C
Stb-Total CIVIL mis                                                                                                      4111.4    AIi%2        -    50.0   2`54.0  1.457,6
8. VEI6CLES(
6  1 6 4074                                A0.          -       2       -        4       1       7         600         -  (.240.0         -2-400.0    644.0   4,244.0         0  0.65       0.15      AE
4-WNEEL DRIVE                                 No.          2       2       2        3       3      22        800   1.604.0  1.406.0  (.640.0  2,.04.0  2,440.0   9.640,0         C. 0.65       0.25      VE
MOTORCYCLES                                   No.          B      17       8        6       6      49        75.A     604.6  1.265.2    604.0   404.6    644.6   3.704.4         0  0 oS       0.15      YE
Sub-Total YEHICL.ES                                                                                                   21,204.8  4,.06.2  2204.8  5.40446  3,604.8  17.504.4
LARGE DISC PL&ie                              go.          -       2        -               -       4       l,O!d            2.112,0         -  2.112,0         - 4.224,0   0.05  0.65         0.25      00
140040106 DISC PLOUGHS                        No.          4       2       2        4       4      26      215.21    060.8    430.4   430.4    864.6    660.8   3,443.2   0.05  0.65           0.25      Ea
40,  -  C      -       2        -      ~ ~4   400             -    000.0              No.600             .640.0   0,05  0.65       0.25      0
LAOSE 40t101                                  NO.          --                       -       I       2    ('11.5              1.121 5                  -  2.11.5   2.223,0   0.05  0.65         0.25      EQ
SaML WADER0                                   40.          -       2       -        4       2                 520         -  2040,0          -2,040.0    520.0    . 640. 0   0.05  0.5S        0.25      00
FIRE 92405S                                   40.          4       A        -       -       -      I10      209.6     439.2   .5l. 0         -         -        - .04. 0   0.05  0.60          0.13      (0
640E0 RESE040R1                               No.          6       S           is21                            4      25.2. 0    630.0       -                  -     02. 0   0,05  0.65       0.25      E l
940AK90  PItS                                 No.          0                                      ISO-90 26     3     270.0         -        -        - 200           540.0   0.05  0.25       2.15      (0
OMMACTIEE                                     40.        ISO       -                      180     360         0.21     34.0         -                  -     0.0       72.0   0.05  0.5!       0.25      (2
00407T0                                       40.        270       -        -       -     270     140         0.0      23.5                                  13.5      27. 0   0.05  3,5o      0.25      EQ0
M"kl TOOL SET                      SET~3(      2        I       I       I       2       5         2150    250.0    2500    250.0  .250.0   2150. 0   1,250.0   0.35  0.65          0.15       E5
PILLOW wATER TflO                             40.          5       '7                   -          12        29.2      96.0    (34 4         -        -                30.4   2. 05  0DeS      0.25      EQ
TRAILERS                                      go,                  2       -        4       2                 too               MA20              40C0 0    00.0      700.0   0.05  GAS5       0.25      E0
WATER  UMPS                                   NO,          -       5       2        -       -       7        14,3         -      71,5     20.6        -                00.2   0.05  0.05       0.25      00
640CR THIEF                                   N0.         2I               A        -       -       6        22.6      23.0               47.6                         72.4   0.05  0,65       3.25,     (0
'IRE *07AT4E  EQPT                            40.          5       -       -        -       -       5        23.0      .9.0             -   -                           9.0   0.05  0.65       0.25      EU
.667E C34P9IE9 (A'Lto                         40.          -       2       -        2               4       2.320         -  2,640.0         -2.640.0           - 5,200.0   0.05  0.65         OI15      Ea
S066L  HO009R RGL.E!                          40.                                   2       -       5         495     990.0    495.0         -    99.0          -  2475.0   0,05  0.65         0.25      EC
0.jo-Totam  E000P4E40                                                                                                  3.30043 20,573.6    75 6. 20.1322,8  3,161.4  27.925,1
TECHNICAL0 4,4iI0'NE
02LU. SPECIAL250                              86           a       :      I2,       6       .      I          34.  2.,376.0  4.752.0  4,752.0  2,376.0             1 4.256.0     0      2         0       t4
0kv. SPSCOM.257  a  40         6       22       6                       24       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~396   2,376. 4.20  2.376.0  -9.504.0             0     I         0       04
SITE A0S54647T SPECI4ALIST                    86           3       0        -       -       -       6         396   2.236.0  1.231.0         -        -2.376.0                   0      I         0       to
S.jo-'otal 0E02*1CAL ASSIS2tXE                                                                                         5.940.0 10,692.0  70260.0  2,076,0          -26.136,0
E. PL0ANTATIO E50TAL104464 *5RATIO05
40 MCHAICAL 0*7 Z0NE
LAOS                                       MA          50     400   2,440   1.90    3.3100  6.750          2.3      o5.0    520.0  1,620.0  2.470.0  3. 900. 0   8.775.0   0.05      0         0      LA
86TER26LS                                  NA          50     400   1400   1.900   3.000   4.750           3.3     165.0  1.320.0  4.620, 0  6.270,0  9,900.0  22.275.0    0.1  0.65        0.15      40
SEOIE *00402045                            40          50     400   2.400   (.900   3.000   6.750          0.8      40.0    320.0  (.120.0  2,520.0  2,40.0.   5,440.0    0.2  0.65         0.15      40
CONTRACTS                                  NA          50     400   2.400   (.900   3.000   6.750           t0     540.2  4,000.0 (4,000,0 19.000.0 34,000.0  67,500.0    0.2       0          0      Ce
Sub-Total NECNAN1C4L MY ZOWE                                                                                          770.0  6,160.0 21.560.0 '9260.20 46,240.0 103-950.0
LAOS                                       40         550     450     oCO      500           2.1000       20.2   S5M.5      4.545.0  6.0*0.0  5,050.0        -  21.210.0   0.05     0          0      LAI
MATERIALS                                  40         550     450     640      540       . 2.100           0.5   1.925.0  (.575.0  2.100.0  1.7A.0           -   7,350.0   0OA  0.65        0,15      40
Su-Total 0663  MY 0ON6                                                                                              7,464.0  6.220.0  6,160.0  6,800.0          -  26560.0
3. MANINAL LIP 37137
LAWS                                       "A         050     250     250    2250      250   i.250        (2.6   3.050.0  3,150.0  3.15040  3.150.0  3.150,S  (5,750.0   0.05       0          0      LA
4ATER06LS                                  40          5      250     '50      250     250   1.250         3.5     875.0    075.0    875,0    875.0    875,0   4,375.0    0.' 0.63          0.15      86
S4J-Total 84064.L UP C737!Y                                                                                         4,025.0  4,025.0  4.025.0  4.025.0  4,025,0  20.125.0
4. E4000400T 9540024
LAW                                        40         700   0.050   1.400   (.450   2.050   7.050          1.9   1.330.0  (' 95.0  2.660,0  3.515.0  3.695,0  13.395.0   0.05       0          0      LA
MATERIAL.S                                 NA         700   2.050   2.400   (.8150   2,050   7,050         1.7   1.190.0  0,7M5.0  2.3164,0  3.145,0  3,445,0  ((.915.0    0.1  0.65        0.25      40
S.j0-Total ESOICIEwT PLANTING                                                                                       2.520,0  3,7610.0  5.040.0  6,660.0  7,300.0  25, 310.0
5. 509(-40CNO2C71
LAWS                                       40         30      450       --                     750         6.6   2,960.0  2,970.0                                4, 950. 0   0.05    0         0      LA
86TE01I4LS                                 "A         300     450        -       -       -     750         3.3     994.0  (.405.0         -2.4)5.0    0.1  0.43                             0.25      40
86aI0E WORATIWIS                           40         300     450        -       -       -     /50         2.1     624.0    941.0         -                    -  575.0    0.1  0.63        0.15      PA
£301361                                    "A        3no      450        --                    750         (.6     540.08(10.0                                   1  - (350.0    0.1  0         0       CA
Stb-Total SE90-4EWC106L6                                                                                            4.044,0  6.210.0         -                     1- (,350.0
964-Total PLANTATION ESTA.OIIEAT 510601061                                                                           (6.935.0 26,295.0 38,.750 46,745.0 57,605.0 (40.343,0



Page 2
I. MN=   W3        M O          17       *                        S      3     1,240   I,M60           1.     .                 99.,    720.0  2620.0  3.420        ,7  .o   0.465     0         0      Li
2. 1MM       I. WI PK  T1   so                             -       -      U0     3      1,3    1,0         1.2                   -     60.0    4.0  I.6.0   2,220.0   0.f0           0         0       LA
3.      Cm. 39 31           I VW              "A                       -          5       4        9         0.2          -        -         -     10.0     n0.0      990   0.n6       0         0       LA
4. _    L WT 31  UM     VW                    0            -     so0  450        69             2,1t         2.7             1,2100    999.0  1220.o  1,121.0   4,620.0   0.t5         0         0 L
5. m       7 in     2 TM       na                          -       -     530     de             2.4           1.6         -  *           00    72.0 061.0   2,561.0   0.n0             0         0       LA
6. .IO 311   1I11 FW        11W               a      .                    . 5 t 30       d     10'          0.7          -           -      -   401.5    120.6        0      0.06     0    0            LA
7.        W_ J CM., Kew  VW                   a            -             2       2       2      1'm           I               26.0    23 .0    2.0    235.0 2503.0   0.06             0         0      LA
o, EOEL 1 0    3I  1141  18 M                 a                .          a       a. M3 Z1        7se        0.6                   -    157.5    157,5    257.5      472.6   0.45      0         0       LA
9. WM  IF cmI,F- W                                         - J a.                no       23      W)         0.2                   -              6-.0      61.0     120.0   .05       0         0      LA
20. gWoSO~    I KM   gm                                          70   I2,      2,400   1.0    .ee            2.4             2.39.0  2.120.0  .360.0  4.440,0  12,000.0   0.46         0         0      LA
11. UiioT  0S0 1 s                                         -             20   143   1.410                    0.0          -             637.0    V3.5  1-274.0   2.1.5 o0.n0           0         0      LA
12. TKIDWIIIT           so ME  -I -                                              740   2409  12750           0.1                            -     91.0    130.5    2-7.5   0.05        0         0      LA
13. SW-*       .'C0. KM   1(
LIll                                     1V           -      3       40                 -     70         1.4          - 40.0  72       .0         .        - ,29    0, o.          0         0      LA
EWE  WWI6I"                               No          -      31      4         -       -      750        0.1          -     30.0     45.4                         7.0   0.1  0.05         0.15      11
S..-160.  SlCI62>L-.CUc     r    91                                                                                           1l' .0    7e5.0     '         1 - 275.0
14, DlllllAL  111 3
L.0                                      IIL6         -        -     300     450        -     750        0.9          -             270.0    40.0          -      75.0  0.05       0         0      LA
OIE   C17U                                1A           -       -- 300        450                                                                                  7. 75  0.2     450.  46.0  76,0    0.2  0.15 025  9 M
Sub-Total SE0-4NCWAICAL T702  YE4                                                                                         *             300.0    4100                '50.0
I5. CE/t14JlE  CkL FlRTlt 7
LAIS                                      h4          -        -         -   3O0     4505     0 0        0.1              -             *     30.0      45.0      75.0   0.05      0         0      L4
6ChlN0E DlltlS                            NA          .                      39       4*50    750        o.l                                  30,0      45.0      75.00.05         0         0      LA
SUD-Total S001-IEOAUICAL  FOtTh r- t                                                                                                              60.0      90.0     150.0
SuFbTotl l FWttAIISt M9n2 t9E6  30ATI72                                                                                      -  3.740.0  7.279.5 10,35.5 139,97.5  75,031.5
6. t4D TE1r   ExISTID1  70MM2 PL9TATIISt
DRY ZOwr  SECSC                               NA        600        -       -       -        -     400        2.2   1,320.0         -                  -            1,320.0   0.05      0         0      LA
Dr20rYtZE TNRrEAR                                          -     00        -       - -             o00       1.5               900 OO.         -                     90-0   0.05       0         0      LO
FY ZOE F7Th YEA                               NA           -       -     600       -        -     600        0.7          -             438.0         -        -     430.0  0.05       0         0      LA
0N96241T0 SlEcO      rEA    t                 NA        450        -          -             -     45         2.4 I.E0000           -.,O   0.05                                         0         0      LA
E09I241T0 HIhR0 YE0                           N4           *     450       -                      450        0.7          -    409.5        -                  -     4095   0.05       0         0      LA
E0U2Chl0' FSRlTh  YEAR                                     -       -     450       -        -     *5O        0.1          -        -     51.5             -           50.5   0.05      0         0      LA
UP CO2Ttr SEC1)tC YEAR                        NA        250        -       -                      250          1    250,0          -        -         -        -     250.0   0.05      0         0      LA
LP Cr Tr ThlRc YEAR                           h4           - N50           -       *       -      250        0.          -    157.5        -         -              157.5  0,05       0         0      LA
LU  COSLTRr FOSLN TEOA                        NA                         250       .              250        0.2          -               0           -               8 010   0.05     0         4      LA
S,-Total IItENE  EXISI!N6 YOUNG PLANtTATIS                                                                            2,650.0  1,467.0    536.5          -            4.673,.5
total lThEsOr T COSTS                                                                                                   33,510.5 57,472.0 564710.4 75.994.1 780598.1 302;293.1
11. RECIWINT COsTs
A. SALARIES
4CF                                          my          2        5       9      12       i5      43       60.3     120.6    301.5    542,7    723.4   904.5   2,592.9         0      0         0    SAL
R06E OFFICERS                                my           2       5       9      12       15      43       32.2       64.2    160.5    200.9    385.2    441.5   1,380.3       0      0         0    SAL.
IfT WFICERS                                  4r          2        5       9      12       i5      43       30.0      61,6    154.0   277,2        69.6    462.0   2,324.4      0      0         0    CML.
S.1-Total SU.RIES                                                                                                      246.4    616.0  2,100.0  1,478.4  1,041.0   5,297.6
2. ALLoWTCES
ACF                                          MY           2       5       9      12       I5      43       14.2       32.4     0.0   1245.8    194.4    243.0       696.6    0.1      0         o     ALX
R0M       OFFICERS                           my          2        5       9      12       25      43        e.6       17.2     43.0     77.4    103.2    129.0      369.0   0.1       0         0     ALX
KA? WFICEtS                                  my          2        5       9      12       25      43        6.3       16.6     41.5     74.7     996    124.5       356.r    0.1      0    O            .LX
Sub-total tM.JWTS                                                                                                        66.2    165.5    297.9    397.2    496.5   1,423.3
C. UEIhCLE W92 I 2t9610 /b
4-611,EL 3I2E                             20000 K                 2       4       A        9      21      129.5          -   269.0    518.0    m.0  1,16.5   2.719.5   0.05   0.5             0.3     0E0
0OT7CCLES                                 204    0                a 0    25      33       41     107         12          -     00.0    300.0    396.0   492.0   1,204.0   0.05   0.5          0.3     UEX
FIRE PWNS                                    NR           -       4      20      -0 20            04         25                610    150.0    150.0    160.0       520.0   0.05   0.5        0.3     VEx
Sub-ltl UEN.CLE OPER I 96NT1  /b                                                                                            -    415.0   968.0  1,323.0  1,807.5   4,513.5
P. 0ItLDIN4 OME  I r609.
SERT  SNE6                                    9           -       2       3       3        3      11        1.8          -      3.6      5.4      5.4       5.4      19.6    0.1      0         0    mix
rFACI0T   E0                                 St          -        -       3       3                3 11     2.4         -         -      7.2      7.2      16.0      31.2    0.1     0          0    Ku
6rr                                         S14          -        2       3       3        3      12        3.2                 6.4      9.       9.6       9.6      35.2    0.1     0          0    KuT
Su0-Tole  lJIIMN SPE2 I 9620!T                                                                                                    0.0     22.2      22.2    32.6       01.2
7ot2l 2EC117T COSTS                                                                                                         312.6  1,206.5  2,396.9  3,220.0  4,33.0  2320d.6
°"0.                                                                                                                     33.032,1 30,674.5 59.1073 79214.90t 2.702.9t 323,623.7
/a  39TtR
/b  70T073       10 P2*7ATI3 COSTS



4 47-
Annex1
Table 5
SRI LSUi
FOREST SECTOR ERELOPIEN MRJECT
Table 5, EDUCATION MED TRAINING - UNIVERSITY OF SRI JAYEWAIDWIA
Detailepd rost Table
(SR5  0001
Parameters
1.   txits                                                     B ase Costs                          pi
--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- -  - --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- Cart.   For.   Gross    Ta2    Suma r
Unit      40/91 91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95 Total    Unit Cost   90/91   91/92   92./93   93/94                94/95   Total    Rate  f-ch,    Rate    Accowt
1. INWUP,TENT COSTS
A. 210kI  WCR?!
UQRAA:                 92            -      -      - ~~A.,       -       60         3.5          -        -        -     210,0         -     210.0    0,1  0.15          0.!        CA
COMPUTER ROOM                  92            -      -     -     60      -       60          3.5          -        -        -     210.)         -    20.0    0.!  0.15            0.1        Ck
STAFF OFFICES                  NC                               so - 8          9 0         3.5          -                        8.           80.0            0.1oOl   0.15   '1     C     Al c
FIELD STATION                  92         150                                  ISO- -  5    3.5    525.0                    - -                       25.0    0,1  0.15,         0.1        CA
AFRORETUP                      suP           I                                    I         2l0     250.0         --                           -    250.       '.1  0.15         2.1        C6
Sub-Tot.al ClILSOPS                                                                                    '75.0         -        -        00,            1?475.0
8. VEHICLES
4-WifEL DRIVE                  NO.                               I               2          800          -   800.0         -    800.0          -10600.0          0  0.s5        0.15        Of
Lab-Total VEHICLCS                                                                                          -   800.0               0 00.0           1Is0OS
C. EQUIPAEN
COMPUCTERS                     NC,          0      4      4                     Is          !.C    800.0   400.0   400.0             -        -1, 600. 0   0.05  0.65           I.15       EQc
LAYDR,ATOfy                    suP        ,OO   650   500   600              2.350            I    6000.2    eSCO    500.0    600.0               2,350.0   2.05  O,s           0.15        E0
LIERARY                        CP1)0O   300                                    400            i          -        -        -    100.0   300CC       400.0   2.05  o5            0.15       EQ
FIELC,                         SUP-          --                     --        -       -       -        -        -                -                           0.05  0.65         0,15       ES
BDOORS Ant jOURNALS            suP        500   100   100  1,00   100          900            1    500.0   100.2)   100.)    100O   10CC0    900.0   0.05  0_5                  0.151      EQ
OFFICE FURNITURE               SUP        100   :00,                  250      450            :    12 . 0   l00.'v                   -   250.0    450.0   0,0!  0.615           0,15       EQ
SL.L-otCI  EOUIPPENT                                                                                 2'000.0  1.250    1,)000.0    800.0   650.0  2,700.2
[1, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
LECTURERS                      NP           o             e                     30          396  2.376.0 .2,326.0 2,37e.0  2,376.0 2,376.0 11,880.0              0      1          0        TA
SNORT TERN CONSULT.            PP            2     2      2      22             10          396    792.0,  792.0   792.0         792.0   792,0  3,960.0          0      1          0       TA
Suc-Tutzl TECHNICAL. ASSISTAKCE                                                                      3.168,0 3.168.0 3,168.0  3.168,0 3,168.0 15,840.0
E. FELLOWSH'S
OVERSEAS TRAINING              NP          48    48      48    48    48       2140           70  3,360.0 3,360.0 3,360.0  3.3600O 3.360.0 16.800,0    0.1               I          0       TO
0720Y TOURS                    P                  10    10    IC,   10          40           s0         -   eo.o   800.0    800.0   800.0  3.20010    0.1               1          0       TO
Sub-Total FELLOWSHIPS                                                                                3.360.0 4,160.0 4,160.0  4,160.0 4,160.0 20,000.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                  9.303,0 9378.0 8,3289.0   9F628.0 7.978.0 44,015.0
II. RECURORENT COSTS
A. SALARIES
LECTURPERS                   MY           24    36    48    96    96          300          6.5     156.0   234,0   312.0    624.0   624.0  1.950.0              0      0          0    SALO
VISITING LECTURER            MY           20    10       5      5      5       45            3      uO.0    30.0      15.0       15.0    15.0      135.0        0      0          0    SALO
JR. STAFF                    90           48    48    48    48    48          240          1.2      57.6    57.6    57.6        57.6    57,6    288.0           0     0           0    SAMX
Sub-Total SALARIES                                                                                    073.0   321,o   384.6    696.6   696.6  2,373.0
B. ALUOWES
LECTURERS                    PP           24    36    48    96    96          300          0.7      15St     23.4     31.2       62.4    62,4      195.0        0      0          0      AIX
VISITING LECTUREET            PP          20    10       5      5      5       45          0.3       6.0      3.0      1.5        1.5      1.5      13.5        0      0          0      AIX
Sub-Total ALLOWANCES                                                                                   21.6    26.4       32.7      63.9'    63.9    208.5
C. VEHICLE 0OP0R   P AINT   20000 KNM                 -      1      1     2         4       129.5          -        -   129.5    129.5   219.0    518.0            0   0.5         5.3       VEX
D. BUILDING OPER IMRINT          sum           -   SI    5.1   5.1  19.1        34.4            1          -      5.1      5.1       5.1     19.1       34.4       0      0          C    B180
E. EQUIPMENT MAINTENAKCE         suPm             80.1 120.2 160.3 160,3   520.9                1          -     80.1   120.2      160.3   160.3    520.9          0   0.3        0.15       EGOX
F. OFFICE EXPENSE                sum         150   150       -      -     -      300            1    150.0    150.0          -          -        -    300.0        0   0.3        0.15       OFX
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                      445.2   583.2   672.1  1.055.4 1.198.9  3,954.8
Total                                                                                                    90148.2 9,961.2 9,000.1 10.683,4 9.176.9 48,569.8



,~~~~~~ .                        .   .     .     .     .   O           .     .    .   .      
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~; A
o~~~   ~~ :1               2 o  o                           ioooooooooooc 



.   .   I     .   .   .   .,.  .   .-.
-5    -  - -: - - - - -                 
-    -i --                                                       t  -     - -    --
I       ,tn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
8- - - - - - - -                        - -               -    - - - -
ORE   A   < S pp g                                                                                         222 AOi  aOOrJ_U   
_~,                                                                                                  3A      t o 
C.                3-
---'3--~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~o °-                                                   O - -              I-.                   N            ^
afl,    ~~            ue _ *~0                               S             a           .tO _.      o            P
23t              tt.   S                1 tAtj  g.t%tAtZ                               o 9     S                °o t°  'a    o   .... . . *2    88°-E   
s~~~tti   *tV                                ttj         I&i                           S        
iiWEWi'-AO-, -    i                    -i-                   -                                                  n's!i    iS -in0 -   -Cis
-C. a   j',.          00j0 0               jA    I00           L          .      , j    0j         0,0           L, 0jj   , 
CI                                         *.1 il°i80^ i    _1a o0  jj>5                 >   i8     OI 0L3    LA,jo    F3  
ON._O    OO.A. O 0 OL' 33 0                 t.   O O O  ..OO. W..         .       0   01          0,0           01000 O
Ag N l>,isgiJ   O 4  i - OOLAO   , 00j08    a    000        0'A                  LA  0' 0         0l    0      LA COO'Swj__ 8g jj_It 
;:;I~0,3L~                      o.t.   w, Io                                     , ao.o;          o_o ooooo o_,l o o         
°°A-~=a-4-,A3t                 3        3C'0C °° °° °                                         OCOOOO  a^  14 -iW j0                                           _-e
bA. 0J     O-  O0''                     LA ,OoLao                           O"     OOOO., OOO>-C>ga.               0
O°00000000                         00000                                                              000°°             ,i>!
-"      00000000                                                              -~~~~~~~~~er 
00 00 0 A!                                                                              CC t                            :g:       :-.      $$Rs$$z>         ,   



- 50 -
ml                                            ~~~~~~~~~Table 8
Table 8. INSTITuTION. M         T - VFOSTtY PtMS1S  IS!'
Detailed Cost Table
WS8 0001
;j aaete-
hatito                                                       losep Coets                          "4,,
---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- --- -          - - - - - - -    - - - - - - - - - - - - -     - - - --   Cont.   For.   Gro~s 'a   i n~
~Unt      90/91 71/192 92193 93/94 94/95 Total  Unit Ciist   90/9l   917'92   92/,93    93,94   94 0!   Total    Rate  E                    Rate    Ac~ccnt
I. !WAST4(E41 COSTS
A1. VfiNICLES
6$                        40            -      I      I      -      -               800No  go         800%      a-x           - 
Out Ta"al 8(EHIC1S                                                                                             -   800.      800.00         -        - eC.
0. TECHNfICAL ASSISIACI
InERAMIAALO   CONSULTISTS           NO            3      2    :        I           I '         396  :-180. .2' .2-2   43156-)      3c. 
~JCAt 0DftSvL'MT SERVICES           992                        :2   :0             40           30     100.:   360.:    3Ce.    3/0.3..  .                          -
Suc-½:a2a  TEOISUAL 4SISIrME                                                                            2.362<  :32-   ~z               <
F. LLUWSN:FS
TI :0' 3S                          AR            -       '       -                 3          8                 3-I /C.                               '
>23.   flVES'904  223!:                                                   -nfl     ..        -  :.,   ~~~~         ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -    ----    --
* 6     -E:S6-RE                                                                                                        !C:20
"Er.,!   :PE"29   No~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    2 2:2.C  2:   :2'32:0
399LTf; 3FECJU                                 ::            2'     '4    4                               , ,                    9'-.&               44
C  -~~~            --'       .~~---- - - - - - - -    
22.. e6L6/ 203                                                        0320- - ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~4,10  -4.*'.     44 4,2 "     23
30K' - r90~~~~R2 !Th22f  99  ' - '                      oC         :2.2     :2~~~~~~!.,c   :2%  2'.:2.    :2'.:    540                      
N'EE  2FERO'0%   ~~~~~9          :2    24J    24    24    24    22              0               :8>2      :02"    :0'.;    8>2~    A4.4             :
If 3/ER                            99            -                         :      42 .e                         3c.:      30.2     30.2      22       :0.                      
bUb-'Ctal AIL0MMWES                                                                                      320      4>~4      406.4      '.      4C,       Te4
C. Or:200 EXPENSE                     sum           :             :             i     3          0.3       2.-.                 .       -.        -          5        :               :
'ota! PE2LS*EN  COS'S                                                                                      3,88!.!3(1          5.3'C-2  !.4g.' 5.400.' 2¶''-4Q4
>tln                                                                        324K: '222.' :1'04c.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J,t,  e,9. :3' 549  5:



On,                                      V       Ztjjjj"'         <2
k    .R:,-h                                                     -n--ca    II Y!i
£ <E Zj-                                                                      ;:) BIi;4
A                     A
g
;t
flu    0

V
I                                         is
.4,            -  --    -  -  -  -   -            ., -c  .     -
*       a,J,         ,                ,      en             00.G4,4CRCRfiJ4                   fi -
-   -    -0'       a'J-                4       0              ,*,,,**,,***'''                  ,t*
r
-              a.,-                       0                ,,,*,,,,,,,**.                   it:            -
a   a   OC.       OCR                *       8              -  -  -     --   -   -             it:
-   a   CR0-          -                               '-4    0- fijO-      -      ttc.4
0                                t .-uzga &5             .
a,.,--   0,000           ,,-O,       a,a    0-0   -n.0.a0--,aOoOa   0            0-        us:
nO,,     ,        ,        a, 4-          14I       - , 0   0         O0fi43  -      -o    0                         -
a   ,       a,        0000           *, 0'              -'4,    -,0.--o-aOCRCR 0-   -   fib 4J        C,C
-C.--  ,,-,, - , - - , - - - - .4 -   a
- , , ,    - *00   0  000            "0          0 * 0   0 , 0   0* OOo0000000000000..0
jjjp                                                       I                                           
,,.-,0,0 CO, OCO OCOOC   0 0,0 0,0                                       
31
-C a, C3C-C--              4J'4                                                          , -. -
I
0.C 00-   04000            40040    0,0
-     -  -   a  ,                                                                                          a,
*0,0 0-400- 04000  "04040 040  ,                                                                    -
a    ,  4  -  ,       fi.,  ,  -      ,  0  *4C4  *     C  C 4
404'CR        OCR,,,.   0,0    C4Cb   O,0-o-0J   -   a '4-0   *.-4 *4        fir,
CR, 00    0CR4 00CR   0000          '0400    0  0   040   0, ooooOoooooOOOOOC-.-O                      ,
-      -              00000030300  000333                 flOe"
000          000                        -       0      CR CRCRCRCRCR                      fi -
000000000000000000                 fiX C
0.00        0-0-0- 0-00-0-0-0-     fir-  , -t
0   0   000        000                 0      -       -       000CC CRCRCRCRCR CRCRCRLRCRCRCRCRCR  fi -   , -
ra I!
000000000000000000                 CO    , -
CR  CR  000        000                 0       0      C       C CRCRCCRCRCRCRCRCRCRCR LRCflCAtcCRCR  fi 0
C                                 0                              rnenflfl.nfn,nrnflnfl,
0   o   000        000                 r      o       r       oooocoooooooooocoo                 Cr



--o---------             -               o
0                                                                                                        0 
*    *0*4                                               00C-- --   -    -    -                   --    - 
_0          I  o A-A j'                                      000    SSSSSSS         
I~~~. Oeboooo.-o -e<oo oooo                                   m   0                                                      .  , 0.m
rS                    t I         :      m. 8                                     ra  8
S4                                                                   0         CA                 -,   , o
I C ~    ~     - 
149~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--
14                              1V~~~~~0  0 z;       -'' ;A 
3j; ~   ~         ~        ~         L i         _~
a     Ii        iJ .              z _
*0* r                                          ~         ,-
i_ij        '''''''''                 ''''l;j ;.°°qo<,                                         9     ssjrj'e



-53-
Annex 2
Table 1
SRI LMNlA
FOREST SECTOR DEW1OFLIENT PROJECT
Project Coe,oneents bu Year
Totals Includins Contingencies                                 Totals Includimn  Contimencies
(SRS '000)                                                     (US1  '000)
90/91      91/92      92/93      93/94      94/95      Total        90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   Total
::=====:====     === =========   =============:=====:=:::::==:===   =::::=== ::::::::::::
A. FOREST MN4GEMENT                24,029.7  21,753.1  18,489.1  18P032,6  19,560,7   101,865.1    729,2   659.2   560.3   546.4   592.7  3,086.8
B. ENVIROENTAL MANAGEMENT          12P089.5   9,708.8   6,566.1   6,423,8   7,214.6    42,002.8    366.3   294.2   199.0   194.7   218.6  1,272.8
C. EDUCATION AND TRAINING          27i169.4  51,708.2  50,593.5  39,764.6  16,857.5   186,093.1    823.3 1,566.9 1,533.1 1205.0   510.8  5,639.2
D. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT           519180.7  51,461.4  509906.7  53,736.3  57,906.4   265,191.5  1,550.9 1,559.4 1,542.6 1,62B.4 1,754.7  89036.1
E. PLANTATION ESTABLISHMENi        39,156.9  73,556.4  B20148.8 1;5,368.7 129,772.5   4409003.3  1,186.6 29229.0 2,489.4 3,496.0 39932.5 13,333.4
Total PROJECT COSiT                 153,626.2 208,187.7 208,704.2 233,326.0 231,311.8 1,035,155.9  4,655.3 6,308.7 6,324.4 7,070.5 7,009.4 31,368.4



- 54 -
Annex 2
Table 2
SRI LMA
FOREST KCTOR DKVELWNDT PROJECT
Su4rh  ka otfnt b, Proact Cowolewt
(SRS I000)
Phtsical
Contin*ncies
FOREST    ENVIRWffNTAL  EDUCATION AND  INSTITUTIONAL  PLANTATION
AM6EIENT   MINANENT           TRAININI        SUPPORT      ESTAILISIENT    Total         I    bout
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                        -              -        18,575.0       26,445.0         1,857.6     46,877.6  10.0  4,687.8
B. VEHICLES                   266500.0         2i400.0         6,000.0       35t600.0        17,504.4     8,004.4   0.0        0 0
C. EQUIPMENT                    4,430.0        2P320,0        20,067.0       13,818.8        27,925.1     68,560.9   5.0  3,429.0
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE        16,056.0       17t672.0        56,304.0       199736.0        26,136.0    135,904,0   0,0       0.0
E. FELLOWSHIPS                        -        6,760.0        33,490.0        1,473.0               -     41,723.0  10.0  4P172.3
F. LABOR                       11,683.0          450.0               -              -       104,435.0    116,568.0   5.0  5,828.4
6. CONTRACTS                                   -                     -        5,040.0        68#850.0     73,990.0  10.0  7,389.0
H. MATERIALS                          -              -               -              -        55,585.0     55,585.0  10.0  5,558.5
1. RENT                         1,800.0              -               -              -               -      1,800.0   0.0       0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS            60,469.0       2S,602.0       134,436.0      102,112.8       302P293.1    628,912.9   4.9 31,064.0
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. cALARIES                  9S146.7          1,293.5         7p455.0       51,268.6         59297.6     74t461.4   0.0       0.0
B. ALLOWdACES                  1t228.0          129.0           644.5        4,756.9         1w423.3      8,181.7   9.2    753.7
C. VEHICLE OPER I MAINT       10.722.0        1,942.5         3,349.5       34,447.0         4i513.5     54,974.5   4.7  2,581.3
L. BUILDING OPER I MAINT             -        2,000.0         1,255.5        1,567.3            86.2      4,909.0   7.4    365.4
E. OFFICE EXPENSE                    -              -           800.0        3,801.5               -      4,601.5   7.2    330.2
F. EQUIPMFNT MAINTENANCE             -              -         3,671.9        4,884.0               -      8P555.9   3.4    291.2
Total RECURRENT COSTS            21,096.7         5,365.0        17,176.4      100P725.3        11320.6    155,684.0   2.8  4,321.7
Total BASELINE COSTS               81,565.7       34,967.0       151,612.4      202,838.1       313,613.7   784,596.9   4.5 35,385.7
Phjsical Contingencies           1,464.6        19124.5         6.209.9        6,962.9        19Y623.9    35,385,7   0.0        0.0
Price Contingencies             18,834.9        5,911.3        28,270.9       55,390.6       106,765.8    215,173.4   4.9 10,618.5
Total PROJECT COSTS               101,865.1       42,002.8       186,093.1      265v191.5       440i003.3  1,035,155.9   4.4 46,004.2
Taxes                           9,681.5         1,541.7        9,387.8        27,720.3        210669.9     70,001.3   4.7  3,309.7
Foreign Exchange                44,702.4       31.106.7       132,255.3       87,304.9       113,194.5    406,563.9   3.4 139968.8



-55 -
Annex 2
Table 3
ml LM
FOREST SECTOR 8EUELOE1N1T PRUECT
9u"uts Accts bw Year
Totals Including Continrncies                             Totals Including Contin rimfis
(SRS  000)                                                (USt 000)
90/91     91/92     92/93     93/94      94/95     Total        90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   Total
==-===.-=_:==:  =:---Z=s2 *--:SS:Sx S::S:a::: zzz==SS3===  ::S:S== StS--; ======= zm=====  Z===z=======
1. INUESilENT COSTS
A. CIVIL IOIlS                 9,499.4  19722.0  17,931.5  10,954.7   9,556.1    67,462.7    287.8   597.6   540.3   328.9   289,6  2i044.3
B. VEHICLES                  27,409.5  27,572.7  13 152.6   9,P350.1  15056.3  102PS41.2   830.6   835.5   416.7   556.1   477.5  3,116.4
C. EQUIPIENT                  .    .5  239131.7   69789.5  19,078.5   6,432.6   82p969.7   964.8   701.0   205.7   547.8   194.9  2.514.2
D. TEDUNICAL ASSISTANCE      36,440.8  449264.7  379537.7  269960.4   79371.9  152,575.5  1,104.3 1,341.4 1,137.5   817.0  223.4  4,623.5
E. FELLOISHIPS                5,717.2  12,326.9  15,371.3  10,968.7  89058.9    52,403.0    173.2   373.5  464.6   332.4  244.2  1,588.0
F. LABOR                     20,657.2  2B,108.6  34,676.6  41,784.9  43,787.7   169,015.0    626.0   951.8 1,050.8 1,266.2 1.326.9  5,121.7
S. CONTRACTS                  1311.8  7,835.1 23,490.7  32,652.7  52,736.4   1189026.9          39.8  237.4   711.9   989.5 1,598.1  36576.6
H. MATERIALS                  6,847.3  10.463.5  4719.6  189707.3  23,903.6   74.641.3   207.5   317.1  446.0   566.9  724.4  2,261.9
1. RENT                         412.8      463.7     497.9      522.9     549.0    2,446.2       12.5    14.1    15.1    15.8    16.6      74.1
Total INUESTMENT COSTS          136,832.5 173,889.0 164,627.4 1789880.1 168,152.4   822.381.4  4.146.4 5P269.4 49988.7 5P420.6 5,095.5 24,920.6
II. YECIRRENfT COSTS
A. SALAIES                   11,609.2  17,251.2  20,750.5  24,996.0  28S665.1   1039172.1    351.8  522.8   628.9   754.4   868.6  3,126.4
8. ALLOWANCES                 1,177.9  1811.3  2,439.9   39150.4   3,916.9   12,496.3          35.7    54.9    73.9   95.5   118.7    378.7
C. VEHICLE OPER I MAINT       2P946.9  10i214.2  15,393.8  199903.9  239158.4    71,517.3       86.3  309.5  466.5   603.1   701.9  2,167.2
D. 8UILDIP WPER I MAINT        625.8   1w119.3   1,580.9   1s859.7  2,199.8    7,375.5    19.0    33.9    47.9    56.4    66.4    223.5
E. OWICE EXPENSE                533.9   1,650.8   1.197.5   1,403.5   1.626.4      69412.2      16.2   50.0    36.3    42.5   49.3    194.3
F. EGJIP9IENT MAINTENANCE           -   2,251.9  2,714.1  3,232.3   39602.7    11901.0             -    68.2   82.2    97.9   109.2    357.6
Tot.l RECURRENT COSTS            16,793.7  34,299.8  44,076.8  54,445.9  63,159.4  212,774.5    508.9 1,039.4 19335.7 19649.9 19913.9  6P447.7
Total PROJECT COSTS              153,626.2 208,187.7 209,704.2 233,326.0 231,311.9 1,035,155.9  49655.3 6,308.7 6,324.4 7i070.5 7,009.4 31,368.4



-56 -                                   ANNEX 3
Table 1
SRI LANKA
FORESTRY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Credit Allocation
Catelory                                Amount                        Z
(US$ million)
(1) Works
(a) Building and
contruction                     1.53               75Z
(b) Site Preparation
Contract                        2.15               60Z
(c) Plantation/Forest
Management Labor                4.61               90Z
(2)  Vehicles, equipment                                     1002 of foreign
and materials                                           expenditures
including plantation                5.87                1002 of local
inputs                                                  expenitures
(ex-factory cost)
and 70Z of local
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally.
(3)  Incremental staff                                       100l   of local
salaries and                        1.75               expenditures until
allowances                                              January 31, 1991,
7OZuntil January 31,
1992, 502 until
December 31, 1994 and
201 of local expendi-
tures thereafter.
(4) Consultants' services
and training                        4.03                1OOZ
Total                          19.9



- 57 -
Annex 3
Table 2
SRI LANKA
FOREST SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financint Plan bh Project Cosponents
(USS '000)
INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT                   GOVERNMENT OF
ASSOCIATION      FINNIDA         SRI LANKA         Total
-------------  ------------  -------------  --------------                     Local (Excl.  Duties I
Amojnt   Z    Amount   Z        Asount   %      Amount  Z        For. Exch.      Taxes)       Taxes
A. FOREST MANAGEKENT               2,149.4 69.6          -    -      937,4 30.4   3w086.8   9.8        1,354.6         1,438.8      293.4
B. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT        1,051.9 82.6          -    -      220.9 17.4   19272.8   4.1           942.6          283.5       46.7
C. EDUCATION AND TRAINING          2,304.' 40.9  21468.0 43.8        86'.5 15.4   5o639,2  18.0        4,007.7         1,347.0      284.5
D. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT           4,062.0 50.5    334.'  4.2   39639.5 45.3   8,036.1  25.6    2'645.6                4,550.5      840.0
E. FLANTATION ESTADILISHMENT    10,364.4 77.7            -    -   2,969.0 22.3  13P333.4  42.5         3,430.1         9,246.6      656.7
Tvtal Disbursement                  19,932.4 63.5  2,802.7  8.9   8,633.2 27.5  31,368.4 100.0    12t380.7             16866.4   2.121.3



ANNEX 3
-58 -                            Table 3
SRI LANKA
FOREST SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(USS million)
IDA                                Disbursements
Fiscal Year      Semester      Per Semester      Cumulative
1990             1                 0.0          0.0
2                 1.7         1.7
1991             1                 2.8          4.5
2                 2.0         6.5
1992             1                 2.0          8.5
2                 1.8        10.3
1993             1                 2.0        12.3
2                 2.1        14.4
1994             1                 2.2        16.6
2                 2.2        18.8
1995             1                 0.7        19.5
2                 0.3        19.8
1996             1                 0.1        19.9



- 59 -
SRI LANKA                                  Amne  4
FOREST  SECTOR  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT                         Tablo I
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS - OUTPUT AND REVENUES
Years      tuisting Plantations            NMtural forists              Mm plaitatiusi          R uev S ivoows
SlauIs    SeulIhUM  SIWulgs   Seellwod                 S"alos    SlImood           Carriet prices        arkiet Price
(aS)         (03)           31)           d31           1.3)          (a3)           Oo Iis.)          ('OO Rk.)
1        4,045        4,000           1,123          343                 -                    14,524               22,414
2       12,090        !2,000          2,247          725            -           -             34,166               47,827
2       11,135        18,000          3,370        1,066            -          -              51,259               71,740
4       24,130        24,000          4,493        1,450            -          -              48,252              15,45
5       42,314        42,000          7,863        2,538            -          -             119,231              147,394
&       40,451        40,000          11,233       3,625            -          -             170,210              239,134
7      120,902       120,000         22,446        7,250            -          s,385         342,455              473,248
8               -                      -            -               -          10,950          3,041                3,141
9                              -                                    -         15,630           4,369                4,349
10        -                           -                                        18,555           5,18                 5,1U
ll1       -      -                      -            -               -         27,010           7,569                7,549
12                                                                   -          4,700           1,314                1,314
13        -                           -                            1,642       17,968           6,592                8,015
14               -              -                    -             3,272       27,970          11,149               14,092
15                       -                           -             4,820       38,699          15,742               20,088
16                       -                           -             7,983       49,927          21,959               29,053
17        -             -                            -             9,182       59,749          25,799               34,071
19               -              -                    -            15,459       42,286          29,212               42,445
19               -              -              -                  13,924       25,431          21,252               33,742
20        -                                          -            26,191       31,404          43,120               71,300
21        -                                          -            34,035       36,470          51,311               95,140
22        -             -                            -            45,542       47,640          68,744              114,214
23        -             -                            -            14,964       22,712          25,954               41,414
214       -             - -                          -            19,854       27,076          33,532               54,268
25        -             -                                        141,422       46,723         185,231              334,353
26        -                                          -           199,000       62,035         225,853              407,920
27        -             -               -            -          252,510        74,790         277,401              504,5
26        -             -               -            -           295,053       93,023         323,212              587,036
29                       -                           -          350,485       116,865         382,857              694,994
30               -                      -            -            35,946        7,954          50,701              08,990
31               -                      -            -            40,223       12,677          59,087              102,566
32               -                      -            -            59,456        14,963        105,053              179,313
33        -             -               -            -            71,783       19,773         136,9'-              230,644
34               -              -                    -            96,491       20,319         174,707              292,991
35        -                             -            -            25,110        8,370          98,492              141,373
36        -             -                            -            31,308       10,463         110,415              176,717
37        -             -               -            -                 0            0               0                    0
38        -             -               -            -                 0            0               0                    0
39        -             -                                              0            0               0                    0
0         --                                         -            42,525       14,175          77,629              131,069
41        -                                                       6-  -  3,788  21,263        116,444              194,604
42        -                     -                    -           85,050        28,350         155,259              262,138
43        .                     -                    -           112,398       37,463         205,163              346,397
44        -             -               -            -           124,538       41,513         227,343              383,845
45                                      -            -          227,937        27,271        592,446               973,868
44        -                             -            -          344,341        39,421        907,555             1,491,077
47               -                      -            -          497,950        43,850      1,320,868            2,i65,719
48        -                                          -          62;,153        45,159      1,653,703            2,714,790



SRI LANKA                                                  ANNEX 4
FOREST SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                         Table 2
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS                                               P     I
(SRS '000)
fERRS          1          2           3          4          5           6          7           6
I.     F~ORSTRv  mNinuEgEr Er BENEFITS
Cbenefits-costs)
R- 8enfits with project
Existing Plantations                       21.623     43.246     64.860      96.q91    15.30S    216.22S    402.4U5    q32.495
Natural Forest                                "91      4.581      6.872       9.163     16,034     22.90t      45,613     45.013
Uith project bwwfits                           22.614     47.827     71,740      95. r    167394    -A9.134    47M.26       q7.264
8. Uithowt project
Existing Plantations                        7,236      7,dX3s     7.236       7.236      7.236     21.,23      43.246     64.0
Natural Forest                                  0          0          0           0          0         "I1      40961      6,672
Mithout projoct bwnfits                         7.236      7,236      7.236       7.236      7.236     22.624      47.627     71.740
C. Incr. ental ben fits                           15,378     40,591     64.504      8R.118    160.156    216.S20    430.4"1    O0.526
0. Incremental Costs
Irwestnent                                85,646      65,915     51,438     47,998      40.530     65,6S6     65.915      51.43
Recurrent                                  224-78     23,560     29,450      34,317     39.326     16.USO      15.74        .67
E. Total Incremental Costs                       108,124     89, 49     80,886      82.315     79,M       102,46      61.663     61,316
F. Not 8enefits                                  (92,746)   (48,904)   (16.384)      6.103     60.300     114.024    34.T77M    345.212
WPV at 122      5t5,597
IRR                  45ZX
II     NElEU PLANTATION  NET UENEFIrS
C(benfits-costs)
R. menowits                                            O    0                0           a          0          0       2.344      3.0S1
8. Costs
Inwvstinent                              26,784      50.107     50.069     71.143      77.107     12.299      5.2           706
Recurrent                                    220        922      1.856      2.496       3,260      3.260      3.260       3.260
C. Nt benefits                                   (27.004)   (51,029)   C51.925)   C73.641)   (0.0367)   (15S9D    (6.204)          (l95)
PV at 122        51,030
IRR                  13 Z
111.            ECTRLL PRECT COnWENTS ET BETEFKTS    (119.750)   (9.933)   (68.309)   (67.536)         c67     99.4S   342,574    3"4.30
(benefits-costs)
NPV at 12         596.626
IRR                    28 Z



ANNEX 4
Table 2
Page 2
YEfiRS        9         10       it         12        13         14         15        16
I     FORESrRV HNSAGE:hr hEr IEEFI TS
(beef#its-costs)
R. Benefits with project
Existing Plantations                   432.455   *32 aS5   32.455   432.455           0         0          0          0
Natural For0.t                          45.813    45.813      .13    45f,13           0         °            
Uith project benefits                      470,268   478.268   478,268    478.268         0         0          0          0
8. Without project
Emisting Platation                      0,"91    l51 359  216,220   432.45-
Natural For-wt                           9.163     16.034   22.906     45.81
Uithout project benefits                    95.654    167.394  239.134   478.268          0          0         0          0
C. Incre_wntal benefits                       382.614   310.874  239.134          0          0                               0
0. Incren_tal Costs
Iestent                                 47.996     40 ,538                            0          °          °         0
Itcurrent                                5.011         0         °          0         0          0          °         0
E. Total I"crrnental Costs                     53,009    4,S30          0          0         0          °                    0
F. Not B"efits                                329,605   270. 34    239.134         0         0          0          0         O
PV at 122      545.597
11. -   3M PLSrRTIOI MET UEIEhtTS
(D. efi ts-costs)
R. Bnefits                                      4.369     S,186     7.569      1,314      *.015     14*0a2    20.0"      29.053
U. Cosl.s
Invetn.nt
Recurrent                               3.260      3.260     3.260      3.260           .260      3.2     60      3.no
C. Not benefits                                 1,109      1.926 W,0           (1.946)    455       1030 9m              25?1"3
WV at 122       51.030
IRE                 13 Z
111.   RLL PROJECt COWO18NTs MET KNEFITS           330.714   27Z.270   243.443      (1.94)    4,755      10.32      16,       25.73
(bef i ts-costs)
WV at 122        546.626
IRR                   26 z



ANNEX 4
Table 2
Page 3
YERRS         17        16         19         20         21         22         23         24
IFOItESTRV l_ErMDf ME IbEIFITrs
(benfits-costs)
A. Ienfits with project
Existing Plantations                          0          0           0 0             0          0               0          0
Natural Forest                                0          0          0
Wiith prject bewfits                              0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
D. Nithout project
Existing Plantations
Ntvural Forest
Itthout project benefits                          0          0                     0          0          0          0 
C_ Incr_ental b_efits                                0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
0. Incremental Costs
I n_estgnt                                    0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
Recurrent                                     0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
E. Total Increnental Costs                           0          0          a          0          0          0          0          0
F. Net Benfits                                       o          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
NPM at 122        5,59?
IRR                  Z52
II.    hEN PULANRTION   ET 8EhEFITS
Cbenfits-costs)
A. benefits                                     34.071     37,904     33.762     71.300     85.160    114.214    41.414    54.2W
8. Costs
Investment
Recurrent                                3.260      3.260      3,260      3.260      3.260      3.260      3.260      3.260
C. Net benefits                                 30,611     31,54      30.50      609.00     61,900    110.9"4     U,154    5l.lO
mm at 122        51.030
IRR                  13 2
III    RLL PROJECT C     _OrPONENTS MET  ENEFTTS     30,811     31,544     30.502     68.040     61,900    110.954     3.154      S1,0
(bnfits-costs)
IPV at 12Z       596.626
IRR                   Zs 2



ANNEX 4
Table 2
Page 4
VEflS        25          26          2?          29         29         30         31          32
1.    r     mFO'ESrRV VMRA   uEr MEEFI rS
benrf i ts-costs)
R. bow its mith project
Existing Plantations                         0           0           0           0          0                     0           0
Haturel Forest
With proj-ct benefits                            0     0           0           0           0          0               0           0
S. Mithout project
Existing Plantations
netwval Forest
Uithout project benefits                         0           0
C- Incrwr tAl b_ef its                              0           0           0           0          0          0          °           °
0. Irncre_ntal Costs
I.w.stnent                                   0           0           0           0          0          6          00
Recurrent                                    0           0           0           0          0          0          0           0
E. rotal Incremental Costs                          0           °     0           0           0          0          0                0
F .et BSeeits                                       0           O           0           a          0                                 0
WPV at 12Z     545597
IRR                 45 2
I I . INEU PLMTT aON MEr BFNEFI rs
(benefits-costs)
A. Seneits                                     334.353    407.020     504.555     587.036    194.6        ".no    IQ2.S        176.313
D. Costs
Irwestmsent
Recurrent                                3.260      3.260       3.260       3.260       3.260      3,260     3.260       3.260
C. Het benefits                                331,093    404.560     501.295    563.776    691.636    s5.no         n.3m      175.053
NPV aJt 122     51.030
IRk                 13 z
Ill.   RLL PROJECT C_IPENTS PET  NENEFITS           331,093    404.560     501.295     563.771     691,136    o5.no       n.301     175.053
(benefits-costs)
WV at 122        596.626
in                    28 2
:Ss



ANNEX 4
Table 2
Page 5
VEfS          33        34         35         36         37          U          9          30
I     FORESRu  "RN6GEItENT NET EEFIrs
C(bef its-costs)
R. Bwfits uith project
Etisting Plantations                          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
Natural Forest
Uith project benfits                              0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
S. Without project
EK sting P1 ntati ons
Natural Forest
lMithoout project benefits
C. Incremental boofits                               0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
D. Incromintal Costs
Inwestant                                     0          0          0          0          0          °          0          a
Recur.ent                                     0          0          0          0          0          0          0          a
E. Total lncrenntal Costs                            0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
F. fet B_f i ts                                      0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
PV at 122      545.597
IRR                 452zt
ix. t HuR E    W   srara   NET uEINTS
(benefits-costs)
R. Beefits                                     230.654    292.99l   111.373    176.71?           0          0          0    l31.059
B. Costs
Investmegnt
Recurrent                                3,260      3.260      3.260      3.260      3.260      3.260      3. 0       3.260
C. Net benefits                                227.3,    289731    136.113    173.457      C3.260)    (3.260)    3.26    127,.9
IPI  at 122     51.030
IRR                 13 2
III.   RLL PcrOECT COMeaicrS lET *DFFITS            227,301    209,731    136.113    173.457     C3,260)    (3,260     C3.260)   127.6
(benefits-costs)
NM at 122        595.626
IRR                   28 Z



ANNEX 4
Table 2
Page 6
YERRS         41          42          43        I"           45         41          4? 
FOREsrYv WhEEr sEr eENEFi rs
(ben.fi ts-costs)
R. Benefits with project
ENisting Plantations                             0          0           0          0           0           0          0           0
hatural Forest
Mith project benefits                                0          0           0           0          0           °           0          °
8. lithout project
EKisting Plantations
Notural Forest
Mithout project benefits
C. Incrnemntal benefits                                 0                 0          0           0    °           °           0          °
0- Incre_ ntal Costs
I nvestwnt                                       0          0           0          0           0           0
Recurrent                                        0          0           0          0           0           0          0           0
E. Total Incremental Costs                              0           0           0          0           0          0           °          0
F- Net Benefits                                         0           0          0           0           0          0
NPV at 12x      545.597
IRR                  452X
II.    HEM PLANTariOm  hEr sEKEFIrs
(benefits-costs)
RA  Benefits                                      196.604    262.138    346.397    383,645    q7>.-69  1.451.077  2,165.719  2.7114710
B- Costs
Invwestment
RAcurrent                                  3.260       3,260       3.260      3,260       3.260      3.260       3,260       3.260
C. Net benefits                                   113.3.4    250,878    343,13?    380.565    970.606  1,457.017  2.162.459  2.711.530
WV at 12X        51.030
IRR                   13 Z
Ill.    ALL PROJECT COSPOEWNTS NET BENEFITS            193,344    256.876    343.137    300,565    -r0.608  1,47.017  2.162.459  2.711.S30
(ben fits-costs)
PV at 12Z         596.626
IR1                     20 2



ANNEX 4
Table 2
Page 7
YEARRS
I.    FouESTRY MANAGEMENT hEr ENEFi rs
(boo ist-costs)
A. enefits uith project
Existing Plantations                            0
Natural Forest
Uith project benefits                               0
B1 Uithout project
Existing Plantations
Natural Forest
Uithout project benfits
C. Incremental benefits                                0
0. Incremental Costs
I rwestent                                     0
Recurrent                                       0
E. rotal Incremental Costs                             0
F. Het Bnf its                                         0
WV at 122       545.597
IRA                  45Z
II -   NEu PLrNTITN o Ei BENlEFI rs
(benf its-costs)
A. Benfits                                    3,214. e1
D. Costs
I rwstment
Recurrent                                 3.260
C. Net benfits                                 3.211.221
WV at 122        51.030
IRR                  13 z
III.    ALL PROJcr COMPONENTS MET BENEFITS          3.211,221
(be nfits-costs)
WV at 12z         596.626
IRR                    20 X



-67-                             A^NfX 
SRI LANKA
FOREST SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
TEOCHNCAL ASSISTANCE RtEIftEMENT
Duratien
Activity                Subject                        Local  Internet.
A.  Exrrtc *nd Consultents
Fr etPlanning
Forest Sector Planner                      12
Monitoring A Evaluation        6
Special Studies               24            5
Subtotal                    30           17
Forestry Operations
Silviculture (dry zone)                    36
Silviculture (jp-country)                  24
Forest Management                          24
Cartography                   60           12
Sit  Ae sses nt                            6
Subtotal                    60          102
Logging A Sasmilling
Logging and Roado                          la
Log grading                                 3
Subtotal                    O         -15
Univoraity Education
Lecturers                                  3o
Consultants                                10
Subtotal                     0           40
Technical Training          Education Advisor                          sO
Instructor                                 38
Consultants                               1i
Subtotal                     a          114
Environmntal
Management
Cosoultants                   36           32
subtotal                    as           S2
Information System
Consultants                   12            6
Subtotal
TOTAL                       13P         U47
B. Fellowships
Planning Unit                              46
Forest Department                         152
Stats Timber Corp.                         24
University Sri
Joyewardenspurx                         240
TOTAL                                  466
C. Study Tours
Planning Unit                               3
Forest Depsrteont                          4S
State Timber Corp.                         10
University Sri
Jayewardenopura                          40
TOTAL                                    99



ANNEX 6
- 68 -                            Page 1 of 3
SRI LANKA
FOREST SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Details of Forestry Sector Institutions
Ministry of Lands. Irriaatien and Mahaveli Development (MLIMD)
1.       This ministry is responsible for land administration and land use
planning through its Land Commissioner's Department, forestry and environ-
mental development through the Forest Department, wildlife management through
the Department of WilJlife Conservation, and wood industries through the State
Timber Corporation. The Forestry Planning Unit of the ministry has been
responsible for preparing the Forestry Master Plan. In 1985, the Cabinet
approved a proposal to strengthen this unit in order for it to function as
secretariat to the newly conceived National Forestry Commission (NFC). In
this capacity, the Forestry Planning Unit would monitor and coordinate the
activities of the Forest Department, State Timber Corporation, and other
institutions. The NFC is designed to be an interministerial body with
statutory power to set policy and coordinate all forestry activities. To date
it remains at the planning stage and no deadline has been set for its
establishment.
Forest Department
2.       The Forest Department is responsible for the management and
development of forests. It is headed by a Conservator of Forests (CF) who is
suppr.'ted by two Additional Conservators of Forests, one for forest management
and the other for administration and personnel. The department discharges its
responsibilities through six section in the headquarters and 15 territorial
divisions. The six sections each are headed by a Deputy Conservator of
Forests (DCF) and include: Education and Extension, Working Plans and
Inventory, Special Projects, Planning and Development, Research, and Community
Forest Project. The 15 territorial divisions are each headed by a Divisional
Forest Officer (DFO) and are further divided into 58 ranges and 328 forest
beats (Chart 1 and Map 1).
3.       The department has a large staff but few are well-trained and there
are many vacancies. At present there are positions for about 835 technical
and professional staff and 555 support staff. Only 43 professional staff are
university graduates. Of the technical staff, 515 are Beat Forest Officers,
214 are Range Forest Officers, and 63 are Foresters Officers. Sixty percent
of the Forest Officers have no formal training in forestry. The department is
run by a large number of untrained staff, which reduces its management
efficiency. For example, the budget for the department over the last three
years has averaged Rs 160 million, but only 70Z of it has been utilized. The
functions carried out in the territorial divisions are clear, but those at
headquarters are not, as some sections are organized according to function and
others according to project. Special projects, for example, are organized
along project lines.



ANNEX 6
- 69 -                          Page 2 of 3
Department of Wildlife Conservation (DWLC)
4.       The objectives of the Department are to preserve flora and fauna;
prevent the destruction of wildlife and prosecute offenders; provide national
park services for foreign and local tourists; and carry out research on wild
animals and rare plants. The DWLC manages a forest area of about 0.66
million ha. This area includes three strict nature reserves, ten national
parks, one nature reserve, one elephant corridor, and two sanctuaries.
State Timber Corporation
5.       The State Timber Corporation was formed from the Forest Department in
1968 as a parastatal to take charge of the extraction, conversion, and
commercialization of timber under the public sector. Its present functions
include: scientific exploitation of forests; sawmilling and seasoning and
preservation treatment for timber; local and international sales of timber;
and activities such as road building and mechanized logging. Its jurisdiction
also includes the importation of timber; afforestation, reforestation, and
scientific management of forests and forest plantations; and agricultural
production.
6.       STC is managed by a Chairman and Board of Directors, which includes
the Secretary of MLIMD and the Conservator of Forests. Although it is
government-owned, STC operates on a commercial basis for profit. The monoDoly
it enjoys in the harvesting and selli,g of wood from state-owned lands has
helped to keep the corporation profitable until recently in spite of
relatively low labor and utilization efficiencies of its mills.
7.       STC operates 14 sawmills of its own and nine rented mills.  Most of
the mills are old, inefficient, inadequately equipped and poorly maintained.
Personnel lack training in sawing techniques, sawmill maintenance, and saw-
doctoring. Lumber guarding and quality control are not carried out
effectively. Two mills are now closed due to civil distirbances.
8.       The sawmilling capacity of the corporation is low compared to the
wood consumed by its 21 mills in operation 24,000 m3 vs. 50,000 m3 in 1987.
Since STC gives priority to supplying its own mills, the availability of logs
harvested from State forests for private mills is limited. In addition, the
cost of logs to STC mills is marginally cheaper than similar logs sold to
private sawmills. STC also sells its logs to private sawmillers at a
controlled price, which is lower than market price.
9.       There is no economic or political justification for the STC to remain
in the sawmilling business. The technology is simple, investment requirement
is small. Although, the general policy of the government is to privatize
state-owned industries because of the small economic importance of STC's
sawmilling operation a low priority is being attached to privatization of
STC's sawmilling operations at present.
10.      Most of the logging and transport provided by STC is carried out
under contract. The logging activities lack effective management and
planning. There is limited mapping of areas about to be logged and an absence



ANNEX 6
-70 -                           Page 3 of 3
of contour maps. Enumeration data further limit the effective layout of roads
and logging sites. Nevertheless, STC observes regulations by limiting its
extraction to elephant skidding in the critical Wet Zone forests.
Ceylon Plyvood Corporation (CPC)
11.      The CPC operates as a corporation of the Ministry of Industries and
Scientific Affairs. It owns and operates two sawmills and two wood-working
complexes, one at Gintota (1941) and one at Kosgama (1969). The wood supplied
to the industry comes from STC and CPC's own concession forest in Kanneliya,
which is nearly exhausted and no longer can meet the needs of the industry.
As a result, CPC recently increased its use of rubber wood. CPC's location
under a different ministry than STC has created serious coordination and wood
supply problems.
12.      CPC's two factories are old and subject to frequent breakdown.  This,
coupled with overstaffing and a dwindling supply of logs, has resulted in
continuous financial losses for the corporation. So far, CPC has accumulated
Rs 212 million in losses. Unless it strengthens its processing chain and
reduces labor costs, the corporation's financial position will continue to
deteriorate. CPC is currently being reviewed for possible inclusion iii the
Industrial Restructuring Project proposed for IDA assistance.
National Paper Corporation (NPC)
13.      The National Paper Corporation owns and operates two pulp and paper
mills. The mills are located in Valaichchenai and Embilipitiya; together they
have an output capacity of 35,500 tons of paper a year. Their raw material
fiber is waste paper, local paddy straw pulp, and imported long-fiber wood
pulp. Until recently the NPC was using imported pulp and straw collected in
the east for its raw material. However, with the civil disturbances, these
supplies of pulp and straw have been interrupted. Therefore, NPC is now
pulping local Pine and using Eucalyptus as a substitute for straw.
Nevertheless, the corporation still suffers from irregular supplies of wood
from STC.
University of Sri Javawardenepura (USJ)
14.      The University of Sri Jayawardenepura is located in the suburbs of
Colombo. It has three faculties; Faculty of Applied Sciences, Faculty of
Management Studies and Commerce and Faculty of Arts. The Forestry MSc course,
which was started in 1983, is under Department of Botany of the Faculty of
Applied Sciences. The two-year Forestry MSc course is given through the
Department of Biological Sciences and is headed by a course coordinator. The
course can admit 15 students a year, and since 1983 three classes already have
graduated. Although the University has basic instructional facilities
available, there is no arboretum, field station, or nurseries to provide
hands-on training of students. Furthermore, there is a shortage of teaching
personnel, and the University depends mainly on visiting lecturers to provide
instruction.



- 71 -
Chart 1
SRI LANKA
FOREST SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Organzmbtn of Forest Department
Headquarters
Conservatar
of ForePn
Additional                                                       Additional
Deput                                                            Deputy
Conservator                                                      Conservator
Opetanaingnt                                                        inPsaonne
l                     lI Deu                                              Deputy
Conservator                                                      Conservator
Foeslanagemnt                                                      Pesnancel
Deputy                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Deputy
Conservator                                              -       Conservator
Silvicutagure                                                       Law
Deputy
Conservator
Education &
Extension
Deputy
Conservator
Environmental
Management                                        Reld Offics
Deputy                                         DsitFrs
Conservator                                          Of{
Research
BRan    Forest
Off;ice
|Beat Forestl
Oflice          l



__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b lDo 214 /I
*~--ork.tAOo~                                        SRI LANKA                P
__'-:,- -                          |>                       FOREST SECTOR DEVELOPMENT ROJECT!
'--  ~ 4"<-<   +(FORESTRY 11)
p-  -o 6 -  -
__°-~ sAt CiO                                                                              forest D,s,,os, Rottoors  
-  ~~~~~~~~~~   - -  -   - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pr.. 986
NP o st  19     8 0  d'o g o
/       ,j*                                      F. tr q   .no    ,  
/   1                                Agon.rs>n o < 20re~~~~Ag,  8-wd.r ,  
Tobrow   ,1   t    * ::                      s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T.., otto slur,°
F-                               h   -no   ,                                 P oIntte.n8odt.ris 
[                      <                      .!                  R l~~R  
r                          +sB~ D RY    7'"
r                             >,   j  ~~~~~Z O N E                   <o
4<~~!
s  ~~~~4>,-                    f
_*    '                                          s
4,                ,                   
,-   ,   ,           *
-. T E R   A E D~ A T E                                                R
*,,           _      _      ; .... r'       _    . 
,~ ~ ~ ~       ~        ~~~                               ~    ~~~~~~ -  .  o _ 
,_ i   ;    *_ N E                              Z °         E
E.r.
-                            8-         -                        M
_~~~                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~ _ _-                       ZON   .__..     ._ _..   
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AC ZONE



