Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2043 CE
                (Forest Sector Development Project)
                              between
            DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated December 6, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2043 CE
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  December   6,   1989,  between  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA  (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to  contract from the Government of
Finland a  grant  (hereinafter  called  the  Finland  Grant) in an
amount of 12,000,000 Finnmarks to  assist in financing part of the
Project on the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the  Finland  Grant  Agreement)  to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Government of Finland;
Page  2
     (C)  the Borrower intends to  obtain  a grant from the United
Nations   Development   Programme,    the   Overseas   Development
Administration   of   the   United   Kingdom   and   the  Canadian
International  Development  Agency,  respectively,  to  assist  in
financing parts of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Previous  Agreement"   means   the  Development  Credit
Agreement  (Forest  Resources  Development  Project)  between  the
Borrower and the Association dated February 2, 1983, as amended;
     (b)  "Corporation"  means   the   State  Timber  Corporation,
established and operating  under  the State Industrial Corporation
Act No. 49 of 1957;
     (c)  "Forestry Planning Unit" means  the  unit referred to in
Section 3.06 of the Previous Agreement;
     (d)  "Steering Committee" means the  committee referred to in
Section 3.10 of the Previous Agreement;
     (e)  "Forestry Master Plans" means  the  plans referred to in
Section 3.08 of the Previous Agreement; and
     (f)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent  to  fifteen  million  five  hundred  thousand  Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 15,500,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars  a  special  account in a bank and on
terms and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special  Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1995 or
Page  3
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge  shall  accrue:  (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  April 15 and October 15
commencing October  15,  1999  and  ending  April  15,  2029. Each
installment to and including the  installment payable on April 15,
2009 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under para-
graph (a) above  by  requiring  the  Borrower  to  repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modifi-
cation.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Page  4
     Section 2.08. The currency  of  the  United States of America
is hereby  specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to  this  end,  shall  carry  out  or  cause to be
carried out the Project with  due  diligence and efficiency and in
conformity   with   appropriate   administrative,   financial  and
silvicultural practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services  and  other resources required for
the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
Page  5
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  Subject to paragraph (b)  of  this  Section the right of
the Borrower to withdraw  the  proceeds  of  any grant made to the
Borrower  for  the  financing  of  the  Project  shall  have  been
suspended, cancelled or terminated  in  whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing therefor.
     (b)  Paragraph (a) of  this  Section  shall  not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the  satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation or  termination is not caused by
the failure of  the  Borrower  to  perform  any of its obligations
under such agreement; and (ii)  adequate funds for the Project are
available  to  the  Borrower  from  other  sources  on  terms  and
conditions consistent with the  obligations  of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  the Borrower has  made  arrangements satisfactory to the
Association for the commitment of the Finland Grant;
     (b)  the  Project  Coordinators  referred  to  in  Part  1 of
Schedule 4 to  this  Agreement  have  been  appointed and taken up
their respective positions;
     (c)  the technical assistance team  referred  to in Part 2 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, has been established; and
     (d)  the Corporation's log sales prices have been deregulated
in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning
of the Borrower is  designated  as  representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Page  6
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance and Planning
          Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
          Colombo, Sri Lanka
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                SECMINFIN                        FINMIN 21409
                Colombo                          FORAID 21232
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
                             OF SRI LANKA
                          By /s/ Susantha de Alwis
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Shinji Asanuma
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Works
Page  7
     (a)  Building and         1,080,000         75%
          construction
     (b)  Plantation           1,490,000         60%
          works under
          contract
     (c)  Plantation           3,220,000         90%
          labor
(2)  Vehicles, equipment       4,150,000         100% of foreign
     and materials                               expenditures,
     including planta-                           100% of local
     tion inputs                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and 70%
                                                 of local ex-
                                                 penditures for
                                                 other items pro-
                                                 cured locally
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(3)  Incremental               1,220,000         100% of local
     staff salaries                              expenditures
     and allowances                              until January 31
                                                 1991, 70% of
                                                 local expendi-
                                                 tures until
                                                 January 31,
                                                 1992, 50% of
                                                 local expendi-
                                                 tures until
                                                 January 31,
                                                 1994, and 20%
                                                 of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 thereafter
(4)  Consultants'              2,810,000         100%
     services and
     training
(5)  Unallocated               1,530,000
                             ___________
         TOTAL                15,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  the term  "incremental  staff  salaries  and allowances"
means salaries and allowances of incremental staff; and
     (d)  the dates in paragraph 1 (Category (3)) of this Schedule
refer to dates of receipt  by  the Association of applications for
withdrawals from the Credit Account.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
Page  8
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project is to improve the performance of
the forestry sector in Sri Lanka.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Forest Management
1.   Mapping, inventory and completion  of Forest Management Plans
for about 35,000 hectares of  young plantations, and about 100,000
hectares of natural forest in the Dry Zone.
2.   Mapping and indicative inventory of about 500,000 hectares of
Dry Zone forests.
3.   Silvicultural  treatment   of   about   60,000   hectares  of
established  plantations  and  about  40,000  hectares  of natural
forest.
Part B:   Environmental Management
     Establishment and  operation  of  an environmental management
system to align forestry operations with environmental guidelines.
Part C:   Plantation Establishment
1.   Establishment and maintenance of about 17,900 hectares of new
plantations.
2.   Maintenance of  about  1,200  hectares  of  established young
plantations.
3.   Production of about 22 million seedlings.
4.   Establishment of two,  and  maintenance  of four, species and
provenance trials.
Part D:   Education and Training
1.   Expansion of  professional  forester  education facilities at
the University of Sri Jayawardenapura.
2.   Expansion of forestry training facilities at the Nuwara Eliya
Forestry School.
3.   Training of State Timber Corporation staff.
Part E:   Institutional Support
1.   (a)  Strengthening of the Forest Department management; and
     (b)  Expansion  of  Forest  Department  field  operations  by
establishing new forest divisions.
2.   Enhance the capabilities  of  the  Forestry  Planning Unit to
update the Forestry  Master  Plan  and  to  coordinate and monitor
forestry operations.
3.   Strengthening  of  State  Timber  Corporation  management and
operations.
4.   Upgrading  of   State   Timber   Corporation  accounting  and
information systems.
Page  9
                           *   *   *   *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for  goods  shall be
grouped in bid packages in such  a  manner as shall be agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Association.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  goods manufactured in Sri Lanka may
be granted a margin of  preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods except vehicles up to an aggregate amount
not exceeding the  equivalent  of  $2,200,000,  may  be awarded in
accordance with competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   Contracts for goods  except  vehicles  estimated to cost less
than  the  equivalent  of  $30,000  each,  may  be  procured after
solicitation  of  quotations  from   at  least  three  independent
suppliers  in  accordance  with  procedures  satisfactory  to  the
Association, provided that the  aggregate of expenditures for such
items shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,200,000.
3.   Proprietary and specialized items, books  and seeds, up to an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $200,000,  may be
procured directly  from  qualified  suppliers  in  accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.   Civil works for  building  and  construction shall be carried
out under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance  with the Borrower's
competitive bidding  procedures  satisfactory  to the Association;
force  account,  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  exceeding the
equivalent of $200,000, may  be  used  in  the event no responsive
bids have been received.
5.   Plantation works  shall  be  carried  out  either under force
account,  or  under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance  with  the
Borrower's procurement procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
     Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract awarded in accordance with
the procedures described  in  Part  A.1  hereof, and each contract
estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of  $100,000  or  more,  the
procedures set forth in paragraphs  2  and  4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
Page  10
to ensure that the two  conformed  copies of the contract required
to be furnished to  the  Association  pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to  the  Association prior to the making of
the first payment out of  the  Special  Account in respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section  4.01  (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist in  carrying out the Project, the Borrower
shall  employ  or   cause   to   be   employed  consultants  whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to  the  Association. Such consultants shall
be  selected  in   accordance   with   principles  and  procedures
satisfactory to the Association  on  the  basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of  Consultants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing  Agency"  published  by the Bank in August
1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.   The Borrower  shall  appoint  and  maintain  in the following
positions, persons whose qualifications  and experience are satis-
factory to the Association:
     (a)  a Project  Coordinator  for  activities  in the Forestry
Department;
     (b)  a Project Coordinator  for  activities at the University
of Sri Jayawardenapura; and
     (c)  a Project Coordinator for activities in the Corporation.
2.   The  Borrower  shall  establish   and  maintain  a  technical
assistance team with membership and  resources, and under terms of
reference, satisfactory to the Association.
3.   The Borrower shall maintain:
     (a)  the Forestry Planning Unit; and
     (b)  the Steering Committee.
4.   The Borrower shall, in  accordance with programs satisfactory
to the Association:
     (a)  by January  1,  1990  complete  a  reorganization of the
Forestry Department; and
     (b)  by January 1, 1990  establish and thereafter maintain an
environmental management division in the Forestry Department.
5.   The  Borrower  shall,  by  January  1,  1992,  undertake  all
Page  11
forestry  operations  in  accordance  with  the  Forest Management
Plans.
6.   The  Borrower  shall   establish   new  plantations  on  land
allocated  for  forestry  purposes  by  the  Borrower  through its
appropriate agencies.
7.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)  by January 1, 1994 complete  in accordance with terms of
reference and time  schedule  satisfactory  to  the Association, a
study on graduate forestry courses; and
     (b)  review the results of the study with the Association.
8.   Without limitation to the  provisions  of Section 9.01 of the
General Conditions, the Borrower shall, by March 31, 1992, conduct
a comprehensive mid-term review  with  the Association with regard
to the implementation of the Project.
9.   The   Borrower   shall   cause    the   University   of   Sri
Jayawardenapura to maintain  the University Coordinating Committee
with membership,  responsibilities  and  resources satisfactory to
the Association.
10.  The Borrower  shall  cause  the  Corporation  to establish by
January 1, 1990 and  thereafter  maintain in a manner satisfactory
to the  Association,  separate  profit  centers  for  its logging,
sawmilling,   wood   treatment,    and   furniture   manufacturing
operations, respectively.
11.  The Borrower shall cause the Corporation:
     (a)  by December  31,  1990  to  complete  in accordance with
terms  of  reference  and   time   schedule  satisfactory  to  the
Association:
          (i)  a study  on  the  privatization  of  its sawmilling
               operations; and
         (ii)  a reexamination of the Corporation's organizational
               structure with a view to improve its efficiency and
               to   define   its    operational   and   managerial
               responsibilities; and
     (b)  to review the results of the study and the reexamination
with the Association.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $800,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
Page  12
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on  behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit  Account  and  deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to  the  eligible  Categories,  less  the  amount of any
outstanding special  commitment  entered  into  by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories shall follow such  procedures  as the Association shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
Page  13
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Asso-
ciation may request; or (B)  deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall other-
wise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account  shall  be  made  until  the  Borrower  has  provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account  for  subsequent   withdrawal   or   for  cancellation  in
accordance  with  the  relevant   provisions  of  this  Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
