E-358
VOL. I
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
Ministry of W'orks, Housing and Communications
ROAD SECTOR INSTITUITIONAL SUPPORT TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROJECT (RSISTAP)
The Feasibility Study Review and Engineering Design of
KATUNGURU - KASESE - FORT PORTAL ROAD
KASESE - KILEMBE ROAD
EQUATOR ROAD
PHASE 11FEASIBILITY STUDY
FINAL REPORT
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
PART I: PHYSICAL AND BIOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT
Consultant                           Client
Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick & Co. Ltd.  Ministry of Works, Housing
and Communications
in association with                  P.O. Box 10
Associated Consulting Engineers      Entebbe - Uganda
APRIL 2000






GOVERNMENT OF THE REPlUBLIC OF LiGANDA
M1inistry of Works, Housing and Communications
ROAD SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROJECT (RSISTAP)
The Feasibility Study Review and Engineering Design of
KATUNGURU - KASESE - FORT PORTAL ROAD
KASESE - KILEMBE ROAD
EQUATOR ROAD
PHASE I FEASIBILITY STUDY
FINAL REPORT
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
PART I: PHYSICAL AND BIOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT
Consultant                           Client
Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick & Co. Ltd.  Ministry of Works, Housing
and Communications
in association with                 P.O. Box 10
Associated Consulting Engineers      Entebbe - Uganda
APRIL 2000



I



KatunLauru-Kasese--ort Plortal Roac             L:LiS()iiirV Study Revie xmd Detailed Enuineerrna Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                        ELV(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
ABBREVL4TIONS
ACE         Associated Consulting Engineers
CAO          Chief Administrative Officer
CMP          Construction Management Plan
DEAP         District Environmental Action Plan
DEC          District Environmental Committee
DLC          District Local Council
DHEC         District Health and Environment Conmmittee
EA           Environmental Appraisal
ELA          Environmental Impact Assessment
EIS          Environmental inpact Study
ELL:         Environmental Liaison Unit
GOIU         Government ot' Uganda
INIID       Information and monitoring Division
LC           Local Council
LEC          Local Environmental Committee
MNR          Ministrv for Natural Resources
MOLG         Ministrv of Local Government
MOLWE        Ministry of Land Works and Environment
MOWHC        Ministry of Works Housing and Communications
MTTI         Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Industry
NBS          National Bureau of Standards
NEAP         National Environmental Action Plan
NEMA         National Environmental
NEMP         National Environment Action Plan
NES          National Environmental Strategy
NGO          Non Governmental Organisation
NRM          National Resistance Movement
NWSC         National Water and Sewerage Corporation
PBA          Physical and Biological Assessment
QENP         Queen Elizabeth National Park
RA           Road Agency
RAFU         Road Agency Formation Unit
RSISTAP    The Road Sector Institutional Support Technical Assistance
Project
SCA          Socio-Cultural Assessment
SWK          Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick & Co. Ltd
UEB          Uganda Electricity Board
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE      i                                        April 2000



Katuntguru-Kasese-Fort Portal Roac                        i easibilirv Study Review and Detailed Enminecrinc Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                      EIA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
UlSAID         Uinited States Agencv for lnternational Development
lTU'A         UIganda WVildlife Authorin.
U'CA            Wildlife Conservation Area
%VMA            Wildlife ManaLement Area
\V P.A k        Wildlife Protection Area
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE               iiApril 2000



Katuiwuru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                   l       N.lDlV rtuav& e\  * abi Detailed Enuineeri iDesi_nil
Kasese-Kilemiibe Road
Equator Rtoad                                                            EL-(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
GLOSSARY'
Carriagewav - Area ol' road for use h! motorised vehicle. bounded on1 either side by road shoulder.
Duka - Local name widely used to roter to roadside retail shops.
Matatu - Public minibus. widely used mode of travel both ivithin and between urban arcas and other
settlements.
Pavement - A structure composed ol layers of increasing rigidiry and strength and of var-vinn
thickness. desi2ned to carrv traffic loads on natural soil forrnations. typically comprising subarade.
sub-base and base layers.
Maintenance - All those activities undertaken to prevent deterioration of the road pavement during
its serviceable lifetime. Such activities mav include clearina of side ditches. desilting of culverts.
repairing of potholes. ravelled surtaces and deformations. clearing of vegetation on the verges and
restoration ot' road furniture and markings. The activities are categorised as Routine. Recurrent or
Periodic, depending on the extent of work. plant used. frequency of such requirements and cost.
Mlurrum - Local niame commonly used to refer to gEravel suitable for road building.
Rehabilitation - An enhanced period of maintenance intended to restore the road to its original
condition. Structural defects are repaired without major changes to alignment and width standards as
would be implemented in a reconstruction.
Road Reserve - Area of land typically extending 15 metres from the centre line of the road. owned
by the MOWIHC and within which they have rights to extend the road and place associated
infrastructure (signs etc).  This area is often also used for placing of underground or overground
utilities (water mains. electricitv, telephone cables etc).
Shoulder - Area of road (typically 1.5 metres wide). between the carriageway and ditch. often used
by pedestrians and cyclists. may or may not be sealed.
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE         iii                                          April 2000






Katunuuru-Kasese-rort Portal Road                            cvl~ii1it'. S:udx Reniew and Detailed Engineerng Desigu,
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                          EIA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
CONTENTS
SUMMARY
1.   INTRODUCTION .................................................... 1-1
1.1     BACKGROUND .................................................... 1-1
1.2     OBJECTIVES OF THE ELN .................................................... 1-2
2.   METHODOLOGY AND REPORT STRUCTURE ....................................................                   2-1
3.   POLICY. LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK ....................................................    3-1
3.1    14 I STOR ICAL P    ERSPECTIVE ............................... . .. . .    . .      . . .............. 3-1
3.2     GOVERNMENT ORGANISATION .......................... 3-1
3 2.       National Gove'rnm7enlt ...... .. ....                                                       .  3-1
3.2. 2     LOLoal Governnent .......       .................................................................................................... 3-2
3.3     ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT IN UGANDA .......................................................            3-3
3.3.1      Mfuana nement at Nationa l evel ........................................................ 3-3
3.3.2      Mfanaqgement at Local Level .......................................................             3-4
3.4     SUMMARY OF RELEVANT NATIONAL LEGISLATION AND GUIDELINES ...................................................... 3-4
3.4.1   The Constitution of the Republic of Uganda. 1 995             ..3-5
3. 4.   T7c National Wetlands P/lic                   ..                                                   3-5
3.4.3  The Water Statute, 1995                     ..3-6
3.4.4  The Uganda WildliJe Statue                     ..3-6
3.4.5  Environmental Oualitv Standards                    ..3-7
3.4.0  National EIi and Audit Guidelines                   ..3-7
3.4.7      Plans andPl Policies                                                                            3-8
3.4.S      Regional and International .-Vreements and C'onventions          ..3-8
3.5 WORLD BANK REQUIREMENTS .3-9
3.6  AGENCIES WITH AN INTEREST IN THE PROJECT .3-10
4. PROJECT NEED AND DESCRIPTION OF PROPOSALS.                                                                 4-1
4.1 PROJECT NEED .4-1
4.2  CURRENT ROAD CONDITIONS AND MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES .4-2
4.3 PROJECT PROPOSALS .4-3
4.3.1      Katungzuru to Fort Portal ............................................. 4-3
4.3.2      Kasese to Kilembe ............................................ .                                 4-4
4.3.3   Equator Road ............................................. 4-5
4.4     TRAFFIC FORECASTS ..........................................                                           4-6
4.5     CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS AND ACTIVITIES .......................................... 4-7
5.   BASELINE ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS ............................................                            5-1
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE                 iv                                                   April 2000



Katuneuru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                                                            I.a,ibiiin- Studx  Revie, anid Detailed Enrtneenna Desian
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                                                                         EIA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
5.1 STUDY AREA .5...... -I
5.2 PH'SICAL ENVIRONMENT .-1
5.2.1 Topograipy7I ... ....    .. .1
'        .   .    1f, t1, r o lo g  .............    _ . . . . .  ........ . .   . ............. ......   ....   ..  . .....     ....     . ...................     .. ........
- .3           C lim  a te 1[ ........ ........    ...... ..... .    . . . . .. .     ...........    ...     .....  -.  ............  ........     ....     .......  ....... . . . _  .................. -
>. 4           G colOg.       b!7.isoiL     ....................    ........ ..........  .. . ................   ........   ..   ......    .............   ...............  .........  .......................... 5-3
5.3         BIOLOGICAL ENVIRONN1ENT ......................................................................... 5-4
I.             KUI/Z117QUI-1 10 F,,, t Portal   ... ...........................................                                                      .......         1
3.      ,    ' Equ7a1or   R oadS ............. .  ........  ....   ...............  .............  ... .............. ..........  ... ......  ..  n-i-
-  .3    n      k uas,c  xe-   K il.eZynee   .............         ............... .  .  .....................           ......    . ..    ..  ......... .  .............. .     -6
6 .     ENV IRONMENTAL  EVALUATION . ................................................................. 6-1
6. 1     I     NtRODUCTION .....................................................................6- ]
6(n, . ' SC L   N IR N                       ENP..........S.............................................................1-
66.          BOOGCLjN    R NBITO....................A........E.....V.............M........ T........... 4-
6.4          INDIRECT AND OFF-SITE EFFECTS(IWHYSICAL AND  BIOLOGICAL RESOLURCES)9#@6 ...................................................  *  * 6-IO
7.ENVI-RONMENTAL  MA,NAGEMIENT   PLAN  ...........................................7-1
7.1         G  EN ER A L . . ..................................................  ...........  ........  .........  ........................ . .................  ..................  ................... 7-1
7. _        ENVIRONN1ENTAL MANAGEMEI\T l'LAN: DESIGN  AND CONSTRUCTION   l'HASES ................... 7-3
7.3         E\NVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENTIl)LAN: OPERATIONAL PHASE ............................... 7-8
7.4         MONITORING REQUIREMENTS ......................................................... 7-9
S.  INTERAGENCY COORDINATION ................................................... 8-1
8.2.               ('Ia                                                                     . . 
5.24            THER  AGENCIES ..                  .        .         .         .. 8-3
5.3    REIOLOICLENDATIRONMET.8-4
9. CONSIDERATION OF ALTERNATIVES ..                                                                                                  .                                   9-1
6.1 INTRODUCTION.69-l
9.2 ALTERNATIVE TRANSPORT MODES .                                                                                                                                        9-1
9.03        OTHER ROADS .............................                                                                                                                    9-2)
6.3 RHBIOLOGIALIEN OPIRONMEN.69-2
APPENDIR A  TERMS OF REFERENCE
APPENDIX B: PROJECT TEAM
APPENDLE C: INDIVIDUAL CONSULTATIONS
APPENDIX DR   PUBLIC CONSULTATIONS
APPENDLV E                         A ACCIDENT STATISTICS
APPENDIX FT RESPONSE TO CONSULTEES COMENTS
APPENDL8 G: REFERENCES
Sco9  Wilson in Association  Fith ACE  vRNATIVES.00
9.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p) 2000UT1N.-



Katunnuru-Kiasese-Fort Portai Road                      l aSIbiit\ Stucx Ren tew and Detailed EnaineerincDesien
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                    ELV(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
LIST OF FIGURES
Following
page No.
Figure I    Location Plan                                                                      S-I
Figure 4.1  [lroiect Study Area                                                                 1-1
Figure 4.2   Extract troni QENP Mananuement Plan                                               5-5
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE             vi                                               April 2000



I



Katunauru-Kasese4ort Portai Roaa                    Iasibiiity Snidy ReN tew and Ditmiled Enmineerinu Desien
Kasese-Ki]embe Road
Equator Road                                                              ELA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
SUMM,lARY'
Introduction
The Ministrv of Works lHousing aLid Communications (MOWHC) of the Republic ot' Uganda is
currently examiing v arious rehabilitation options that would minimise the need for ongroing
maintenance and increase the lifetime of the following sections of road in the western part of Uganda
(Figure 1):
*  From Katuneuru to Fort Portal via Kasese:
*   From Kasese to Kilembe: and
*  The Equator Road (between the K'atunauru-Kasese Road and Bwera on the Congo border).
In accordance with Ugandan legislation and conditions associated with the scheme's funding by the
WN'orld Bani. an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is required. The study reported in this
document considers the potential effects of the proposal on the physical and biological environment.
In accordance with a request from the World Bank the social. cultural and economic effects have
been addressed in a separate report.
Proposals
The N\orks will comprise on-line improvements focussed on:
*  reconstructing, strengthening and sealing of existing carriageways and shoulders:
localised widening of the carria-ewav within the current road reserve,
*  sealin2 of verges:
*  clearine of ditches:
*   replacem1ent of three bridges: and
*  repair ot'existing. and construction of additional. drainage infrastructure.
The rehabilitation is unlikLely to increase the number of vehicle movements that would othervise
occur. since it is not changing the nature of the road but rather minimising the need for ongoing
intensive maintenance.
Construction is expected to extend over two-three years and employ 2-300 men. The work-s will be
undertaken in three packages using a combination of manual labour and mechanised plant. Various
sites have been identified for the sourcing of murrum and sand and for the disposal of spoil. Several
work camps (probably three) will be required as well as storage areas along the project roads. The
work-camps will include various workshops. maintenance and processing facilities including batching
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE         S-I                                           APTil 2000



S U D A N o
KENYA
Moto:oa
DEMOCRATIC'
Fasod n°/
jake  Kazungr%              KyA                   PALA
_ffiKabate    'K| /                                     t
RLdANDA 
<ey:                                                            Scale.
0  20 40 60 80 100-120 140 t60 kiciometrs
.   Incamanonsi Boundanes
Eaiwwaysd0    20   40   60   80   100 miles
-      Major Roads . 
Secondary Roads
Map of ahgand showing
Katunguru - Kasese  Fort Portal, Kasese - Kilembe
and Equator road



Katunrzuru-Kasese-For ilortal Road               [-asloiniiitN Stwdv Reviet and Detsied. Engmnccning Desimg
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                            EIA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
plants as well as housing and staff intfrastructure (slhops. canteen etc). Temporary landtake wvill also
be required for workinQ widths. diversions and parkingi storage areas. In general these will be
accommodated within the road reserve.
Method
The studyl has been undertaken in acLor-dance wvith \V orld Bank Operational Directive 4.01  Annex
B: Republic of Uuanda Guidelines ftor Environmental Impact Assessment (NEMA. 1996) and the
Draft Road Sector Guidelines (Arcadis Euroconsult and Makarere University, 1998) and has
included:
*  Identification and review of relevant Ugandan and World Bank policy. legal and administrative
f'ramework and requirements:
*  Determination of details of schemlle components. as well as construction requirements and
activities (includino those taking place off-site) associated with the project. in particular those
which could have implications for environmental resources:
*  A determination of current and anticipated physical and biological baseline conditions and the
nature and location of receptors. Tlese were established through review of: existing reports and
documentation: field visits and surveys; consultations with statutory bodies, concerned groups
and local communities. including a public consultation meeting:
=  Identification and evaluation of potential impacts. both positive and negative; and
-  Proposals of cost-effective mitigation measures. and where appropriate. opportunities for
enhancement during construction or operation of the schemes.
It is recognised that the proposals could have significant consequences for local communities. In
addition, these communities also lhave valuable local knowledge that can aid the design and
implementation of the scheme. A key component of the EIA was therefore the participation of
concerned groups and NGOs and incorporation of their concerns in the formulation of
recommendations. This was undertaken through intormal consultation with individuals and
community representatives as well as a public consuitation meetings held on 26 November 1999.
Effects on the Biological and Physical Environments
Since no realignments or new sections of road are proposed, the effects of the proposals on the
physical and biological environments will be relatively minimal. However, the route does pass
through the Queen Elizabeth National Park (QENP). which is a nationally designated area and is
therefore particularly sensitive to environmental impacts during rehabilitation and subsequent use of
the road. In addition. outside the Park there may be potential for some environmental impacts.
particularlv during the construction period. These have been discussed in Section 6 of this Report
and the key findings are summarised below.
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE        S-2                                         April 2000



Katunwuru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                  i casibijirn Study Review and Detailed Engineering Desimn
Kasese-Kileiibe Road
Equator Road                                                             ELA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
Queen Elizabeth National Park
During const-uction. the main source of impacts are iikely to be associated with the presence of a
vork-force. the results of which may include poaching7. removal of firewrood. increased fire risk.
inappropriate waste disposal etc. In addition. there may be general disturbance to wildlife due to
construction activities and the potential for spills etc. during work activities.   Anv landtake
associated with widening. local diversions. extraction of murrum and disposal of spoil could also
threaten the resources within the Parki
In the longer tenn. the main threat to the Park will arise trom an increased risk of road kills as a result
ot the high speeds ot cars traveling on the straight section of road through the Park. At night this
problem could become compounded 1w the blinding effect of headlamps on animals. It is therefore
important that the recommended mitigation measures (i.e. measures to reduce speed) are incorporated
into the design to make it environmentally acceptable. If these are not implemented it is considered
that the scheme mav have a considerable detrimental effect on the Park's resources and integritv.
Other long term effects could result trom use of borrow pits, interruption of views across the road as
a result of the creation of embankments and spoil disposal. severance of crossing points through the
creation of deep ditches and disturbance to visitors to the Park as a result of increased traffic
movements and speeds.
However. it is considered that such ettects could be avoided or reduced to acceptable levels through
the incorporation of appropriate measures. These have been discussed in the main body of the report
and include:
*   accommodating the construction vorkforce away from the QENP;
*   no removal of firewood or other vegetation from within the Park:
*   ensuring adoption of appropriate work practices through their specification in a construction
management plan. contract documentation and on-site monitoring:
no road widening vhere the road passes within the Park:
no diversions. spoil disposal or borrow pits within the Park. or the road reserve where the project
r oad runs through the Park:
*   reinstatement of any temporarv landtake required for increased working width and adoption of
appropriate slopes on road reserve to avoid erosion and encourage revegetation; and
*   reduction of vehicle speeds within the Park. through the introduction and maintenance of rumble
strips and speed bumps and clear sign posting.
Other Areas
Outside the Park. the main effects on physical and biological resources relate to the potential for
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE        S-3                                          April 2000



Karunu,uru-Kasese-Fon Porral Road'                  i,qasiotiitv Studs Review and Detailed Eiinceering Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                               EIA(PBA) - DraftFinal Repori
erosion and its associated effects. pollution of land and water resources and loss of vegetation as a
result of landtake for workine widths. borrow pits. storage areas etc.
Erosion could arise  vlhere slopes becomite destabilised as a result of new  cuts. embankments or
creation of slopes on borro\\ pits and spoil heaps. In addition. the diversion or concentration of water
flows could lead to erosion. Such etccts. however. can be avoided through appropriate design and
reinstatement of slopes includine:
*   removal and storing topsoil for reuse. or use of topsoil from areas being worked to re-insate
previously worked areas:
*   shapine of slopes at less than the angle of natural repose for the local soil type;
*   where the slopes are considered to be at a high risk of erosion (for example locations where
physical constraints such as the presence of buildings. utilities etc prevents adoption of suitably
shallow slopes) seeding should be unldertaken witlh local varieties ot grass: and
*  reinstatement of topsoil.
In addition, the following recommendations have been made for implementation at the borrow pit
sites:
*   construction of intercepting ditches at the tops and bottom of slopes, and cut-off drains and
dissipation structures.
- vhere the natural topography is gentlv sloping, filling of depressions. Where the pit is on the
steep edge of hill. terracing should be undertaken: and
whlere there is a risk that the land will be cultivated before the soil has a chance to stabilise. the
site should be planted with napier grass which will act to stabilise the soil and has value as
todder for cattle.
There will be potential to pollute water resources as a result of spills. silting of watercourses and
waste discharges in the vicinitv of the work sites. camps. borrow pits and quarries. Such a risk can
however be minimised through the adoption of appropriate site management practices. Various
recommendations for inclusion in contract conditions have therefore been made, including the
provision of suitable facilities for collection and storage of waste, use of a mobile refueling plant and
appropriate site supervision.
Loss of vegetation will be for the most part confined to the road reserve, borrow pit sites and haul
roads. The road reserves contain perennial grasses and shrubs of little ecological significance and
which will rapidly regenerate once the works are completed. However. in order to ensure this occurs,
topsoil will be removed and reinstated following completion of the works. Where new cuttings are
created or borrow pits are exploited. adoption of the measures, described above with respect to
Scon Wilson in Association with ACE           S                                             April 2000



Katunizuru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road              r c:sibiiirv Studv Review and Detailed Eneineering Desicl
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                         ELA(PBA) - DrafiFinal Report
erosion. should also ensure reveoetation. Fhe siting of new pits and haul roads should take account of
valuable ecological resources (trees. wetlands etc) and where possible avoid loss of or damage to
such habitats.
Beneficial Ef'fects
Although the rehabilitation works have potential. if inappropriately undertaken. to present a threat to
the environment. there are also considerable benetits to be aained. These have been discussed in
Section 6. but include:
*   Reduced risk of erosion. ponding and associated attraction of animals to these roadside
-vatering holes' as a result of improved road drainage:
*   Reduction in frequency of maintenance activities and hence disturbance to flora and fauna
within the QENP:
*   Opportunity to apply a consolidated approach to design of the highway and control of vehicle
movements through the Park, for example through the development of a strategy for placing and
maintaining of signs and speed hiumps and for designing new access roads to Park from the main
road. This should also be seen as an opportuniy tfor the UWA. MOWHC and local government
to work together to manage the area in a manner that is mutuallv beneficial:
Environmental Management
An Environmental Management Plan has been prepared which itemises the required mitigation
measures and identifies the agencies responsible for implementing and monitoring these measures
during design. construction and operation of the proposed works. A list of monitoring requirement
has also been determined. Provisions for such measures should be included in the tender documents
and the Construction Management illan. An overview of the responsibilities, resources available to
and capabilities of the individual agencies involved in the environmental management and monitoring
of the project is also provided and areas where capacity building. increased  resources and
interagency coordination is required are identified. In particular the implementation of an ELU
within the MOWHC. appointment of an Environmental Manager in RA-FU and establishment of a
working relationship would benefit the environmental management of both this and future highway
projects in Uganda.
Alternatives
Alternative options in terms of transport mode. road route, rehabilitation methods etc have been
identified, together with a consideration of the environmental, technical and cost implications of
each option. Air and rail transport modes are shown to be inappropriate in view of the lack of
existing infrastructure (rail) and high econornic and environmental costs (air).  Similarly, an
alternative road option would involve substantial cost and could give rise to a range of environmental
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE      S-5                                        April 2000



KatunLuru-Kasese-Fon Portai Road                      -,. sibilit-. Stud\ Revicw and Detailed Eneaineering Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                 EIA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
effects. The preferred engineering options are considered to be environmentally acceptable as they
represent an optimal balance of lareer scale. but less ticquent and managed. disturbances associated
with rehabilitation against the smaller but more frequent and ad hoc disturbances associated wvith
routine. recurrent or periodic maintenance. The Do Nothinc scenario is shown to be unfavourable in
environmental tenns since. within a relativelv shor-t time. sections of the road would become
unsuitable for use bV  motorised vehicles. xvith a ranae of resultant environmental effects including
increased potential for erosion. accidenits. safety. reduced economic activity and associated effects.
Scort Wilson in Association with ACE           S-6                                            April 2000



Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road               Feisibilitv Studv Review and Detailed Enuineenne Desicm
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                         EIA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
1.   INTRODUCTION
1.1 Background
The Min'stry of Works Housing and C'ommunicationis (MOWNHC) of' the Republic of Ucanda is
currently examimna various rehabilitation options that would minimise the need for ongoing
maintenance and increase the lifetime ot' the followine sections of road in the western part of Uganda
(Figures I and 2):
*  From Katuncuru to Fort Portal via liasese:
*  From iKasese to Kilembe; and
*  The Equator Road (between the Katunguru-Kasese Road and Bwera on the Congo border).
As part of this process. an application for ftnding has been made to the World Bank. The MOWHC
now wishes to obtain financial and economic cost estimates for undertaking the works associated
with the various rehabilitation options. It has theretore commnissioned Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick & Co
(SWK) in association wvith Associated Consulting Engineers (ACE) to provide consultancv services
to undertake a Feasibility Studcl Review of the rehabilitation options for these sections of road as part
of' the Road Sector Institutional Support Technical Assistance Project (RSISTAP). Depending on the
findine-s of the Feasibilitv Studv and on authorisation from the Government. in consultation with the
World Bank. the detailed engineering design and cost estimate for the favoured options will be
undertaken.
An economic feasibilitvy studv. preliminary engineering study and detailed engineering design of the
Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal and iKasese-Kilembe sections was undertaken in 1995 by Sabbour
associates. An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) of the Katunguru-Kasese-Fort lPortal section
was included as part of that feasibility study. Although repair works have subsequently been
undertaken to sections of that road. these have been limited to surface treatment with no replacement
of road bases or sub-bases. The nature of the works. combined with the continuous passage of
overloaded trucks. has. however. meant that the etfects of such improve'ments are relatively short
term and there is a continual need for onpgoing repairs. which is expensive.
An inception report for the current Feasibility Study Review was provided to the MOWHC and
World Bank soon after the commencement of the project, followed by an Interim Report on 30th
November 1998. The agreement for undertaking the Feasibility Study Review also required the
completion of Environmental (EIA) comprising assessment of the physical, biological and socio-
cultural consequences of the options under consideration.  The Feasibilitv Final Report was
submitted in April 1999. This report comprises the Phvsical and Biological Assessment (PBA). In
accordance with a request from the World Bank- the Social-economic and cultural assessment (SCA)
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE      1-1                                       April 2000



BUBUNDIBV
lo oao N
~~ UHINFOR PO~HRTAL1
-A
50,000 ~   ~       jI;i~m     ROETAEANtt SaeBKA~A  2



Katunouru-Kasese-Fon Portal Road                    I casibiiitv Stud! Rex iew an( Detaiied Engineenng Design
Kasese-Kilenmbe Road
Equator Road                                                             ELA(PBAI - DraftFinal Report
has been submitted as a separate document.
1.2   Objectives of the EIA
The objectives ot the EIA study arc to identify potential environmental concerns at a sufficiently
earlv stage in the project development so that appropriate measures can be incorporated into the
scheme selection. planning and design to ensure that it is environmentally sound. It allows the design
enaineers to address environmental issues at an early stage and in a cost effective fashion. after
considering various schemes and desia n alternatives.
The World Bani screenina process has identified the project as of Category A i.e. 'the project may
have diverse and significant environmenital impacts'. In general road rehabilitation works which do
not require major realigEnment or engineering works might be expected to be assigned a lower
category and therefore would be suLIject to a more limited envirortnental analysis.  However. a
substantial component of the proposed works are witlhin. or adjacent to. the Queen Elizabeth National
Parkl (QENP). a site of natioral significance for wildlife conservation. and it is for this reason that the
project has been assigned the highest category in terms of the requirements for environmental
analysis.
An Enviromnental Impact Assessment (EIA) is required under Ugandan Legislation (National
Environmnent Statute. 1995) and although a formal notification as to the level of study required has
not been received it is likely that the project will be considered to require the highest level of
environmental analysis or Environmnental Impact Studv (EIS) comprising a major and detailed
assessment. The PBA reported in this document. together with the SCA (which is reported in a
separate document), are likely to fulfil many of these requirements. In addition the PBA and SCA
serve as mechanisms for inter agency co-ordination and promotes the building of environmental
management capabilities.
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE         1-2                                        April 2000



Ktanmtutnu-Kasese-Fortn P.oral Road                 .ii ri Studv Reviow :nd Detailed Engincennc Desien
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                            ELt(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
2.  NMETHODOLOGY AND REPORT STRUCTURE
The approach adopted has been developed in accordance with World Balk Operational Directive
4.01 - Annex B: Republic of' Uganda Guidelines tor Environmental Impact Assessment (NEMA.
1996) and the Draft Road Sector CGuidelines (Arcadis Euroconsult and Makarere University. 1998)
and has taken account of various relevent guidance documents (ODA. 1996: Sumokawa and Hoban.
1997: World Bank. 1991). This has resulted in the following general approach:
i)   Identification and review of relevant Ugandan and World Bankl policY,. egal and administrative
framework and requirements. This \as undertaklen through both desk study and consultation with
statutort- bodies. environmental specialists and aeencies in order to ensure that necessary measures
are included in the desigD and implementation of the scheme to meet the appropriate requirements
and is summarised in Section 3 of this document.
(ii)   Determination of details of scheme components. as well as construction requirements and
activities (including those taking place off-site) associated with the project, in particular those which
could have implications i'or environmental resources is presented in Section 4. These were identified
through a review of the Feasibility Study Final Report. examination of engineering proposals (plans.
methods of construction. location of borrow pits etc) and ongoing discussions and site visits with the
project engineers to gain a sound appreciation of the proposals.
(iii) A determination of current and anticipated phvsical and biological baseline conditions has
been established through review of:
* existing reports and documentation. In particular for the Katun uru-Kasese study area. the
determination of baseline conditions has drawn on the reviewA presented in the previous
EIA report produced by Sabbour and Associates in 1994;
*   field visits and survevs in December 1998 and September 1999 to determine details of
landuse. vegetation types. soils. topography. drainage conditions etc:'
*  consultationis with statutory bodies. concerned groups and local communities, including
two public consultation meetin<gs on 26 November 1999 to establish the nature and location
of receptors and local concerns and interests.
These are described in Section.
Details of documentary sources, people consulted and attendees and issues raised at the public
consultation are contained in the Appendices to this report.
(iii)    Where potential impacts were identified. evaluation of both their positive and negative
environmental effects has been undertaken using established criteria and is reported in Section 6.
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE        2-1                                        April 2000



Katuneuru-Kasese-Fort Portia Road                    f d.sibilirv Swu&. Rrei  alrd Detailed Eneineerinn Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                EIA(PBA) - DraftFinal Repon
Where impacts can be reduced to acceptable levels through the incorporation of practical and cost-
effective mitigation measures- these have been identitied and developed together with the project
engineers. Where direct mitigation is not possible or cost-effective. compensation measures have
been proposed. Where appropriate. opportunities for enhancement durin_ construction or operation of
the schemes have also been identified.
(v)     An Environmental Managemenit Plan (Section 7) has been prepared. which itemises the
required mitipation mnasures and identifies the agencies responsible for implementing and
monitoringg these measures during desigzn. construction and operation of the proposed works. A list of
monitoring requirements has also been provided. This is followed in Section 8 by a discussion of the
responsibilities. resources available to and capabilities of the individual agencies involved in the
environmental management and monitoring of the project and identifies areas where capacity
building. increased resources and interaaency coordination is required.
(vii)   Alternative options in terms ot transport mode. road route. rehabilitation methods etc have
been identified in Section 9. together- with a general description of the environrmental, technical and
cost implications of each option.
Supporting- intormation is contained in various technical Appendices to this report.
The SCA has been reported in a separate document, where social, cultural and economic
considerations have been addressed.
Scott Wilson in Association witd ACE          2-2                                           April 2000



KatunEuru-Kasese-Fort P'onai Road                XejsibiiiTV Siuo' Rexew anl Dtnaiied Eitzineerile Dvesien
Kasese-Kileinbe Road
Equasor Road                                                          ELA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
3.    POLICY. LEGAL AND ADIMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWVORK
3.1   Historical Perspective
lJganda became independent trom Britain in 1962 under a Federal Constitution which was abrozated
five vears later when the country became a republic. In 1971. the government was overthrown in a
military coup. In 1979 the military regime was itself overthrown by anti-dictatorship torces backed
by the Tanzanian anry. Followinez the removal of the military dictatorship. the ruling forces became
divided and started in-lighting which plunged the country into a period of political confusion.
violence, large internal displacement of the population and mismanagement of the economv and
resources. This situation. which also intensified envirorunental degradation. continued up to 1986.
In 1986. the National Resistance Movement (NRM) took over the oovermment after a five y'ear
guerrilla war in the bush. From then. the new government embarked on a wide ranging recoverv
programme that has had effect on all social. political and economic aspects of the country. Chief
among these are: spearheading a vigorous campaign to attract investment; privatising public
enterprises to encourage private management; and restructuring the public service to increase
efficiency. The restructuring process has included the decentralization of services and devolution of
powers to the districts and lower levels to encouragze the public to manage their own resources.
Others include the new constitution and prioritising environmental management practices and
legislation.
Due to political upheavals that characterised the post-independence period until 1986. no new policy
or legislative instruments were put in place to promote sustainable development. This was
compounded by the view that since Uganda is well endowed with abundant natural resources.
environmental management was not a priority issue.
3.2   Government Organisation
3.2.1   National Government
At the highest level. the institutions with an interest in the project are the various relevant ministries
whose main role is to handle the policy issues of the respective areas for which they are responsible
under them. The ministries of relevance to the current study are the Ministry of Land. Water and
Environment (MOLWE) which amongst other roles is responsible for environmental policy and the
Ministry for Works. Housing and Communications (MOWHC) which is responsible for road
infrastructure.
Below these ministries are two types of institutions. namely Departments and Parastatals. The former
Scont Wilson in Association with ACE       3-1                                       April 2000



Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                 ::casioilirv Stuav Rev ew ana Detaiiedi Eelineenne Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                           ELk(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
are purely government institutions whose day to day activities are directly supervised by respective
ministries as. for example. the Departments of Energy. Works and Antiquities.  By' contrast.
Parastatals are semi-autonomous organisations which execute their dav to dav duties almost
independently of the parent ministries. These include Uganda Electricity Board (UEB). National
Water and Sewerage Corporation (N'\N'SC). Uganda Wildlife Authority (UWA). the National
Environmental Management Agency (NEMA). Uganda Railways Corporation (URC) and the
National Bureau of Standard (NBS). It is intended that in time the Road Administration Formation
Unit (RAFU). the road implementing unit within the MOWHC will become a separate Road Agency
(RA).
There is a tendencv for Parastatals to have link-s directly to Ministries rather than through
corresponding Departments. The Parastatals of most relevance to this project are:
NENlA. which is the main agency responsible for coordination of environmental concerns within
Ucanda. Its functions. including approval of EIAs and environmental monitoring, are discussed
further in Section 3.3.1 below;
=  UWA. whose interest in the project relates to the fact that a section of the project road passes
through the nationally designated Queen Elizabeth National Park; and
e  the various utility agencies whose infrastructure may be located within the road reserve and could
therefore be affected by works.
All ministries. departments and Parastatals operate at the national level.
3.2.2 Local Government
When the NRM Government took over power in 1986. it introduced a new mode of local government
based on a 5-tier system. This system wvhich promotes grass roots participatory democracy begins
from the village or Local Council One (LC I) level up to the District or Local Council Five (LC V)
level. In between. there are LC II; LC III and LC IV which correspond to the Parish. Sub-county and
County or Municipality respectively. Councils are led bv executive committees of nine people. each
who serve for a particular period of time and are eligible for re-election. Apart from LC I executives.
who are elected by all adults in respective councils. the rest of the executives are chosen from
executives of lower councils also known as electoral colleges.
In the planning process. only three levels in the LC system are effective and these are LCs I. m and
V. The Local Government Statute of 1993 entrenched and strengthened the LC system in Uganda.
Uganda is currently implementing a national programme of decentralisation through the Ministry of
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE       3-2                                        April 2000



pKaiuilwuru-Kasese-uori iortai Road             ,-bllii-Stuisd Reviem and Detailed En.ineerina Dasizn-
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                          EIA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
Local Govermment (MOILG). This is provided for hb the Local Government Statute of 1993 which
reorcanises the role of local governments. provides for new responsibilities. empowers them. and
establishes new relationslhips with the central governmient. Key decentralisation policy objectives
armono others. are to free local manaecers from central constraints and. as a Iona tenn goal. allow them
to develop organisational structures tailored to local circumstances and to increase their capacity to
plan. tinance and manage deliver\ of services to thleir people. The Chief Administrative Officer
(CAOI steers and directs all the decentralisation activities in each district.
The Local Councils (LCs) operate ulldel the Ministry of Local Governmnent and have representatives
of all other sectors at the national lc\cl. Environmental issues at LCV are supervised by the District
Environment Committee (,DEC) with the help of an environment officer who in turn is responsible for
the Local Environment Committees (LECs).
3.3   Environmental Management In Uganda
3.3.1   Management at National Level
The post-1986 era in Uganda has been associated wvith manv development programmes and an
average economic growth rate of over 6% per year. This trend necessitated a need to direct national
development efforts to ensure that plans aimed at improving the standard and qualitv of life take due
consideration of environmental concerns.
With the above background. the NRM government created a number of institutions to cater for
environmental issues. initially, the Ministrv of Environment Protection in 1987, followed by the
Directorate of Environment Protection and NEMA. The establishment of NEMA was legalised by
the 1 995 Environment Statute. It is now the main coordinating agency of environmental concerns in
the country and operates under the general supervision of the Minister of Lands. Water and
Environment  which is also represented on the Committee which provides and coordinates
environmental policy guidelines. NEMA is headed by an Executive Director who is also an ex-officio
member of the board that oversees the implementation and successful operations of the policy and
functions of the Authority.
NEMA is made up of four divisions one of which is the Information and Monitoring Division (IMD)
whose primary purpose is to ensure adequate surveillance and control of the environment and any
related areas of interest to it. Part of IMD's mandate is to ensure that environmental regulations such
as EIA are complied with: environmental standards are set; and an environmental monitoring system
is put in place.
It is intended that each sectoral lead agency, should have an Environmental Liaison Unit (ELU) to act
as a contact point for NEMA. According to the Statute. a lead agency is "any ministry. department,
Scon WVilson in Association wvith ACE     3-3                                        April 2000



KatunL'uru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                 V-.saibilitv Studs Recv'w and Dcailed EnLineerin2 Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                             EL%(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
parastatal agencN. local governmnent system  or public officer in %\hich or whom  any law vests
functions of control or management ot anl! seament on' tle environment". The day to day activities.
and running. ot' the ELUs is not the responsibility of NENIA but of the respective lead agencies
3.3.2   Management at Local Level
In line with the national programme ot' decentralisation. the NES of 1995 provides for the transfer of
environmental management responsibilities to districts. municipalities and rural communities at the
grass roots. Based on1 the guidelines that had been provided during the NEAP process. the NES gives
a framework in which to manage the environment at districts and lower- levels so as to be in line with
thie overall decentralisation process wvlich is one ot'the current priority govermnent policies.
This framework results in an environmental management system that integzrates and fortifies links
among all levels in the district (i.e. LC V. LC III and LC I ), public sectors and NGOs. through
creation of' environmental committees at district and local levels. At the highest level. the District
Environment Conmnittee's (DEC) main objective is to co-ordinate the activities of the District Local
CLouncil (DLC or LCV) relating to thc management of the environmnent and natural resources and to
ensure that environmental concerns arc integrated in all plans and projects approved by the DLC. On
the advice of the DEC. a local government svstem  may create Local Environment Committees
(LECs) whose main responsibilitv is to prepare local environment work plans which are consistent
with NEAP and District Environment Action Plan (DEAP).
Environment related activities in districts are facilitated by District Environment Officers (DEOs)
who are direct employees of respective districts. Among other duties. a DEO is supposed to serve as
Secretary to and advise the DEC: liaise with NEMA on all matters relatinsg to the environment: and
assist LECs in the performance of their tunctions as prov'ided for in the Statute.
All these structures are intended to be part and parcel of the district local government and not NEMA.
Their functions are to facilitate coordiniation be in place between NEMA and the districts and to
transfer  "real power" to districts and lower levels so that decision rmaking and budgeting are
realigned to suit district priorities. As a result. the capacity of local authorities to plan and manage
delivery of services to their people while ensuring sustainable use of the environment in its broadest
sense. is expected to improve.
3.4    Summary of Relevant National Legislation and Guidelines
There are several legal statutes and guidelines which are relevant to the environmental appraisal of
this project. controlled bv the various government departments. Most of these documents however are
not more than five vears old and their implementation is still in early stages. For example, the
Constitution was promulgated in 1995. while the National Environment Management Policv was
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE        3-4                                         April 2000



Katunouru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                  casibilirv Stuav Review and Detailed Ezxcineenn- Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                            ELA(PBA) - DrafiFinal Report
formulated in 1994. Thiere follows a brief summarv ot tlie Constitution and relevant statutes.
3.4.1   The Constitutiont of the Repiublic of Uganda, 1995
Amongst other matters addressed b! the nexv Constitution. land related issues were given high
priority. Article 237 vests all the land in the country to the people. while Article 26 prohibits forceful
seizure of individual property including land bv anV authority, public of private without adequate
compensation. This has instilled a senlse of security otf tenure in most Ugandans. especially those
who have been squatting on public or other lands. Siince the contents of these articles cannot be
described as land refonn actions. a lanid bill was provided for by the samne constitution in which
issues pertainine to land tenure and land use would be dealt with in detail. A Land Act. 1998 is now
in place and provides for all issues related to land in Uganda.
One of the national objectives and principles of state policy is to promote sustainable development
for present and future generations. To ensure this. Article 245 empowers parliament to provide for
measures intended to protect and preserve the environmient from amongst others abuse. pollution and
degradation. Within the same framewvork. Articles 39 and 41 give every citizen the rights to a clean
and healthy enviromnent and access to information. Being the supreme law of the land. the 1995
Constitution has brought changes in many other legal documents which existed previously, more
specifically in land and environmental management.
3.4.2 Th1e National Wetlands Polici'
Wetlands. commonlv known as swamps in Uganda. are a resource of considerable importance just
like any other natural resources suchi as torests and rangelands. This resource had been exposed to
uncontrolled exploitation for a long tilme. which forced the Government in 1986 to impose a ban on
large-scale drainage schemes until suchi a time when a more elaborate and socially hartmonious policy
was put in place. In 1995. the National Policy for the Conservation and Management of Wetland
Resources was made. The policy aims at curtailing the rampant loss of wetland resources and
ensuring that benefits from wetlands are sustainable and equitablv distributed to all people of
Uganda.
In summary. the wetlands policy does not allow drainage of wetlands except in extreme cases
pertaining to important environmental management: it calls for sustainable use and sound
management of wetlands: equitable distribution of wetland benefits and the application of EIA on all
activities to be carried out in a wvetlaiid.
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE        3-5                                        April 2000



Katunsuuru-Kasese-Fort Portal Roaa               i-LasiDiliTh Study Review and Detailed Eniineernm  Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                          ELA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
3.4.3   Tlhe W'ater Statute, 1995
The Water Statute was made to prov idc for the use. Iprotection and managTement of wvater resources
and supply: to provide for the constitution of water and sewerage authorities: and to facilitate the
devolution of wvater supply and sewerage undertakings.
The main objectives of the Statute are to: promote the rational management and use of the waters of
Uganda: promote the provision of a cican and sufficient supply of wvater for domestic purposes to all
persons: allowv for the orderly development and use of water resources for purposes other than
domestic use. and to control pollution and to promote the safe storace. treatment. discharge and
disposal oft waste whiclh may pollute water or otherwise harm the enviromnent and human health.
3.4.4   The Uganda Wildfife Statute
The gover-nment. on behalf of. and for the benefit of the people of Uganda owns all wildlife in its
wild habitat. The main purposes of this statute is to promote sustainable management of wildlife
conservation through Uganda: implement relevant international treaties conventions agreements or
other arrangements to wvhich Uganda is a part: and promote public participation in wildlife
management.
The Statute requires any developer with a project likelyv to have significant effect on any wildlife
species or community to undertake an EIA in accordance with the NES. 1995.
Sections 18 and 19 give procedures tor declaration of Wildlife Conservation Areas (WCA) and
define what constitutes such an area. A WCA mav be either a Wildlife Protected Area (WPA) or a
Wildlife Management Area (WMA). WPAs comprise National Parks and Wildlife Reserves or anv
other areas declared as such bv the Ministrv of Tourism Trade and Industry (MTTI). Wildlife
Sanctuaries. Communitv Wildlife Areas or other areas classified as such by the MTTI make up the
WMAs. Subsection 5 ot' Section 19 describes a National Park as an area of international and national
importance because of its biological diversity, landscape or national heritage value. A Wildlife
Reserve under this statute is an area of more local importance for wildlife conservation and
management.
WCAs are administered by the Uganda Wildlife Authority (UWA), a Parastal body for whom the
line ministry is the MTTI.
Use of anv resources in WPAs or carrying out an otherwise unlawful act in WPAs can only take place
on permission granted bv the Authority's Executive Director on the advice of the Board or after
carrying out an EIA. Section 27. however. gives powers to the Minister. on the advice of the Board.
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE       3-6                                       April 2000



Katuncoui-Kasese-ftort Portal Road                         Stisibiit' Siudx Re,i vand.Detailed Enuinmuer  Design,
Kasese-Kilenibe Road
Equator Road                                                            EIA(PBA) - DraftFinal Reporn
to make resgulations controlline acts or omissions within a WCA and most activities are not allowed.
A National Park is the hiahest level ot w ildlife protected area in Uganda. where extraction of natural
resources is completely unacceptable unlike in a W'ildlife Reserve or Community Wildlife Area
w\here controlled activities mav be allowed. General restrictions in W'CAs applv to:
*  huntino. takina. killing. injuring, or disturbing an\ wild plant or animal, or any domestic animal:
*  takina. destroving. damaging. or defacing any  object of geomorphological. archaeological.
historical. cultural. or scientific interests or anv structure lawfully placed on constructed:
*  preparing land for cultivation. prospecting for minerals or mining or attempting any of these
operations:
*  drivinn. conveving. or introducing any wild animal into a wildlife conservation area:
* willfully driving. convevino or introducin- any domestic animal into a national park, or
negliigently permitting any domestic animal. to stray into a wildlife conservation area: and
*  startilnL or maintaining a fire xvitlout lawful authority.
3.4.5   Environmental Quality Stantlards
According to the NES. 1995. NEMA in consultation wvith respective lead agencies is responsible for
the development of national environuliental quality standards for use in environmental monitoring
activities covering air, water. effluent. noxious smells. soil, noise. vibration and radiation. NEMA is
also supposed to establish such criteria and procedures as they consider necessary for the
determination of the standards for buildings and structures; industrial products; materials used in
industrv. agriculture and for domestic use: solid waste disposal: and such as other matters and
activities that may affect the enviromnent.
However. due to the relatively short time NEMA has existed, none of this standards have been filly
developed to be ready for use. In June 1998 calls were made by the same agency in the mass media
informing the public of the authority's intention to start applying some of the standards being
developed. In addition. comments were invited from all interested parties and more especially, the
lead aaencies before these standards are confirmed.
3.4.6 National EM and Audit Guidelines
NEMA has finalised the development of the national ELA guidelines (NEMA, 1996), copies of which
are available and provide a sumnmar,v of their requirements. These guidelines are now in force
because the,v have the required legal backing by the Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations.
1998 and of the NES of 1995.
Scort Wilson in Association with ACE        3-7                                        April 2000



Katuneuru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                  Fcisibiliti Studv Re6esN and Detailed Engineering Design
Kasese-Kilenibe Road
Equator Road                                                             ELA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
The MOWHC has recently commissioined the production of Environmental Guidelines for the road
sector in Uganda. These are current i in draft form X Arcadis and Makerere Universitv. 1998) and are
likelv to be finalised in the near future. In general the! follow the World Bank procedures.
The tvo sets ot' guidelines describe the various processes involved in undertaking an ELA from the
initial screening to determination of lthe level of studs required to production of the final statement.
As part of the process the lead agency nieeds to submit the project briel' to NEMA at an early stage to
obtain a Certificate on the Screeninu decision and oni completion of the study a Certificate of
Approval needs to be obtained from lhe .Agency before the project can proceed.
Unlike EIA guidelines. e:,  onmental audit guidelines are not vet readv because they were not
accorded similar priority. Although1 thie preparation is ongoing they are unlikely to be available for
use in the near tuture.
3.4.7   Plans and Policies
NVatioflal Environme,nra/ Policie
In 1990. the Governmment of Uganda (GOU) with assistance from USAID. embarked on the formation
of' a National Environxnent Action Plan (NEAP). The NEAP was given the mandate to recommend
policv and legislative actions. institutional strengthening guidelines and potential investments with
the main objective of putting in place a sustainable national development strategy. For example, with
NEAPs guidance the MNR  forMLulated a National Environment Management Policy (NEMP).
Strategies ot' this policy are intended to provide and assist decision makers and resource users in
determniring priorities in the national context and also at the sectoral. private sector and individual
levels. One of the strategies to assist in implementing this policy was to establish a National
Environment Management Authority (NEMA), as the principal national agencv to coordinate
management of the environment. This was achieved through the National Environment Statute (NES)
in 1995.
Quieen Eli=abeth National Park Mancaement Plan
The current Plan for QENP specifies practices and strategies for Park operation. In particular it
recognsies the potential conflicts between conservation of wildlife and operation of local
communities and identifies stratepgies that allow both to coexist in a sustafinable fashion. These
include zoning of areas of the Park for various different activities. The Park is currently updating its
Plan although no draft was as vet available at the time of writing this report. It is understood.
however through discussion with UWA that any potential conflicts with this plan have been
addressed through the consultation process undertaken with UWA as part of this EIA.
3.4.8   Re,gional and International Agreements and Conventions
Uganda has ratified various international and regional conventions and agreements including:
Scott WilsoD in Association with ACE        3-8                                         April 2000



..-inguru-Naseee-Ton Pmrtai Road                  .ibiIin Studv R_vew andDctailed Erlwneerinv Desien
_ !stse-Kilenibe Road
-.Luator Road                                                          EIA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
The Convention on Biological Diversity:
*  The Convention on Wetlands o' International Importance especially waterfowl habitat (Ramsar
Convxention). Uganda hias identilied l ake George and the surrounding swamp lands as a Ramsar
site:
*  The Convention concerning the protection of WVorld Cultural and Natural H-eritage:
* Convention in International Tradc in Endangered Species:
*  The African Convention on the Coinservation of Nature and Natural Resources: and
* The Rio Declaration on Environmnent and Development.
3.5  WVorld Bank Requirements
Under the World Bankl's Operational Directive 4.01 (World Bank-. 1991), EIA is a flexible procedure
depending on the nature of the project and is to be conducted during project preparation. closely
linked to the feasibility studv. EIA must cover project-specific and other environmental impacts in
the area of influernce of a project. ElAs also include the country's own environmental studv and
action plans. and overall policy framework. national legislation and institutional capabilities.
The level of Environmental Assessment required is determined by the category to which the project is
assigned by the World Bank screening procedure. The current project has been screened as Category
A. i.e. it "mav have diverse and significant impacts". This classification requires a full ELA to be
undertaken.
The objective of EIA  is to ensure that project developments are environmentally sound and
sustainable. Environmental consequences should be identified at an early stage of the project and be
weighed in project selection, siting. planning and design.
The possible alternatives and possibilities for improving the project environmentally by preventing,
minimizing. mitigation or compensating for adverse impacts should be included in the EIA; these
steps may help avoid costlier remedial measures at a later date.
The ETA is also intended as a formal mechanism for inter-agency coordination on environmental
issues. promotion and building of local environmental management capabilities. An important
component of the EIA is the participation of concerned groups and NGOs and incorporation of their
concerns in the formulation of recommendations.
Project-specific EIAs are intended to cover six main fields:-
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE        3-9                                        April 2000



Katunurti-Kasese-Fon PorLal Road                   C .1sibiijtr Studs Rek ie%% and Dmtailed Enuineernna Desim
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                            ELA(PBAI- DraftFinal Report
* existins enviromnental baseline e onditions:
* potential environmental impacts dircct and indirect includina potential benefits and enhancements:
*  systematic comparison of altemative investments. sites. technologies and designs:
*  preventive. mitieatorv and compensator! measures in the form of an environmental mitigation or
management plan:
*  environmental management and training: and
* environmental monitorina.
The ELA process needs to identifi relevant environmental agencies to carry out the required EIA
activities during planning and implemiientation. Projects with potentiallv major impacts generally
need to strengthen several important organisational functions. such as monitoring. inspection and
manacement ot implementation of mitigation measures
For hiahly risky or contentious proiects andlor where there are serious and multidimensional
environmental concerns. there should he an advisory panel of independent. internationally recognised
environmental specialists to advise.
Under the World BankIs Operational Directive 4.30: Ilvoluntarn Resettlement (World Bank. 1991). a
resettlement and rehabilitation plan must be implemented to ensure that project affected persons who
are displaced as a result of the project are resettled and rehabilitated, providing them with the means
to improve. or at least restore. their tormer living standards, income and production levels prior to the
project. The operational directive describes the Bank's procedures for involuntarv resettlement.
defining the policy objectives and resettlement planning. Involuntary resettlement should be avoided
or minimised wvhere teasible. A socio-economic survev should be undertaken to establish the number
and economic status of the displaccd population and assist with designing and implementing the
resettlement programnrmes. The resettiers and hosts tor the resettlement area should be involved in the
resettlement process. which should include a time-bound resettlement plan and compensation
packages.
This Directive does not applv to the current project as there will be no change in road alignment and
no resettlement will be associated witli the limited road widening that will be required.
3.6 Agencies with an Interest in the Project.
There are a number of agencies which have an interest in the proposed project. These include:
MOWHC, RAFU. who are the project promoters as well as, NEMA. LCs. UWA. Kasese and
Kabarole District Administrations and the Wetlands Management Programme. These agencies and
representatives of local communities have been consulted during the EIA process (See Appendix C).
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE       3-10                                        April 2000



lKatuncuru-Kasese4ort Ponri Road                  u-;isibiiithn Stud\ i'eview amd DetailetEneineerineg uDsi
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                            EIA(PBA) - DrafiFinal Report
4.  PROJECT NEED AND DESCRIPTION OF PROPOSALS
4.1   Project Need
The roads which are the subject of this study are located in the western part of the Uganda in the
districts of Kabarole and Kasese. which are highlx productive agricultural and industrial areas. The
economic activities. and their potential ior future growthl. are dependent on the road infrastructure to
transport aoods to the major urban ccntres to the east. in particular Kampala. Jinja. Masaka and
Mbarara (Figure 1). a dependence wvhich has in recent Xyears been compounded by the deterioration in
the railwav service between Kasese and Kampala arising from lack of adequate track maintenance:
there are understood to be no immediate plans to rehabilitate the line. However. even if the railway
line was fully operational. many of tlhe agricultural activities would remain primarily dependent on
road transport mode as a consequence of their method of trading, which relies on transport of goods
b-y feeder road to roadside trading cenitres located on the trunk- roads, and for onward transport of
coods to Mbarara and Masaka. which are not served bv rail infrastructure.
Although an alternative road between Kampala and Fort Portal. via Mubende, is currently being
constructed, it is anticipated that this route will not be completed for at least three years and even
then this mav prove a difficult route for some vehicles as a result of its steep gradients and sharp
corners. The southern route. comprising the project roads, will continue to be necessary to serve
Mbarara and Masaka.
The project roads also comprise the main route to the Congo to which, until the recent outburst of
civil unrest. UIganda sold much of its export produce. It is likely that this market will recover once the
current troubles have been resolved.
The current conditions of the roads included in the project area are described in Section 4.2 below
and are variable ranging from good to very poor. Although the majority of the sections can at present
be classified as fair to good. this is a result of the ongoing costly maintenance works which need to be
undertaken at regular intervals. In order to guarantee the presence of a reliable road transport route
which is not dependent on the availability of funds from one year to the other, there is a need for a
consolidated and more comprehensive programme of road rehabilitation to iriprove the integrity of
the roads within the project area.
Scort Wilson in Association with ACE       4-1                                         Apnil 2000



Katuneuru-Kasese-fort Portal Roaa                  , casibilitv Stuav Rexview ana Detaiied Engineenn- Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                             EL-(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
4.2   Current Road Conditions and Maintenance Activities
For the purposes of this study the following definitions of maintenance and rehabilitation activity
have been adopted:
Routine Maintenance - comprises a continuous series of operations on the road. consisting mainly of
cutting of grass from edsges of' the road. cleaning ditches. desilting culverts and undertaking some
simple first aid" repairs to the road pavement.
Reculr rcnt Maintenance - comprises annual maintenance. normally at the end of a rainy season. to
r epair erosion. potholes or other faults that may have developed during the season
Periodic AMainitenantce- comprises restoration to an "as new" condition and prevents further rapid
deterioration. Activities include shoulder regravelling. repair of potholes, deformations, drainage
structures. complete resealing. road marking and repair of road furniture. The effectiveness of such
maintenance is highly dependent on the integrity of the base course.
Rehabilitation - comprises more substantial interventions to strengithen a road, repair structural
defects and restore a road to its original condition often after it has deteriorated to an unnaintainable
state. Rehabilitation may also include changes to characteristics such as alignment and widening.
An inventory of the maintenance activities undertaken on and the current co'nditions of the project
roads has been included in the Feasibility Studv Final Report. A summary of the key findings is
presented below.
Katanguru and Fort Portal: The general condition of this section of road is considered to be fair to
good. but this is a reflection of the ongoing high cost routine. recurrent and periodic maintenance
activities. which are currently undertaken.
Kasese to Kilembe: The initial 5 km from Kasese as far as the security gate of the Kilembe mines
has been subject to routine. recurrent and periodic maintenance and consequently is in a fair
condition. However. beyond the security gate the road was until recently in private ownership and
the lower levels of maintenance have resulted in the road becoming deteriorated and heavily
potholed.
Equator Road: The initial 20 km of this road has been subject to routine. recurrent and periodic
maintenance and is considered to be in reasonable condition, although .there are some local
deformations. The remaining 18 kn has not been subject to such a level of maintenance and as a
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE        4-2                                         April 2000



Katunguru-Kasese-Fon Portal Roaa                     ;sanitiiv ntuav Rnime anc Detaileci Ene-ineenne Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                EIA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
result has failed beyond repair and needs rehabilitation.
4.3   Project Proposals
Typical relhabilitation activities will include:
(i)     Site preparation including clearing of vegetation and stripping and storage of topsoil from
areas of wvorks plus five metres:
(ii)    Removal of existing shoulders and backfilline of'existing side ditches:
(iii)    Compaction of the newl, formed shoulder surface:
(iv)    Removal of the existing roadc surface. scarification. reshaping and compaction of the exposed
surface to form the new road sub-base:
(v)     C'onstruction of new shoulders to the required width. filling with two lavers of tlime-stabilised
sub-base to existine road level and lavine ot' lime-stabilised base course on the carriageway.
(vi)    Strenathening of road carriageway and shoulders with a new lime stabilised base coarse
overlav:
(vii)   Sealino of carriageway with two coats of surface dressing and the shoulders with a single
coat of surface dressing:
(viii)   All necessary repairs and/or improvements to drainage structures including those on bridges:
(ix)    Opening new side ditches;
(x)     Dressing the newlv formed side slopes with the stored topsoil: and
(xi)    Reconstructing the new road furniture to the required standards.
4.3.1   Katun gurti to Fort Portal
Pavement
The pavement strength in the southern section between Katunguru and Hima appears to be reasonably
adequate to accommodate anticipated increases in traf'fic flow: for the northern section. the pavement
strength mav be too low.
Option I
(i) - (xii) above with:
*   Lime base in (vi) is 0.1 5m thick
*   Carriageway in (vii) is 6.7m wide. and the shoulders 1.65m wide
The periodic maintenance requirement for such an option would be every 6 - 7 years
Option 2 - The Preferred option
(i) - (xii) above with:
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE          4-3                                           April 2000X



Katunauru-KaseSe-FOrt Portal Road                   ica.sibijjt Studv Review and Detaiied Eiieineerini Design
Kasese-Kiiembe Road
Equator Road                                                              ElAPBA) - DraftFinal Report
*  Lime base in (vi) is 0. I Sm thick
*  Carriaeewav in ivii) is 6.0m wide. and the shouiders 1.5m xxide i.e. same "idth as exists
The periodic maintenance riequirement for such an option would be every 6 - 7 years
Optio7 3
(i) - (xii) above \vith:
*  Lay asphalt layer 40nmm thick instead of lime base in (vi) - before wlhich all potholes and serious
deformations in the road need to be filled up. a tack coat applied to the base. and a prime coat
applied to the shoulders.
*  Carriauewa,v in (vii) is 6.0m wide not sealed. and the shoulders are 1.5m wide sealed with a
sin;le coat.
The periodic maintenance requirement tor such an option vwould be every 9 - 10 years
Bridues
The need for works at five bridges (clhainages 31.980: 32.430: 35.180:43.230: 61.530. as measured
from Katunguru) has been identified with the possibility of completely replacing the existing single
land bridge at chainage 43.230 by one of two lanes width.
Culverts
Most of the existing culverts require desilting and many of them also need repair. There is also a need
ior providing additional culverts typically. two per kilometre.
4.3.2 Kasese to Kilembe
Pavement
The initial 5 kn from Kasese as far as the security gate is in fair condition. However bevond this
point the road deteriorates becoming heavily potholed.
Option I for1 Kin 0 to 5
Low  cost rehabilitation shoulder involving shoulder regravelling ( I to  1.5m  wide). repairing
pavement potholes. deformations. ravelled edges and drainage structures, complete resealing of 5.6m
carriagewav and a single seal Im wide on the shoulders. road marking and repairing road furniture as
necessary. It also includes rehabilitation of the longitudinal drainage system of the road.
The periodic maintenance requirement for such an option would be every 4 - 5 years
Option 2 for km 0 to 5 - the preferred option
(i)- (xii) above with:
*  Lime base in (vi) is 0.1 5m thick
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE         4-4                                         April 2000



Katunaurc-Kasese-Fort Portai Road                    :. biiitv Study Rcview end Detailed En*ineerin Desien
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                               EIA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
Carriagewav in (vii) is 6.0m w-ide. Lnd the shoulders I .5m wide i.e. same wvidth as exists
The periodic maintenance requirement tor such an option would be every 6 - 7 y'ears
Sole option1 for km 5 tO 8.8
Low  cost rehabilitation  shoulder inmolvinz shoulder- regravelling (1 to  1.5m  wide). repairing
pavement potholes. defonnations. ra\ ei led edges and drainaae structures. complete resealing of 5.6m
carriagewava and a single seal Im wxidc on the shoulders. road marking and repairing road furniture as
necessary. It also includes rehabilitation of the longitudinal drainage system ofthe road.
The periodic maintenance requirement tor such an option would be every 4 - 5 years
Sole optionjbr km 5 8. 8 to 12
(i) - (xii) above wvith:
*   In (iv). existina surtace is removed I XOmm to allow lime base construction 7.Om wide to as found
lev'els
-  Sihoulder operations in (ii). (iii). i ) and (vii) arc replaced with maintenance of existing 1.m
wide pedestrian walk and lined side ditch.
The periodic maintenance requirement for such an option would be every 6 - 7 vears.
Brid2es
There is a need for replacement of one bridge at chainage 10.75 km as measured from Kasese.
C ulverts
Most of the existing culverts require desilting and many of them also need repair. There is also a need
for providing additional culverts typically one everv two hundred metres.
4.3.3 Eqrator Road
The initial 20 km ot this road is considered to be in reasonable condition although there are some
local defornations.   The remaining  18 km  has. lhowever, failed beyond repair and needs
reconstructing.
Sole option for km 0 to 20
Low cost rehabilitation shoulder involving shoulder regravelling (1 to I .5m wide), repairing
pavement potholes. deformations, ravelled edges and drainage structures, complete resealing of 5.6m
carriageway and a single seal Im wide on the shoulders. road marking and repairing road furniture as
necessarv. It also includes rehabilitation of the longitudinal drainage system of the road.
The periodic maintenance requirement for such an option would be every 4 - 5 years
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE          4-5                                          April 2000



Katuneuru-Kasese-Fort Porial Road                  J C.Isibiliny STud\ Rex ie% and Detailed EnLiiieerinLe Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                             ELA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
Sole option for km 20 to Border (kmn 3S)
Total reconstruction with all the t-pical rehabilitation operations except:
Where shoulders are treated in a single operation as the carriageway. rather than separately. and more
layers constructed namelv - 125mm of selected fill. I 5(0irnof sub-base and 1 75mm of lime stabilised
base. Carriazeway in (vii) is 6m wide and the shoulders Im wide.
The periodic maintenance requirementi tor such an option would be ever-y 6 - 7 \ears.
Bridges
There is a need for providing one bridge at chainage 12-.3 km as measured from the Kasese road
junction.
Culverts
Most of the existing culverts require desilting and many of them also need repair. There is also a need
for providing additional culverts typically one every tive hundred metres.
4.4   Traffic forecasts
An assessment of anticipated traffic demand is presented in the main volume of the Draft Final
Report for the Feasibility Study. The key findings of that assessment are that:
i  Since no new alignnments or major changes in road type will be implemented and as the most
badly damaged areas are limited to the Kilembe and Equator Roads and probably do not
discourage traffic. no additional traffic will be aenerated by the rehabilitation;
*  In general. having consideration of the alternative routes within the road network the
rehabilitation works are unlikelv to divert traffic from other routes. The possibility that unrelated
improvements to the Kampala. Fort Portal Road will lead to diversion of traffic away from the
National Park has been examined as a sensitivitv test.
*  Traffic levels are likely in general to increase in line with the country as a whole. except perhaps
for the agricultural sector which may. if it expands. contribute additionallv to this figure.
Consequently. a figure of 4% growth to 1999 followed by 7% per annum to 2001. 5 % per annum
to 2011 and 3% per annum thereatter has been adopted.
In summarv. the rehabilitation works are unlikely to increase traffic levels above those which would
occur if a more ad hoc approach to maintenance, as takes place at present, were to occur. What it
will do. however, is greatly reduce the need for such ongoing maintenance and ensure the presence of
a route of suitable quality for the next twenty years or so, rather than this being dependent on the
availability of resources at those times when repairs are required. Consequently, it will allow the
natural growth of traffic to take place in an unconstrained fashion, rather than perhaps being limited
at times when funding is scarce.
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE        4-6                                         April 2000



Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Pornal Road                  I .:sibilim Stud-, Revieew and Detailed Engineering Desien
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                             EIA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
4.5   Construction Requirements and Activities
Land Reqzuiremenits: In general the working width iincluding diversions and parking areas) will be
confined to the road reserve. aithou-lh there may a requirement for local short term  landtake for
diversions and parkingstorage areas. Some longer tei-in landtake will be required in the vicinity of the
three bridges that will be replaced to accommodate traffic diversions. parking and storage of material
and plant used for their construction. It is anticipated that three work camps will be required. each
typically covering an area of 3.5 acres. although the size could be reduced if a local workforce was
used and/or foreign wvorkers housed within existina townis such as Kasese and Bwera. In addition.
various longer term storage areas will also be required
Site Activities: The construction activities are anticipated to extend over a period of 2-3 years. Work
will be concentrated in the dry periods with reduced activity in the rainv season. The works will be
undertaken in several consecutive (probably three) wvorks packages and will involve the use of a
combination of mobile mechanical pilant and manual labour. The on-site plant is likelv to include
some or all of the following: graders. bulldozers. loaders. bitumen sprayer, chipping spreaders. trucks
etc.
Work Camps: The work camps will contain all maintenance and processing facilities required to
support the rehabilitation activity, including plant workshops and maintenance facilities. concrete and
bitumen batching plants. facilities tor the workforce (canteen, shops etc). If the workforce is not
housed in local towns. it will be accommodated in buildings constructed in the work camps..
SSourCing and Disposal of Material: Murrum will be obtained from local borrow pits and chippings
and sand from local quarries, and will be imported by truck. The potential borrow pits and quarries'
have been identified and are listed in Table 4.1 together with details of their location, issues
associated with their use and likely reinstatement requirements. Other material e.g. culvert sections.
bitumen etc will be imported from local suppliers, also by truck. Some old road surface material may
be pulverised and re-used in the new subgrade and sub-base lavers (i.e. the lower lavers of the road
pavement where deformations or deticiencies exist). The remainder of the old road surface material
and spoil generated by excavation ot new ditches will be disposed of in the borrow pits. except where
an agreement is reached with a local landowner. The volumes of such material have been estimated
and are summarised in Table 4.2.
Workforce: As discussed above. it is not yet known whether a local or imported workforce will be
used. If an imported workforce is used this could either be accommodated in a work camp or in local
towns: in which in both cases the workers would require transportation to and from the work areas It
is anticipated that the works would required an averarge workforce of 2-300 men (unskilled labour)
Scon Wilson in Association with ACE         4-7                                         April 2000



Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                      ieasibiitin Stud; Review aind Detailed Enurineerinp Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                  ELAVPBA) - DraftFinal Report
over a period of three N-ears although this wvill depend on the options that are selected.
Traffic Management: In general. there vill be no need for road closures during the construction
period vith sinale lane traffic management in the vicinity of the works. although there could be some
local off alianment diversions within the road reserve at certain locations. Where the three bridges
are replaced. there wvill be short term diversions v'ia a temporary bridge. The major source of vehicle
movements during the works period will be associated with import of murrum  and aggregate and
export of spoil.
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE           4-8                                            April 2000



Katungurni-Kasese-Fot l'ortal Roa(l                                                                                                  I casibilit% Suids Pc icxx anld l)latiled lit iitectiou I   Desipti
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                                                                                                      EIA(PB3A  - I)raftfinal Report
Table 4.1: Location of Borrow  Pits
Name -             Link           Chaittage       Orfset    Niaterial   Nevv/            Issties                                            Possible Mitigation Measures
Exisitng
All sites                                                                                                                                    Damping ol liaul roads in tilc x ici nitN ol \iii aCes
llse of flag meni and % amin  signs in the xicinity of
villages and along sections of tile road i tsed b) local
conIno iIIIitics.
XiAM  1tt.X\ 1sl l oltads silotilul he 101ite \ ;xxa\ ltloll
settlciements.
Katniiguiru        Katangtiru -  -0.2             0.2 LI IS   Sand          E             In Wildlife Reserve.                               Previonsly exploited ateas cuil(d be le\ c1ed to lill
Foil Portal                                                           Vei) poorly managed pre\ iohsl. so lai-ge holes  lioles. and re(ltice cliff heights
and 2-3m tiiistable said cliffs exist.             IJse of this site should be axoided it possible aMd
Still being exploited by locals for a living.      practical. If nO alternative site can be idenitifie(l a
detailed reinstatemient will need to be umdertaken
t1WA liave concems regardiiig use of this site  following sand extraction.
owing  to  its proximity  to  QENP  and  the
Kazinga Clhanniiel.
Rukoki             Katanguru      43.45           0.4 RIIS   Gravel         E             Sonie  of the  gravel is on  steep  hiillsides.  On steeper slopes, exploit the material in teiraces .
Fort Portal                                                            Vegetation  cannot be  restored  easily, and   prepared fronit the bottomt upwvard. I leiglit between
erosion a serious problem.                         terraces not more thian 2i11.  Topsoil thle ledges.
Poorly  managed  previously  resultinig  in  an   provide interceptor drains on lhe
injunction   from   NEMA.  against  fuirthier
exploitation
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE                                                        4-9                                                                                           April 2000



Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Plortal Road                                                                                               i CaSilSihii) Sttid) ReC iC%% ad II )ctailCd FiIginlCel ing I  t'l
Kasese-Kilenibe Road
Equator Road                                                                                                                                                 FIA(PlA) - D)raftFinal R(epoi
Name :'           Link           Chainage    Offset    Material   New/                 Issues                                           Possible Mitigation Measures
.....__    _  ..Exisitng
Kinyamwenge    Katanguni -  54.6                 1.0 1I-IS   Gravel      N             New road will be required
Fort Portal
liima             Katanguru -  56.4              1.1 RIIS   Gras el      I
Fort Portal
Mobuiku I         Katanguru -  51.8              1.7 LIIS   Gravel       E            An open chaninlel and water maini to the KCCI. Level on teriaces, and topsoil. suliicieiit to sulippoi
Fort Portal                                                        Ihydio station. May require new access road( to   glass
cilCultt entl.
One of the two hills located is fairly steep
Topsoil thin on the lhills
Nlobtikti 11      Katangigrt -  48.7            0.2 H.IIS   Rock         E             Rock  to  be extracted  froit t ii er bed. so   Adoption ol llieasiircs to miiiiilise risks of Nxalde
Fort Ilorital                            Aggreu aIe                 possibility of mnudd%ing potable N%atcl or oil  poliloioo
spill contaminiiationi from plant.
Kikongo           Katangtiru     65.675         0.02        Gravel       E             Next to river Rwimi                              Do itot excavate han(l. 5titi to liver
Fort Portal                   RIIS                                  At foot of tall hill, to be excavated parallel to  ILesel antd topsoil to reinstate
the river
Kimbugu           Katangtru  -  76.7             0.02       Gravel       E             In cut next to road                              Level an(d topsoil to reinstate
Fort Portal                   LIIS                                  See Note 2
Nsontgyo stream    Katanguiru -  87.35           1.0 HI.S   Gravel        E            Grassland. may intvolve many land(lor(ds          level otn ten aces. topsoil and( plait Napiei grass att(l
l river           Fort Portal                                                         lfirly steep till                                 pi-ovide intetceptor drains.
See Note 2                                       lBorrosv material at least 50iOo aw ay fromt stream.
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE                                                    4-10                                                                                        April 2000



Katuiigtirtu-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                                                                                               I easiilti  St ids Re% iew a31d I )Ct ailCd I :n1e1ri ug Dincg Oign
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                                                                                                    FIA(PBIA) - Dia lilinal Report
Name               Link           Chainage    Offset    Material   New/                 Issucs                                            Possible Mitigation MIleasures
:: ~   ~      _ __ _ _ _ :::::_ __ _   ::  i..                             itsing
Rwenisenenle       Katangtiru -  95.8            2.3 RIIS   Gra\el         N            In farm iiiider livestock. o%sner tiusillin-g to
Fort Portal                                                          sell.
Nes road requiired
See Note 2
Mparo              Katangtiru -  99.15            1.0 RIIS   Gravel        E            Exhatisted                                        Similar material in surromiding lills probably
Folt lPortal
Not pi opeth I'iinstated
See Note 2
Kinuhonide/        Katangtirt -   108             16.0       Gravel        E            Long Hlal
Fort Portal                   RiS
Kati-,anubelho     Fot ota.1 and omi-ers in exi sti tue pits niot c OIflpClnSated
in Fs e eat s sincee openinug.
Nyabubaale         Katanigtiru -   108            1.5 RIIS   Gravel        N            Gravel in thinii layer about Im. so excavation   Several landossijers max neced to be dealt %\ith
Fort Portal                                                          may be extensive                                   Lescl and topsoil extnis clv
See Note 2
Kasese town       Kilembe         2.1 LHiS       0.5 LTIS   Gravel         N            Many utilities on potential sites                 UItilities can be avoided
Road
Fragmented plots in township. so nmany ownuers   Manyi landlords  showedl willingness  to  sell it
to deal withi                                     comipenisated
Steepl hills
Newo haul road requoired
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE                                                      4-1 1                                                                                        April 200t0(



Katuigun-uKasese-Foit l'ortal Road                                                                                                I caLihllifN stillh l)\%ick aon  [)Itiimtd l-j O. clbc  111I.
Kasese-Kilemibe Road
Equator Road                                                                                                                                                  FlIA(PAI'tA  - IDal0tFilial Report
:400t00;t0: 0:tX t:';  00 0. ha:ln:Ag:  Ofse      M iia    New               Issue
Name              Link             han e         Ofsf        Mtia         Ne?          Isu                                               PDssible Mlitigation Mensures
E~stng,
Rwvensororo       Equator  ,      4.0            0.5 RIIS   Gneissic      E                                                              Level and topsoil.
Road                                      Gravel &                                                                    ITerrace iS eNxloilc elo ildflici tipllill
Rock
Kabirizi          Equiator        7.25           0.2 RIIS   Laterilic     E                                                              Level and topsoil
Primar-y Schiool   Road                                     gravel  &
rock
ho 1l(ICl Is
Kabirizi          Equator         7.0           (0.2 RI IS   Gravel       I            In paik. on periph lcy.                           In acco dance xx ifh I           eqiiii en tlen I ltIi s llt tokx
Road                                                                UWA object to use of this site                    pit will riot be used.
Eqliator       20 to iS       IllIS   '  Sand          F             Pexviouis F xploitatiout itt lcxel ateas has Icli   ReISnticl cxploittatioln i) tic hIilI
Road                          RI IS                                 etorges oii the road side. extet(Iitig hC! onI(d toad
ILev'el noid topsoil after exploit at ion
reserve.
Notes:
I. Mitigation measures included in  the above Iable are preliminary and 1inal speciticationls should be lirepared ollcC thle sites 11ha\t bcn linallEIiCised aid Slloitl(
take accounit of environmental recomieiidatiotis provided in this report (see Section 6).
2. Gravel at the five sites north of River Rki\ni within 3 km  of Katangurnl- Kasese - Fort Portal Road (kim  66 - 108) is not of llighl quality and occuirs ill
relatively thiin seams. rarely more than a meter. It w-ill require high percentapes of stabiliser.
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE                                                     4-12                                                                                        April 2()((



Katunguru-Kasese-ort Portal Road                      - .asioinrv mtudx R(exvie and Detaijed EniFneennz Desini
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                               EIA(PBA1- DrafiFinal Repon
Table 4.2: Estimated Material Requirements
Link                       Length     Material Out   Material In
Katunguru - Kasese        37.6                 94.752          77.832
Kasese - Hima              I        1.(        45.360 T       100.260
Hima - Fort Portal         57.0               206.340        227.490
Kasese - Kilembe         J12.0                 36.316         39.766
Equator Road              38.0                 2 24.44(1     191.130
TOTALS                     162.6              407.208        636,478
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE         4-13                                          April 2000



KatunuruL-Kasese-Fon Portal Road          r       -sibit- Studs Re% iew and Detailed Enuineering Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                          EIA(PBA  - DraftFinal Report
5.   BASELINE ENTIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS
5.1  Study Area
The project area is located in western Ucanda close to the Democratic Republic of Congo border in
the districts of Kasese and Kabarole in\ western Uganda. The Equator and Kilembe roads are entirely
in Kasese District as is the southeni part of the Katunguru - Kasese - Fort Portal road as far as the
River Mubuku. Kasese district is dix ided into two counties namely Bukonzo and Busonpora. These
two counlties are divided into twenrn sub-counties. two of which are Town Councils. and the
remaining, parishes. Within the Kabarole district there are 6 counties. the project road being located
exclusiveiy in two of them namely Bunvan2ubu and Burahva. Within these two counties there are 11
sub-counties and 49 parishes. Since works will be confined to the inunediate vicinity of the roads, the
study area tfor direct impacts has focussed on the road corridor and its immediate vicinity. In terms of
indirect impacts. for example those arising from increased accessibility. a more regional perspective
has been adopted.
The following sections describe the existing physical and biological conditions, and socio-cultural
coniditions are detailed in the separate SCA report.
5.2   Physical Environment
5.2.1   Topograph)y
Katunruru to Fort Portal Road
From Katuneuru to bevond the Rwemondo Prisons Farm the land is classified as Lake Edward Flats.
which is a fault bound trough of the wvestern Rift Valley. The immediate landscape is generally flat
hut is flanked by the rift scarp to the east and the Ruwenzori Mountain Rafige, to the west. This
range. which rises to over 5000 metres. is the highest non-volcanic geological structure in Africa,
extends for 100 km in length and is up to 45 kmn wide. The road runs along the eastern foothills of the
mountains where they begin to rise steeply from the rift valley floor. To the west of the road the
landscape quickly becomes highly rugged and incised by fast flowing mountain streams. some of
which are crossed by the road. for example the Rivers Nvamwamba. Mubuki and Ruimi.
Bevond Rwembo Prisons Farm. to Fort Portal the road traverses the Kabarole Plateau which is part of
the uplifted plateau of Uganda. As the road crosses into Kabarole district the immediate landscape
alters to comprise many moderately steep and rounded hills separated by dry valleys and results in
more winding and steeply sloping sections of road.
Equator Road
Scon Wilson in Association with ACE       5-1                                        April 2000



iKamnuuru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road               l casibilinv Studv Review aind Detailed Enuineerinf Desim
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                        EIA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
The landscape along this road is similar to that occurring on the southern part of the main road from
Katunguru to Rwemondo Prisons Farm. as described above. On travelling west from the main road it
crosses generally flat terrain Xwhich slopes gently down to Lake Edward to the south. Just to the west
of the junction with the road from Katwe. approximately 5 km east ot' Bwera. the road rises onto a
slightlv elevated plateau.
Kasese to Kilembe Road
From Kasese the road almost immediately behins to climb up the edgte of a valley in the eastern
foothills of the Rwenzori Mountains. 'The road twvists frequently and climbs. often steeply, as it
follows the contours up the south sidce ol the valley. to the east of a river until it reaches the towvn of
Kilembe.
S.2.2 '  fvdrologg
The main water bodies in the study area are Lakes George and Edward and the Kazinga Channel. In
addition there are various smaller lakes. including a group of saline crater lakes, and rivers.
Lake George covers a total area of 24 km2 and with a mean depth of 3 metres is the shallowest lake in
Uganda. The principal rivers that teed the lake are Nvamwamba. Rukooki, Mubuki and Rwimi that
drain off the eastern slopes of' the Rwenzori and enter the lake through extensive swamps on its
northern shore. Other swamps occuI to the north and south of the small western basin of the lake.
Lake George drains into Lake Edward to its south-west via the Kazinga Channel. Lake George is a
fresh water lake and although it is well oxygenated it exhibits a diurnal pattern of stratification.
Lake Edward lies lm below Lake George but is much larger (2203 km2) and deeper (average 117 m)
than Lake George. Onlv 29% of this lake is situated in Uganda, the remainder being in the Congo.
The lake has numerous affluent streams of which the Nvamugasani is probably the most prominent.
Most of the Ugandan shoreline of the lake lies within the QENP.
The Kazinga channel flows from Lake George to Lake Edward and crosses the Katunguru to Fort
Portal road at Katunguru.
A region containing various crater lakes stretches between the north east of Lake Edward and the
Equator Road and includes the saline Lakes Katwe. Kikorongo. Munyanyange and Kasenyi. The
highest quantity and quality ot salt deposits are found in Lake Katwe. which has been exploited for
centuries although Lake Kasenyi is also used as a salt source. The mineral salt deposits in the lakes
have been formed by the evaporation of diluted saline spring inputs, a process which continues today
contributing about 2000 tonnes of salt to the lake per annum. All of the spring inflow and rainfall
into the lake is evaporated, maintaining an average water depth of about 0.5m over the salt deposits,
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE     5-2                                       April 2000



Katunwuru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road        --casibiiinr StudN Review and Detailcd Enuineennc Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                           EIA(PBA) - DraftFinal Repori
depending on the season. The deposits extend to at least 40m below lake level.
5.2.3   Climate
The project area 'experiences a tropical bimodal raintall pattern with the first short period of rains
arriving between March and May. wh ile a second longer rainy season occurs between September and
December. Annual rainfall is (greatly influenced by altitude rangingz from less than 800 mm in the
extreme south and south-east of the Klasese District to 16000 mn on the slopes of the Ruwenzori
Mountains. in the western part of the study area which can also experience torrential rains as a result
of vinds from the Republic of Congo as well as f'romii local effects from the mountains and Lakes
Albert and George. The savannah covered by the Queen Elizabeth National Park and Lakes George
and Edward. typically receives 800-1()000 mm \ith the central part of' the Kasese District stretching
diaponallv from the south-west to the north - east direction. experiencing an annual rainfall range of
MOO - 1200 tun. At the foothills of'tlte Ruwenzori Mountains, the amount is 1200-1400( mm.
Owin2 to the variation in altitude. wide temperature differences are also experienced ranging from
very high in the lower lving plain. near the equator and in the vicinitv of Kasese. to below zero at the
mountain smnmits. Kabarole generally is cooler than Kasese. particularly during the wet season.
5.2.4   Geology and Soils
Katunsuru-Fort Portal Road
The sgeology of the route through which the road passes can be broadly split into two types. Within
the southern section to a chainage of about 62 km. the route predominantly crosses sands. clays and
gravels associated with the formation of Lake George to the east. To the north to Fort Portal the route
comprises for the most part Gneissic rocks of varying degrees of weathering. In two areas the route
crosses volcanic rocks comprising tufts and some lavas; these are located on the stretch between
chainaue 7-10 km as measured from Katunguru. in the vicinity of the junction with the Equator Road,
and between chainage 62-67 km.
Equator Road
The initial 18 km from the Kasese Road crosses predominantly volcanic rocks, comprising tuff and
some lavas. Further wvest. the road is located upon sands. clays and gravels, probably associated with
Lake Edward to the south.
Kasese to Kilembe Road
Upon leaving the sands and clays in the area of Kasese. the road passes across some 2 km comprising
predominantly Quartzites before passing onto Gneissic rocks. The Kilembe mine area comprises
sandstones, slates and schists.
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE       5-3                                       April 2000



Katunguru-Kasese-Fon rortal Road                Fcasibilitv Study Rexview and Detailed Enuineerinn Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                        ELA(PBA - DraftFinal Report
5.3   Biological Environment
5.3.1   Katunguru to Fort Portal
Flora
The vegetation that characterises the Katunzmru-Kasese sector has been described to be the Themeda
Heteropogon grass savannah interspersed with dry Acacia savannah dominated by the Acacia -
Cyvnbopogon/'Themeda complex (Lanadale - Brown et al.. 1964). In the Lake Edward/Lake George
Flats. areas covered b\ the arass savannah indicate that Themneda iriandra is co-dominant with
Heteropogon contolrtus. The major rgceneration of Acacia spp. within the QENP is probablv
attributable to the poaching of elephants in the 1 970s. The dry Acacia savannah areas are represented
by two grass communities, both of which are dominated by Acacia gerrardii. The difference is found
in the arass lavers. one of which is dominated by Cvimbopogon afionarduis while in the other
Thenieda triandra is dominant. The C'Yinbopogon coitnunity is commonest in wetter areas while the
Th1emeda communities are characteristic of shallowN hilltop soils or areas subject to seasonal
xvaterlogging. There are also several thickets, which have colonised anthills.
Other vegetation types include undifferentiated semi-deciduous thickets and abundant Acacia,
Grewvia mollis, Grewia Semilis. Tec/eu nrobilis and Vleronia brachvcalvx; these occur in particular on
the stretch between the Katwe Road junction and the Equator Road junction. Large colonies of the
semi-parasitic herbaceous plant Striga hermonthica also occur beside the road within the QENP.
Bevond the Equator Road junction through to Muhokva to Kasese there is a mixture of moist thicket
and Themada Heteropogon grass savannah to the east and Acacia-Cvmbopogen/Themeda complex to
the west.
Beyond Kasese. the vegetation type continues to be predominantly grass savannah although from
Rukoki to Mubuku and into the outskirts of Hima the vegetation is mainly dry Acacia. Bevond Hima
it reverts back to drn savannah and progressively gives way to moist Acacia savannah around Rwimi.
Moving further north to Kibiito it changes again to medium altitude forest/savannah mosiac the latter
being more dominant as altitude increases. The most important element of this mosaic. is the mixture
of forest remnants and incoming savannah trees and a grass layer dominated by elephant grass
(Pennisetum pupureum). This is considered to be a result of partial clearing of the original forest and
subsequent cultivation, cutting and fires. The proportion of forest to savannah trees varies according
to landuse history. It is important to note that in this sector very little of the indigenous vegetation
still exists. particularly in areas where cultivation has been practiced. Most affected are the large
trees. Manv of the trees that do exist in the area are interspersed with agricultural crops and include
Eucalyptus spp., Cassia spectablis, A:adirachta indica. Elioritis moluccana, Markhamia plarycalyx,
Spathodea nilotica and fruit trees such as mango, avocado, jackfruit and guava.
Fauna
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE     5-4                                       April 2000



;atu-nuru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                Fcasibilitv Studs Review and Detailed Enaineering Desien
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                           EIA(PBAI - DraftFinal Report
Between Katun--uru and the Equator 1\oad junction the route passes through the Queen Elizabeth
National Park (QENTP) and from hiere to just south of Kasese it runs along the Park's western
boundarv.
The Park is richk endowed with biirds with prominent species including white and pink-backed
p elicans. fish eagles. goliath heron. purple heron. saddle bill stork. gulls, terns, maribou stork. bea-
eaters. weaver birds. hanmnerheads. plovers, stilts. ducks. geese. guinea fowl. grey parrots. crowned
eagles. great blue turacos. hawks. buzzards and kites. A large number of wading birds visit the Park-
during the northern winter: these include sandpipers. sanderlings. godwits and little stints.
The main mammalian fauna comprise elephant. buffalo, hippopotamus, waterbuck. Bohor's
reedbuck. bushbuck. lUganda kob. warthog, sitatunga. baboon. chimpanzee, lion and leopard. Other
species include side-striped jackals. spotted hvena. banded mongoose. nocturnal African polecat or
zorilla. African civet. bush genet. honey badger, African wildcat, serval, vervet monkey, black and
wlhite colobus monkey. blue monkey. red colobus. African antbear, pangolin. porcupine and
hedgehog. The East African hare is present in large numbers as are bats and rodents.
Cotnmon reptiles include the monitor. the gaudy and blue-bodied agamas, skinks and chameleons.
Many species of snake can be found including the large python and vipers, four species of cobra, the
torest mamba. the sunsnake and night adders.
5.3.2 Equator Road
Branching off to the west from the Katunguru to Kasese road, the first part of this section as far
follows the northem boundary of the QENP. Owing to the protection afforded by the Park the land to
the south of the road is dominated by mature Acacia trees and Hyparrhenia grass. The human
disturbance to the north of the road has resulted in as lightly different vegetation type. there being
more shrubs than trees with the I-yparrhenia grass species being replaced by Pancicumn maximum
and sporabolus pyramidalis. Common shrubs include Leonitis neperifolia, Veronia spp. Indigofera
ar r ecta. Greivia mollis. Hoslundia opposita and Crassocephalum.
From Munk-unvu Secondary approximately 13 km east of Bwera, the stretch of road passes through a
relativelv close settled area, both to its north and south, with increasing density as it approaches
Bwera township. From a point approximately 4.5 km to the east of Bwera the land is predominantly
under crops. particularlv matooke. coffee and maize. A-roforestry is highly practised with trees such
as Eucalvptus, jack fruit. guavas, mangoes and Albi_ia coriaria grown among crops. Other trees
include Markhamia. Casia siainea, Aleurites moluccana. Crossocephalum and Ficus natalensis
Scott Wilson in Association rith ACE       5-5                                        April 2000



FORT PORTAL 69 km
FIGURE 4.2 - EXTRACT FROM QENP MANAGEMENT PLAN - not to scale
Junction Improvement         / 
F'or Sight Lines                              /4'- V
-'                                  -.--.~DX   -'   < g
i  \~                                                         p    .-*    .?-i 
..--V
*       Ka~amp.~a   ,~) -    -                          Major Concentrations           , ,   AS' N
-'                    1/       t      X nof Uigantda Kob
RINAMATUTE
_~~~~~~~~~                                                  7'abls1@
RWEMISLJIDuJI,t
RW)N7AGA                                                 -
-KNP~           7     ':9 t           of Lions            'KTNUR              '
Nyr. -cat,~~// 
XJ~~~~O A r    -t 4,/g/)  us Mn                                          }/Z
-J
*    b-   I.I 
MWBYA L3DGEr' 
1- I -a*:n/~



Klatu12ur-u-1L.asese-Fort Portai Road                  . eisibijitw- Stud% Rev iew and Detaijed Engineerinn Desten
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                  ELa(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
5.3.3   Kasese- Kilenibe
From the roundabout on the Kasese to Fort Portal Road. this section rises from Kasese towards the
Kilembe mines. ending at the bridge near Kilembe market. The first part of this section. from Kasese
to the Kilembe 1\ine -ate. is -eneralk less settled thani thie western section and this has resulted in the
eroulth of some natural xeoetation and ornamental species. Notable ornamental tree species include
Euph701-bia tin-incali. Aleur-tes mohwccanna and Cassia sial,nea uwhile natutrally occurring vegetation
includes Acacia spp.. Al/biia cor-iaia. Balan2ites ae,ic  7tica and Inmperata cvllindr ic. Bevond the gate
some areas are cultivated w ith matooke. maize various other vegetables and Eucalyiptus trees.
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE           5-6                                            April 2000



Kaiunauru-t,asese-Fon i'ornai Road                , :-'biii-.y  I.d\ Rex l   Detailed Ennai:teyine^ Dcs2ln-
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Rtoad                                                           EIA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
6.    ENVIRONTME.NTAL EV'ALLATION
6.1  Introduction
This chapter identifies and evaiuatcs thc potential environmental consequences of the construction.
operation and maintenance of' the prolposed interventions. Sections 6.2 and 6.3 address impacts on the
phvsical and biological environments respectively. while socio-cultural issues are dealt wvith
separately in the SCA Report. Indirect impacts are discussed in Section 6.4.
Mitigation measures are included in general terms in the initial evaluation of impacts described in
this Section. and are summarised in tabular form in the EMP in Section 7.
6.2   Phvsical Environment
* Drainage and erosion
The soils along the route are highly skeletal. unstable and prone to erosion. This, combined with the
volumes of water that flow from the lower Ruwenzori slopes during periods of high rainfall. can lead
to problems with drainage and washouts. This is further compounded by the poor maintenance of'
most of the existing culverts along the route, which has allowed them to become heavily silted and in
manyv cases damaged.
Erosion could occur from the project implementation wlhere slopes become destabilised as a result of
road cuts or embankments. creation of slopes on borrow pits and in areas where spoil materials have
been tipped. In addition. the diversion and concentration of water flows. blockace of' ditches and
inadequate or damaged water control structures can also lead to erosion.
Cuts and Embankments - Since all the rehabilitation will be on current alignments there will be no
major new areas of cut or embankment. However. the need to improve site lines in the sections of
road between Hima and Fort Portal xvill require some cutting back of' slopes. The ground conditions
in this area are variable. ranging from rock to loose soils. lI order to mininise erosion. it is important
that, whlerever possible. any cutting in areas of loose soil are at an angle less than that of natural
repose of the local soil types. In most cases this corresponds to about 60". However. in some areas
where this may not be possible owing to the presence of power and telephone pylons, terracing or a
steeper slope may be necessary; where a steep slope is constructed. planting of grass should be
undertaken to stabilise the soils and encourage rapid revegetation.
Borrow Pits and Spoil Disposal Sites - There will be a requirement for extraction for murrum and
stone (aggregate) for the road construction. The potential sources of such material are presented in
Table 4.1. In general the potential for erosion arising at these sites should be minimised through:
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE          6-1                                      April 2000



Katunuturu-Kasese-Fon lortal Road                   i .;asibilirv Studx Rex ew and Detailed ngLineering Desig
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                               EIA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
removal and storing topsoil for reuse. or use of' topsoil from  areas being worked to re-insate
previously worked areas:
*  \where the natural topography is  eintly- sloping. filling of depressions and shaping of slopes at
less than the angle of' natural repose of the local soil type for maximum seed survivability. 'Where
the pit is on the steep edge of hill. terracing should be undertaken:
*  reinistatement ot' topsoil: and
*   construction of intercepting ditclhes at the tops and bottom  of' slopes. and cut-off' drains and
dissipation structures.
Owing to the high rainfall and soil f'ertility in the study area, the natural re-vegetation rate is very
high and will be particularly so if the reinstatement is undertaken during or just before the rainv
season. In general therefore. reseeding will not be necessary except wlhere:
*  the slopes are considered to be at a hizh risk of' erosion (for example locations wlhere phvsical
coinstraints such as the presence ol' buildings, utilities etc prevents adoption of suitably shallow
slopes). In these cases seeding with local Xvarieties of grass should be undertaken: and
*  there is a risk that the land will be cultivated before the soil has a chance to stabilise. resulting in
erosion. This has been observed at the sites of reinstated pits elsewhere in Uganda where the
availability of an apparentiy reinstated area has almost immediately attracted agricultural activity,
even though it can take several Xvears for the soils to settle. At these sites it is recommended that
the area is planted with napier grass which will act to stabilise the soil. In addition. its value as
fodder for cattle wvill discourage alternative cultivation of the site with annual crops. which could
threaten soil stabilitv.
Although an initial evaluation of the reinstatement requirements at each of the borrow pit sites is
included in Table 4.1. these should be reviewed and update once the material sourcing requirements
have been finalised: this task should involve a detailed appraisal and formulation of specific
recommendations for each site. which should then be incorporated in the Construction Management
Plan (CMP).
It is understood that often once Uganidan land owners are compensated by public works, they have
regarded the borrow pits as belonging to the government and, therefore have assumed no obligations
towards that piece of land. In particular. they do not use the compensation payments for restoration
purposes. In order for this not to happen, the contractor should reinstate the land prior to handing it
back to the owner rather than including the cost of reinstatement in the compensation to the owner to
do this work himself.
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE            6-2                                       April 2000



Katunsuru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                  i v asibilin. Stud- Review and Detailea En nneernn L)esim
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                            ELA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
In general it is proposed to dispose of all spoil (mostly form ditch construction) within the borrow
pits as the first stage of their re-insatement. so that no local spreading or tipping of spoil will take
place unless specifically negotiated wvith the landowner. While in many cases this may be acceptable.
all spoil should be spread sufficiently thinly so as not to have steep edges or smother vegetation.
Water Flows - The proposed desilting of. and repairs to. the existing culverts. as well as the addition
of numerous new culverts. should result in the spreading of water. rather than concentrating it at the
points at which it flows off or under the road: consequently beneficial effects. associated with a
reduction in ponding and erosion. arc anticipated as a result of the scheme implementation. The
proposed improvement sliould take account of the locations identified during consultation exercise as
being particularly problematic: these are reported in Appendices C and D and summarised in
Appendix F. Where appropriate. the culverts should be designed to accommodate the large sized
particles and rocks. which may get washed down from the mountains. There should also be a
programme of ongoing maintenance to ensure that culverts are desilted and repaired as necessary and
not allowed to deteriorate to the state in which they are at present.
* Contamination of soils and pollution of water resources
The route crosses a number of streams such as the River Nyamwamba, the River Hubuka and the
Kazinga channel (the project starts just north of the bridge) which are in many cases the only sources
of water for the denselv populated local areas. The Kazinga channel flows through QENP and
supports a diverse range of fauna including fish, hippopotamus and a rich bird population. In
addition. groundwater is used as a source of water by many local communities.
During the road rehabilitation works. there is potential for spills to and silting of watercourses. There
should be appropriate contract conditions. site practices and monitoring to ensure that there is
adequate containment of such materials (e.g. appropriate practices for storage and handling of
materials) and no disposal of hazardous or polluting substances to watercourses. Refueling of plant is
an obvious source of spills, the storage of fuel drums should be restricted to areas outside the Park.
On-site refueling should only be from a mobile tanker and a refueling protocol should be included in
the Construction Management Plan. C'onstruction equipment also generates considerable quantities of
waste oil and its handling is critical since haphazard storage and leakage can result in contamination
of soils and pollution of surface and groundwaters. Anv waste oils. filters or oily rags should be
stored safely in appropriate containers and disposed off-site. In particular the use of pits for disposal
of waste oils should not be allowed. No waste or equipment should be left on site after completion of
the works.
The extraction of gravels from the River Mobuku may case some suspension of sediments, but this
will be short term and such material will resettle after completion of the works. Of more concern is
the level of mechanised activity taking place in the vicinity of the river with potential for oil spills,
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE          6-3                                      April 2000



iatungurL-Kasese-Fon lortal Road                   l casirnlirv Stud-, Rievie and Detaiied Eninneerinc Design
rasese-Kileibe Road
Equator Road                                                             EIA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
discharge ot' waste etc discussed abovc. It is particulari% important that the construction management
procedures are applied at this locatioin.
The activities taking place in the w-orks camps also have potential to pollute water resources. The
maintenance activities and operation ol plant including those used for concrete batching and bitumen
manufacture can oenerate waste as well as noise and air pollution. C'onstruction crews can generate
up to 3 kilogrammes of' solid waste and 60 litres of' liquid wastes per day. Uncontrolled. these can
find their wav into the soils and watcr sy stems with scrious consequences for ecosvstems and health.
The siting of the camps and installations should talkc due account of environmental sensitivities e.g.
proximity of surtace water resources. in particular drinking water intakes, and of underlying aquifers.
No waste should be dumped or discharged directly to the surrounding environment and sufficient
facilities (pit latrines. solid waste containment. containers for wvaste oil etc) should be provided for
collection and storage of both human a3nd mechanical waste.
6.3   Biolooical Environment
The section of road between KLatunguru and the junction with the Equator Road traverses through the
QENP and in particular across an important migration route for kob. lions, buffalo and elephants
(Figurc 3). Kob in particular. frequently cross the road when movina between Lake George and their
mating ground to the east of the road. The Park Authority consider that the existing road already
causes significant disruption to animal activity and note that. apart from one park in Tanzania, there
are no other Parks in Africa which have a main road passing through them. Indeed tourists have in
the past expressed considerable surprise at the presence of a tarmac road within such a protected area.
It is also noted that there has recently been a crotllh in uncontrolled activity in the Park and if such
activity is not halted it could threaten QENP's status as a Park of national value.
However. it is also recognised that the road is alreadv in existence, that it provides a key
transportation route to the westem part of Uganda and to the Congo and that it would be unrealistic to
close such a route or relocate it outside the Park for various reasons including technical economic and
environmental constraints: it is therefore accepted that the road must continue to pass through the
Park. Howvever. the fact that the road reserve is owned by the MOWHC means that UWA technically
have no control over activities occurring within the wvidth of the reserve that passes through the
QENP. even though the Park has been designated as a site of national significance and its integrity
could be substantially affected if the project is inappropriately designed, implemented and managed.
In view of this technicality. it is particularly important that the measures proposed in this EIA are
implemented and monitored and that there is ongoing liaison with UWA to ensure protection of the
Park. The pro,ject should be seen as an opportunity for the MOWHC to work collaboratively with the
UWA. district authorities and funding agencies to control the impacts that are already occurring and
to ensure that there are no additional impacts associated with the road rehabilitation.
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE          6-4                                       April 2000



Katunouria-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                 reisibitity itudv Reviexs and Detaiied Enigneenig iDesign
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                            ELAXPBA i - DrafiFinal Repon
*  Loss of habitat due to landtake
During construction there is the potential for landtake and hence loss of habitat associated with:
0  Road widening:
0  Working widths including diversion routes:
0  Borrow pits. quarries. spoil disposal sites and haul roads: and
0  Work camps and storage areas.
Road WVidening - In genleral all permaznent landtake associated with widening of the roads will be
witlhin the existing road reserve. except at the junction in the centre of Bwera and the roundabout
between the main road and the Equator Road at Kasese. where some permanent landtake could be
required: these are both within urban areas and no significant loss of vegetation will occur. Within
the road reserve outside the urban areas some vegetation. comprising perennial grasses. small shrubs
and crops of little ecological significance. may be lost as a result of the widening.  In order to
mininise erosion and encourage revecetation in these areas it is important that new road shoulders,
embankments and cuttings are at a slhallower angle than 600. Where this is not possible, owing to
phvsical constraints (e.g. presence of utilities witlhin the road reserve), then the slopes should be
reseeded.
Within the QENP, the UWA are completely opposed to any road widening both because of the
resulting loss of vegetation and because of the resultant increased potential for speeding vehicles and
road kills which could cause substantial impacts on the Park. No road widening is therefore proposed
on those sections of road.
lWorking Widths - During construction of the highway sections, small local storage and parking areas,
as well as temporarv road diversions. will be accommodated within the road reserve. except in the
vicinity of the three replacement bridges. At these bridge sites there will be a need for temporary
landtake outside the road reserve to accommodate traffic diversion via a temporary bridge (which is
necessary to keep the road open during bridge replacement) and for storage of the materials (in
particular concrete) required for the bridge construction. Within the Park boundary there will be no
temporary landtake and any removal of vegetation (e.g. wood for fires) from these areas should be
strictly prohibited.
The areas to be used for roadside storage, parking and diversions also generally contain perennials
and small bushes that will quickly regenerate once construction has been completed. However. to
ensure that this occurs, all topsoil should be removed and stored separately during site preparation
and reinstated following completion of works. In the areas used for diversions it may be necessary to
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE          6-5                                      April 2000



Katunuuru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                   Feasibilint Studs Review and Detailed Eneineenna Desien
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                              EIA(PBA i - DraftFinal Report
dig over the soil prior to replacement of topsoil. to counter the effects of compaction caused by
passing vehicles. In order to minimise the potential fbr damage within the QEINP. there should be no
local diversions within the road reser e throuoh the Plark: in these areas all traffic management should
be through single lane use along the existing road aliinment or. on the section north of the Equator
Road junction. on the western or niorthern road reserves (tlhe main road and Equator Road
respectively). The use of the road reserve within the Park for storage. parkino etc should also be
minimised wherever possible.
Bo,7oii pits. spoil diisposal sites aoui associated hal/1 roads - There  vill be a requirement for
extraction for murrumn and stone (a2urezate) for the road construction. The sources of such material
are presented in Table 4.1. It is understood that suclh material have in the past been extracted from
QENP. whichl has resulted in serious impacts on thc natural resources and visual setting  vithin the
Park. It is essential that no fi-urther material is takeni liom within this protected area. or iiom the road
reserve where the project road passes through the l ark. This has already been recognised by the
proposers of the scheme and. followinn advice from  UWA. a potential borrow site within QENP,
soutlh of the Equator Road has been rejected for use in the project. Material for the road will have to
be imported from outside the QENP boUndary.
A potential source of sand has been identified at Katanguru. immediately south of the Kazinga
Channel.  While this site is outside the Park boundary. it is within a Wildlife Sanctuary and is
surrounded by the P ark. It is also adjacent to the Kazinga Channel, which is a kev resource in
supporting the Park ecosystem. While is recognised that this site has a lower level of protection than
the Park itself, the extraction activities could affect the adjacent. more highly protected areas. UWA
have expressed a strong preference that this site is not used. Alternative sites should therefore be
explored and examined in terms of their associated economic. technical and environmental
constraints and benefits (for example long haul oi material from a distant site has a range of
environmental consequences) and weighed against the potentiallv considerable requirements that
UWA are likely to impose on use oi the Katanguru site. in particular onerous reinstatement process.
vere this to be pursued. lf the Katanguru site remains as the favored location such reinstatement
requirements will need to be agreed with UWA prior to commencement of construction..
In general. ecological impacts associated with borrow pits are likely to comprise loss of vegetation in
particular trees. Acacia scrub, Euphorbia or valuable habitats for birds: areas containing these should
therefore be avoided. A preliminary determination of the likely mitigation measures at these sites has
been sumamrised in Table 4.1: specific requirements for each site should, however, be defined and
included in the CMP once the sites have been finalised and should include the following:
removal and storing topsoil for reuse, or use of topsoil from areas being worked to reinsate
previouslv worked areas;
Scon Wilson in Association with ACE            6-0                                       April 2000



Kiatuneunj-Kasese-Fon Poortai oad                    1asiiiin% Stud Revie and Detailed Engineerinm Desison
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                              ELAVPBA) - DraftFinal Report
w Xvhere the natural topography is gently sloping. filling of depressions and shaping of slopes at less
than the angle of' natural repose ot thie local soil type for maximum seed survivability. Where the
pit is on the steep edge of hill. terracing should be undertaken:
*  reinstatement of topsoil: and
*  construction of intercepting ditches at the top and bottom  of slopes and cut-oft' drains and
dissipation structures.
Owing to the high rainfall and soil fertility in the study area. the natural revegetation rate is very high
and w ill be particularly so if the reinstatement is undertaken during or just before the rainry season. In
general therefore. reseedih- will not be necessary except where:
*  the slopes are considered to be at al high risk of' erosion (for example locations whiere phvsical
constraints such as the presence ot' buildings, utilities etc prevents adoption of suitablv shallow
slopes). In these cases seeding with local varieties of grass should be undertaken: and
*  there is a risk that the land will be cultivated before the soil has a chance fo stabilise. resultinc- in
erosion. This has been observed at the sites of reinstated pits elsewhere in Uganda where the
availabilitv of an apparently reinstated area has almost immediately attracted agricultural activity,
even though it can take several years for the soils to settle. At these sites it is recommended that
the area is planted with napier grass which will act to stabilise the soil. In addition. its value as
fodder for cattle will discourage alternative cultivation of the site with annual crops, which could
thleaten soil stability.
It is understood that often once Ugandan land owners are compensated by public works. they have
regarded the borrow pits as belonging to the government and, therefore have assumed no obligations
towards that piece of land. In particular. they do not use the compensation payments for restoration
purposes. In order for this not to happen, the contractor should reinstate the land prior to handing it
back to the owner rather than including the cost of r einstatement in the compensation to the owner to
do this work himself.
In general it is proposed to dispose of all spoil (mostly form ditch construction) within the borrow
pits as the first stage of their re-insatement, so that n(o local spreading or tipping of spoil will take
place unless specifically negotiated witlh the landowner. While in many cases this may be acceptable,
all spoil should be spread sufficientlv thinly so as not to have steep edges or smother vegetation.
Most of the borrow pits being considered for use already have existing access roads. Where new
roads are to be constructed they should be routed to avoid areas of significant ecological values
vegetation in particular trees and bushes and wetland areas.
Scott Wilson in Association witlh ACE          6-7                                        April 2000



KatwunLuru-Kasese-f-on l'ortal Road               V ,asibilirt Studs Re iew and Detailed Enzineenna Desien
Kasese-Kilenmbe Road
Equator Road                                                            EIA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
The effects of borrow pits on aariculture and other landuses are discussed in SCIA .
f'Work Camzps and Storaage Areas - These have a tendenc\ to become sizeable temporary communities
attractina numerous camp followers (families. vendors. mechanics etc) and it is difficult to prevent
them remaining afier completion oi tlic works. as a tocus of a ncxw settlement. They automatically
generate a heavv increase in luelwNood gathering and poaching and communities housed within them
may also undertake agricultural activit!. The risk of fire mav also be increased by smokers and
cookina activity. It is therelore imperative that no camp is located in or close to the QENP or other
areas of sensitive habitat or prone to erosion. Even if a camp is located outside the Park e.g. north of
the Equator Road. its proximity to the protected area will present a certain risk. Night residence on
the road bordering the QENP should be restricted to watchmen ouarding the contractors' plant.
equipment and materials.
An option whlich wvould minimise the effects of the \%orkcamp would be to source the work force
from andior house any external workcrs in. Kasese and bus them dailv to the site. This would
minimise the size of the works camps. waste generationi etc and the potential for encroachment onto
land and removal of natural resources.
* Disturbance of animals due to increased noise and human activities
During construction there will be localised human activity and noise generation. Apart from the
section of the road between Katunguru and the Equator Road junction, which traverses the QENP,
there are unlikely to be fauna in the vicinitv that mav be disturbed bv such activity. However within
the short section south of the Equator Road there are several species which could be disturbed,
particularly the 70.000 kob present in the Park. and which regularly cross the road to reach their
matino ground on the eastern side of the road. Advice from UWA indicates that it would be
preferable to undertake work on the section of road between Katanguru and the Equator Road in the
dry season (i.e. December to February and July to September) since animals tend to concentrate near
or cross the road during the wet seasons. Further advice should be sought from the UWA regarding
the most appropriate method of construction. that would minimise disruption e.g. preference for
minimisation of extent of works at anr! one time etc.
Once operational. there is unlikely to be a substantial increase in noise levels or dust generation,
since the design of the road surface. removal of potholes etc should reduce both these parameters.
*   Interruption of views across the road
At present the level of the road through the Park is the same as the surrounding landscape and so does
not impede the siaht lines of the animals. It is important that this is maintained and that any new
works do not create embankments or cuttings that could interrupt these sight lines.
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE          6-8                                      April 2000



Katun2uru-Kasese-Fon Portal Road                  I casioiirv Stuax ReN iew anria etailed Elijjleennuz i)esien
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                            EIA(PBAI - DraftFinal Reporn
* Disturbance from other physical changes
There xvill be no realionment or xNidenin- of the road within the Park although some ditches (-within
the road reserve) will be cleared and drainage infrastructure (culverts etc) repaired. All new ditches
will be of earth rather than concrete and while UWAA do not anticipate problems associated with ditch
dimensions or slopes. these should he d'iscussed with the Authority prior to finalisation of proposals.
The improvement to road drainage will minimise thie risk of water ponding. which could in turn
attract wildlife to such man-mad waterholes and present a risk of road accidents and kills.
*  Severance of migration routes and resultant road kills
As discussed in the introduction to this section. the road passes through an important wildlife
migration route. particularly for kob. This section of road is also straight and for the most part on the
level and vehicles are regularly observed to travel at speeds in excess of 120km/hour. Although
details of road kills are not formally recorded, the Park authorities consider that these occur on a
daily basis. The use of full beam headlights by vehicles travelling at night tends to temporarily blind
animals and make them more vulnerable to being hit by road vehicles. It is recommended that rumble
strips. or similar measures should be used combined with frequent speed limit, and other purpose
made. road signs through the Park.
The Park authorities have suggested a speed restriction of 60km/hr on the stretch of road between
Katunguru and the Equator Road junction. While this constitutes a speed reduction of up to 50%
compared to those that are currently observed on this section of road, it is only represents a 25%
reduction in the statutorv speed limit of 80km/hr in this area. It should be noted that a reduction of
speed by 20km/hr on the most sensitive stretch of the road (15km) would increase travel time by less
than four minutes compared to the time taken if the statutor) speed was observed, or of 7.5 minutes
compared to a speed of 120km/hr. No reduction of speed is considered necessary where the road
passes along the boundary of the Park. to the north and west of the junction of the Katunguru- Kasese
Road with the Equator Road.
In applying these speed restrictions it should be recognised that once fullv bitumised. the Mubende-
Fort Portal road is likely to be of siagnificance in reducing the traffic density between Katunguru and
Kasese. since this former route is shor-ter and will reduce to some extent the vehicular flow through
QENP. Consequentlv, the need for upgrading the section of road through the Park should be lessened
once the Fort Portal-Kampala road is completed.
Various possible measures have been identified, through consultation with UWA, that could help
reduce the speed to 60km/hr within the Park, including:
Placement of speed bumps and/or rumble strips. These should be at sufficient frequency to
Scott Wilson in Association withi ACE         6-9                                      April 2000



Katunuturu-Kasese-Fort lortal Road                 i clsibilitv Study Review and Detailed Engineennge Desian
Kasese-Kileiibe Road
Equator Road                                                             Ei,A(PBA' - DraftFinal Report
reduce speeds to the appropriate level (60knmh'hr) and should extend across the entire road and
verges to prevent xehicles using the verge, to avoid slowing down. Speed bumps should also be
placed at specific locations to reduce the risk of accidents to road users.  UWA  have
reconmmended liaison with various researchers withiln the Park (in particular with Martin Strein)
regarding the location and nature oi these features and their comments should be obtained and
reflected in the detailed desian. It is also important that regular maintenance is undertaken of any
speed humps and,or rumble strips hy MOU'OHC. as they tend to get worn down more rapidly than
the surrounding road surface:
*  Placement of' clear- signs at the enltr-ances. exits and through the Park. including those stating
speed limits. forewarning of speed bumps and rumble strips. animal crossing points and the
increased possibility of animal hits at night. At the entrances. these could be accompanied by a
parking area and interpretation hoard. to encourage interest in the Park's resources and careful
driving througlh this area. In ordcr to maximise the effectiveness of such signing. appropriate
standards should be identified and applied. throulh employment of an expert in road signs and
liaisoni witlh the architect currentlh cimploved by UWA to develop the Park's signing strategy: and
i  No wvidening of the road w idth inside QENP.
While it would be desirable to entorce some regulation of vehicle speeds within the Park and
introduction of penalties for contraventions. it is recognised that this is probably not simple to
implement. The MOWHC and the Park authorities should jointly consider how such monitoring and
regulation may be undertaken.
* Fire risk
In the QENP and adjacent areas. fire is already a problem and mav be increased by the presence of
careless smokers. camp cooking and the use of fires during sealing of the road. Particular care will
be needed during construction and if any camps are located close to the Park it may be advisable to
create a fire break by cutting a sward of grass.
Effects on visitors to the Park and road users of the project road through the Park as well as those on
the Park's economic operation are discussed in the SCIA Report
6.4  Indirect and off-site effects (Pbvsical and Biolooical Resources)
* Pressure on resources
If the presence of the road attracts people from c jtside the project corridor e.g. to new trading
centres, there is likelY to be increased use of fuelwood for energy requirements since electricity
supply from the UEB is not sufficient even for the existing demand. This could result on pressures
on the now well vegetated areas along the route, particularly for charcoal production. Existing plots
Scott Wiison in Association with ACE          6-10(                                     April 2000



Laninuru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                              tsibilir. Stud% Rt! ,ew and Derailed EnuineennL Desimn
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                EIA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
of private land and some forest rescrxe may be depleted. While the potential impact max  be
moderate. it is likIely to be of long-term siganificance.
* Maintenance Requirement
Road maintenance is a common problem in Uganda. The rehabilitation would decrease the need for
continuous intensive maintenance and hence the frequency of socio-cultural disturbance associated
with this activirv.  However. some routine and recurrent maintenance e.g. desiltino of culverts.
maintenance of speed bumps etc will he required. Thle use of herbicides for maintaining road edges
should be discouraved and. where possible manual labour should be used for maintainina the
roadsides.
Indirect effects on socio-cultural and economic resour-ces (including tourists) are discussed in the
SCA Report.
Scon Wilson in Association with ACE             6-11                                        April 2000



Katuneuru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                 Feasibility Strudy Review and Detailed Enaineenng Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                           EIAiPBA) - DraftFinal Repon
7.                                ENVIRONNMENTAL MANAGEMIENT PLAN
7.1 General
A specific mitigationi plan cannot be finalised until thie detailed design has been undertaken and
revie-wed.  However. based on the findings of the evaluation described in Section 6. various
mitigation proposals have been made. WVlherever possible these have been specific. but where there is
as vet insufficient detail e.g. reinstatement of borrow pits. location of speed bumps/runmble strips, the
plan has included auidance on how to determine and specify the mnitigiation requirement once the
detailed desizn is Iiurther advanced.  These mitigation measures have been compiled into an
Environmental Management Plan which itemises the requirements and agencies responsible for their
implementation and monitoring during the Design. and construction and the Post Construction phases
(Tables 7.1 an-d 7.2 respectively). A summnary of monitoring requirements is also provided (Table
7.3). The Design and Construction Management Plans should be incorporated in the following:
*  the final scheme desi-n:
*  the invitation to tender to contractors and subsequentlv in the conditions of contract: and
* the Construction Management Plan (CMP) and the monitoring requirements for implementation
by MOWHC and the resident engineer.
The Contractor should then prepare a working meihod statement demonstrating how he proposes to
undertake the work's in accordance with these documents.
During construction. the Resident Enuineer and his team will be responsible for ensuring adherence
to the CMP.  Within this team. there should be an experienced. qualified and independent
environmental specialist. whose specitic responsibilin! will be to ensure that the environmental
aspects of the Plan (as derived from  the EMP) are implemented. UWA have requested that a
nominated representative of the Authority is on site during the period of the works and if such a
representative is appointed. there should be a mechanism  for him to liaise and consult with the
resident Engineer's team. ideally tlhrough the Environmental Specialist,  vho will have the
responsibility and authority for implementing the schemiie in accordance with the EMP.
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE           7-1                                   April 2000



I



Katutigriti-Kascsc-lFoit Pot ml lRod                                                                                                       Icasibili[N Stiln- Rc jew andl I)Cltiled l sgiirccrimig IJo)sicin
Kascse-Kilemtbc Road
Equator Road                                                                                                                                                             FIA(PB3A) - D)raftlinal Report
7.2   Environmental Management Plan: Design and Construction Phases
E0;00tt;00t;Xffecti:4:t;   : t: t; li:t  i-tit;   _  NMitigation                                              Design                                        Construction
Implementing  Respontible |iplenmonting  Responsible
Organtisation         Organisation              Orgaisation          ()rgaisattlon
PIIYSICAL ENVIRONMENT
Changes to drainage and erosion
patterns arising front:
Creation of steep slopes ni einbanikinenits    P  *    Identify all  sites Nshere  new  cuttings oT embainkmems are   Design Erigireer      Nhi()\\1C               (outractor             Resident EAreirreer
cuttinigs borrow  pit alnd spoil driiiiping           required
areas  used  for current project could           *    W hlere possible design should specif% slopes at ani angle less than
increase potential for erosion                        that of natural repose; where this is not possible specify
requireisienit for reseeding
*    Appraisal arid specification of management (e g  nietliod of
snorking. topsoil storage) arid reinstateniteir requireriueiits for each
proposed borross pit (i iultidiirg need for teiraciig. reseeding or
plantitig with napier grass and drainage provisioni as appropriate)
Chaniges to n aterflou                     P     *   Specificationi of repairs to existiing and provisioni ol additionral  Designi Engineer  NIOWilC                Coriti actor            Resident Frgineei
culsverts
Contamination of soils and pollution of
water resource due to:
On-site spills and waste discharges        P     CNIP aind teinder documents to specify arid contractor to comply %sithi  Design             NO(JVI H(Zoinrtcto                             Resitenit Engineer
the need for:                                                        Engineer/N1OWIIC
*    site practices to ensure there is no discharge or oni site disposal of
waste
*    there are rureastire to minimise the risk of spills. iticilidifug tise of
a mohile tanker. reftielling protocol aind regUlar niiaifiteniatice of
plant
*    provisiont of waste collection and off-site disposal niecitarisnis
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE                                                            7-3                                                                                              April 2000



Katiiigtirti-Kasese-Fort Plortal Road                                                                                                 Feasibility Stud(I Ros iew anid D)eailed Enginieerinlg I)csign
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                                                                                                       EIA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
.  : iirrect -     .:                 lMitigafi"o                                                          Desigfi                                    Costruction
Im:plem.enting    Respjonsible              lipiplementitig    Responsible
0Organisation        Organisafton           Orgainisatio          O        gt' isation
Works camps including workshops and   P    CNIP and tender documenits to specify and contractor to comply with   Design                 MOWHC                 Contractor             Resident Engileer
maintenance facilities, storage areas etc      the need for                                                       Engineer!NtOW'tIC
*   siting of camps to take account of environimiienital sensitivities.
possible pieferred sites niay   be identified  in the teiider
documeiit
*    camps to be outside aitd preferably some distance fronm QENP
*    work camp practices to ensure there is no discharge or on site
disposal of "ale
*   ilreie are ineasire toi in iriiiiise ilie risk of spills-
*   provisioti of waste collectioii, storage and off-site disposal
mechanisms
*    removal of waste aiid reinstatement of camps on completion of
w orks
BIOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT
Loss of habitats a result of:
Road widening                            P    *    Design shoild not iiclude any road widening within QENP         Desigr Etigineer      MOWI IC               Contractor            Residetnt tgilgicer
*    Design to identify all sites where new cuttings or einbankfiienis
are required aiid sshere possible specify  slopes at asi angle less
than that of natural repose: where this is not possible specify
requirement for reseeding. Contractor to comply with these
requirements
Working widths e.g for road diversioins.  T    CNIP and tender documients to specify and contractor to comply with  Designi              N1oWII(               Colintactor            Resident Enigirieer
*   no diversions within or in the road reserve where the highway   Engineer/NIOWI IC
runis thiroighi QENP or
*    no temporary landtake within QENP
*    airy temporary  landtake within the road reserve where the
highway runs througli QENP should be miiriniised
Scott Wilson in Association withi ACE                                                        7-4                                                                                           Apt il 2(t(1(1



Katurigurio-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                                                                                                             I easibilht\ Stud\ RCe iesW anid I)etailed I Figinreelirg I)esigtr
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equiator Road                                                                                                                                                                  EIA(1P13A) - I)raftFinal Report
-.  .                         ~~~~~~~~~Milligalloon                                                     Designi                                        ConstriucOtio
..   .           Impi~~~Oe niet         Re-sponsbl              Iplemen tIg   Responisible
Oralsto    COrgamtisa ion   Organisation    Ogmlsto
*    any lemiporary  laridtake outside   QENP, to avoid areas of
significanit vegetation or habitat. in particular trees, %setlands etc
*    aii aicas of terilporary lanrdtake shotild have topsoil rerimoved arid
reinistated once ssorks are comirpleted
Extractioni frorim borross  pits. quarries,  T     Design arid tender documents shouild specify aird contractor to comriply   Design             N\O\k I IC              (Coltracior              Reidenit Eligiiieer
disposal of spoil anrd constrtiction of hail      wsitlh:                                                                  Engineer 'N M\M HC
roads                                              *    No rise of borrow pits or spoil disposal sites within QENP
*    Oturiile QF.NP. careftil selection  of qite5 to inclide ecolo6ical
appraisal aiid specificatlion of triarrleiretir  te g  ietliod  of
workiig, topsoil storage) and reinstatenient reqinirerneirts for each
proposed borrow pit (including nreed for terracing, reseeding or
plairtirig with napier grass and drainage provision as appropriate)
*    If possible extraction of sand  fromir existing pit at Kaatingriri
should  be avoided  If ilris site  is used  a coimprelheisise
reirstatefilent package is reqriired aiid mtust be agreed %sith U\W'A
before finalisation of the design
Work camps and ptessures on  naturtal   T          CN1P and tender documents to specify the need for and contractor to   Design                   NMtvk  IlC             tContractor              Resideint fiipgiicel
resources by workforce e g. removal of             comply witls:                                                           Engineer/MO"\\l IC
firewood. poaching etc.                            *    sititig of caimips to take accounit of envsironirenital sensitivities:
possible preferred sites may   be identified   ii  Itle tender
document
*    canips to be otitside and preferably some distance front QENP
*    work camp  practices to ensure there is no discharge or on site
disposal of waste
*    ilere are measuire to miinirise the risk of spills,
*    provision  of waste collectiour, storage and off-sire disposal
mechanisms
*    regulation  of workforce activities including   prohibition  of
poaching or removal of vegetation fromt witlrin QENP
Scott Wilson in Association wvith ACE                                                               7-5                                                                                                 April 2000



Katunguroi-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                                                                                                       Feasibilit) Study Revie%s and D)etailed Engineering Dcsigil
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                                                                                                          ETA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
::: -  : Ellect :-:              >      Mitigation :                                                        Design                                       Construtctionf
:i plenteeniiig   Respotnsible               liznplemeflting   Rtspo- sible
OrgAnisstion          Organisatitt    O-gafhisktioIt               Oigan i;ttioh
itcreased fire risk                       T     CMIP and tender documents to specify the need for and coltractor to   Desigu               NIOWIIC               Contractor             Residcnt Enginieer
collmply withm                                                      Engiteer/N IO\t iC
*    preferred location of camp away front QENP and/or provision of
fire break
*    use of appropriate futnaces and on-site provision of fire fightiig
equ,pipmenit e
Loss of/disturbance to animals as a
resiltl of:
Poachinig bY workforce                    T     CNIP afid tetider docuulienits to specif) the neecl for and contractor to  D)esign,        N lO1 1( (HoUiitt ctor                       Residenit Etngitnc
comply witil                                                        Engineer/N10iW1 IC
*    regulation of workforce activities  iilidinig  prohibition of
poaching or removal of vegetation from within QENP
Noisc  anid  litIIIIaiI  activities  diurinig   r    *   detemiiiatinii of preferred titiniig and nietiod of works with   Designl          NOlltl         t       ( outractle            Resideit EtninoCCI
constrtictiol                                       LU VA and iicolporate in CNIP and tenider documiienits Contractor  Flnineer, Nl()\\ I IC
to comply with this condition
Interruption of site lines                P     *    design should not chlange levels of road, shoulders or road reserve   Designi Engineer  NIOWIIC              Contractor             Resident FIngineer
w'here the road passes tilrouighi QENP
Otlier physical changes                   P     *    design of all new ditches witliin Park to avoid use of coficrete   Desitin Fti-gmieeer  NtO\I'IIC            Contractor             Residetil EIliglulect
litlilug
Severance of migration routes/road kills  P     Design to iicliude                                                   Design Enginieer     NMOWHIC                 Contractor             Resident Engineer
*    provision of speed humps/runible strips on thle section of road
throughi QENP
*    road signing
*    agreeirietrt  with  UWA   regarding  tliese  proposals  before
finalisatioli of the design
Notes:   T = terporary/slsort term  effect
Scott Wilson in Associationi with ACE                                                          7-6                                                                                             April 201()



Kamingum-Kasesc-Forl t'otal Road                                                                                              I crsilbfitN S11dx iPc%ic%w ard I )cileld FlIgincelil g I)eLSiVII
Kasese-Kileriibe Road
Equator Road                                                                                                                                              I,\(li\) - Draill ial Rcprt
P = penranent/long termn effect
Effects in italics represent an improvement to the current situation
Further details of the mitigation requirements are provided in Section 6 of this repoort
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE                                                   7-7                                                                                    April 20)0()



Katunigtirti-Kasese-Fort lPortal Road                                                                                              I casihilits St(d; Rc; icw ald lDetaileld 1:,ghincritq D )cjiit
EquatorsRoad   RIA(PlBA) - Draftlinal Repoit
7.3    Environmental Management Plan: Operational Phase
Ef.fet  --                                    M tigtionf Implementing    Responsible
:___________________________ :::  :___.:--____l:__:___.__                     .:_____________________                              O rgainisation
PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT
Erosion of road cuttings and borrow pits    P    New slopes should be monitored to ensure revegetation occurs Areas  NIOWHC          MOWHC
where this has failed should be re-seeded and/or terraced
Agriculttiral activity should be discouraged on nesly reinstated borrow   LCs
pit utitil soils liaie stabilised This can be achieved throillb a% areness
raising atonigsrthe affected cotitiutuities.
inadequate drainage resulting in ponding   P    The drainage system should be periodically cleared and maintained to  NIOWIIC       NMoWHIC
of water                                      ensure water flow
BIOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT
Loss of/disturbance to aninials as a
result of:
Road kills                              P    lmpleitientatioii of additional speed control meastires signinig if   lOkWIiC           UW'A
numbers increase significantly after completion of works.         Local police
Scott Wilson in Association witll ACE                                                      7-8                                                                                         April 200(



Kati ngurn--Kasese-lFot lPoital Road                                                                                                       cIrsihiliIt  StudN  Vles ies and l)clailedl I neillect illU  Designl
Knsesc-Kilemhc Road
Equator Road                                                                                                                                                            fI WlPMIA) - Draftlfinal Rtcpolt
7.4   Monitoring Requirements
I lssue        ;          C r X X t X 0;                                  ;if f: ) (onistruclion  j  ; j | l; | ;  0 0 00: ;:  0;  ;; f 0 linpieneneting  Responsible Osersbtion lle Onpei ting  Responsible
: ::Organisttiou0  Ok-go  aisation                                                          Otgt     isition    Org 1lsation
Soils and Erosiorn        *    NMonutorifig of slopes on cuttings and   Residetit Engineer     NIOU'HC                     Moinitorring  of  slopes  on  cllttimigs    NlU  l IC             Nl(Ul It/NFNI 
embanikiunenits prior to completions of                                                    embankimentis and borrow pits withinit the
section of highway * orks                                                                  lirst %ear aftel completioC1 of ssoiks to
*    Moniitoring of slopes and reinstatemenit                                                    ensure  slopes  are  stabilising   arid
measures oni borrow% pits                                                                   serctatron re establishing
*    Ntuuutr,riirt and miaiitemince , iama;iiiu;  NItt'\  I           NI( 5 I I(-
infiastnctlure
W 'ater    and    Soil   *    Monitoring  of    workforce  practices   Resident Enginieer      MOWIIC
Quality                        against CMP
Biological Rrsources     *    Nloiuitoririg of schemie irriplemiienitationi  Resident Euiginieer  NIOUiC              *    Road kills                                NIt\X II                NINIA
and workforce practices against CMP
Scott Wilson in Associatioti with ACE                                                           7-9                                                                                              April 20)01



Katuncuru-iasese-Foon Portal Roaa                  F cassibijrv stuam Revrew and'ietaned Eniineennex oesian
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                            ELk(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
8.   INTERAGENCY  COORDINATION
8.1  Introduction
The environmental actions to be carried out cover a wide range of issues. as described in Section 7 of
this report.  To be most effective. these actions should ideally be integrated into the wider
development of environmental capabilities and roles so that the initiatives and responsibilities of
various organisations with an interest in the project (e.g. NEMA, MOWHC. RAFU. UWA. LCs. etc)
are properly focused within a well defined environmental protection framework.  In this way,
possible duplication of effort -,ill be minimised. and common goals can be established to reduce
potential environmental conflicts between the activities of different orgzanisations.
The process should be seen as part of the ongoing general strengthening of national and local
institutional capabilities in Uganda to cnsure that enviromnental concerns play a meaningful role in
guiding developments in the countr'. The establishment of a such a national regulatory framework
can be visualised as a four-stage process (UNEP. 1992).
1)     Policy setting
2)     Implementation of policy - establishing regulations
4)     Verification of compliance with regulations
5)     Enforcement of regulations.
This framework is being put into place on a national basis by NEMA but is not yet established in full.
A clear statement of policy has been made through and the National Environment Action Plan.
However, there is comparatively little verification that policies are being complied with and there
appear to be. in some cases, insufficient resources and legislative and regulatory powers to permit
enforcement. although new legislation is in progress.
The increasing concems of bilateral and multilateral funding agencies over environmnental
consequences of project developments is an additional reason for Uganda, and MOWHC itself. to
establish proper environmental controls and to ensure that effective environmental assessment is built
into the planning and implementation processes from very early stages. A brief overview of the issues
faced by the key agencies of relevance to the project in establishing and undertaking these
environmental controls is discussed below.
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE          8-1                                      April 2000



KatunEuru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                Feasibiliny Studs Review and Derailed Eneineenng Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                          EIA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
8.2 NEMA
Within the short time NEMA has existed and within the framnework of its mandate. a number of
achievements have been made among which are the following:
*  increased awareness of the need for environmental management in the public and private sectors,
*  development of guidelines. regzulations and standards for use in environment manafgement which
has increased chances of sustainable use of' the resource base e.g. EIA  Regulations and
-uidelines. draft environmental standards etc.
*  creation of institutional structures to implement the program  on improved environment
management e.g. LECs. ELUs. DECs:
* supporting a number of districts. NGOs. CBOs and local cornmunities in their bid to conserve the
environment and natural resources through provision of technical and logistical support, and
NENIA has increasingly become etfective in executing its duties despite the fact that enviromnent
maniagement and planning in Uganda are relatively new phenomena. However. in doing so some
practical problems have become apparent in the institutional and legal framework that was created to
implement environment management programmes in the country. For example:
* in some cases there are conflicts between the Constitution and specific legislation relating to
environmental management,
- while NEMA's role is to coordinate matters relating to the enviromnent, it has no regulatory
powers and is dependent on the relevant Ministries to enforce the standards;
 in some areas there is an overlap in functions between NEMA and Ministries which results in
conflicts. and potential for competition and a lack of necessary cooperation and coordination; and
* standards developed bv NEMA are inconsistent with those developed by specific Ministries, and it
is not clear which ones should be applied.
Other practical problems include lack of financial and logistical support for the newly created
institutions. inadequate staffing or the staff lacking appropriate skills to undertake the assigned tasks,
matters to do with legislation over resources reserved for the central government such as water,
mines. forests. wetlands and national parks. There is also the issue of support for NEMA after the
current Environment Management Capacity Building Project (EMCBP) through which these
functions are funded by the World Bank ends.
8.3 MOWHC and RAFU
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE         8-2                                     April 2000



Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Ponai Roac               rc'sloilt[v stawo Rev iev; and DetiiedlEingineenng DesiLoT
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                        ELA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
As vet there appears to be no well established ELL' \ithin the MONVHC or environmental capability
xvithin RAFU. Consequently. there is currently no foimal mechanism within the Ministry through
which it can voice its enviromnental concerns and. in turn. interact wvith NEMA and ensure that its
planning and operations do not cause undue environmental problems. These roles have in part been
assumed by existing officers wNithin RAFU and the Ministry. who have where appropriate sought
advice and input from external agencies. for example in the recent preparation of EIA guidelines for
road projects. specification of appropriate environmental considerations in Terms of' Reference to
contractors etc . However, exven with the of best intentions, such an approach, which involves only
limited  and  intemiittent specialist enviromnental input. cannot guarantee  the appropriate
environmental awareness' and implementation of appropriate management procedures. However. it is
understood that the Ministry intends to implement an ELU and that the RAFU are actively pursuing
the appointment of an Environmental Manager. Such measures should help to ensure the necessary
coordinated approach and improvement in environmental management procedures in the future.
8.4   Other Agencies
UW'A
It is understood that in the past. developers have in soiie cases not taken due account of ecological
resources, including those in protected areas, and as result a deterioration in conseration value,
which could have been avoided through liaison with UWA. has resulted.
Local Cowucils
Although the national programme of decentralisation provides for transfer of environmental
management responsibilities to districts. municipalities and rural conmmunities the implementation of
such a strategy has been in some cases hindered by \'arious practical considerations including:
* a lack of resources. and the appreciation of the need for and function of DEOs in the district local
governments has meant in some cases that they have not been effectively appointed or provided
with the appropriate authority and resources;.
* a potential conflict of interests between the roles of the DECs. which are proposed by NES 1995
and district health and environment committees (DHECs) proposed by the Local Government
Statute of 1993, both a result of the on going decentralisation programme; and
  the roles of all the local environmental institutional structures recommended by NES 1995 and
the National Environment Management Policy such as DEO. DEC and LECs are not well defined
which at times causes confusion. In many cases the individuals involved are not well guided
about their duties and how they relate to other institutions and agencies.
Scott Wilson in Association witli ACE       8-3                                   April 2000



Katun2uru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                lc3sibilitv Stuay Review and Detailed Enuineerine Design
Kasese-Kileinbe Road
Equator Road                                                           EIA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
8.5   Recommendations
While the creation of NEIMIA has had a considerable effect on environmental management in Uganda.
there are inevitablv some inconsistencies and lacl, ol regeulatory mechanisms that prevent it from
becoming  fully  functional. These  are graduallx  being  addressed  by new  legislation. and
implementation of the necessary mechanisms within the relevant lead agencies including the
proposed ELU and Environtmental Manager within the MOWHC and RAFU respectively. The
implementation of such measures should be encouraged wherever possible.
At the local level there is'also a need tor allocation of resources to. education.of and empowering of
environmental officers and committees. although it is reco2nised that this ma!! achieve a higher
priority as these measures are implemented at a national level.
Owing to previous development practices, wlhich have in some cases not taken due account of the
conservation value of ecological resources, there is a particular need  to establish links between
project promoters and the UWA so that both organisations develop an appreciation of the others
requirements and concerns and can xvork together to f1id mutually acceptable solutions. The current
project should be seen as an opportunity for the MOWHC and UWA to develop such relations. The
proposed ELU witlhin the Ministry and the Environmental Manager in RAFU should take
responsibility for this function.
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE         8-4                                     April 2000



i%arunguru-Kasese-For. Portal Road                  ,asibihtv Stud Re%vie% and Detailed EnInneenne Desian
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                  EIA (PBA i - Final Repon
9.  CONSIDERATION OF ALTERNATIVES
9.1   Introduction
There are various alternatives to ensuring good transport link-s between the east and western parts of
Uganda and between Uganda and the Congo. On tihe macro scale there are alternative transport
modes that could be used. whilst within the road transport option itself there are choices that can be
made in terms of construction of new roads or use of existing aliginments. standards adopted and
methods of undertaking the works. In addition. there is the no project scenario. In summary the main
alternatives comprise:
*   use of other transport modes e.g. rail or air;
*  use of other road transport routes:
* alternative rehabilitation options:
* alternative construction methods: and
*  do nothing scenario.
These alternatives and their consequences are discussed briefly beloW.
9.2   Alternative Transport Modes
The current railway infrastructure extends from Kasese to Kampala and north to Jinja, Tororo and
Soroti. At present, although it is used for the transport of freight (passenger transportation has ceased
for safety reasons), it is costly and unreliable with manv derailments. There are presently no plans for
rehabilitation of this service. While in the longer term the use of rail rather than road infrastructure
where practicable is likely to be a preferable option in terms of environmental considerations (energy
consumption, air emissions etc), this would be dependent on a reliable and economically viable
service which is unlikely to be in place for a considerable time. Even if the rail service was
functional, the potential for its use would be constrained by the limited extent of the network which
would not provide links to the south parts of Uganda or to the Congo. The use of such a mode of
transport would also require an alteration in trading methods, particularly to minimise double
handling of materials (which itself has a high environmental cost). Therefore, although transportation
by rail may be a viable option in the future, it will only serve a proportion of the market (the rest will
continue to be dependent on road transportation) and is unlikely to be feasible for some time.
The high costs of air transport both in terms of economic and environmental considerations (energy
consumption. emissions to air) prohibit the use of such a transport mode.
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE             9-1                                      April 2000



Katuniuru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                  -asibilirv Stud, Review% and Detailed Enuinneenng Design
Kasese-Kiieinbe Road
Equator Road                                                              EIA (PBA) - Final Repon
9.3   Other Roads
Although an alternative road between Kampala and Fort Portal via Mubende is currently being
constructed. it is anticipated that this route will not be completed for at least three years and may
prove a difficult route for some vehicles as a result of steep gradients and sharp corners. Even when
this new road is completed. the southern route. comprising the project roads, will continue to be
necessary to serve areas to the south including Mbarara and Masaka as at present there is no other
road serving these areas. U'hile it is recognised that owing to its potential to affect the nature
conservation value of the Park. the routing of the project road through the QENP is, there are
substantial constraints associated witlh rerouting the highway to avoid the Park, these include the
potential for considerable enviromnental impacts associated with landtake, associated ecological.
resettlement and compensation issues. bypassing towns and trading centers that have grown up and
are dependent on the existing road network, as well as the high cost and long implementation period.
In addition:
   the presence of the Congo border would prohibits construction of such a route to the west of the
Park:
*   the steep slopes of the rift valley escarpment on the Park's eastern boundary restrict options in
this area and could lead to an increase in costs: and
*   a direct route from Kasese from Mbarara would be prohibitively expensive.
One of the project roads (the Equator Road) also comprises the main route to the Congo via the
Bwera/Mpondwe border post and there are no suitable alternative routes to that post which would not
require new construction across mountainous terrain. The nearest border post to the north is via the
Fort Portal - Bundibugvo Road at the northern tip of the mountains and at that location the Congo
side of the border is poorly served by roads. The southern post through Rukingiri is active but is
distant from major town in both Congo and Uganda. The present route through Bwera/Mpondwe
also has the advantacge of being routes along the boundarv of the Park rather than passing through this
protected area..
9.4 Rehabilitation Options
Owing to the level of deterioration of the Kasese- Kilembe Road from km 8.8 to 12 and the Equator
Road from km 20 to the border, any low cost maintenance activity would not be effective and there is
therefore a need for significant rehabilitation. Although the level of deterioration of the Equator Road
between km 0-5 is somewhat less. similar considerations applv to that stretch. Therefore, on these
sections. total reconstruction is recommended. The other sections of these roads are in better
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE           9-2                                   April 2000



Katunguru-Kasese-Fon Ponai Road                   .,sibilir%, St.ud. Rex ine and.Demailei Engineering Desipl-
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                             EIA (PBA! - Final Repon
condition and lower cost maintenance is the preferred option: while a more comprehensive
rehabilitation of these sections would result in a longer maintenance period and hence less
disturbance and associated environmental risks associated with maintenance, anv environmental
benefits are considered unlikely to outnveiah the considerable larger scale disturbances associated
with rehabilitation.
The Katanguru - Fort Portal Road carries relatively higher volumes of traffic, and while the present
condition of the road is fair to good. this is a reflection of the hiah cost and frequent maintenance
activities which are currentlv undertaken. Along this stretch, rehabilitation is the favoured
environmental option as it reduces thie need for the frequent disturbance (considerably more frequent
than would be required on the less busy Kilembe and Equator Roads).
Various alternatives in terms of construction activities and miti_ations have been discussed in
Sections 6 and 7 oi this report and specific recoiunendations to minimise environmental impacts
have been made including:
*  use of a local workforce where possible;
*  housing of any foreign workforce within existing towvns;
*  siting of work camps away from QENP;
*  specification of borrow pits. in particular, no use of pits within the QENP;
*  use of local borrow pits to minimise haul distances: and
-  if possible extraction of sand from existing pit at Katanguru should be avoided.
9.5 Do Nothing
The Do Nothing option comprises a continuation of the current levels of maintenance which require
frequent works and are dependent on availability of resources whenever this work is required. While
such an option could in the short term maintain the required standards between Katanauru and Fort
Portal. it would result in frequent maintenance and the associated high costs. In addition, the ad hoc
approach has more potential for generating environmental impact than a well planned and
comprehensive project which is subject to an ELA and designed. implemented and monitored in
accordance with an Environmental Management Plan. The ad hoc approach would therefore be of
particular concem where the project road passes through the QENP. Other sections of the project
roads have deteriorated or are near to complete failure and cannot be rectified through the type of
maintenance activity associated with the Do Nothing scenario. This scenario would therefore within a
relativelv short period of time render such road links unsuitable for use by motorised vehicle, with
resultant consequences in terms of erosion, accidents, safety, economic activity and associated
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE         9-3                                   April 2000



Katunauru-Kasese-For! Portal Road                           iFcasibilirv Sradv Rev iew and Detailed ELmineerina Desimi
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                               EL% (PBA) - Final Report
environmental effects.
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE                     9-4                                             April 2000



Katungur-Kasese.Fort PortalRoad                           FeasibilityStudy,,Review and Dezailed Enineaiog Desig.
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                           EIA (PBA) - Final Report
APPENDIX A
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE                                                                April 2000



I



Katunauru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                       i- asibiiirv Stud- Review and Detailed Engineerinn Design.
KIasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                          EIA (PBA) - Final Report
TERAMS OF REFERENCE
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE                 A-I                                           April 2000






Katunguru6Kases-Fon Portal Road
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road               Feasibilir' Study Review. Desizn & Preparation of Tender Documentation
SECTION I. TERMIS OF REFERENCE
1.    INTRODUCTION
1.    Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road. 105 km. Kasese-Kilembe Road 12 km and
Equator Road 38 km are located in the districts of Kasese-Kabarole in Western
Uganda. The Karunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal road is a section of the Trans African
Highway linking Mombasa in Kenya to Lagos in Nigeria. The road joins Equator
road which runs westem to the Zaire border. On national level. it completes the
westernm road circuit that connects the towns of Kasese, Bushenyi. Mbarara and
Masaka. and Fort Portal to the capital Kampala. Through the Equator road the
route connects Eastern Zaire, Rwanda and Burundi to the railway tenninal at
Kasese where import and export goods from and destined to these countries can
be trans-shipped to and from the port of Mombasa in Kenya.
2.    Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal bisects the Queen Elizabeth National Park which
is renowned for its wildlife and in particular the territorial grounds of the Uganda
Kob.
3.    Sabbour Associates Consulting Engineers Conducted the economic feasibility
and preliminary engineering studv of Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal and Kasese-
Kilembe in 1995. This was followed by detailed engineering design by the same
consultant. A comprehensive environmental impact assessment was included as
part of the feasibility study.
4.    In 1996 repairs were carried out on the section Katunguru-Kasese. The works
included pothole repairs. pavement repairs in some sections and reinstatement of
drainage. Works of similar nature are presently being carried out on the sections
Kasese-Fort Portal and Kasese-Kilembe.
II    OBJECTIVES
5.    The purpose of the studies is to cany out an update of the technical and economic
feasibility for rehabilitating and strengthening of the three road sections and to
undertake detailed engineering design of the most viable strengthening altemative
and prepare standard bidding documents suitable for intemational competitive
bidding.
III    SCOPE OF CONSULTING SERVICES
6.    The consultants shall review the documentation prepared by Sabbour Associates
and perfonn all engineering work. economic studies, field investigations and
related work deemed to be required to attain the objectives in Section II hereof.
An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and Resettlement Impact
Assessment (RIA) will also be carried out in accordance with the requirement



Karunguru-Kasese.Fort portai Road
Kasese-Kiiembe Road
Equator Road                  Feasibilitv Studv Review. Design & Preparation of Tender Documentation
for EIA  formulation legislated by the GOU  and in accordance with the
requirements of the financing agency as part of the feasibilitv study.
7.     The Goverment will provide the consultants with the data and services outlined
in Section IV hereof. The consultants shall be solely responsible, however. for
the analysis and interpretation of all data received for the recommendations in the
report.
A.    Feasibilitv Study
Selection of Alignment and Design Standards
8.     The consultants shall consider altemative strengthening strategies as a basis for
the economic evaluation. And shall prepare financial and economic cost
estimates for the proposed altematives.  In selecting design standards the
consultants may base their cost estimates for road sections on typical construction
costs per km.
9.     The cost estimates shall be broken down into foreign and local cost components
and all taxes and duties shall be identified separately.  The foreign cost
component shall include such items as depreciation of imported plant and
equipment, imported materials and supplies, the foreign component of wages and
overheads, profits of foreign firms, locally procured goods of. foreign
manufacture, and the principal foreign cost elements of locally produced goods
and materials incorporated in the works.
10.   The consultant's Feasibility Report on the road shall include plans, typical cross-
sections, a soils and materials report and traffic counts as well as preliminarv
engineering designs for the proposed construction, at the following scales:
I 5,000/500 horizontal/vertical alignment
I 250        cross sections
I 250        bridge/culverts
Economic Analyses
11.   The economic analvses of altemative strenthening measures and design standards
for the road shall include estimates of:
(a)    the type and volumes of forecast traffic which will form the basis for the
for the selection of appropriate design standards and the estimation of
potential savings in vehicle operating costs. The consultants shall analvze
all existing statistical data on traffic and if they find that additional traffic
counts or origin and destination data are required. they shall under take
necessarv field studies with the account the effects of existing and
potential and potential traffic-generating activity in the influence area of



Katunguru-Kasese-Forr Portal Road
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                 Feasibilirv Studv Review, Design & Preparation of Tender Documentation
the road and the possibilities of traffic diversion to and from competing
modes. Traffic forecasts should be assessed with respect to available
projections for growth in economic output.
(b)    vehicle operating costs for the types and sizes of vehicles forecast under
(a) above for both the existing and proposed investing and proposed
alignments and standards. These estimates, in conjunction with the
forecast of traffic with and without the proposed investment, shall form
the basis for estimating potential vehicle operating costs and time
savings. The estimated vehicle operating costs shall be compared with
prevailing market rates for road transport services.
(c)   road maintenance costs for both existing and proposed alternatives. have
regard to the respective traffic forecasts under (a) above. The estimates
shall be used to assess the net savings or increases in total maintenance
costs likely to result from the proposed improvements;
(d)    environmental costs and benefits of the proposed improvements,
including but not limited to surface and ground water drainage, soil
erosion, air pollution and possible preventive measures; and
(e)   the net benefits of the proposed improvements assessed under (a) to (d)
above. These shall be compared with the costs determined in para. 8
(adjusted to include detailed engineering, physical contingencies, and
supervision costs), for a period of analysis considered appropriate for the
investments being evaluated. Shadow-pricing shall be used in the
analysis if deemed necessary. For each alternative, the net present value,
discounted at 12%, the internal rate of return, and the first year benefit
shall be calculated. On the basis of these calculations, the optimum
alignments, design standards, starting date and staging schedule shall be
determined; and
(f)    Detailed cost/benefit streams should be presented for each alternative
considered both for the with-and without-project cases.  Multiple
exclusive altematives should be assessed based on the NPV. For the
recommended altemative, sensitivity analysis should be conducted for a
20%  increase in costs and for a 20% reduction in benefits. A risk
assessment should also be developed, in order to highlight the likelihood
of an unsatisfactory outcome. The fiscal and distributional impacts of the
project should also be evaluated, with emphasis on poverty alleviation.
B.    Detailed Engineering
.12.   Depending on the results of the feasibility study and on authorization by the
Govermment to proceed which shall be done in consultation with the World Bank.
the consultants shall undertake detailed engineering of the road. as outlined



^b--,u-f%se5e-ron rs 
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                 Feasibilin' Studv Review. Desien & Preparation of Tender Documentation
below, subjecttb prior approval of the Govemment. Once the final engineerine
costs are known, a final economic analysis should be conducted as outlined in the
preceding Para.
13.   The consultant services in this regard shall include. but not be limited to:
(a)    detailed engineering design, preparation of estimate of quantities, plans.
drawings and bidding documents for the project suitable for intemational
competitive bidding, soils and materials report;
(b)    preparation of detailed cost estimates of the proposed work with a break-
down into foreign and local currency costs; and
(c)    assistance in the prequalification of contracting firns and in the analysis
and evaluation of bids.
14.   The scope of the engineering investigations, design and related work shall
include. but not limited to:
(a)    Detailed Engineering
Engineering work will be carried out as necessary to complete the
detailed engineering and preparation of bidding documents and will
include all necessary surveys; location and adequate marking of center
line leveling of profile and cross sections; soils and materials
investigations; design of sub-base, base and wearing course thickness;
drainage and bridge site investigations and the location and testing of
sources of gravel and rock required for construction. Bidding Documents
suitable for international competitive bidding, following the World
Bank's Standard Bidding Documents of works, will be prepared including
conditions of contract, specifications, plan and profile drawings, cross-
sections, bridge and culvert drawings (to an appropriate scale), bills of
quantities and forms for bid and performance bonds/bank guarantee;
(b)    Cost Estimates
Estimates for the cost of construction will be prepared based on reliable
and full engineering information and detailed bills of quantities. The
foreign exchange and local currency costs will be computed in detail for
each item in the bill of quantities. The foreign exchange component of
cost shall include such items as depreciation of imported plant and
equipment, imported materials and supplies, locally procured goods of
foreign manufacture, wages of foreign personnel foreign component of
wages and cost elements of locally produced goods and materials and
supplies, locally procured goods and materials incorporated in the works.
The local cost component shall identify all local cost; tax and duty
elements shall be identified separately:



Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                    Feasibility Studv Review. Design & Preparation of Tender Documentation
(c)    Prequalification of Bidders
The consultants shall:
(i)    prepare all necessary documents for the prequalification of
contractors. including abbreviated specifications of the work to be
performed, forms invitations to prequalify, draft advertisements.
etc.; and
(ii)    review and evaluate proposal for prequalification and prepare a
list of qualified firms which should be permitted to bid.






Kaunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                         Feasibility Study Review and Detailed Engineerig Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                          EIA (PBA) - Final Report
APPENDIX B
PROJECT TEAM
Scott Wilson in Association widt ACE                                                               April 2000



I



.Katunmuru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                  Feasibility Study Review and Detailed Engineering Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                 EIA (PBA) - Final Report
PROJECT TEAM
NAME                            "ROLE                       ORGANISATION
A Sinms                          Project Director                 Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick
R Golombok                       EIA Project Manager              Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick
E Mujuni                         Local EIA Specialist             Gissat Techno Consults Ltd
A Calzetti                       Project Engineer                 Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick
J Ntensibe                       Local Engineer                   ACE
Rosalind Lubanga                 Local Socio-Cultural Specialist  Makarere University
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE            B-1                                      April 2000






Katunguru-Kasese-Fart Portal Road                          Feasibility Study Review and Detailed Engineeing Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                             EIA (PBA) - Final Report
APPENDIX C
INDIVIDUAL CONSULTATIONS
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE                                                                 April 2000



I



KatungUrti-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                                 Feasibility Stu(l) Re\ iew atid Detailed Elnginecring D)csign
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                                        EIA (PBA) - Final Report
INDIVIDUAL CONSULTATIONS
Name of Person                            a Orgnisati atmnd Position      Comments/Information Provided                           :       | Conesilltallt's  Comments
NATIONAI. BODIES
NENiA                                  *   T'here is a need to submit a project brief to NENI A so tbat tiley cant
Justinie Ecaat            lIA Specialist                              screeni and scope the requiremiienits in accordanice ssitli LUgandani EIA
procedtires
2                                    UWA                                     *   in past there has been insensitive management of road works throuigh
Bailt Younig              C'hief of Parti                             the Patk
NIartin Streii            Deput\ Chief Wardeun QENP              *   no boiio\ pus or spoil disposal in park or ile toad resci\e \othin the
Deputy Director - *IA and Planiuig,         QENP
Nloses Mapesa             Acting Executive Director              *   no removal of vegetation of firewood from Park
*    no road widening within the park
Dr Yakobo Moyini                                                 *   no changes in site Iines withlinl the Park
*   stronig preference iliat sauid should nto be s(li rce( Ii hom e\ simup site at
IKataugut u
*    need for ongoinig liaison regarding desigii of proposals withii or close to
QENP including speed control measuires, sigis atid deceleration lanes
*    need for on-site representative of UWA duriiig works
*    no constrilctioni camp in Park
3                                    N1akarere University                    *   provided names of contacts at UWA
Derek Pomeroy            IHead of Institute of Environmental and
Resources
KABALORE DISTRICT
Nlr l.koroit             Kabalore        District     surveyor  *    'lie position of the Covenuimenit Valier is ciirreiutly  vacanut as thle   *    1he Foil Pointl based valuic also scrved lasese
(Agricultur5al Government Valuer)           occupant had been elected Mayor of Fort Portal Nlutiicipality,              District
*    A list of compensation rates dated February 1996 was provioded        *    Mr. Ekoroit (lid not have kinowledge  of tIle
*   Compensation prices are revised every 2-3 years                             procedures for coilpetusatioll
Scon Wilson in Association with ACE                                                         C-I                                                                                         April 2000



Kattingru-Kasese-Fort Portal Roa(d                                        Feasihility Stu(l) Reviesv andl Detailed lFreinrcerji Ii)esiurr
Kasese-Kileimbe Road
Equator Road                                                                                                  EIA (PBA) - Fiinal Report
Nanme of Persoti    | rganisation and Position                          Coiilm ents/I0fortaillation ProvitIed                                             Consultati'is  Comm,ents
Sometimes Contractors excract nrrriin from road reserve or rise crashed   *    comipentsationi rates for rnuririll appear to be
6rock                                                                            h10gh
5           MNr   Charles   Godfrey   District  Agricriltirral  Officer  (DAO)   *    Provided  more  lirfonsiationi regarding  fuinictions  of  comperisation
Bazirake Nta%vera           Kahalore      (Nlember      of     Area          comimiittee, procedures and agriciultral activities in sub-conlities along
Corpenisation Cotiiitiittee)                    the project road as ssell as benefits
*    Contpensationi prices are supposed to be rene%sed evety 2 years - bitt 1 9(6
prices still being applied, pendiig the formnation of a nesv coriri itiee to be
set up by the land board as stipulated in ii   l arld Act 1998
*    Conspeirsation  Procedure - Tlhe Coiiipetisarioir Coititirireee anld local
Leadership (LCs). (AO arid o\%ner of tlte affected land visil itie sire to
evaluate loss  Tre faeitter is fiee to dv1ri)te ihe eanluafioll it lllin o(ctlr
cain enter tiro iiegotiarioti  \\reni agireemrienit is reached air Assessmeint
Form  is conipleted and hanided over to tIre autlhoity/agetrcy responsible
for adttittistering the payriieii
*    The major role of tire Conmimiittee is to do assessirleirts  "It is al\va s a
probleiim reachiiig arn agreerierii'
*    Soirertirires it is tile (Goernmirenit sichi paos (e g in tIhe case ot KCll ijop -
fort Pontal road)   Sorrietiriles it is tile C'oritractor -c g  Kanmpala -
Mubende Road)
*    Government takes long to conmpeinsate e g Kyenijojo - Fort Portal Road
*    Once iltere is a defatilt it paying legal actotio is takent by affected fiat irci
*     Improved roads are likely to aftect iiarketiiig of crops road netsvork is a
priority in spear lieaditig tisoderriizatiois of agricultmre'.
*    Bunyangabo sub-couinty  is a granary of the district producinig
matooke (bananas) maize, hort cultuiral crops sucic  as tomatoes, cabbage,
and passion fruits and coffee  They are taken to Karilpala and Kasese
*    Burakya also produces diary produicts wrhichl are also takers to
Kasese aind Kanrpala
*    Otlier products froiom  Fort Portal to Kasese iicilide Waragi - (air
alcoholic spirit), and passioll frits
*    Kabalore also produces 70°% of tile Uiganida lea
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE                                                                 C-2                                                                                                  April 210(10



Katungur-ut-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                                    FeasibiilitN Stud) Re% ieNx anid D)etailed FInginieeri ug  e)csign
Kasese-Kilenibe Road
Equator Road                                                                                              EIA (PB3A) - Final Report
Name of Persoa              Organisatiout and Positioin              Comments/iniforrnition Providedl                                               Constltaint's  Coininients
The hiniterland i e. Bundibugyo district produces coffee. uplanid rice and   The northern stretch passes thlough l3unyangabo and
cocoa                                                                     Burakya suhb-coinitles
6           Chris Kasaija              District Engineer                              *    Have written letters to people aboit road rescrves remiidinig them         *    People may already have information (on
Kabalole District                              nuot to encroacih on reserve land i e IS nIetres for feeder roads and 20       reserved lauid
inetres for triuik roads                                                       *    Entry potlil1 co0iuuiiuiliuies is politicians
*    District auitiority have the responsibility to tell people about road
renovatiolts
*    Politiciais are miuterested in roads - They will liaiidle ilie people and
get tlienu out of the reserve land
.*    rices of ouiurrarn are nculriablc depeiid'iuc oo qIanti\ ivucoded
K %SESE  DISTRI''IT'
7          Kabalore Elijah             Agricultural CAO - Kasese                 *    Do nor have many cases iivolving compensation in the district
*    Ilowever an adlhoc conmmittee is usually forned chaired by CAO
.aid coinpi isiig of relevaiit tecliiiical offlicers to do the assessiuieiit
*    The district lias plans to conistruct a taxi palk ,io 13tscia - axsa)
Ironit Mlpotidwe Nlustisin pritutary School.  hiupuoselileiui of h3ssera
jtnction should not be a problem.
8           K A Musinguzi              Environmental Officer                     Concemns                                                                      *    Recommenidatiuuis are requiied to address this
*    Poor drainage in Rukoki                                                       issue which  was tepoited by people imi Riikoku
*    The frontage needed between the road and houses may be lost                   and observed ol kilemtubse road
*    Heapimig soils oni the shoulders blocking pathisays of people   Thle
spoils must be takens anid diiniped in the cavities wlhere they obtain   *    Tlhe dirty water nay also cteate lhealth puoluleuis -
n.urani                                                                      aiid injutries especially to clulduull - dlle to the
deep gtilleys created as a result of the erosionis
Stuggestions/Reconmmendationis
*    Define and direct the paths of the water to other xsaters or to the river
Dramiis tiist not be directed into people's coiiipotiiids or hotises
*    Spoils must be removed from the road shoulders
*    Fill up the borrow pits with other soil. Follow maniagement plan for the
borrow pit. The Rukoki bornow pit is developing such a plan
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE                                                              C-3                                                                                              April 2000



Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                                   Feasibility Studv' Rev iew and Detailed Enginecririg Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                                          EIA (PBA) - Final Report
Nane ofPersontl Orga               isatlonand Position             Comn     entsllnforniation Provided.                                      j Consultant's  Comnments
9          Mrs Munyazikwiye N T.   District Agricultural Officer              *    People know they are supposed to leave 2 metres Irom the road - People
Kasese                                       can be reminded during rallies
b36W                                                                                         *    The reason why people have been enchiroacliimg on reserve land is
because the MOWHC  has not been maitairalling the reserve lanid
Farmers fear their crops being eaten by pests, verinins  Farmers cannot
spray bushies
Compensation Procedures
* A technical teams visits, assess and reaches a conisensus over the righlt
cost  The rate given to the farnier varies msith the stage, type, of the
crop. qualit) and sshat it 'sould cost a tariner tc csabslish it clscsNhere
Impacts of Road iiprovemilent
*    Marketing of food crops is done by wofeoi leiprovement of the toad
would make women walk cornfortably, and could be assisted by
children if the road was made safer.
Suggestionis for the fuitire
*    Trees should be planted to mark the boundaries of the road reserve
This could help the farmers as well trees would stop farmers' soil beiig
washed away into the road, which silts the drains.
.*    The MOWFC  Engineer should work hand in hand with affected
villages and sensitize them  over road reserve                       *    ( ould he  loiie throuigih the silh-county %Yorks
coillilittees alid molifical leaders at all levels
Mrs Biira Eva             Assistant Cthief Administrative officer/  *    There is a Probe Committee  investigating  among  other things
Clerk to Kasese District Council             "encroachment on road reserve and construction of houises in green
belts in Kasese Town Council - The report is yet to come out but onie
person had been stopped to construct a building as it did encroacih on
road reserve.
*    mitigation: - Sensitization by LC leaders guided by the Enigineers
*    "We don't know how wide the road reserve should be. We regard the
slashed area by piida(MOWIIC) as road reserve". (We all laughed!'!)
*    There is need to know the time when conistniction work will be doiie
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE                                                          C-4                                                                                          April 2(100



Katungirto-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                                Feasibility Sttudy Review and Detailed Etiginiecrinig D)esien
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                                       EIA (P13A) - Final Report
Noime of Person           Organisation rand Position             Comnhents/lnfornlntioni Providetd                                        Consultant's  Cotnutents
and when this time is set, it must be respected else the people will
always come back td cultivate
*    Kilembe ommes has a lot of displaced people - they tend to take every
opportunity to cultivate any where
\hIo will comilpensate people vho have build houses in reserve land ilm the
Town Couttcil'i
*    People pemitted by Town Council to Construict will be comiipensated
by the Council Those illegally conistrictililg sAill move lit at iticii cost
If)        Mr N1tira-Nihiinildo     Speaker Kasese District Coiiiicil and   Reasois for illegal Comistrtction_
Couniselor fot Kasese To% n CouiticiI  *    Plaininiig reachitimg subuirbs laiter after coilsit Leti(lo  had been dole
Towv  Council to compensate the affected people  Town Coumicil stops
slightly before Margarita llotel
Ilashim Niageya         Cliainiman General puirpose Cotimilttee   *   Water comes front Kilembe Road - hills - Ilte road contractor needs to  Short term ititerriuptionis in watel supplies and othel
Kasese Town Council                         be carefil not to destroy the water pipes titderlyiitg the road    utilities  Ws'ater sliirtagc, stay create healthi hazirds It
is understood that the pipes are I imietre deel
12  Mr. Muhtndo Jonathan  Land Supervisor Kasese T C                 Plot 177 - 179 located at the N1bara - Kilembe Fort - Portal Jutuction  The Engieers teed to decide ott whether anid by ho\s
*   Existing structure very close to plot boundary Has been told to change   much to enlarge tile Kasese T,C  rounidabouit atid howv
architectural plans twice  Was stopped to construct as the butilditig   muuch land is required fromi this landowiner.   I lie
-reduced on visibility, did not have enioughi frontage specially if the   designers of the road, NIOWHC asid Towti Counicil
roundabout was enlarged to effectively cater for big trucks, no parking  ineed to work on this case together
and may reduce safely of people using atid moving around the building
There was a court injunction to this effect
1 3        A  group of about 20                                             *   In June/July 1999, attempts were made to make a roundabout by   *    tinprovemeints of Bwera jtinction need some land
people  comprising  of                                                COWI It involved land takitig - but the owner refused because lie was   aquisitiotn
Taxi drivers and local                                                not compensated.                                                        Thete may be need to rernove tie taxi park to
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE                                                       C-5                                                                                        April 2000



Katuiigturto-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                                        Feasihilits St ird) Re% iew ar(i I)ciailed Engineerlingr I )csiLilg
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                                                      EIA (PBA) - FIinal Repoil
Namoe of Persona  JOrganisation and Positioln    Conintents/lilfrnoiaionProvided                                                                              j Consultant's Continents
leaders at Bwera Towin                                                                                                                                             soine otlier place   I lie people and also CAO told
board                      I                                                                                                                                        is taii at rie% park %%as available buit t\xis uiloi't
v,ant to mio e assay frniii the cuireiit place   ;lie
plot err lIre light hrand side as orie faces iKtprridri
m ill have  tro  he  taken  over  arid  the  nomice
comiipensated
It rotiiid alriorit v,as cieareri it v\otild mirniiose the
appearance ol tlie ti)\,re
KASESE  - RW\ENII SlRETCII
14          Cyclist  Interviewed   at   Road irser                                     *    lie was ridiiig hIis bicycle on the carriaieig    tbecatise iIe did riot wvanrt   *    tile project read has a latk of siling
N\irri amba hI dige                                                             Iis sbiccle iSles to he daniaced II thlire birh smirt.ce of ihlC sholrCdei   *     llre'c  IlmlrlI,  Co tled  arid pilt   iiI a lc ru -.rid
*    IPasemireni of shiourlders v,ill ease rhi rc ieino ts  (  chsts \\ ill        sCIdlols
leave the carriageway to motorists
*    lie suggested that sign posts shotild he pit oei tire road and
shininig sign posts near the bridges arid sharp corniers
I 5         A  group  of 7  people   Road risers                                       *     Ihe% identified the followvig locatioirs as black spots -                 _*    C \Lli tsr cidc(le t(i o Complain rinio  of Ire ir rr
riteiviewed  at  Ruikoki                                                  a)   Rtikoki at Wamiko Sign Post                                                          load ah  lie Illolol ist
Trading Ceintre. One of                                                   b)   Nyakasairga                                                                    *    Rernioval of fcirces aini plantirig or cinri ir ct rig
them was                                                                  c)   Kicoingo - There is a slope- ieed liririmps                                          new  ories  naya)  ivnvlve irctIr costs Wlhicih is a
a imrotorist                                                              *    Road widening imnay require sorime people to remirove their fenices                  negaitive imipact err tire people
Taxi driver                                                                *    Comuplainred of water frtoii ciLIveris sicliCh is directred in i heir lhouises
arid sonrie two cyclhsts/
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE                                                                     C-6                                                                                                      April 2000



KatungurniKasese-Fort Portal Road-                        Feasibility Study, Review and Detailed Engitmerig De,sgn
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                           EIA (PBA) - Final Report
APPENDIX D
PUBLIC CONSULTATION
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE                                                               April 2000



I



Katunauru-Kasese-Fort Pontal               Road r easibilirv Studv Review and Detajied £neineerin-Desic
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator RoadFeasibility Study: EIA -                                  ELA. (PBA) - Final Report
APPENDIX DI: PUBLIC CONSULTATION
KASESE DISTRICT LOCAL GOVERNMENT COUNCIL HALL 26/11/1999
I      INTRODUCTION
The meetinfe was convened and facilitated by Associated Consulting Engineers (ACE), specifically to
seek for people's views about the project of constructing/renovating the Kasese - Kilembe and
Equator Roads. The meetinfg started at 10.45 a.m. wvith communication from the Executive Engineer -
Ministry of works. housingz and Communications (MOWHC).
The Executive Engineer informed the people about the main purpose of the meeting. He explained
that there was need to get a an input (information) trom the local population where the roads are
going to be constructed/renovated. He subsequently invited the Chief administrative Officer (CAO) -
Kasese District. to officially open the meeting.
Chief Administrative Officer
He highly welcomed the government initiative to consult the local masses as a good participatory
planning approach. He gave an example Stirling Construction Company that constructed Kasese road
without due consultation with local people. There has therefore, been no ownership of the project for
purposes of sustainability.
Given that background. the C.A.O said this public consultation was imperative for purposes project
sustainability. He informed the meeting the road construction/renovation is priority number two of
the government of Uganda. The C.A.O. further said that the local people can stifle development
projects if not impressed upon. i.e. conscientised. This is just an emphasis of his remarks on the need
for mass participation in project planning and management.
In his final remark. he cautioned that since land belongs to the people. appropriate modalities should
be earmarked for land compensation. This will prevent land disputes between the locals and the
contractor and. or MOWCIHC (Government). However. he advised the local people to be open to the
contractors and consultants for purposes of fruitful discussion.  He then declared the meeting
officiallv open.
Further Communication
The Executive Engineer informed the meeting that drainage is the biggest problem  in road
construction. Therefore, there is a need to improve and, or enlarge culverts. He requested the
people's representatives to sensitise the people on what has transpired. He also emphasized that
land belongs to the people. So it should be handled carefully, ie. amicably by the concerned parties.
A case in point was getting murram for road construction. It will involve excavation of peoples land.
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE      D- I                                   April 2000



Kancnauru-Kasese-Fort Portal                Road Feasibility Study Review and Detaiied Engineering Design
Kasese-Kileinbe Road
Equator RoadFeasibility Study: ELA -                                     EIA (PBA) - Final Report
which must be compensated tor.
2      Representative - Associated Consulting Engineers (ACE)
He infonned the meetino that his company (ACE) is charge of carrying out a Feasibility Studv on the
proposed renovation of the Kasese roads: namely Kaiunguru - Kasese - Fort Portal. and Kasese -
Kilembe and Equator road.
Asked when the construction would begin. he said it was not known. until the feasibility study  is
complete. He accordingly sought foi people's views on the feasibility study.
The ACE representative informed the people about the width of the roads in terms of carriage wavs
and shoulders. However. he said that the general guideline for road width with reserve is 30m.
Katunguru - Kasese: Carriage wav 6.0m. Shoulder 1.5m
Kilembe: Carriage way 5.6m. Shoulder 1.5 m
Equator Road: Carriage way 6.0m. Slioulder 1.5m
He noted that there is a provision in the project document to widen the carriage ways up to 6.0m.
He informed the people about the bridges earmarked to be renovated.
Mobuku bridge
Nvambwamba bridge
Mpondwe bridge
* Other road requirements:
-      To check all culverts for due repair.
-      Pavements will be made
-      Road fturniture and paint marking especially special signing at sharp corners, will be
provided.
3      People's Reaction/Submission
The speaker of Kasese District Local Government Council, appreciated the initiative of public
consultation. But he hoped that the project would be implemented as planned. On the drainage
system. he cited some areas that should be worked on. namely, Katoro area (where there is a ridge)
and Bukungara Vallev on Equator road.
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE        D- 2                                    April 2000



Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Pbrtal                                  Road reasibilitt Study Re- iew ar,d Detailed EnFiineering Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator RoadFeasibility Study: EJA -                                                                 EIA (PBA) - Final Report
The Executive Enzineer inforned the  people that most bridges are catered for in the contingencv
plans of the project.
The Clhairman works committee. Kasese District Local Council (KDLC). added other areas that need
to be worked on dufing the project. Un Bwera  road. there is staenant water at many areas/ipoints (No
specific points). There is no culvert at Pokopoka. This also causes stagnant water nvhich affects
people's movement and sanitation.
The speaker mentioned other areas like Karambi. customs which have stagnant water.
There is need for a Zebra-crossing as you approach Kasese ToNvn. due to heavy traffic. Bwera Town
needs round about at the junction. Tlle junction is a potential accident area, but drivers have only
been careflul.
3.1       Projects Benefits
item       Benefits.                            Beneficianes .
I          Tourism                              - Hoteliers, Government
Improved Trade                      -  Transporters, manutacturers. central govemment, local govemment ( Kasese
District), traders, farmers (Women and men)
3           Employment                          - Women, men and youth
4           Reduced  transport  and  vehicle    All road users and vehicle owners
operational costs
5           linproved accessibility             - All the people
6           Reduced accidents                   - Motorists, cyclists t Boda-boda) travelers and pedestrians
7           Improved  marketing  leading  to   - Women, men, youth, local governments (taxes)
increased production
8           Improved standard of Living from   - Women, men, youth, local governments (taxes)
improved incomes
9           More industnes                      - Iivestors, Kasese district local govemment. youth. men and women.
10         General increased revenue collection   - Kasese distnct
I I        Urbanisation                           Local communities and road users.
12         Improved security                    - Kasese District and country at large
13.        Time saving                          - Road users
14.        Reduced road maintenance costs       - MOWH-IC
15.        Prestige                             - Local communities
16.        Reduced health hazards e.g. dust     - Road users, people aiong the road
17.        Improved road safety                 - School children. teachers and local communication
3.2       Project Negative Impacts and Mitigation Measures
tiem-   Elemne-ntlmpat                  Most Affected       -.        Mitigaiior Measure            Rensibdntv -
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE                         D- 3                                                   April 2000



Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal                                 Road Feasibility Studv Review and Detailei Engineering Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator RoadFeasibility Study: ELA -                                                                EIA (PBA) - Final Report
Item     Element/Impact                MostAffected                [ Mitigauion Measure           :Responsibility     i
i        Environniental  degradation.  -   Land owners and land   - Tree planting, borrow pit        Contractor, MOWHC, and
e g. borrow pits             itself. women and men.        restoration.    collaboration   the local community
w ith Distnct  Environment
Officer
2        Loss ot propertm and crops    - Local C oii1unitv- Compensation after proper  -   MOWHC,   Contractor.
assessment and in time.      Local  leaders, CAO, and
-  Advance awareness and   valuers.
warning.
- Clear road demarcation.
l ncreased road accidents    -  School children, cyciists,  - Road fumiture. community   - MOWHC, schools, police,
-road tisers. and animals,   awareness, proper training of  Local Council 5, Road Safery
drivers.                     Committees and Kasese Taxi
Operators   and    Drivers
Association (KATODA)
5        U Ltilities                   - Uganioa Electricity Boards   -  Networking with utihity   -     Contractor,   utility
(UEB)                        mianagers                     managers and conmnunity.
-    National  Water  and   - Involve local communities
Sewerage       Corporation
(NW&SC!
- Uganda Telecom Ltd
- Kasese town Council
(KTC)
6        Wildlife                      - Queeni Elizabeth National    Road furniture              - Drivers. police
Park                         - Law enforcement             - Contractors, game wardens
- Increase awareness
Urbanisation  - prostitution   -  Youthl. women, men and   - Law enforcement            - Police and local leaders
anid thefts/robberies        childrei                      - Police patrol
- Community sensitisation
3.2.1    Compensation
Further clarification was sought on compensation modalities as this was quite a contentious issue.
The Executive Engineer said that property can be valued by the government valuer and the MOWHC
effects pavment. But the contractor can also pay if the contract states so.
The Kasese Town Council Engineer informed the people that there can be compulsory land take
/acquisition in public interest.
The Kasese Town Council Land valuer said that the chief Government Valuer, through the district
valuer and District Compensation Committee makes arrangements to pay people through the C.A.O's
office.
A member informed the meeting that Kasese Cobalt Company Ltd (KCCL) had a problem, when they
paidlcompensated the locals through Kasese Town Council. He advised the MOWHC to deal
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE                        D- 4                                                    April 2000



Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal                  Road Feasibiliit Stuav-Review and Detailed E:ngineerinL' Desim
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator RoadFeasibility Study: ELA -                                       EtA (PBA) - Final Report
directly with the local people.
The Environmental Officer KCCL advised that there is need for neutral person(s) identified by the
MOVv1-IC to assess property for compensation. The lawNyer should be on the assessment committee.
The  C.A.O  advised the local leaders to do a lot of Community sensitisation in as  far as
compensation is concerned.
4      Factors Affecting Project lmplementation
a)     Lack of Community Involvement in supenrision
b)     Thefts e.g. fuel siphoning
c)     Delays in compensation
d)     Poor qualitv construction materials
e)     Inadequate funding
f)     Poor Workmanship
g)     Poor Engineering Design
h)     Floods and Earth quakes
4.1    Observation
It was observed that this project planning needs to envisage other future development plans in the
district. For instance an International Airport is due to be constructed and it will lead to increased
traffic. So project designers need to take note of this. The ACE representative took note of it.
The C.A.O discouraged the contractors to import unskilled labour as the district has enough.
5      Social institutions along the project roads.
5.1    Subcounties;
5.1.1   Equator Road:
-      Lake Katwe
-      Kisinga
-      Mukunyu
-      Nvakivumbu
-      Bwera
-      Kaarambi
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE         D- 5                                      April 2000



Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portai                  Road Feasibihit Studv Review and Detaiied Engineerinc Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator RoadFeasibilitn Study: EL,. -                                       ELA (PBA) - Final Report
5.1.2   Kilembe Road:
Rukoki
TKilembe
5.1.3   Katunguru - Rwimi Road
-      Lake Katwe
-      Muhorva
-      Bugove
-      Karusandara
-      Maliba
-      Kichwamba
5.2    Schools:
5.2.1   Equator Road:
-      Busunga Primary School
-      Kiburara Primary School
-      SAAD Primarv School
-      St. John's Seminarv - Kiburara PS
-      Kinyamaseke P.S.
-      St. Andrews S.S.
-      St John's - Bukangara P.S
-      Katojo P. S.
-      St. Coboni P.S
-      Mpondwe P.S
-      Bwera High
-      Nyabugando P.S.
-      Nvakahya P.S.
-      Bwera Demonstration P.S.
-      Kvaminya-Wande P.S.
-      Bwera Teachers' College
5.2.2 Kilembe Road
-      Railway P.S.
-      Kasese progressive school
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE         D- 6                                      April 2000



KatunEuru-Kasese-Fort Portai                   Roau 1teasIDijitv Stuam Review and Detailed Enimeerina Desismn
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator RoadFeasibility Study: EIA -                                         EIA (PBA) - Final Report
-      Kasese High
-      Kasese Junior
-      Celak Caterina Institute
-      Mother care upper P.S
-      Rock P.S
-      Base Camp P.S
-      Kasese P. S.
-      Mother Care infant Section P.S
-      Namubanga P.S
-      Katiri P.S.
-      Bulembva P.S
Royal Rangers Secondarn School
K\Kvaljuki P.S
Kilembe Junior
Road barrier P.S.
5.2.3   Katunguru - Rwimi Road
-      Katunguru P.S.
-      Muhokva P.S.
-      Kamayiba P.S.
-      Kasese S.D.A. P.S.
-      Equator Model P.S.
-      Kasese Technical Institute
-      Kasese Moslem P.S.
-      Airstrip P.S. and Secondary Schools
Nvakasanga Government P.S.
Nvakasanga St. Peters P.S.
Asaba P.S
Kanvangeva P. S.
Kogele P.S.
Ssebwe P.S.
Mobuku P.S.
Mobuku Moslem
St Joseph's Hima P.S
lIima Hill academy Secondary School
King Jesus Secondarv School
Regendabara Secondary School
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE          D- 7                                       April 2000



Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal                     Road Feasibiiity Studv Re% iew and Detailed Engineering Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator RoadFeasibility Study: EIA -                                            EIA (PBA) - Final Report
5.3     Health Centres
5.3.1   Equator Road
Kinvamaseke Health Centre (HC)
Bwera Hospital
Katolhu sub-dispensari
Nvabugando Dispensary
5.3.2   Kilembe Road
-      Kasese Town Council Health Centre
-       Kilembe Hospital
-       Kilembe Dispensary
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE            D- 8                                         April 2000



Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Porral                Ruoat eusbilitv Study Rev ew and Detailed Eauineerine Design,
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator RoadFeasibilih, Study: EIA -                                     EtA (PBA) - Final Report
5.3.3   Katunguru - Rwvimi Road
Muhokya Dispensary
Katunguru sub-dispensary
Kasese Moslem Dispensary
St. Paul's Health Centre
Rukoki Dispensary
Mobuku lrrigation Dispensarn
Hima Cement Uganda Ltd Health Centre
Hima Dispensary
5.4    Markets and Trading Centres
5.4.1  Equator Road
Kikorongo Market and Trading Centre i M&TC)
-      Kiburara M & TC
-      Mailo Kumu M&TC
-      Kinvamaseke M & TC
-      Bukangara M & TC
-      Katolhu M & TC
-      Kibala M & TC
-      Rusese M & TC
-      Bwera M & TC
-      Nvambuka M & TC
-      Nvabugando M & TC
-      Mpondwe Customs Market
Rubirha Market
5.4.2   Kilembe Road
-      Kasese Trading Centre
-      Base Camp Market
-      Katonzi Market
-      Railway Market
-      Katiri Market
-      Kyanjuki Market
-.   Road barrier market
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE        D- 9                                    April 2000



Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal               Road Feasibility Studv Review and Detailed Engineering Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator RoadFeasibility Study: EIA -                                   EIA (PBA) - Final Report
5.4.3  Katunguru- Rwimi
-      Katunguru Market and Trading Centre
-      Kahendero Market
-      Muhokva Market
-      Kasese Market
-      Nyakasanga Market
-      Kisagazi Market
-      Rukoki Market
-      Majengo Market
-      Kieoro Mark-et
-      Mwaro Market
-      Mobuku M & TC
-      Rugendabara M & T C
-      Kinvamwenge M & T C
-   HimaM&TC
-      Kihogo M & T C
-      Kikongo Market
6 Institutional Arrangments for Compensation
People were informed by the moderator that there xvas need for an institutional arrangement to
handle compensation matters that may arise during project implementation. The moderator advised
people to identifv neutral people/parties to form the institutional arrangement.
The Structure below was proposed.
Note: Details pertaining compensation can be obtained in 3.2.1
At the subcounty level. the production and environment 'committee. as well as the
secretary for production and environment should directly be involved in compensation
matters.
The above can provide channels through which the public can submit their concerns
regarding project implementation i.e road construction.
7      Any Other Issues
The following are other concerns of social nature that can be mitigated by the
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE      D- 10                                   April 2000



Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal                Road Feasibility Studv Review and Detailed Engineering Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator RoadFeasibility Study: EIA -                                    EIA (PBA) - Final Report
project.
Mr Muhindo B.M. clhairperson LC 111 Rukloki subcounty wants flooded areas of
Nvamnusamba river at Kigoro Trading Centre to be controlled.
The Chief Engineer Kilembe Mines ltd identified the 2.1 Km stretch of Kyanjuki on
Kasese - Kilembe road to be added on the project. He urged that this road serves a secondary
school. two primary schools and a big housing estate.
The Headmaster Mpondwe Primary School requested for road signs. humnps and
Zebra crossing around the school (Equator Road). He argued that, the school has 1704 pupils
including those with disabilities. The pupils normally fail to cross the road because it is
busy.
The Headmaster Mother Care Preparatory School asked for humps on Kilembe -
Kasese road. He states that manv lives have lost, where children of Kasese P.S.. Rock P.S.
Mother Care P.S.. Kasese HigQh School and Celak cross daily. The Zebra Crossing has not
helped much.
Below are specific engineering requests made
a)     Culverts on Kasese - Kilembe road
-      CTGolf Club Junction
-      Kibenge
the end of Road Barrier
-      Kyenjo;o
-      Recreation Club
b)     The road in Hima Town Centre requires bridges on the trenches, humps to
reduce accidents.
c)     On Katunguru - Fort Portal Road.
-      humps are needed at Hima Township,  Mukhoka Town and
Katunguru Town.
-      Bridge on Hima River
-      Culverts are also needed, especially between Mobuku town and
cobalt powver                house.
Scott Wilson in Association witl ACE       D- 11                                   April 2000



Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal                     Road Feasibilin, Study Review and Detailed Engineering Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator RoadFeasibility Study: EIA -                                             EIA (PBA) - Final Report
d)      Equator Road
Bridge on Bukangara river should be renovated.
Road signs arc needed at the school near the Eucalyptus forest as vou come
from Bwera.   and at Bukanara bridge.
8       Closure
The moderator thanked all the participants for their rich contribution to the public
consultation. He handed over to the Executive Engineer who also appreciated participants
contribution. He officially closed the meeting at 3.00 p.m
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE            D- 12                                        April 2000



Katunzuru-Kasese-Fort Portai                i.oau I-easibilirv Study Review and Detai;ed Engineering Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator RoadFeasibility Study: ELA -                                    EIA (PBA) - Final Report
LIST OF PEOPLE ATTENDING
No.             Name                                    Designation
I.   Ven Rev. Joseph Bwambale   Vicar - Kogere C.O. U
2.   Tom Maate                   Chairman III - Kiswamba
3.   Y. Ngarama                  C/E KML
4.   Mbvamira Geoffrey           H/Teacher. Katojo P/S
5.   Kasirika Bonnv lleadteacher. St. Comboni P/S
6.   Mwanje Joseph               [-leadteacher. St. John's Bukanga
7.   Kasimbazi David             AG. Town Engineer Kasese Town Council
8.   Museruka Israel Isaac       Chairperson LCIV Busungorva
9.   John Rwaboga                Hima Cement Ltd.
10.  Katumiro Alex               District Physical Planner
11.  Muhindo L                   Sec. of C/man L.C.V
12.  Mbulire Alalia              Chairperson LC III Munkunyu S/C
13.  Munvazikwive N.T            District AGAC Officer
14.  Tinkasimire John            Sec/Tech & Works
15.  Balvebuga Godfrey           Headteachwer - Kyanjuki P/S
16.  Kule Asa Musunguzi          Dist. Em. Officer
17.  Kirungi K Steven            HI/M Basecamp P.S.
18.  Muzamilu K  Bisanga         Director KCF/L Katwe S/County
19.  Cosmas Byaruhanga           C/Man LC III Kasese Town Council
20.  Kabatooro M Batholemew       Headmaster Katwe Quran P/S
21.  Basaliza Ithungu Florence    Il/Tr St. Joseph s Hima
22.  Muhindo B. M. Johnson       C/P LC mI Rukoki Model School
23.  Mugabo Charles               HlTr Rukoki Model School
24.  Omwigarire Mary              Environmnet Officer
25.  Muliro Wilson               H-/M Kasese Progressive S.S
26.  Begyele Abraham              LC m C/P Kilinde S.K
27.  Muthubva Solumen             D/Headmaster Mukunyu S.S
28.  Kansiime Margaret            Headmistress Rugendabara P S
29.  Tibelva Manimba              Headteacher Muhokya
30.  Twesigawe Benson             H/T Mathercare P/S
31.  Syauswa Ali                  Headmaster
32.  Ellys Mwatri                 C/man - Works
33.  Masereka I Jamil             Headteacher
34.  Kanvaruguru K.M              O/C/Chief Kilembe S/C
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE       D- 13                                   April 2000



Karunauru-Kasese-Fort Portal                 Road Feasibility Sway Rev iew and Detailed Engineering Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator RoadFeasibility Study: ELA -                                     EIA (PBA) - Final Report
No.             Name             |Desiumation
3 5.  Masereka M Charles          lDeputy H/Teacher Busunga P/S
36.  A.nute Jofred               I (XC Traffic Kasese
37.  Baita Pascal                 ACAO for CAO
38.  Muhindo Jonathan             Valuer/land Supenrisor - Kasese Town Council
39.  Masereka Maliseri           UIrban Committee Member (K.T.C.)
40.  Baguma Raphael               LC III Chairperson - Busule
41.  Bwambale Johnson             Chairman LCIII Muhokva
42.  Absolm Baluku                .%.E.O.I K.T.C.
43.  Matholi Wilson              rIJrban Commiittee Member (KKTC) H/T Karwe Primary
School
44.  Baluku Hassan                Headmaster Mubuku Moslem
45.  Kamacooko Albert             Director Airstrip Sec. School
46.  Mwesigwa Jackson             Sec. Tech. S & Works - LC III - Karambi
47.  Baguma Bonnv'                Chairperson LC III Nyakivumba
48.  Baluku Charles               Deputy Speaker KDLG
49   Julius Mughuma             T Ag. Town Clerk KTC
50  | Mubingwa Zepher             Secretarv Sience for District Chairman
51 IKabvangia F J                 lleadmaster Hima P. S.
52   Ruth Kahwa baluku            Production Marketing
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE       D- 14                                     April 2000



Katungwu-KAsese-FPrt Port Road                             Feasibility Study Review and Detailed Engineering Design
Kasese-Kilenbe Road
Equator Road                                                                        EIA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
APPENDIX D2: PUBLIC CONSULTATION
FORT PORTAL MUNICIPAL COMMUNITY HALL 26/11/99
Scon Wilson in Association with ACE                                                                   April 2000



I



REPORT OF KATUNGlRU - KASESE - FORT PORTAL ROAD
PUBLIC CONSULTATION MI[EET HELD ON 26/11/99
AT THE FORT PORTAL MUJNICIPAL COMINIUNITY HALL
INTRODUCTION
The meeting started with a remark from the Executive Engineer Ministry of Works Housing and Communication
Kabalore District, who welcomed the people and apologised for the confusion over the venue of the meeting place.
He informed the public that, the meenng was convened to consult them on several issues regarding the proposed
construction and renovation of the fort Portal - Rweimi road. He gave a brief background to the project.
Feasibility studies were being undertaken by ACE/Scott Wilson collaboration and it was a requirement by World
Bank (the funder of the project) to carry out these public consultations.
He introduced representatives of ACE. Namely Engineer P Kalungi. Ms Lubanga Rosalind - Sociologist and Mr.
Bbosa Ronald. He also introduced the local dignitaries from whom he invited the mayor of Fort Portal Municipality
to officially open the Meeting.
Mayors Address
He was appreciative of the proposed project and the approach to consult the public, he noted that this was the first
time he was observing people being consulted over road matters. He appealed to all members present to give the
necessary information and after which he declared the meeting open.
Briefing on proposed engineering plans on the Katunguru - Kasese - Fort Portal road by Engineer Paul
Kalungi.
He started by reviewing the present status of the road and the proposed interventions on the Fort Portal to Rwnii
Section. He informed members that the carriageway was narrow and it lacked shoulders. The plan was to be
widened the road to about 6 metres. It will follow the current alignment. This section has very many sharp
corners and these will not be tempered with because of the high costs involved. The plan also involves improving
drainage. Road widening may require creation of road diversions in the course of constructing and may need
murram obtainable from individual person's borrow pits.
The purpose of the meeting was to obtain people's views, on how they could facilitate the contractors work during
construction, identify possible problems that may arise during and after construction and how these could be
addressed.
Discussions
Ms Rosalid Lubanga led the participants into the next session of the day's activities in which they were divided into
two groups of about 14 people each, to brainstom and identify the likely positive and negative consequences of the
project and devise workable solutions at the different stages of the project.
By the end of this session, ideas, views and concerns of the people that were in the groups were discussed and
contentious issues debated in order to come up with a common stand.
1 a)    Social and Economic problems facing the district.
Members were asked about the problems, they generated the following list.
-      unemployment among the youth
-      power struggles e.g. those aiming at splitting the district.
-      insecurity
-      low levels of literacy as a result of high school drop out rates and few institutions of higher
leaming
-      lack of constant power supply



-       low level of industrialisation. a few existing industries included maize mills. tea factones. diary
factories.
b)    Problems of using the current road
The participants were asked for the problems of using the current road.
-      Accidents - because the road is narrow, this evidenced when motorists and cyclists are over taking
each other and pedestrians especially school children are the victims.
-      poor maintenance, due to busy reserves which reduce the visibility for drivers thus increasing the
possibilitv of accidents
-      Too many corners because of the terrain
-      No road signs
-      Animals grazing on road reserves.
c)      Mode of land acquisition
Members were asked about how land was acquired
It was reported that land was acquired through: inheritance, purchase and government allocations such as
in the case of resettlement schemes and work camps.
2      The role of the rod in solving the socio-economic problems facing the district-
Members were asked the ways in which the improvement of the Fort Portal - Rwimi road would help in
solving the identified socio economic problems and those specific to the road. Some problems might be
solved while others may not while may be aggravated.
Problems that might be partly addressed included:
-      unemployment: the unemployed may obtain work on the road works.
*      improvement in agricultural production could only be attained with improved access roads.
accident would be reduced if road safety signs and sign posters are put on the roads.
3 a)   Members present were asked for the anticipated negative effect on different people living near and off the
road, road users (motorists, cyclists, and pedestrians. and people of different gender and ages) during the
different phases of the project.



The table below summanses the anticipated problems and mutigation measures
The anticipated problems and mitigation measures dunng the different phases of the renovation construction
exercise
Positive and Negative Effects
Item   Project       Anticipated Problems              Mitigation  Measures
Phases
1.     Preparatory    - Land take for camp sites       - Prompt negotiations
- Compensation agreements
- Weather (heavy rains)          - Timing of season
2.     Construction  - Accidents                       - Road signs and guides
- Crop destruction               - Early warning
- Breach of compensation         - Compensation timely
agreement
- Air pollution                  - Watering and proper servicing of
machinery
- Access roads blocked           - Reinstate access roads
- Smuggling fuel                 - Sensitization /intensive supervision
- Land take (for diversions)     - Compensation
- Soil erosion                   - Grass cover
- Break up families (contractors  - Labour relations person to caution
use  their  money  to  seduce  workers  against  interfering  with
women)  cases  of  rape  and  families.
defilement.
- Girls in schools along the road be
sensitized by their teachers.
- Culturally the men will have to
marry the girl in the event of
pregnancy
- Community to slect a person to
liase with contractor.
4.     After         - Soil Erosion                    - Cover with grass
Construction
- Drainage                       - Proper drainage construction
- followed up drainage channel a
distant
- avoid pouring water in people's
houses/compounds
- Open Surfaces (borrow pits)    - Refill the borrows pits
- Accidents ( over speeding)     - Road signs, traffic control
- Diversions                     - Cover the diversions with grass
- Earth quakes cracking the road   - Better engineering design.
3 b)   Constraints to effective utilisation of renovated roads members were asked for factors that may constrain
full and effective utilisation of the renovated roads.



Insurgencies (political instability) as a result of improved and faster move.
low azricultural production - despite the improvement of the road, low levels of agricultural
production would mean that the road mav not be put to full utility.
Transport fares would go up. This view was supported by the fact that previous expenences with
improvement Fort - Portal - Kyenjojo road had lead to the deployment of more policemen. This
made the transport fares to go up, because the regulation requiring taxis to car-v 3 people per seat
would be enforced. The result would be reduced movement of people.
4.     In which way could people affect. hinder or facilitate renovation work?
The moderator wanted to get labour including women to work on the roads and the response was
affirmative, participants added that women were already involved in public works like slashing and
cleaning the streets of the municipality and further that information would be given to people about the
availability of jobs through radio Tooro (VOT) in addition to the press.
5. a)   Compensation
The secretarv to the District Land Board which had been recently instituted made  the following
clarifications regarding permanent and temporary land take
-      The CAO is responsible for compensation issues since he is the Chief Accounting Officer and
reports to the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Works.
-      The district has got a Land Board, a Land Office, and a Town Council Land Board.
-      The Land Board of each district has the power to compile compensation rates in view of non
permanent aspects e.g. animals, crops, buildings-section 60 of the Land Act of June 1998.
-      Compensation rates differ for different crops and matrenals.
-      The district doesn't have a Valuer (The service commission has re-advertised the position but has
so far not been able to obtain one.
-      That section 74 (1) of the Land Act holds that the Ministry can take land in the event of failure to
agree with the owner of the land - in agreement with the established rates as per the district in
question.
Monitoring of stakeholder compensation.
5 b)   The participants pointed out that monitoring was handled by the Local Council III and the CAO's office.
Individual could also employ the service of law firms at their cost.
There was a concern that the process of handling compensation by Government machinery is slow. The
procedure would normally involve sending, a technical team including, the valuer and other like the
survey, the District Agricultural officer to do assessments which are sent to the District Engineer then the
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Works, who makes a budgetary allocation during the following fmnancial
year and money is sent to the CAOs office.
Participants expressed a need for the affected people to be directly compensated by the contractor.



C)    Road Reserves
Extent to which people are aware of temparing with road reserves.
-      It was reported that people had some knowledge about prohibitions of using road reserves.
-      Road committees are supposed to sensitize people about road reserves - The chairman of the road
committee is the sub county head.
-      There was laxity in enforcing regulations goveming road use.
-      Conceming the handling of people doing farming and other activities along the road when
construction work starts, members agreed that there was a need for advance warning of 3 - 6 months.
-      There was also a reported need for the use of the media and seminars to sensitize the public
-      Members resolved that the following would be charged with making enchroachers aware.
-      LCs'                   -      media advertisement
-      Road Comm;ttees        -      Office of the District Engineer
-      Technical Staff
6.     Institutional arrangement and capacities to manage information, monitor mitigation measures and enforce
compensation agreements.
-      Members present agreed that the LCI III community liaison offices should work hand in hand
with the public relations officer for the contractors to handle problems as they arise.
-      Participants also agreed that LCs, chiefs and land commnittees would be entrusted with the
responsibility of handling the views and concerns of the public at the different stages of
construction.
-      The District Engineer informed the participants that there were no bye laws restricting camping,
but they were of the view that the following places should not be used for camping purposes.
-      cultural sites
-      near wet land
-      near trading centres
-      near public institutions.
-      The moderator asked for information conceming the skills the community needed to fully
participate in monitoring, mitigation measures and road maintenance after construction.
-      maintenance of drainage channels
-      road use
-      meanings of road signs



Other Issues Raised
1      The start of construction work may be influenced by:
-      Politicians
-      Contractors
2.     Many road corners implied that
-      road signs and guard rails should be installed on the road
3.     Members suggested that the existing road net work i.e. Fort Portal - Kazingo - Matasndai - Rubana be
maintained.
4.     Suggestion on Contractor - public relationship -
-      proper assessment of people's property
-      prompt assessment and compensation.
The representative for the CAO, Mr. Kaija Samuel provided a closing remark and re-emphasized the need for
adequate assessment, to avoid repeating the exercise and called upon the contractors to ensure prompt compensation
payment. He reiterated the need for the road and the importance of road reserves and urged the community to
participate by working harmoniously with the contractors. Mr. Kaija warned the contractors of careless driving and
brought it out clearly that on a number of occasions people's vehicles have been hit by turning and over speeding
trucks of the Contractors.
In a further remark he wamed the contractors of breach of contract (failure to implement what the participants had
agreed on) and the need for sensitization and early waming.
There being no further business the meeting was adjoumed at 1.35 p.m.
These are the Schools/Trading Centres/Markets and Health Centres along Fort Portal - Rwimi Road.
Distance in Km from junction to Kampala Road
7.0    KABALORE MUNICIPALITY
Schools
Mpanga Senior Secondary School
Buhingi Primary School
Kyebambe Senior Secondary and Primary School   -      aprox. 3.0 km
Virika Primary School
Maria Goretti Primary School
Buhinga Medical School
Markets
Mpanga market



Hospitals
Kabalore hospital     -       I km
7.1    Kachwambwa
Schools
St. Peter and Pauls Pnmary School
St Leos' Senior Secondary School - 2 Km - LHS
St. Pauls National Seminary, Kinvamasika - I km - LHS
St. Josephs Technical Institute - I km - LHS
St. Judes Primary School, Kyesobe
Kihembo Hill Memoria College Primary School and Technical School
Clinic
-Kihembo Community Clinic



7.2    Kasusu
School
St Johns Junior School - I km off set)
8.0    BURUNYA COUNITY
8.1    Karambi Sub countv starts
Schools
Karambi Primary
Hospital
Nakku Clinic
8.2    Start of Mugusu Sub-countv
Schools
Burunga Primary School
Mugusu Primary School
Nyansozi Primary School - 1km LHS
Mugusu Trading Centre
Mugusu Market
Mugusu Sub-county Headquarters
8.3    (start of Buheesi sub-county)
Schools
Bunyangabu County
Buheesi High School - 4 km offset: sub county
Buheesi day care orphans centre
Market
Buheesi market
8.4    (Start of Kisomoro Sub-county)
Markets
Rubona Trading Center
Rubona Market
Kicuncu Trading Centre
Nyakyumba market
Kisomoro sub-county Headquarters
Schools
Kabala Primary School - I km LHS
Canon Apolo Core PTC
Rubona Primary School
Rubona Secondary School
Kisomoro Primary School
Nyakigumba Great Mixed Academy
Busiita Primary School
Canon Apolo Core PTC



Hospitals
Kisomoro Health Centre
Rubona Health Centre
8.5    Start of Kibiito Sub-countv
Schools
St Kizito. Yerva Nurserv School
St. Johns Primary School
Canon Apollo Care PTC.
Kibiito vocational training Institute
Kibiito Secondary School
Kibiito Day and Boarding Primary School
Kibiito College of Commerce & Technical Studies
Kabale Muslim Primary School
Kibuga Primary School
Bunjojo Primary School
Kasunganyanja Primary School
Ntambi Primary School
Markets
Kibiito market
Kabale market
Trading Centres
Kabale Trading Centre
Kimbiri Trading Centre
Kasunganyanja Trading Centre
Kibiito County Headquarters
Hospitals
Yerya Health Centre
Kibiito Government Health Centre
Doroth Clinic
Kasunganyanja Health Centre
8.6    Start of Rwimi Sub-County
Schools
Rwimi Primary School
Rwirni Nursery School
Rwimi Secondary School
Hospitals
Rwimi Health Clinic
Market
Rwimi Market
Rwimi Trading Centre



PRESENT
Item     Name                         [ Position                     Address
1.       Rusongoza Patrick K.          Municipal Engineer            Fort Portal M.C
2.       Mrs. Musana                                                 Busugu Mpolo
Kasimbazi Joseph             Journalist                    Box 399 - Fort Portal
4.       Vanice kagaba (Mrs)           Head Teacher - Mugusu P/S     Box 236 F/Portal
5.       Mijumbi David                 District Engineer Rep.        Works Dept. 38 F/Portal
6.       Mugisa Threza                 Karambi P/S                   Box 54 - F/Portal
7.       Rubombora John                Chairperson                   Karambi S/C
8.       Rubaale Apaine S.             Mugusu Sub-county
9.       Bob Kaganda                   Mayor                         Box 24 - F/Portal
10.      Ekel Alfred                   Representative, NWSC         Box 805 Fort Portal
11.      Mugisha Lawrence              Kasungonyanja P/S            Box 10 Kibiito
12.      Mbabazi Margaret              V/C Person L.C.III - Rwimi S/C
13.      Magezi Deograias              S/C iC                       Buheesi S/C
14.      Mushabe B John               C/P LC III Rwimi S/C
15.      Ahimbisibwe Caleb            S!C/C                         Karambi
16.      Moses Ikagobya               Chairman LC III               Buheesi S/county
17.      Kaija Samuel                 for CAO / Kabarole            Box 38. Fort Portal
18.      Itorot A 0                    Senior Staff Surveyor        Box 32 - F/Portal
19.      Mbabazi Paul                  for RDC                      Kabarole
20.      Karugaba David                Elder                        Kisomoro
21.      G K Mpaka                     Secretary, District Land Board   Box 32 - F/Portal
22.      Azoora David                  Dist. Environment Officer    Box 38, F/Portal
23.      Joln Diisi                    Sec. for Works               Kibiito S/C
24.      Mugaa Tom                     Cadre Mobiliser              Pass Office - Kampala
25.      Dr. Toa Gordon V              0/C Rubona Stock Farm        Box 284 F/Portal
26.      Molly Nkoba                   RDC Officer                  Fort Portal
27.      Mugenvi Irene                 Rubona P. School             Kisomoro



Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                          Feasibility-Stud Reviewand Detailed Enginzeri& Design .
Kasese-Kilemnbe Road
Equator Road                                                                        EIA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
APPENDIX E
ACCIDENT DETAILS
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE                                                                  April 2000



I



Katungtirto-Kasese-Fort Poltal Road                                 Feasibility Stundv Rex iew anid Detailed l1nginieefring Djesiot
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                                     EIA(PBA) - I)raflFinal Report
ACCIDENT DETAILS
Locattin                 | CbDth8                | Issue         ,                               |uc  Suggested AdmiOlt                      ,R| conetieoided by
FORT PORTAL - RNEII SECTION
Muchwa Junction                                    T-jtnction people drive carelessly                   *    "Need some form of romiidahouit or a big  NMr  ii  Donigo - Police Office In (harge
stop"                                          Traffic
No. of accidents:                                    *    Need sign posts
.   196 - one case (road was rotighi thietn)
1997 - four cases (fatal)
1998 six cases (fatal)
1999 - four cases (fatal)
Kastinga nyanija                                   Tlhere is a school and healthi centre on oiie side   *    Speed Runimips                             Nti  11 Dio g( - Il loh      MIcc ii I liII
shops aiid %%eekly market on another   Hiis   .    Pedestrian hll oxei                              itallic
section of road is on a slope and maniy people   *    Sigii Posts
cross the road.
No. of Accidents
1996 -2
1997   3
1998- 3
All were fatal involving mostly childreni
Mlogusu                                            Overtuninig in the corner due to sharp bends    (See Enginieer s Sriggestioiis)
KASESE - KILENIBE SECTION
Kilentbe Road                                      Fatal accidents involving mostly children       Small speed bumps                                    Traffic Police
Police    Camp    and                              There are Primary Schools nansely.
National water Offices                             Kasese Primnary
Rock Primary Sschool
Niother Care Primary School
Kasese High School
There is also a dispensary
*    Base Camp                                      37 accidents in last 3 years (1997 - 1999       Speed bhmnps                                         Project Engiineer
Sign Posts                                           Works Enginieer
*    Road Barriers_ _ation_wit__ACE_E_1_April_2000
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE                                                          E-l                                                                                          April 2010(1



Kattumigirti-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                                 Feasibilits Study Reievi   atid D)etailed Elnginecering l)esigo
Kasese-Kiletube Road
Equator Road                                                                                       EIA(PBA) - DraftFiial Report
Location                   Chainage |stie |                                                          Sugge trd Action                                      ReuttiAiiidt ..
Police
KASESE - FORT PORTAL. SECTION
*    Caltex                                         95 road accidenits, somse fatal ii last 3 years  Speed control uteastires inclidinig sigii posts aid   Police traffic office - FK asese
*    I;igoro                                        (1997- 1999)                                     Speed bumitps                                         Road Isers iniervie\e( at Riikoki
*    Ruikoki                                                                                         Parkiig at tile iiarket place at Ruikoki
*    Mlubuku
Nyakasanga I at LC 2   I 1Km - Kasese - Fort  Shares the 95 road accilenits ntetitioiued above    Speed btmips                                             Police
Chairman's  place  Mir.  Portal Road                Is accident puonie because of tile playgrounid.                                                        Iand supervisoi
Miusoke Emmanuel                                                                                                                                           Road tiseis iiiiei esed at Rtikoki I
*    Ilima                                                                                           Parking for big trucks
*    Kilioko                                                                                         Speed control measmies
*    Karunigi Bati                                                                                   Sign Posts
MBARARA - KATUNCIJRU - KASESE ROAD
*    Kasese Cobalt Itd                              30 road accidents in last 3 yeais (1997 - 1999)  Speed control measuires e g Speed buiiips             Police ' raffic Officer
*    Mbarara Junction                                                                                Sigiiing                                              Ploject Fiigiiieer
*    Kikorogo Junction                                                                               Rotiiidabouit
*    Katu,nguru                                                                                   _                                                                             _ __
EQUATOR ROAD
*    Kahokya                                        25 accidents ii last 3 years (1997 - 1999)       Speed Control measuires                               Engitteer to confiri
*    Kiburars                                                                                   Roundabout
*    Bwera Town n                                                                                                                                                                  __
KILEMBIRE ROAD
*    Base Camp           1                          37 accidents in last 3 years (1997 - 1999)        Speed bumps                                          Project Engitieer
*    Road Barrier   I                                                                           Sign posts                                            Works Etigiricer
*______________________ Road   Barrirr__________  _                                                                                                         T1'ralfic    Police
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE                                                            E-2                                                                                            April 2000



Katungur-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                           Feasibility Study Review and Detailed Engineeuing Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                        EIA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
APPENDIX F
RESPONSE TO ISSUES RAISED BY CONSULTATION
Scon Wilson in Association with ACE                                                                   April 2000



I



Katoiiguru-Kasese-Foil Plortal Road                                                                                                        l    b 'sihilitv Stiid  Kc\ ieVI and I )ctLiledi I ;rginice inig t)esigI
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                                                                                                                  I IA(SCA) - Finial Report
Issue                                              Reference                              Response With reference to appropriate section of assessment or Mlanagement Plan where this
Issues has been atddressetl
Need to agree scope ofstiid5 sii hNENIA            Appendix C - lieni I                   Necessary preliminiary paperwork has been subimitted to NENI   11El5 \\'ill be subject to NEN1A
assessment procedure
Potential for damage in QENP                       Appendix C - Itemii 2                  Various measures to protect the Park have been  specified  in the EIA  Tables 7 2 and  7 3
'BIOLOGICAL ENVIRONNIENT" sectionis
Damage to froitages of hiiildiiius                 Appendix C - lteii S                   Specificationi of reqisenileil to rectit\ any darnLage in SC\ lable,  [*IRi:( I  I I ( IS  -
degradation of land valie as a result of niadequiate reinstateiienit'
Clear definition  required of road  reserve and   Appendix C - Iteis 9 and 10             Sensitisation of comniunities as to extent of road rcserves specified SCA in  DIREC'T EFFECTS -
mainteniance                                                                              Loss of Land and Crops
Need for foressarnilg ofcominijilities            Appendix C -itenm 9                    Forewarning of coniuniiiiities specified toi SCA Table 7 2 "DIRE( I EFFECTS - I oss of I mid and
Appetidix Dl -Section 3               Crops iiiid Communiity Disuiubamice
Appendix D2 Section Sc
Disruption and risk to safety of local communities   Appendix D2 - Section3               Sensitisation of commutnities and monitoring of workforce as specified in SCA Table 7 2 "D)IRECT
as a result of presence of workforce -threats to                                          EFFECTS" Communnity Disturbance as a tesuilt of presence of aliell workforce
safety, women etc
Damage to water supply duritig constrtictiots      Appendix C - item 12                   Forewarning of titility companies atsd of affected commtnities specified in SCA Table 7 2 -)IREC I
EFFECTS - Interruptiots of supplies and temporary access restrictionis durinig constriction'
Damage to bikes owing to rough nature of road   Appendix C - lienm 16                     As part of proposals shoulders will be sealed where there is use by cyclists
shoulders
Insufficient drainage has been identified at variouts   Appendix Dl - Sections 3 and 7    A conmprehensive progranime of improvements to draitnage will be titidertakeni as part of the scheme is
locations including                                Appenidix C - Items 8 anid 16          specified in EIA Table 7 2 "PII''SICAL ENVIRONNIENT -Changes o it aterfloi
*    Katoro area (where there is a ridge)
*    Bukungara Valley
*    On Bwera  road, there is stagnant water at
many areas/points.
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE                                                                                                                                                           April 2000
F-I



Kattinguiu-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                                                                                                 lcicsitiijity SniIn Rc jiew and Dtetailed Inigineeiling De)sign
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                                                                                                         FIA(SCA) - Fiial Report
Issue   ~ ~ ~~~~~~~:                  Reference                            Repns   ith reference to appropriate section of assessment or Mlanagemn it PIa  *her  this
lasses has beent aiddressed
*   Pokopoka (no culvert)
*   Karanibi
*   Nyamsusanilba  River at Kigoro  Trading
Centre
*   Golf Clib hiiiction
*   Kibenige
*   Road Barrier on the Kilembe Road
*   Kyenjojo
*   Reacreation Club on the Kilembe Road
*   Between Nlitbbikti toisn aiid the cobalt plalit
*   Rtikoki
Inadequate compensation measures and methods of  Appendix DI - Sections 3 and 6      Specification for agreement of compensationi prior to coiiiineiiceinlenit of Nvorks in SCA I able 7 2
inipleinentation   Need  for  sensitisation   of  Appendix D2 - Section 3a and Sb     DIRECT EFFECTS - Loss of land and crops" Frtrher details of compenisationi retliliremileniis and
commnitiiiies aiid preference for direct aiid timely                                 imechlaiisins are also imicilided in Sectioni 7 "* Of the S(
payment froin MIO\\HC and for represemitatloil in
negotiation
Need for speed control measures including:      Appendix C - Item 16                 Specification of the need to incorporate speed cointrol measuires in SCA  Table 7 3  [DIRECT
Appendix Dl - Section 7             EFEFCTS - Increased Traffic Movemenits'
Accident Blackspots                             Appendix D2 - Section I b
*   see Appendix E                              Appetidix E, - All items
Towns:
*   Bumps in Hima, Mukhoka annd Katanguru
*   Zebra crossitig approaching Kasese
*   Routidabotit at Bwera
Schools
*   Mpondwe Primary School (Humps, signs,
ZC)
*   Mother Care Preparatory School (humps)
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE                                                                                                                                                April 200
F-2



KatuIgurti-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                                                                                                           easihilih  Stud\ Rc\ ie\N anid I  etailcd f -Iitee ingp D csign
Kasese-Kilenibe Road
Equator Road                                                                                                                                                                    IA(SCA) - Fiial Report
Isst7  -: ::-  -    -         :      :         .  Reference                              Response with reference to appropriate section of assessmtent or Management Plan w-herc this
issues has been addiressed
*    School at Eucalyptus Forest on approach
fromii Bwera sign5s)
Other locatiois
Btukangara Bridge (signs)
Need for crossing points on ditches at tlnia       Appefidix Dl - Section 7b              Foreoarlilig of tdibly coilipaniies and of affected ctinmiiiiiiies specified il SCA lable 7 2 'DIRI.C I
EFFECTS - hiitetiptioni of supplies and letsposal access restrinciolls dill iiig constrlctiloll
Scott Wilson in Association witlh ACE                                                                                                                                                          April 2000
F-3



I



Kaguu-Kasese-Fort Portal Road                             Feasibility Study Review and Detailed Engineering Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                                      ELA(PBA) - DraftFinal Report
APPENDIX G
REFERENCES
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE                                                               Apri 2000



I



Katunauru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road              i;- :sibilitv Studs Review and Detailed Engineering Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                            EIA (PBA) Final Report
REFERENCES
Arcadis (Euroconsult) and the Makarere UniZversitv. 199X. Draft Road Sector Guidelines
Govermnent of Uganda. National Environmental Action Plan. GOU. Kampala
Government of Uganda. 1995. National Environment Statute, GOU. Kampala
Government of Uganda. The Constitution of the Republic of Uganda, GOU. Kampala
IIED. 1992. Environmental Synopsis of Uganda. ODA. UK
Kabarole District Environment Profile. 1998.
Kasese District Environment Profile. 1995.
Kasese District Development Plan (1995-2000)
Kasese District Planning Unit (1998 - 9) Population Projection. School Age Population and
Secondary Age Population
Langdale-Brown.. Osmaston and Wilson, 1964. The Vegetation of Uganda and its Bearing on
Landuse. Government of Uganda. Kampala.
Nasasira. (1999) Formation of committees at sub-county levels (A Circular to all district Chair
persons) Ministry of Works. Housina and Communications. Ref.MIN/PERS/12/3
NEMA. 1996. Decentralization of Environment Management in Uganda
NEMA. 1996. Republic of Uganda. Guidelines fon Environmental Impact Assessment, NEMA,
Kampala
ODA (Overseas Development Administration), 1996. The Manual of Environmental Appraisal,
ODA. UK
Olivier. 1990. The Queen Eli:abeth Pai-k Management Plan, 1990-95,
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE       G- 1                                   April 2000



Katunguru-Kasese-Fon Portal Road                Feasibilitv Studv Review and Detailed Engineering Design
Kasese-Kilembe Road
Equator Road                                                             EIA (PBA}- Final Report
Sabbour Associates. Mott MacDonald and Sarefaco Consultants. 1994. Environmental Impact for the
Rehabilitation and Improvement of PTA sponsored Roads. Package II. Stage I Economic Feasibility
and Preliminary Engineering Final Report. MOWHC. Kampala
Tsunokawa and Hoban Ed. 1997. Wor1 ld Bank Technical Paper No. 3 76: Roads and the Environment,
A Handbook. World Bank. Washington
Uganda Wildlife Statute. 1996.
The World Bank; Operational Directive 4.01 - Annex B
The World Bank. 1991. World Bank Technical Paper No 139:Environmental Assessment Sourcebook
VolI Policies, Procedures and Cross-Sectoral Issues. Washington
The World Bank Environment Department, 1993. Public Invoivement in Environmental Assessment,
Requirements. Opportunities and Issues. (Enviromnental Assessment source book update),
Washington
Scott Wilson in Association with ACE        G-2                                    April 2000



