E-358
VOL.7
Ministry of Works, Housing & Communications
Entebbe
Uganda
SECTOR ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY AND MANAGEMENT
ASSESSMENT OF FRSP
VOLUME I: EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
FINAL REPORT
March 1999
437.4520.1
ARCADIS Euroconsult                                          Makerere University Institute of
Arnhem, the Netherlands                                            Environment and Natural
Resources, Kampala, Uganda



SECTOR ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY AND MANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT OF FRSP
FINAL REPORT
VOLUME I: EXECUTIVE SUMM1RY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.  INTRODUCTION                                                                      3
1.1   Background to the Study                                                         3
1.1.1  Objectives of the FRSP Environmental Policy and Management Assessment Study 3
1.2   Study Methodology                                                               3
2. CONTENTS OF EACH VOLUME                                                            5
3. BACKGROUND                                                                         6
3.1    Summary of the FRSP                                                            6
3.2    Review of the Present Institutional Framework                                  6
4.  MAIN FINDINGS AND ISSUES                                                          8
4.1    EIA Guidelines                                                                 8
4.2   Formation of Environmental Management Units                                     8
4.2.1  Training                                                                   9
4.2.2  Geographical Information Systems                                          10
4.2.3  National Level Monitoring                                                 10
5.  IMPLEMENTATION PLAN                                                              I 1
5.1    Task I Dissemination and Maintenance of Information                           I 1
5.2   Task 2 Revision of Ministry Manuals and Procedures                             11
5.3   Task 3 Development of National Level Monitoring                                I I
5.4   Task 4 Formation of Ministry ELU                                               1 2
5.5   Task 5 The Establishment of RAFU Environmental Unit                            12
5.6   Task 6 Training of Ministry and RAFU Staff                                     12
5.7   Task 7 Development of Local Capacity to do EIAs                                12
5.8   Task 8 Implementation of EIA Guidelines                                        12
5.9   Task 9 Overall Management and Monitoring                                       13
6.  BUDGET                                                                           16
7.  CONCLUSIONS                                                                      17
OTHER VOLUMES
Volume 11     Main Report
Volume III    Road Sector EIA Guidelines
Volume IV     Environmental Management Resources



2
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
EIA           -      Environmental Impact Assessment
ELU           -      Environmental Liaison Unit
EU            -      Environmental Unit
FRSP          -      First Road Sector Project
GOU           -      Govemment of Uganda
MOWHC         -      Ministry of Works, Housing and Communications (formerly the
Ministry of Works. Transport and Communications)
NEAP          -      National Environment Action Plan
NEMA          -      National Environment Management Authority
NGO           -      non govemment organisation
RAFU          -      Road Agency Formation Unit
RSDP          -      Road Sector Development Programme
UWA           -      Uganda Wildlife Authority
WB            -      World Bank



3
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1 Background to the Studv
In July 1998, the Ministry of Works, Housing and Communications (MOWHC) awarded the
contract for conducting a study to assess the environmental policy and management of the First
Road Sector Project (FRSP) to ARCADIS Euroconsult.
The study was initiated as a result of three major developments:
i)    the National Environment Statute of 1995 which made it mandatory for environmental
impact assessments (ElAs) to be carried out for all new development projects;
ii)    the realisation by the MOWHC that the FRSP would include major road works requiring
ElAs; and
iii)   increased funding for road sector activities by donors who stipulate environmental
assessments as a condition of funding.
The FRSP's strategy for integrating environmental concerns into road sector activities is to: (a)
identify the sectoral environmental impacts of the road programme, and (b) conduct site-specific
impact assessments for each of the planned road sections.
This study focuses on environmental policv and management as the basis of the Sectoral
Environmental Assessment for the road sector in Uganda.
1.1.1 Objectives of the FRSP Environmental Policy and Management Assessment Study
The objectives of the study can be summarised as follows:
i)    to assist the Government of Uganda to identify the status of the country's procedures for
conducting ElAs of road sector projects by reviewing policies, regulations and the
institutional framework for conducting ElAs;
ii)    to identify the most critical constraints to environmental management of the road sector in
Uganda;
iii)   to develop sector specific environmental guidelines;
iv)    to streamline and standardise the EIA process for road works.
1.2 Study Methodologv
The Inception Phase of this study began in early July 1998. This phase involved familiarisation
with road sector activities and national environmental procedures and regulations through
perusing documentation and holding meetings with affected parties, such as the National
Environment Management Authority (NEMA) and the Uganda Wildlife Authority (UWA) among
others.
Phase 11 of the study began in mid-August. The bulk of the work was undertaken during this
phase: documentation reviews, and meetings with various stakeholders, organisations and
institutions. Field trips were made to a number of districts, and several FRSP roads were
inspected.



4
The initial findings of the study were presented at a workshop held at the Public Works Training
Centre (PWTC) at Kyambogo on 30thl September 1998.  The workshop was attended by
participants from the MOWHC, NEMA and various other government and non-government
organisations that would play a role in road sector environmental management. The main issues
discussed at the workshop were the nature of the environmental guidelines and the procedures for
conducting ElAs, and the institutional and training aspects of the study.
A Project Steering Committee (PSC), comprising personnel from the MOWHC, NEMA, USAID
and UWA, was set up to provide a platform for liaison between the stakeholders, MOWHC and
the study team, and to give general guidance to the study team. Two meetings were held before
the submission of this Draft Final Report. During these meetings clarification on specific aspects
of the study were received. These were:
i)    the confirmation of the acceptability of an environmental unit (EU) within RAFU (Road
Agency Formation Unit)
ii)    an indication of the preferred location of an environmental liaison unit (ELU) within the
MOWHC, and
iii)    with regard to the guidelines, the possibility of undertaking the first four steps in the EIA
process (ie preparation of the project brief, screening, scoping, preparation of terms of
reference for the environmental study) simultaneously in order to streamline the EIA
process to avoid delays in road project implementation.



5
2. CONTENTS OF EACH VOLUME
The findings and recommendations of this study have been presented in four volumes. in order to
separate the distinct study components. These are:
Volume I     The Executive SummarN
Volume 11    Main Report
Volume III    Road Sector EIA Guidelines
Volume IV    Environmental Management Resources
Volume 11 is the Main Report and is summarised here. The Main Report describes policy and
management issues relating to roadworks and the environment. It is aimed at decision-makers,
including top level management in the MOWHC (these being the Permanent Secretary, the
Engineer in Chief, Commissioners and Assistant Commissioners), RAFU and the future Road
Agency (RA), and donor agencies involved in the road sector.
Volume III contains Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Guidelines which have been
developed specifically for the road sector. The report contains guidelines for conducting ElAs at
two levels (depending on the complexity of the situation) as well as guidelines for environmental
considerations during road maintenance activities. In addition, guidelines for public participation
in the EIA process, compensation and resettlement are provided. The document specifies the roles
and functions, in the EIA process, of the environmental liaison unit (ELU) within the MOWHC
and the environmental unit (EU) in RAFU, as well as of the National Environment Management
Authority (NEMA). It will therefore be of use not only to EIA practitioners and firms of
consulting engineers, but also to persons concerned with environmental issues related to the road
sector in MOWHC, RAFU/RA, NEMA, donor agencies and other stakeholders (UWA.
environmental conservation organisations, NGOs involved in social and economic projects in
areas affected by roads, etc).
Volume IV is intended as a reference document for road engineers within the MOWHC.
RAFU/RA, firms of consulting engineers, environmental practitioners and any individuals
interested in environmental issues related to the road sector. The document gives a description of
the legal framework for environmental management of the road sector. The physical, natural and
social environment of Uganda is presented as applicable to the FRSP and the road sector. The
report also presents, as a guide, an analysis of the types of impacts that may arise from road works
activities, indicating possible mitigation measures and responsibility for monitoring. The
importance of public participation in project planning and environmental assessment is addressed.
Of particular use to road engineers and EIA practitioners is a listing of environmental
considerations that are included in existing MOWHC manuals and documentation.



6
3. BACKGROUND
3.1 Summarv of the FRSP
The First Road Sector Project represents the first five vears of a ten-year US$1.5 billion
investment in the Ugandan road sector.
The main works proposed under the FRSP are:
. prioritising roads in the network for manual and mechanical routine maintenance and
periodic maintenance;
* upgrading of 32 km of urban trunk roads in Kampala from 2-lane to 4-lane dual carriageway:
* strengthening of 357 km of existing paved roads;
* paving of 950 km of gravel roads:
* upgrading of 1700 km of feeder roads,
* construction of a 21 km new road - ie. the Kampala Bypass.
In addition, the FRSP includes a number of studies on road network improvement, and
investments in road network administration and capacity building.
Similar investments are proposed under the second five vears of the Road Sector Development
Programme (RSDP).
3.2 Review of the Present Institutional Framework
This study takes place against a backdrop of considerable institutional change in the Ministry of
Works, Housing and Communications. It is being reorganised, following the Post Constitutional
Restructurinig Report prepared in May 1998, by the Ministry of Public Service for all ministries.
The Ministry is still considering this report and it can be anticipated that some chaniges will take
place to the proposals before they are implemented.
At the same time, the Ministry is forming a semi-autonomous Road Agency Formation Unit. This
is intended to evolve in three years time to an independent Road Agency. The expatriate Director
took up his position earlier this year and is presently engaged in setting up the unit. RAFU will be
responsible for all construction and major maintenance contracts. Most environmental
management issues will therefore be associated with RAFU - a departure to what may have been
foreseen when the terns of reference for this study were prepared.
The National Environment Management Authority was established by statute in 1996. In Mav
1998 it issued regulations concerning the conduct of environmental impact assessment for
developments in Uganda. This study is very much in keeping with these national initiatives for
improved environmental management. NEMA has promulgated concepts for, inter alia,
environmental liaison units in each lead agency, and for the preparation of sector specific
guidelines. Both of these concepts are taken up by this study which in some respects breaks new
ground in their application.



7
The same statute made a number of provisions for environmental management arrangements at
the District level: the appointment of District Environmental Officers and District Environmental
Committees, and the preparation of State of the Environment Reports and Environmental Action
Plans for all districts. These provisions are at widely varying states of implementation. Although
district level bodies will not take a leadership role in ElAs of classified roads, the provisions will
provide an increasingly important frame of reference for the conduct of all ElAs.



8
4. MAIN FINDINGS AND ISSUES
Where issues arose during the conduct of the study, we attempted to resolve them  wvith
representatives from the organisations concerned and were generally successful. We nevertheless
record the issues for the benefit of executive authorities reading this report. Other key findinlgs are
also highlighted here.
4.1 EIA Guidelines
The EIA guidelines for the road sector are a major output of the report and are presented in
Volume III. We believe that they are only the second sectoral guidelines (after water) to be
developed in Uganda. They have been developed in accordance with the EIA Regulations.
The main issue that arose during their preparation was this: the regulations envisage separate steps
for: preparation of the project brief, screening, scoping and drafting the terms of reference of
EIAs. (For definitions of these terms see Volume III). However, it is important that ElAs are tied
into the road project development cycle which envisages a single pre-feasibility. feasibility and
design phase prior to construction. Accordingly, we have provided for these four steps to be
conducted concurrently. This will allow the EIA contract to be combined with the feasibility and
design work. This approach has been endorsed by NEMA.
4.2 Formation of Environmental Management Units
It is a provision of the National Environment Action Plan that all line Ministries and/or lead
agencies should form an Environmental Liaison Unit to integrate environmental management
concerns into the agencies' activities. It is clearly essential that the provisions of this report have
an institutional home if they are to be implemented effectively. The creation of RAFU as a semi-
autonomous agency responsible for some but not all road sector activities gives rise to several
issues in this regard.
Firstly. most environmental impacts will arise from RAFU activities. The single most important
environmental management intervention is the EIA process which needs to be managed by RAFU
if it is to be properly integrated into the road project cycle. However, the Ministry has residual
road sector activities and responsibility for other sub-sectors. We have therefore suggested the
formation of two units: a 'Ministry ELU' which will incorporate environmental concerns into the
policies of the Ministry and inform environmental policy makers of relevant Ministry issues and
activities; and a 'RAFU Environment Unit' which will provide the resources required to ensure
RAFU acts in accordance with national guidelines concerning the environment. Detailed tasks for
these two units are set out in Volume lI.
Secondly, the formation of two units leads to the question of what supervision role the Milistry
ELU has over the RAFU EU. One option is for the Ministry to closely supervise and approve the
detailed work of the RAFU EU. This would give an additional control that RAFU was acting with
due respect for the environment but would not be in keeping with its semi-autonomous status. We
have therefore adopted an approach where the ELU is responsible for approving procedures
insofar as they conform with policy, but its role in day to day work is one of consultation rather
than approval. The ELU will make an important contribution to the Ministry's responsibility in
monitoring the overall performance of RAFU and would take up any systemic weaknesses in
RAFU's environmental management practice.



9
Thiirdly, it is not clear whiat the work load of the units will be. We estimate that the RAFU EU w ill
need up to thlree full time staff, both in terms of volume of work and to provide the range of skills.
However, this estimate must be subject to a considerable amount of uncertainty. and RAFU will
build up its staff over its tilree years. The study workshop agreed that the unit shiould be initially
staffed by a full time environmentalist who lias access to a sociologist on a draw-down contract.
Engineering expertise would be drawn from within RAFU as needed and the whole arrangement
reviewed after one year. The workload of the Ministry ELU, taking in other transport sub-sectors
is not for us to estimate. It might be noted tihat this approach of dedicated staff contrasts withl
common practice elsewhere of formingg the ELU  as ad hoc committees of managers. This
experience hias not been without problems.
Fourthly, we have recommended  that the RAFU  EU  should  fall under- the Division  of
Engineering. This is acceptable to the Director of RAFU. We presented several options for the
placing of the Ministry ELU. The Ministry has indicated an intention for it to be placed in the
Policy Analysis Unit. We endorse this from a road sector perspective. It allows a clear separation
where the ELU concentrates on the environmental implications of policy matters and tile RAFU
EU concentrates on the environmental implications of implementation.
4.2.1 Training
The introduction of the measures described in this report will require a new awareness and
additional skills amongst Ministry staff responsible for maintenance. and RAFU staff will also
need to be made aware of the regulations and procedures. The Ministry has indicated that the staff
appointed to the ELU will be transferred from existing posts within tile Ministry. They will almost
certainly require specialist training.
We lhave drafted a training programme to address these requirements as follows:
Table A:        Summary of Indicative Environmental Training Needs
Nos       Nos
Composition    Ministry   RAFU   Subjects                                            Duration
Top            12                - Introduction and overview of environmental issues  2 days
Management                       - Ugandan regulatorv framework
2           Road  planners, 70        32     - Road engineering and the environment              5 days
senior  design.                  - EIA
construction and                 - Contracts and environmental matters
maintenance
staff (including                 - Regulatory framework
District                          - Design and implementation of mitigation measures
Engineers)                       - Working with small scale contractors
3           Ministry ELU    2                 - Environmental impact Assessment                  up  to  3
- Natural Resources and development issues         months
4           Inspectors  and 94                - Environmental assessments - practical            8 davs
Overseers                         - Working with small scale contractors
- Standard practical mitigation measures
- Environmental monitoring systems
- Review of existing practices from an environmental
standpoint.
(Very practical orientation)



THE ROAD NETWORK IN UGANDA
30°00'    30 3C'     31°00      31 30     32°00     32 30      33'00     33°30      34t00      34°30     35°00'
4                                                                                                                           -4-0
30°00'    30°30'     31o0V       3t       32tW       32-30'     33°W       33-3      34°0C      3vt         3500'
2'30'
1'30'
HOt :
1 loo    .                                                                           1Ltentoal00ay 11603.02015
| 0xjB           Water                           A             6.0                   30.0            2.0(1.5)
-L    Victoria I
0130'
3000o     30'30r     310O       313'      32 32      3200         0c       33-3(     34'00      343        35'01
50        0        50 K00oneterm
KEY
Road class                                  ?Clas       c-a   ryRoad ecstv                     MW&1dr vAi4t
itnmn(in)  f     w~~idth (m)        (in>
*  Major town                  I            7.0                    40.0            2.0
**.;m    A/~~~Intemnationial Boundary    II60                                30.0             2.0(1.5)
A A       /V                               II            5.6                   25.0            1.5(1.0)
/ty B        inWater                       IA               6.0                   30.0            2.0(.5)
c                            ~~~       ~~~B   5.6                 25.0             1.5(1.0)
C            4.0                    15.0            1.2



10
The main issue withi training. is how the courses will be managed - whethler or not it should be
managed internally or externally. This is discussed under implemenitationi below.
4.2.2 Geographical Information Systems
Volume IV of this report presents a considerable amount of data on the phvsical and social
environiment in Uganda. This will be an important resource in the conduct of ElAs and assessment
of the environmental implications of any future road sector plans. The data is presented in
narrative and map form.
The information was compiled using a geographical information system, and the source data is
also provided on CD as an output from this study.
There are considerable benefits to be gained from the use of geographical information systems.
These are described in Volume 11. GIS can be a tool that is used at all management levels ranging
from providing operational information to technocrats to strategic planning information to senior
managers. However, it does pose a number of technical and. perhaps more importantly,
management problems. It is also relatively expensive.
The Ministry does have some GIS capacity at present. However. limited use is presently made of
it, and it would require upgrading to be able to comfortably handle and update the information
generated by this study.
The future of GIS is a matter beyond the scope of this study, although the infornation provided in
Volume 11 can inform the discussion. The two key issues that need to be resolved are: firstly,
should the Ministry and/or RAFU develop GIS capacity; and secondly, if so, where should
management responsibility be placed. These topics should be considered within the context of
overall management information systems strategies. The Director of RAFUI has indicated that he
does not consider the overall cost/benefits of GIS would make it worthwhile for RAFU to take on
management responsibility.
4.2.3 National Level Monitoring
The terms of reference mention 'environmental performance indicators for monitoring of project
implementation'. We address this matter in Volume 11.
There is an issue. The impact of the project will be large and wide. It will be impractical to
separate out the environmental impacts of FRSP from those of other forces acting in various in
Uganda. Add to this the fact there are many practical difficulties in measuring environmental
changes anyway, and it becomes clear that it will be difficult to reach quantitative judgements.
With these caveats, we have drafted a list of potential indicators, and those bodies that might
provide them. Our suggested approach has two strands: firstly agencies are surveyed to determine
precisely which indicators are monitored in Uganda - these become the focus; and secondly road
sub-project monitoring information is standardised to allow easy consolidation. These sources of
information should then be evaluated every five years in a manner that will be qualitative as much
as quantitative.



II
5. IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
The measures described in the report. including the creation of new units and a strategic shift in
approach, will take considerable effort to implement. Much of this effort will be the responsibility
of top management.
Fortunately the background of institutional change provides considerable opportunity. However, it
does mean that the implementation plans proposed here cannot be considered in isolation. It will
be necessary for the Ministrv and RAFU to take the matters listed here and incorporate them into
their own development plans.
5.1 Task 1   Dissemination and Maintenance of Information
This task comprises the dissemination and maintenance of information relating to the FRSP itself,
the regulatory framework for environmental management in Uganda. and the physical and social
environment. Some of this information is in paper form in Volume IV, but in addition. this study
has prepared GIS data in the form of CDs.
This information will be needed by various units with the Roads Department and RAFU. by
consultants carrying out strategic studies, and by EIA practitioners carrving out ElAs on road
specific projects.
In the first instance the Ministry should copy and make available Volume IV of this report to all
users, possibly at a fee. In the longer term we suggest that it is adapted and produced in 'hand
book' form. Systems will need to be developed to maintain and update the information.
5.2 Task 2   Revision of Ministrv Manuals and Procedures
Existing manuals/documents - the General Specifications, the Road Design Manual, and the
Maintenance Manual - already used by the Ministry need to be revised to take into account
environmental matters raised by this study. The proposed amendments listed in Volume IV should
be copied and made available. The timing of the their actual incorporation into revised editions
should take into account any other planned amendments.
5.3 Task 3   Development of National Level Monitoring
A system of monitoring and evaluation of road sector activities from an environmental
perspective needs to be established. This requires the commissioning of a baseline study. the
development of standardised formats for recording monitoring and auditing information, and the
commissioning of evaluations every five years or so. These evaluations should be linked to
overall evaluations of FRSP.



1n
5.4 Task 4   Formation of Ministrv ELU
The tasks proposed for the ELU have been formulated from the perspective of the road sub-sector
only. They need to be reviewed and completed from the perspective of other transport and
communication sub-sectors. Funding and the establishment will need to be secured before staff
can be appointed and trained - probably on short university courses overseas. The Ministry
envisages the appointment of two staff.
5.5 Task 5   The Establishment of RAFU Environmental Unit
This task will be conducted under the ambit of the overall setting up of RAFU. The establishment
changes and budget need to be secured. Once the head of unit is in place, she or he will need to
prepare a unit plan, develop RAFU's operating procedures in respect of environmental
management and secure and support consultancy services.
5.6 Task 6   Training of Ministry and RAFU Staff
This task acts in support of all preceding tasks. The issue of managing the training programme has
been discussed above. The Ministry and RAFU will need to consider the best overall approach.
and incorporate the training programme into their overall human resource development and staff
induction plans. Although there will be some communality of training to both entities, the
programmes may be conducted separately, drawing on the same basic course materials, to give
each entity proper control.
5.7 Task 7   Development of Local Capacitv to do EIAs
The aim is to ensure that there is sufficient capacity in Uganda to conduct the road sector ElAs
required. There are three sub-tasks: the conduct of a seminar for top managers of consulting firms
practising in Uganda; the conduct of a short training course for Ugandan practitioners who are not
yet experienced in the road sector; and work with external bodies to develop lists of freelance EIA
practitioners in Uganda.
5.8 Task 8   Implementation of EIA Guidelines
The guidelines need formal approval and testing. Being a Ministry document, RAFU should adapt
them into its own internal format with references to specific units as required. After the testing
period and appropriate revision, it may be helpful to produce them in the form of a compact
manual. The guidelines should be made readily available to all users. internal and external.



13
5.9 Task 9   Overall Management and Monitoring
The tasks above will need management and monitoring by the top management of the Ministry
and of RAFU. This responsibility cannot be delegated to the ELU and RAFU EU, not only
because those units do not yet exist, but because of the scope and scale of the organisational
change that is being proposed. The schedule on the following two pages summarises the tasks that
fall under each organisation. The task reference numbers are consistent with this list, but more
detailed descriptions can be found in Chapter 10 on implementation in the Main Report.
A key additional task will be to incorporate all implementation and operating costs into the
organisations' budgets, and to agree with the financing agencies.
It is emphasised that the schedules have been produced to summarise the key tasks. but they will
no doubt require extensive revision as they are incorporated into the Ministry and RAFU's overall
development plans.



IMFLPttNTA N PLAN: MINIS I HY IASKS                                          199                  2000     2001          2U02    Later
Q1     Q2      03      Q4  01 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 02 Q3 Q4 01 02 Q3 04
1.1 Distribute Volume 4.                             ACP
1.2 Develop procedures for maintaining paper information  ELU
1 3 Publish Environment Handbook                     ELU
1.4 Develop GIS systems if and as appropriate        ?
2.1 Approve amendments to Specs and Design Standards    ACP
2.2 Distribute amendments to consulting engineers    ACP
2.3 Incorporate the amendments to the Maintenance Manual  ?
2.4 Revise the General Specs and Design Standards    ACP
3.1 Commission baseline surveys                      ELU                                          _
3.2 Develop standardised format for environmental audits  ELU(/RAFU) 
3.3 Commission first environmental performance evaluation   ELU
3.4 Commission second environmental performance evaluation ELU
4.1 Finalise the role and operation of the ELU        PS
4.2 Complete job descriptions for officers In the ELU  PS
4.3 Prepare and secure budget for the ELU            PS
4.4 Appoint officers                                  PPO                       _
4.5 Develop ELU 's own work and implementation programme  ELU
5.6 Plan RAFU's EU transition to the road agency.    PSIRAFU
6.1 Provide necessary training to ELU unit members   ACT
6.2 Incorporate training of ministry staff Into training plans.    ACT/ELU              _
6.3 Secure budget for training of Ministry staff     ACT/ELU               -
6.4 Commission Ministry staff training programme     ACT/ELU
6.5 Training of Ministry staff                       ACT/ELU
7.2 Secure budget for cross training for practitioners  ELU
7.3 Commission cross-training programme              ACT/ELU                                         _
7.4 Select participants and deliver training         ACT/ELU
7.5 Promote database development and dissemination    ELU
B.1 Formally approve guidelines                      ACP
8.2 Advise staff and EIA practitioners of the guidelines  ACP      _
8.3 Review and revise the guidelines                  ELU
8.4 Publish the guidelines as (ministry) manuals      ELU                                            _
9.1 Secure budget for Ministry Environmental Mgt      PS
9.3 Monitor Ministry implementation activities        PS
KEY:
ACP - Assistant Commissioner Planning                           PPO - Principal Personnel Officer
ACT .  Assistant Commissioner Training                           PS  - Permanent Secretary



IMPLEMENTATION PLAN: RAFU TASKS                                               1999                  2000       2001        2002    Later
Q1     02      Q3      Q4   Q1 Q23Q4Q 2 Q3 Q4 Q  2 Q3 Q4
5.1 Finalise the role and composition of the Environment Unit  Director
5.2 Secure a budget for the environment unit.         Director
5.3 Recruit Head of Environment Unit                  Director
5.4 Plan environment unit and procure consultancies   Head EU
5.5 Develop RAFU's environmental code of practice     Head EU
6.6 Development of RAFU's environment training programme  Head EU
6.7 Commission RAFU's environment training programme  Head EU
6.8 RAFU's training delivery                          Head EU
7.1 Top management seminar for consulting engineers   Head EU
8.5 Adapt and publish the guidelines as RAFU manuals  Head EU
9.2 Secure budget for RAFU environmental mgt          Director
9.4 Monitor RAFU implementation                       Director



16
6. BUDGET
The estimated costs of implementing and operating the measures described in this report for a
period of 5 years are summarised in the following table. The period of 5 years corresponds with
that of FRSP and is convenient because it can be taken as the period over which anv investments
of a capital nature would need replacement.
Table B:     5-Year Implementation Budget
Item                                     USs'000
Disseminating Information                       5
Monitoring                                    180
ELU                                           162
RAFU Environment Unit                         738
Training                                      172
Development of Local Capacity                  17
EIA Guidelines                                  6
SUB-TOTAL Institutional Capacity Building   1,280
Conduct of EIAs                             2,890
TOTAL                                       4,170
The cost of setting up and running the ELU and the RAFU environment unit are approximately
US$ 260,000 per annum. This compares with total estimated running costs of RAFU of US$
4,700,000 per annum.
The total cost (which does not include any specific provision for the implementation of
mitigation measures) is approximately US$ 4.2 million. This compares with a total estimate for
the 5 years of FRSP of US$ 754 million. The cost of environmental management is therefore
around 0.5% of project costs. This proportion is highly sensitive to the actual costs of ElAs
whichi will only be known accurately when terms of reference have been prepared, but a
proportion of 1% or so would still be reasonable.
All RAFU operating and formation expenditure will be met by a World Bank credit under the
Road Sector Institution Technical Assistance Project. In addition, there is a provisional lump sum
US$ 0.5 million credit for the establishment of the ELU. This amount was earmarked before it
was clear that much of the responsibility for road sector environmental management would be
placed in RAFU. We understand that RAFU is in the process of reviewing its budgetary
arrangements.
The FRSP (and existing sources of funding) make provision for contract, study and supervision
costs. The extent to which these amounts make provision for EIA and mitigation costs is unclear.
The Ministry, RAFU and the World Bank now need to incorporate the estimates provided into
their discussions.



17
7. CONCLUSIONS
In order to effectively ensure the inclusion of environmental considerations into road sector
activities, it will be imperative that top level management is involved in environmental
management.  This includes the Permanent Secretary, the Director of Engineering, the
Commissioner for Roads, and the Assistant Commissioners in the Roads Directorate of the
MOWHC, as well as the Director of RAFU and the future Roads Agencv.



ARCADIS EUROCONSULT
In association with
Makerere University Institute of Environment and Natural Resources
Republic of Uganda / Ministry of Works, Housing & Communications
Sector Environmental Policy & Management
Assessment of First Road Sector Project
Volume II: Main Report
_ ~~   ~~ \-    '      ,  _U $, P   ,}   .
DEM IREf,
' O F'Ci
'~TANZAI
Final report
March 1999



