E-358
VOL. 4
Ministry of Works, Housing & Communications
Entebbe
Uganda
SECTOR ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY AND MANAGEMENT
ASSESSMENT OF FRSP
VOLUME IV: ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT RESOURCES
FINAL REPORT
March 1999
437A520.1
ARCADIS Euroconsult                                         Makerere University Institute of
Arnhem, the Netherlands                                           Environment and Natural
Resources, Kampala, Uganda



SECTOR ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY AND MANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT OF FRSP
FINAL REPORT
VOLUME IV: ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT RESOURCES
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.  INTRODUCTION                                                                             5
1.1    Background to the Study                                                               5
1.1.1    Objectives of the FRSP Environmental Policv and Management Assessment Study   5
1.1.2    This Volume                                                                    6
1.2    Summary of the FRSP                                                                   6
2. LEGAL FRAMEWORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT OF ROAD
WORKS IN UGANDA                                                                         7
2.1    Introduction                                                                          7
2.2    Existing Laws Applicable to Road Sector Environmental Management                      7
2.2.1    The Constitution of Uganda 1995                                                 7
2.2.2    The Local Governments Act 1997                                                 8
2.2.3    The District Councils                                                          8
2.2.4    The Uganda Wildlife Statute 1996                                               9
2.2.5    The National Environment Statute 1995                                           10
2.2.6    The Land Act 1998                                                               14
2.2,7    The Water Statute 1995                                                          14
2.2.8    The Roads Act 1964                                                              15
2.2.9    The Access to Roads Act                                                         16
2.2.10   Forests Act                                                                     16
2.2.11   The Mining Act                                                                  17
2.2.12   Town and Country Planning Act                                                   18
2.2.13   The Electricity Act                                                             18
2.2.14   Local Laws Relating to Construction of Roads in Rural Trading Centres           18
2.3    Property Rights and Compensation                                                       19
2.3.1    The Survey Act 1964                                                             19
2.3.2    Compensation Under the Survey Act                                               20
2.3.3    Compensation Under the Land Act                                                 20
2.3.4    Compensation Under the Roads Act                                                21
2.3.5    Compensation Under the Access to Roads Act                                      21
2.4    Compensation under the MOWHC General Conditions of Contract                           21
2.4.1    General Principles Relating to Compensation in Uganda                           22
2.5    Commentary on Enforcement of these Laws                                                23
3. THE PHYSICAL, NATURAL & SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT OF UGANDA                                       24
3. I    Topography and Geology                                                                24
3.1 .1   Implications of Geological/Topographic Characteristics on Road Projects         25
3.2    Soils                                                                                  26
3.2.1    Implications of Soil Types on Road Works                                        27
3.3    Rainfall                                                                               27
3.3.1    Zone I Lake Victoria Region                                                     28
3.3.2    Zone ll Karamoja                                                                28
3.3.3    Zone III Western Uganda                                                         28
3.3.4    Zone IV Acholi-Kyoga                                                            29
3.3.5    Zone V Ankole-Southern Uganda                                                   29
3.3.6    Rainfall and Roads                                                              29



3.4    Hydrology                                                                      30
3.4.1    Lake Victoria Basin                                                      31
3.4.2    Kyoa Basin1
3.4.3    Aswa Basin                                                               31
3.4.4    Albert Nile Basin                                                        32
3.4.5    Albert System                                                            32
3.4.6    Lake Edward System                                                       32
3.4.7    Kafu Basin                                                               32
3.4.8    Kidepo Basin                                                             32
3.4.9    Hydrological Considerations during the FRSP                              33
3.5    Land Use                                                                       34
3.5.1    General                                                                  34
3.5.2    Protected Areas                                                          35
3.5.3    Wetlands and Open Waters                                                 36
3.5.4    Agriculture                                                              36
3.5.5    Livestock                                                                37
3.5.6    Plantations                                                              37
3.5.7    Habitation                                                               37
3.5.8   Implications of Land Use on Roads                                         37
3.6    Vegetation & Natural Habitats                                                  39
3.6.1    Sensitive Habitat Types                                                  41
3.6.2    Vegetation and its Implications on Road Projects                         42
3.7    Flora and fauna                                                                42
3.7.1    Biodiversity                                                             42
3.7.2    Plant Resources                                                          45
3.7.3    Animal Resources                                                         48
3.7.4    Roads, Fauna and Flora                                                   54
3.8    Protected Areas                                                                54
3.8.1    The UWA Protected Area System                                            58
3.8.2    Forest Reserves                                                          62
3.8.3    Wetlands                                                                 71
3.8.4    Cultural & Historical sites                                              76
3.8.5    Protected Areas and Roads: General Considerations                        82
3.9    Demography and Ethnic Distribution                                              82
3.9.1    Demography                                                               82
3.9.2    Ethnic Distribution                                                      84
3.9.3    Demographic Characteristics for Road Works & Network Planning            84
3.10   Environmentally Sensitive Areas                                                 85
3.10.1   Road Works Activities and ESAs                                           86
4.  ANALYSIS OF THE POTENTIAL IMPACTS OF THE FRSP                                      88
4.1    FRSP Activities                                                                 88
4.2    Surveying                                                                       89
4.3    Land Acquisition                                                                89
4.4    Recruitment of Labour Force                                                     92
4.5    Plant and Equipment Sites, Materials Stores and Accommodation Sites             93
4.6    Land Clearing                                                                   94
4.7    Quarries and Borrow Pits                                                        95
4.8    Access roads                                                                    96
4.9    Earthworks                                                                      97
4.10   Surfacing                                                                       99
4.11   Bridges and Culverts                                                            100



4.12   Drains                                                                              101
4.13   Diversions                                                                          102
4.14   Rehabilitation/Restoration                                                          103
4.15   Impacts on Women                                                                    103
5. PUBLIC PARTICIPATION IN ROAD SECTOR DEVELOPMENT                                         105
5.1    Public Involvement in Road Sector Development                                       105
5.2    Public Involvement and Gender Concerns in Road Sector Management                    106
6. ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS IN MOWHC DOCUMENTATION                                     107
6.1    Provisions for Environmental Consideration                                          107
6.2    Road Construction and Maintenance Contracts                                         138
6.3    Recommendations for Inclusion of Environmental Clauses into MOWHC Documentation   142
6.3.1    MOWTC General Specifications                                                 142
6.3.2    Construction and Maintenance Supervision Contracts                           149
7.  SUMMARY                                                                                151
7.1    Legal Framework for Environmental Management                                        151
7.2    The Physical, Natural and Social Environment                                        151
7.3    Potential Impacts of the FRSP                                                       153
7.4    Public Involvement                                                                  154
7.5    Environmental Considerations in MOWHC Documentation                                 154
ANNEXES
I      References
11     The Biodiversity Report Series
OTHER VOLUMES
Volume I      Executive Summary
Volume 11     Main Report
Volume III    Road Sector EIA Guidelines



4
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CFR           -      Central Forest Reserve
CHA           -      Controlled Hunting Area
CWA           -      Community Wildlife Area
DTWA          -      Department of Tourism, Wildlife and Antiquities
EIA(s)        -      environmental impact assessment(s)
ELU           -      Environmental Liaison Unit
FRSP          -      First Road Sector Project
ha            -      hectare
GEF           -      Global Environment Fund
GOU           -      Government of Uganda
kg            -      kilogramme
m             -      metre(s)
masl          -      metres above sea level
mm            -      millimetre(s)
MOWHC         -      Ministry of Works, Housing and Communications (formerly the
Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications)
MUIENR        -      Makerere University Institute of Environment and Natural
Resources
NBDB          -      National Biomass Data Bank
NBS           -      National Biomass Study
NEAP          -      National Environment Action Plan
NEMA          -      National Environment Management Authority
NGO           -      non government organisation(s)
NWCMP         -      National Wetlahds Conservation and Management Programme
PA            -      Protected Area
RA            -      Road Agency
RAFU          -      Road Agency Formulation Unit
RSDP          -      Road Sector Development Programme
spp           -      species
-UNP          -      Uganda National Parks
UWA           -      Uganda Wildlife Authority
WB            -      World Bank



MAP 1. THE ROAD NETWORK IN UGANDA
30'00'        30°30         31°00        31°30          32'00         32'30         33°00         33'30         34°00'        34°30'        35°00
4-00                                                                                                                                                              4°D
3-30'                                                                              N   -  -         --                                          -                 33:
A   |  K         y                  |    ,              a~~~~~~~~~~~~~KTGM-.        KOTIDO|   
23D0  '                                                     ___ ___ _____   -                                             -   --       --                         355 '
230 …    - ~             ~                                                                    -- ----…--- -  \  -  
2'30'
2-00' _                _     _-p                                                                                                                             ) 2'C 
1'30'  _
/KIEN        5)            SOM                                                  LUGAZI _      F 
KE _ X __
0'30.                                                                                                                   0.- 0                -00'
I\ /11                 *  aoton_ I ____ 603.                                                                                          .d5
*0    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ~ ~ ~ ~
A*A                                                                       __L ______                                                                          n
0 '30'                                                                                                                                                     013 .
t1'3 0'                          e                                               4.0                           1 .0                  1 2
310'00        30'30   3na     00n         31'30rG32A 000              3             33O0= '       33'a          34300b.0 S    34.O330
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hTN   _ _   _ , _-tP  _O
_i                      Kiomt
KEt'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~et  .  lSI
Ca~~~~ia ewa~~      Road  es~.I'IFM '      Shoulder,w!11Hh



5
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1 Back2round to the Study
In July 1998, the Ministry of Works, Housing and Communications (MOWHC) awarded the
contract for conducting a study to assess the environmental policy and management of the First
Road Sector Project (FRSP) to ARCADIS Euroconsult.
The study was initiated as a result of three major developments:
i)    the National Environment Statute of 1995 which made it mandatory for environmental
impact assessments (ElAs) to be carried out for all new development projects;
ii)   the realisation by the MOWHC that the FRSP would include major road works requiring
EIAs; and
iii)   increased funding for road sector activities by donors who stipulate environmental
assessments as a condition of funding.
The FRSP's strategy for integrating environmental concerns into road sector activities is to:
* identify the sectoral environmental impacts of the road programme, and
* conduct site-specific impact assessments for each of the planned road sections
This study focuses on environmental policy and management as the basis of the Sectoral
Enivironmental Assessment for the road sector in Uganda.
1.1.1  Objectives of the FRSP Environmental Policy and Management Assessment Study
The objectives of the study are:
i) to assist the Government of Uganda to identify the status of the country's procedures for
conducting ElAs of road sector projects by reviewing policies, regulations and the
institutional framework for conducting ElAs;
ii) to identify the most critical constraints to environmental management of the road sector In
Uganda;
iii) to develop sector specific environmental guidelines;
iv) to streamline and standardise the EIA process for road works.
The study intends to achieve these objectives by:
.  illustrating  how  environmental concerns can be integrated  into road construction,
rehabilitation, improvement or routine/periodic maintenance;
*  establishing the modalities of setting up units within the MOWHC and RAFU/road agency
that will be responsible for environmental management and related issues;
* indicating training needs to undertake environmental assessments;
developing practical guidelines for environmental impact assessment applicable to the road
sector in Uganda.



6
1.1.2 This Volume
This document is Volume IV of the study report for the Sector Environmental Policy and
Management Assessment of the FRSP. It is intended to complement the other volumes of this
report, namely the Main Report (Volume 11) and the Road Sector EIA Guideiines (Volume III).
This volume is intended as a reference document for road engineers within the MOWHC, RAFU
(road agency), firms of consulting engineers, environmental practitioners and any individuals
interested in environmental issues related to the road sector. It presents the environmental and
social setting for the FRSP, and the Road Sector Development Programme as a whole. It is
mainly descriptive because it aims at giving the reader an understanding of the mechanisms that
are in place for environmental management. and environmental and social issues that affect.
and/or are affected by, roads and road works.
The document begins with gives a description of the legal framework for environmental
management of the road sector. The physical. natural and social environment of Uganda is thell
presented as applicable to the FRSP and the road sector. The report also presents, as a guide, an
analysis of the types of impacts that may arise from road works activities, indicating possible
mitigation measures and responsibilitv for monitoring. The importance of public participation in
project planning and environmental assessment is addressed. Of particular use to road engineers
and EIA practitioners is a comprehensive listing of environmental provisions that are included in
existing MOWHC manuals and documentation.
1.2 Summarv of the FRSP
The First Road Sector Project represents the first five years of a ten-year US$1.5 billion
investment in the Ugandan road sector.
The main works proposed under the FRSP are:
prioritising roads in the network for manual and mechanical routine maintenance and
periodic maintenance;
upgrading of 32 km of urban trunk roads in Kampala from 2-lane to 4-lane dual carriageway;
strengthening of 357 km of existing paved roads;
paving of 950 km of gravel roads;
upgrading of 1700 km of feeder roads;
construction of a 21 km new road - ie. the Kampala Bypass.
In addition, the FRSP includes a number of studies on road network improvement, and
investments in road network administration and capacity building.
Similar investments are proposed under the second five years of the Road Sector Development
Programme (RSDP).



7
2. LEGAL FRAMEWORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT OF ROAD
WORKS IN UGANDA
2.1 Introduction
Road development may have serious impacts on the environment from two perspectives: firstly.
the effects of construction/improvement itself and the resulting disturbance of ecological and
social systems especially their impacts on property rights; and secondly, after the road has been
constructed/improved, the economic activities it creates may have both negative and positive
impacts on the environment. These environmental and social effects must be managed within a
legal framework.
Uganda has various laws governing the management of the environment and its resources. Below
is a description of the basic legal instruments for the management of the environment and how it
relates to road sector development.
2.2 Existing Laws Applicable to Road Sector Environmental Management
2.2.1 The Constitution of Uganda 1995
The Constitution is the supreme law. It provides for environmental protection and conservationi.
In its national objectives and directive principles of state policyl, it provides that the state shall
promote sustainable development and public awareness of the need to manage land, air and water
resources in a balanced and sustainable manner for the present and future generations.
It further provides that the utilization of the natural resources of Uganda are to be managed in
such a way as to meet the development and environment needs of present and future generations
of Ugandans. In particular, the state is required to take all possible measures to prevent or
minimise damage and destruction to land, air and water resources due to pollution or other
causes.
The provisions of the Constitution protect property rights and other individual rights. Of key
interest here is the requirement by the Constitution that property cannot be compulsorily acquired
unless prompt, prior and adequate compensation has been paid to the property owner. This key
requirement is discussed in Volume III of this report. Furthermore, the state is to promote and
implement energy policies that will ensure that the people's basic needs and those of the
environment are met. Above all, Article 39 of the Constitution provides for an individual's right
to a clean and healthy environment. This provision is complemented by Article 50 which gives
any person the right to take judicial action to redress the breach of a fundamental right.
irrespective of whether the breach affects him or another person. These provisions are important
for broadening the locus standi of citizens to redress environmental wrongs.
The state, including local governments, is required to create and develop parks, reserves and
recreation areas and ensure conservation of natural resources and to promote the rational use of
I     Principle XXVII



8
natural resources so as to safeguard and protect the biodiversitv of Uganda-. The management of
rivers, lakes. wetlands, national parks. game reserves and forest reserves is vested in the state.
The Constitution also imposes a duty on the state to protect important natural resources.
including land, water, minerals, oil, fauna and flora on behalf of the people of Uganda.
In Article 245, the Constitution states that parliament shall, by law, provide for measures
intended to protect and preserve the environment from abuse, pollution and degradation. to
manage the environment for sustainable development, and to promote environmental awareness.
This has already been done through the National Environment Statute, the Water Statute, and the
Wildlife Statute.
2.2.2 The Local Governments Act 1997 3
The Local Governments Act provides for the system of local governments which is based on the
district. Under the district there are lower local governments and administrative units.' This
system provides for elected councils. The executive committee of each council is nominated by
the chairman. The functions of this committee include:
i)     Initiating and formulating policy for approval of council;
ii)    Overseeing the implementation of the govemment and councils' policies, and monitor
and coordinate activities of non-government organisations in the district; and
iii)    Receiving and solving disputes forwarded to it from lower local governments.
The Act provides for a decentralized system of government in which certain services have been
made the responsibility of the central government, while others have been made the
responsibility of the local governments. With regard to road services, the mandate to construct or
maintain roads is shared between the central and local governments especially the district.
2.2.3 The District Councils
The District Council is the highest political authority in the district. It has both legislative aiid
executive powers to be exercised in accordance with the Constitution and Local Governments
Act 1997. The composition of the District Council is laid down in the Act.
The Second Schedule to the Act prescribes the functions of the Government that the District
Council is responsible for. The following are functions relevant to natural resource management:
i)     land surveying
ii)    land administration
iii)    physical planning
iv)    forests and wetlands
v)     environment and sanitation
vi)    protection of streams, lakeshores, wetlands and forests
vii)   road services which are not the responsibility of the central government.
Article 237(2).
No. I of 1997
4      Section 4 of the Local Governments Act.



9
Under the district there are lower local government councils which consist of:
a sub-county council (Section 24(1) of Local Governments Act).
a City Division Council
a Municipal Council
a Municipal Division Council and
a Town Council.
These councils have legislative powers. The District Councils have power to enact District Laws
(Ordinances)5 while urban, sub-county, division or village councils may in relation to its
specified powers and functions make bye-laws not inconsistent with national statutes or the
Constitution. Through this method, it is hoped that the district and other lower local councils will
effectively control and manage their natural resources and environment.
The Act establishes administrative units and these are divided into two categories: rural and
urban. In rural areas there are county level, parish level and village level units while in urban
areas there are parish or ward level and village level units.
At each level of the administrative unit, there is a council and within the council is established an
executive committee including the secretary for Production and Environment Protection. These
committees have the responsibility of monitoring projects and other activities undertaken in the
area by different actors including the government.6
The Second Schedule to the Local Governments Act, prescribes the functions for which the
Urban Councils are responsible. The functions relevant to road construction and maintenance are
laying out and adorning any streets or squares.
The District Councils may devolve the following services and functions to the Lower Local
Councils:
i)    the control of soil erosion and protection of local wetlands,
ii)    the protection and maintenance of local water resources, and
iii)    any other functions the District may delegate.
2.2.4 The Uganda Wildlife Statute 19967
This law specifically provides for who should control, manage and maintain national parks and
other protected areas.  It establishes novel concepts of planning, environmental impact
assessment and monitoring as veritable instruments of managing wildlife resources.8
It also opens the arena of conservation to the private sector by making it possible for private
individuals to manage wildlife through a system of use rights.
Section 3a(l)
6      Section 50 of the Local Govemments Act.
Statute No. 4 of 1996.
Ibid. Sections 16 and 17.



10
The Statute further provides for an environmental impact assessment for any activity to be
carried out which has effect on any wildlife species in the manner provided for under National
Environment Statute.9
The Statute, does not set up specific procedures for construction of roads in protected areas.
Construction of roads, bridges, aerodromes, buildings and fences. that take place in these
protected areas must follow the provisions of other laws, especially the National Environment
Statute.
2.2.5 The National Environment Statute 199510
The National Environment Statute is contemplated as a coordinating Statute. Its provisions are to
be carried out through cooperation between the National Environment Management Authority
(NEMA) and other government agencies (lead agencies) through a system of consultation. Local
authorities are considered lead agencies.
Institutional Frame Work Under the Environment Statute
For the proper management of natural resources, the Environment Statute establishes NEMA as a
corporate body and principal agency responsible for all issues concerning the environment."l At
the apex of this Authority, is the Policy Committee on the Environment composed of ministers
charged with various sectors of the environment. The Policy Committee is responsible for the
formulation and implementation of policy guidelines, and coordinating environment policies of
the various agencies of the Government'2.
The statute establishes the Board, which is appointed by the minister with approval of the Policv
Committee. The members of the board are appointed by virtue of their knowledge and experience
in environment management. The principal role of the Board is to oversee the operation, policy
and to review the performance of the secretariat as well as to establish procedures for the
management of staff.
The Board is given the mandate to appoint technical committees including those on soil
conservation and environmental impact assessment.
The Statute also enables local administrations to be involved in the management of the
environment. The statute creates District Environment Committees charged with the management
of environmental issues at the district level. Environment Committees are created at the lowest
levels of local government structures to enable public participation in environmental decision
13
making at those levels
9      Section 16.
'°    No. 4 of 1995
Section 5 of the Environment Statute 1995.
1 2    Section 8 (2) of the Environment Statute (1995).
13    Sections 15. 16 and 17.



I I
This kind of institutional framework ensures that natural resources are controlled and managed
by communities for their own benefit on a sustainable basis.
Management measures
One of the key management tools provided by the Statute is the requirement of environmental
impact assessment for projects likely to have a negative effect on the environment" - This year,
regulations have been adopted detailing the measures to be taken in conducting an EIA and
environmental audits15.
Management measures are required to take into account measures including incentives, fees and
1 6
disincentives which may be prescribed by the minister of finance from time to time
The Statute requires that the central government collaborates with the local governments in the
following areas 17:
a) management of lakes and rivers,
b) management of lakeshores and riverbanks,
c) management of wetlands
d) management of hilltops, hill-sides, and mountainous areas,
e) conservation of biological resources,
f) management of forests,
g) planting of woodlots,
h) management of range lands,
i) land use planning.
These issues are specifically selected because of their immediate relevance to community use and
hence the need to involve local communities. The key emphasis is to permit the use of resources
within their capacity to regenerate.
The Statute requires a developer where possible to reclaim lost ecosystems and degraded natural
resources. It prohibits disturbance of river and lake beds, river banks and lakeshores; reclamation
of wetlands and degradation of hilly and mountainous areas18. In case any of the prohibited
activities must be carried out, the developer must first obtain a written authority issued by
NEMA in consultation with the lead agencies concerned.
The provisions of the Statute require district environmental committees to identifv areas to be
targeted for afforestation and reforestation if such have been degraded. Local environment
committees are urged to encourage voluntary self-help in the community to plant trees and other
vegetation in any area which has lost its vegetation cover. NEMA is enjoined to issue guidelines
Sections 20 - 22 of the Statute.
Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations. No. 13 of 1998
Section 34 and section 94.
1 7   Part VII of the Statute.
Is     Sections 35 -39.



12
for sustainable use of wetlands, hillsides and mountain tops to ensure that they' are not degraded
by the activities of any developer'9.
In case a developer does not comply with any of the provisions for sustainable use of the
environment. NEMA may issue an environmental restoration order requiring him to restore the
environmenlt as near as possible to the state to which it was in before the commencement of the
project. The restoration order issued may prevent the concerned person from taking any action
which is likely to harm the environment, award compensation to be paid by that person to other
persons whose environment has been harmed or levy a charge on him which is an estimate of the
2 0
cost of any action required to restore the environment
An environmental restoration order has to clearly specify:
-      the activity to which it relates;
-      the person(s) to whom it is addressed;
-      the time at which it comes into effect;
-      the action which must be taken to remedy the harm;
-      the penalties which may be imposed if the action specified  is not undertaken: and
-      the right of the person served with the order to appeal to  the court against it.
Any person who has reason to believe that harm is being caused to the environment may apply to
court for an environmental restoration order to issue against the person causing that harm21.
NEMA is also required in consultation with the lead agency to issue guidelines and prescribe
measures for land use planning at the local, district and national levels and on the local land use
plan, which shall be in conformity with the district and national land use plans prepared bv the
Local Environment Committee with the assistance of the District Environment officer or suchI
other public officer as may be prescribed. NEMA and the District Environment Committees are
responsible for monitoring the implementation of any land use plans prepared22. The EIA
Regulations made under this Statute require all projects including road construction to carry out
an EIA.
Control of pollution
In addition to these provisions relating to management of natural resources, the Statute contains
important provisions on the control of pollution. Since pollution is a relative state of affairs, the
Statute provides for mechanisms to establish environmental standards and criteria for wihat is
considered environmentally acceptable behaviour and phenomena23. Where a person wishes to
exceed the standards which have been set, such a person must apply for a pollution license under
2 4
Part VIII of the Statute . Standards for the control of pollution are now in the process of
formulation.
't     Sections 40 - 41.
20     Section 68.
21     Section 72.
Ibid. Section 49.
23     Sections 25 - 32.
24     Sections 58 - 66.



13
Enforcement of the law
One of the key prerequisites of ensuring environmental quality is the ability to enforce the law.
The Statute provides for a variety of mechanisms to ensure that the law will be enforced. whicih
go beyond the traditional command and sanction approach of criminal law. The following are
some of the mechanisms
(a) environmental easements: Under the Statute, a person may apply for an easement to protect
the environment. In view of the constitutional provision relating to rights to a clean and healthy
environment and the capacity of any person to enforce that right notwithstanding that his specific
rights have been affected, this easement differs from the common law easement. It may be
enforced by any body who finds it necessary to protect a segment of the environment although he
25
may not own property in the proximity of the property subject to the easement
(b) environment restoration orders: Where the person's activities affect the environment, the
Authority or a court may issue a restoration order requiring the person to cease the activities or to
restore the environment as much as possible to its original state. The order may be given pursuant
to an action brought by an individual or upon the initiative of the Authority26.
(c) awareness raising: The need for popular awareness is a key requirement for enforcement of
legislation. NEMA is given the mandate to carry out education and awareness campaigns to
ensure that the public participates in environmental decision making and enforcement22.
(d) the use of economic and social incentives: The Statute clearly provides that management
measures should be carried out in conjunction with the application of social and economllic
2 8
incentives including taxation measures
(e) the use of criminal law: Criminal law remains a veritable instrument for the control of
belhaviour because of the natural tendency of man to fear the infliction of pain, isolation or
economic loss. Therefore, the Statute provides for serious penalties for infraction of its
provisions. It is, however, recognized that criminal law cannot be the mainstay for the
enforcement of law but is a necessary supplementary measure to the approaches outlined
above2 9.
25     Sections 73 -77.
26     Sections 68 - 72
27     Sections 86 - 88.
28     Part VI.
29)    Part XIII .



14
2.2.6 The Land Act 199830
The principal legislation on land tenure in Uganda is the Land Act. This gives power to an
authorized undertaker to enter upon any land after an agreement with the occupier or owner of
the land and carry out lawful acts thereon. In cases where there is no consensus between the
landowner and the undertaker, the minister may compulsorily acquire that land subject to the
provisions of the Constitution3l.
The Act further provides that all land in Uganda whether alienated or not is subject to all existing
public rights of way which are reserved and vested in government on behalf of the public; and all
such rights of way are maintained by the public uninterrupted unless they are terminated or
altered by the direction of the minister in writing.32
Under this Act, where an authorized undertaker executes public works upon or takes stone.
murrum or similar materials from land, the authorized undertaker shall have over land such rights
of access and other rights as may be reasonably necessary for the execution, construction, and
maintenance of works. The taking of the material and land shall be deemed to be subject to those
rights whether or not they have been registered under the Registration of Titles Act. An
authorized undertaker executing public works on land under this Act shall promptly pay
compensation to any person having an interest in the land for any damage caused to crops or
buildings and for the land and materials taken or used for the works.
The Act does not cater for the after effects of these works on land and these may lead to
environmental degradation. Like any other laws relating to the environment, the Land Act is
subject to be read in line with the provisions of the Constitution and the National Environment
Statute plus all regulations made thereunder especially the rules relating to the conservation of
the natural environment.
2.2.7 The Water Statute 1995'3
The statute empowers the Director of Water Development created under it to temporarily close
all or any part of a road to traffic, if it is necessary to carry out works on the adjacent land to the
road. 3
Where it is necessary for the construction or operation of any works, the authority may break up
the surface of any road and open or break up any works under the road.35
30     Act 16 of 1998.
31     Section 43 of the Act.
32     Section 72(l).
33     No. 9 of 1995.
34     Section 79(1).
3S     Section 80(l).



15
When these works are being carried out and the environment is affected, no regulation is put in
place under the Statute to prohibit workers from leaving open ditchies which may lead to soil
erosion. This lacunae is, however, catered for by the Constitution and the National Environment
Statute which have elaborated provisions relating to management of the environment.
2.2.8 The Roads Act 196436
The Act defines a "Road" to mean any way open to the public for the circulation of vehicles
which is maintained by the government or administration, "Road Authority" to mean:-
a)    in the case of a road maintained by the government, the minister: and
b)    in the case of a road maintained by an administration, such administration.
"Road Reserve" under this Act means an area declared to be a road reserve under the provisions
of this Act. The Act further provides that the minister may by statutory instrument declare an
area bounded by imaginary lines parallel to and distant not more than fiftv feet from the
centreline of any road to be a road reserve.
Subject to any order which may be made under this Act, no person shall, save with written
permission of the road authority, erect any building or plant any tree or permanent crops within a
road reserve.
The minister, or with the consent of the minister, a district commissioner, in relation to any road
within or passing through any government town or an administration in respect of any area not
being in a government town. may by order:
a)     prescribe the line in which buildings shall be erected in such town or area or
b)     prescribe the distance from the centre of the road within, which no building shall be
erected in such town or area.
These orders are not to be repugnant to any provisions of the Public Health Act or any
regulations or orders made thereunder or any scheme made under the Town and Country Planing
Act. The order made may apply to any road or specific portion of any road and, in the case of a
town, shall be published in the Gazette and, in the case of an area not being a town, shall be
promulgated in such manner by putting the same in some conspicuous place or some place of
public resort within that area or other wise as may seem proper to the administration issuing the
same, and shall have the force of law as from the date of such publication or promulgation.
Planting or permitting to grow any tree or permanent crops or grazing of animals is prohibited if
it interferes in any way with the proper function of any cutting, ditch or culvert constructed in
connection with any road connecting with the road, any cattle path, bicycle track side road or
entrance or means of access to a dwelling or to any other premises or place. These prohibitions
are relevant where, in the opinion of the road authority it is likely to be dangerous to persons or
vehicles using a road. The road authority is required to give written notice to the owner or
occupier of the land on which such offence took place requiring him:
36     Cap 345.



16
i)    to pull down or remove the building or erection: or
ii)    to cut down or uproot the tree or crops: or
iii)   to alter or repair the cattle path, bicycle track side road or entrance or means of access or
to close the same.
A road authority may dig and take away materials required for the construction and maintenance
of roads in any part of a road reserve approved by the district commissioner without payment to
any person.
2.2.9 The Access to Roads Act37
The Access to Roads Act seeks to ensure that a private land owner who has no reasonable means
of access to public highway may apply for leave to construct a road of access to a public high
way. This law also establishes a mechanism of applying for such a road. It also establishes a
legal regime to ensure the safety of the neighbouring environment.
The Act permits the owner of any land who is unable through negotiations to obtain leave from
adjoining land owners to construct a road of access to the public highway, to apply to a
magistrate for leave to construct a road of access over any land lying between his land and the
public highway3'. This law also provides for means by which an order for the construction of an
3 9
access road can be revoked
The Act further provides for maintenance of the access road in a good and efficient state of
repair, and for payment of compensation in respect of the use of the land, the destruction of crops
or trees and such other property4 0.
Although there is a provision for compensation for destruction of trees and crops under the Act,
this provision is not enough to provide for environmental protection. The construction of such a
road mav be carried out in a steep area and this may lead to soil erosion and degradation of the
landscape.
In terms of environmental issues relative to road construction, the Act lacks the component of
Environimental Impact Assessment which  should  be carried  out by a local authority
knowledgeable in environmental management.
2.2.10 Forests Act41
The Act prohibits anyone from re-opening any road, track or bridge in a forest reserve. It further
provides that construction or re-opening of any road track or bridge in a forest reserve requires
written authority from the relevant authorities.
37     Cap 345 of the 1964 law of Uganda and Cap 346 Repealed by Act No. 2 of 1969.
;s     Section l(i).
39)    Section 3 of the Access to Roads Act.
40     Sections 8(l) and 3(3).
Cap 246.



17
Reference to roads in this act relates to forest roads for the purposes of forest management, and
not to public roads that traverse forest reserves.
2.2.11 The Mining Act42
This Act governs road construction in mining areas and regulates how mining should be carried
out in relation to roads. It confers mining rights to prescribed persons. Mining rights are not to
be conferred if the area to be mined is situated within 100 yards of any railway or situated within
50 yards from the centre of a road, street or highway except with the consent of the minister.
According to this Act, a mine means and includes any place, excavation or working upon.
wherein or whereby any operation in connection with which mining is carried oni. A mineral is
defined to include:
a)     metalliferous ores and other substances in their natural state which are obtainable only by
mining or in the course of prospecting operations;
b)     metalliferous ores and other substances in their natural state mined or obtained in the
course of prospecting operations;
c)    the valuable parts of such ores or other substances when manufactured: and
d)    the product of treating or dressing such ores or other substances for marketing or exports;
The definition does not include mineral oils, clay, murram, sand, or any stone except limestone,
commonly used for building or similar purposes or such other common mineral substances as the
minister may by statutory instrument declare them to be minerals.
The Act prohibits persons in the exercise of prospecting or mining rights under it to create
passages or ways over, on or under any public land, other than that contained in their mining
rights, except with the consent of the relevant authority.
Another legislation governing activities in mining is the Petroleum (Exploration and Protection)
Act 1985. The Mining Act operates for all minerals other than petroleum. It concentrates oin
metallic minerals and limestone only. It leaves out other minerals such as gemstones, clay and
murram. However, the National Environmental Statute and the EIA Regulations currently make
it mandatory for all projects which are likely to have an impact on the environment to carry out
or cause EIA to be carried out before such projects can be undertaken. Construction of roads in
mining areas would, therefore, require an EIA to be carried out since such construction is likely
to have an impact on the environment. EIA requirements are applicable to excavation of stones
and murrum needed for road construction too.
The Mining Act does not provide for measures to be followed when a mine is no longer being
operated. Miners should make sure that old mines are covered especially if they are near a road
and all culverts and trenches which were used in the mine should be covered too. This loophole
has now been taken care of the National Environment Statute, 1995 which requires restoration of
sites to a state as near as possible to their original environment.
42     Cap 248.



18
2.2.12 Town and Country Planning Act43
The 1995 Constitution provides that government may, pursuant to laws made by parliament and
government policies, regulate the use of land. The principal statute on land use and land plannilln
in urban and rural areas is the Town and Country Planning Act. The Act establishes the Town
and Country Board which is charged with the duty of the planning and orderly development of
towns and rural areas. The board advises the minister and local authorities in its duties.
Local Planning Committees may be formed, to which the board may delegate duties. The Act
established guidelines for the making of planning schemes, acquisition of land and compensation
for acquired lands. The Second Schedule to the Act contains an outline of a detailed scheme
which includes a number of considerations designed to safeguard the natural environment.
Any land in the planning area required for road, open space gardens, schools, places of religious
worship and reaction may be acquired on the advice of the board in relation to provisions of the
law relating to compulsory acquisition.4 4
The Act further limits the number or prescribes the sites of new roads entering a road or the site
of a proposed road.45
2.2.13 The Electricity Act46
The Act provides for procedures to be followed by an authorized undertaker in relation to works
which are to be carried out in relation of any land, buiiding road, wall or bridge for purposes
provided for under it. This mainly deals with how electricity can be distributed across any road,
walls and how to use other public works to support the poles for support of any electric line.
Clearing of vegetation and the whole process of constructing access roads may have significant
impacts on the environment and hence requires the carrying out of environmental assessment as
provided for under the National Environment Statute and EIA Regulations. 1998.
2.2.14 Local Laws Relating to Construction of Roads in Rural Trading Centres
These are pieces of legislation previously made by the Kingdoms and districts in the form of bye-
laws which regulate the construction of roads in the various rural trading centres. They seek to
ensure that people build shops far from the centreline of the roads which pass through trading
centres and regulate the mode of building which ensures safety of the public. The shops are
supposed to be built 50 feet from the centreline of the road. These laws also prohibit throwing of
4 .7
debris on any road
Cap 30.
44     Section 17 (1 )(a).
4S     Section 19 (4)(k).
4r     Cap 135.
47     For example the Madi Rural Trading Centre Law L.N no. 121/1963; Busoga Rural Trading Centre
Law, L.N no.109/1962; Kigezi Rural Trading Centre Law, L.N no 92/1962. Most of the kingdoms
and districts before 1967 had similar laws.



19
However, these laws do not provide for enoughl space for expansion in the case of a rural trading
centre developing into a big town, or in case of repairs and construction to improve roads. The
owners of these shops stand the risk of their shops being destroyed if there arises a need to
expand the roads.
2.3 Property Ri¢thts and Compensation
The law relating to compensation of property owners in Uganda stems from the Constitution of the
Republic of Uganda, 1995. Article 237(1) of the Constitution vests all land in Uganda in the
citizens of Uganda. However, under Article 237 (1) (a) the Government or Local Government may
acquire land in the public interest. Such acquisition is subject to the provisions of Article 26 of the
same Constitution, which gives every person in Uganda a right to own property.
Compulsory deprivation of one's property is prohibited by the Constitution except when the taking
possession or acquisition is necessary for public use, among other things. If it is proved that the
taking possession or acquisition is in public interest, for instance for the construction of a road, then
the taking or acquisition shall be done subject to prompt payment of fair and adequate
compensation, prior to the taking of possession or acquisition of the property.
Article 26 further gives a right of access to a court of law to any person who has an interest or right
over the property. Court action is contemplated in cases where there may be delayed, inadequate or
unfair compensation to the property owner or the owner of any right over the land in question.
Since the Constitution is the supreme law of Uganda and has binding force on all authorities and
persons throughout Uganda,48 it seems there cannot be any taking, acquisition or deprivation of
any sort of any property or property right in Uganda without due compensation as envisaged under
the Constitution.
Any other law which purports to permit any person or authority to acquire land without due
compensation would accordingly be void to the level of its inconsistency with the constitutional
provisions in that respect.49
Indeed, a number of laws permit compulsory taking of land for public use or in public interest. The
salient ones which relate to the construction of roads are analysed hereunder.
2.3.1 The Survey Act 196450
Before any attempts are made to construct any road or highway in any part of the country, a survey
of the area has to be carried out. Survey operations in Uganda are governed by the Survey Act.
Under this Act. the Commissioner of Surveys can authorise the carrying out of a survey of any land
if it is necessary.51 However, where a general survey is necessary, notice of such specifying the
limits of the area to be affected has to be published in the gazette.
4R     Article 2; Constitution of the Republic of Uganda, 1995.
40    Ibid Article 273(1).
50    Cap 209 of the 1964 Laws of Uganda.
5 1    Ibid Section 2.



20
In case the survey is of a special nature. which could be outside the capacity and scope of the
commissioner, then the minister may order for such a survey. In that case, the milister must specifv
the nature of the survey to be carried out and its purpose. He is compelled to comply with
provisions of the Act when doing so.
Only licensed surveyors or duly authorised officers with servants and workmen may enter upon any
land and make all or any inquiries and do or cause to be done all things necessary for effecting such
survey. The anticipated activities include, but are not limited to clearing of Inae boundaries.S3
2.3.2 Compensation Under the Survey Act
Compensation envisaged and actually provided for under the Act is only for trees, fences, and
standing crops damaged or injured during the survey. The amount to be paid as compensation in
that regard is assessed and determined by the surveyor. No compensation is to be paid to the owner
of property under this Act if the surveyor is carrying out lawful acts authorised by law like the
recovery of boundaries, marks and their repairs. If the survey is initiated by a private party, not the
government, compensation is made by that private party if it has to be made. There is no
compensation in respect of property damaged or injured for the purposes of constructing survey
camps.
Obstructing a surveyor when he is carrying out lawful activities is an offence under this Act.
However, in all cases, notice must always be given to the party to be affected by the survey.
Any grievances arising in this respect lie to either a Chief Magistrate or Magistrate Grade One.54
In terms of road construction, therefore, there must first be undertaken a survey, and due
compensation made to the affected parties, if their property is damaged or injured. Thereafter, the
surveyed area becomes property of the state or any government body. It seems that in cases of a
road reserve, which is part of the road, there would be no compensation of any sort to the owners of
property standing or lying on the area gazetted as a road reserve.
2.3.3 Compensation Under the Land Act55
The Act authorizes an authorized undertaker of any project to construct access roads. extract and
take materials from any land subject to compensation of the land owner for the use of land and
damage caused to his developments on the land in issue.56
Ibid Section 3.
Ibid Sections 11 and 19.
Ibid Sections 23, 31 and 34.
sc 5   No. 16 of 1998.
5> C   Ibid. S. 74 (3).



21
2.3.4 Compensation Under the Roads Act57
The Roads Act prohibits:
a)     Construction or erection of any building in contravention of its provisions which interferes
in any way with the proper function of any cutting, ditch or culvert constructed in
connection with any road; or
b)     Planting or permitting to grow any trees, or permanent crops or grazing which interferes in
any way with the proper function of any cutting, ditch or culvert constructed in connection
with any road; or
c)     Connecting with any road any cattle path, bicycle track, side road or entrance or means of
access to a dwelling or to any other premises or place which interferes in any way with the
proper function of any cutting, ditch or culvert constructed in connection with a road or
which in the opinion of the road authority is likely to be dangerous to persons or vehicles
using a road.
If any of those prohibited acts occurs the road authority shall give written notice to the owner or
occupier of the kind on which such offence took place requiring him;
i)    to pull down or remove the building or erection; or
ii)    to cut down or uproot the tree or crops; or
iii)   to alter or repair the cattle path, bicycle track, side road or entrance or means of access or to
close the same.
Any person who fails to obey such a notice within a reasonable time shall be guilty of an offence
and the court may order the same to comply with the requirements of the notice by a date to be
named in the order. No compensation can be made in respect of any damage arising out of carrying
out a lawful order prescribed either by the Act or Government.
A road authority may dig and take away materials required for the construction and maintenance of
roads in any part of a road reserve approved by the district commissioner without payment to any
person.
2.3.5 Compensation Under the Access to Roads Act
The Access to Roads Act permits an owner of land who wishes to construct an access road through
adjacent lands of other owners to do so through negotiations or by obtaining a court order granted
by a magistrate for that purpose. If in the process of constructing an access road, there is damage to
crops, trees or other property, the owner of such crops, trees or other property is entitled to
compensation from the applicant.
The amount of compensation is assessed at the market value of the damaged property.
2.4 Compensation under the MOWHC General Conditions of Contract
The MOWHC general conditions of contract permit the engineer to designate the areas to be cleared
or grubbed. However, no clearing or grubbing is to be carried out without written instructions of
the engineer, who shall designate in detail the exact areas to be cleared and/or grubbed and the time
at which such shall be carried out.
Cap 345.



22
The clearinu to be done under these conditions may be for areas which fall under the road reserve
prism or any other areas designated by the engineer in writing.
The contractor undertaking the work is required to take necessary precautions to prevent damage to
structures and other private or public property. The contractor may also borrow sucih areas as
designated by the engineer for purposes of disposing of materials obtained during clearing or
grubbing the area.
The MOWHC general conditions of contract render the tenderer and his personnel/agents liable for
any personal injury, loss of or damage to property caused during site visits.
In the case of road or bridge works, it is a condition that the contractor will be liable for all damage
(including consequential damage) to road, irrigation, ditches, main pipes, electric cables or wires or
services of any kind caused by him or his sub-contractors in the execution of the works. The
contractor is required to make good any damage without delay. One of the anticipated means of
making good the damage caused would be compensation.
2.4.1 General Principles Relating to Compensation in Uganda
The position of the government of Uganda in relation to compensation to be paid if damage is
caused to land are clear under the Constitution.  The Water Statute58 clearly transforms the
constitutional provisions into detailed and enforceable legal requirements.
The Water Statute can be used as a model law in terms of compensation in the field of natural
resources and land generally. According to this Statute, if damage is caused to land in the exercise
of lawful activities, the parties whose interest in the land has been damaged are supposed to be
compensated.59 "Damage to land" under the Water Statute refers to loss suffered as a result of:
* deprivation of the possession of the surface of any land;
damage to the surface of land and to any improvements, crops, or trees;
damage to stock; and
* all consequential damage.
Compensation under this law can only be paid if a written claim for compensation has been logged
with the responsible authority.
The claim for compensation must state:
the claimant's name and address;
* a description of the land in respect of which the claim is made;
* the claimant's interest in the land;
* the nature and extent of the interest of any other person in the land;
* the damage caused to the land;
* the particulars of any other damage; and
* the total amount of the claim.
5S     No. 9 of 1995.
59     Section 91 of the Water Statues, No. 9 of the 1995.



23
Award for compensation mav take the forn of a payment of money and any other tvpe of award
which the authority mav consider appropriate.
There is a provision for the authority to notify the claimant of its decision on a claim as soon as
practicable and if the claimant is aggrieved by that decision, he may appeal to the minister withinl
the prescribed time.  The minister is supposed to fix the appropriate compensation in the
circumstances.
According to the Constitution of Uganda, 1995,6° any person aggrieved by a decision of a court
may appeal to an appropriate court. For purposes of compensation, both the authority and minister
assume a quasi-judicial function, and, therefore, an aggrieved party, can appeal against the
minister's decision to the high Court.
On the other hand, if it is the contractor's property or any property belonging to the government or
its duly authorized agents which is damaged or injured, the offender shall be prosecuted in a
criminal action and the court may in addition to the penal sanction, order such offender to
compensate, the authority, government body or any person whose property is damaged.6'
In conclusion, therefore, MOW-C should be prepared, together with the contractors, to pay
compensation to anyone whose property is damaged or injured during the process of road
construction. There are well founded legal provisions both constitutional and statutory which
support the assertion that compensation in respect of damage caused to crops, buildings, fences and
standing trees has to be made, if such developments are not in a road reserve prism. Compensation
for developments within a road reserve prism can only be made if the gazetting of that area as a
road reserve was done when such developments were already in place and no compensation has
been made in that respect. This is because the provisions of the Roads Act, make it an offence to
make any developments in a gazetted road reserve. The constitutional provisions relating to
compensation would only be invoked if the land in question belonged to the owner of the
developments damaged. A road reserve area is the property of the registered proprietor, the state.
Any other person "sitting" on it would be a trespasser. One of the aspects which must be borne in
mind with respect to the FRSP road projects is mitigation, which among other things considered
includes compensation as one of the ways of ameliorating losses suffered by individuals and
communities during the life of the project.
2.5 Commentary on Enforcement of these Laws
The laws which were made before 1995 mostly impose fines which are now so low as to make
the enforcement of these laws untenable. However, the laws made since 1995 have attempted to
address this problem by providing for sufficient sanctions and alternative enforcement
mechanisms as shown above in the discussion in the National Environment Statute.
The problem of enforcement must also be seen within an institutional context especially in
relation to institutional capacity. To date, the institutions proposed under the new laws are yet to
mature to handle the responsibilities they have been given. However, given the financial and
manpower constraints that face these institutions, they are performing admirably. Much will
depend on how these institutions cope with expanding responsibility in a fast changing world.
60     Article 50(3).
61     Section 93 of the Water Statue.



24
3. THE PHYSICAL, NATURAL & SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT OF UGANDA
This chapter presents the environmental and social setting of Uganda, in order to provide an
understanding of the background against which road development under the RSDP will take
place. The descriptions of the physical, natural and social environments are enhanced with maps
that have been created using digital data. This data will be presented on CD to the MOWHC on
completion of this assignment. At the end of each section, the relevance of that particular
environmental or social aspect to road projects is highlighted.
Uganda forms part of the East African region. It is located between latitudes 40 12' N and 10
29'S, and between longitudes 290 34' and 35 00' E. It occupies an area of about 241500 sq km.
According to NEMA's 1996 State of the Environment Report, open water bodies cover 15.3%.
permanent wetlands 3%, and seasonal wetlands 9.4% of the total area of UJganda. These cover
27.7% of Uganda while areas without water consist of 72.3% of Uganda. Uganda shares its
border with Kenya to the east, Tanzania to the south, Rwanda south-west, Democratic Republic
of Congo east, and Sudan to the north.
3.1 Topographv and Geology
The different geological characteristics of Uganda give rise to different land-forms and hence the
topography of the country. Uganda is part of the African interior plateau, and the countrv can be
divided into four altitudinal zones. The topography of the country is depicted in Map 2, while
areas of steep terrain are shown in Map 3.
The first zone comprise land under 900 metres above sea level (masl). This zone is part of the
Western Rift in which Lakes Albert, Edward and George are located, and has no prominent relief
features except rivers and lakes.
The Pre-Cambium geological land-forms which cover most of central and mid-western Uganda
make up the second zone. This zone has areas of altitude of 900 to 1200 masl, and spans 84% of
Uganda. It stretches from Luwero, Kamuli, and Tororo Districts in the south, to Gulu, Kitgum,
and Kotido Districts in the north. Lakes Kyoga and Bisina are at the centre of this zone. The zone
is generally underlain by undifferentiated gneisses. The northern shores of Lake Kyoga are
underlain by shales, arkoses and quartizites. The landscape is made up of hills that are flat topped
and rising to almost the same height. Hill tops are covered with thick laterites that overly deeply
weathered ancient rocks. Broad and open valleys which are covered by extensive papyrus and
swamps separate these hills.
The next altitudinal zone comprises land between 1200 and 2000 masl. This occurs along the
eastern border with Kenya, and the south-western region of Uganda. The Karagwe-Ankolean
geology system gives rise to the hilly (1550 - 2500m above sea level) terrain of Kabale, and also
some parts of Mbarara and Bushenyi. Such hilly terrain is also found in Karamoja and West Nile
regions. Some of the prominent hills found in this zone are Tororo (1948 m), Napono (1957 m),
and Ogili (1992 m) on the north-western part of Uganda. The hilly areas cover about 3% of the
total surface area of the country. The hilly areas are moderate to steep (30 - 50%).
The last altitudinal zone which consists of land above 2000 m consists mostly of mountainous
regions found on the western, eastern, and northern parts of the country. This zone covers 2% of



;,~~~~C                                      |O                                               -             0             0             0        |    -             -li  
°   X0g- :sX?
5;0                                                                                                                                                                      |                             t|i
8   0                                                                  



8 ~~> _                  oo-                                  
2~~       8-                                                                         



Uganda. The Rwenzori Mountains wlicih occur on the western part were formed by uplifting of
the host block. These mountains rise to 5100 m, and their summits are permanently covered by
snow and ice. Muhavura and Mgahinga lie in the Ugandan side of the Virunga range in the
south-western tip of the country. These mountains are volcanic in origin. Another mountainous
region is found along the eastern border where Mt Elgon is the most prominent relief feature.
This was formed by old and extinct volcanoes, and it has an altitude of 4320 m. In contrast to the
steep slopes of the western highlands, Mt Elgon has generally gentle slopes. Several volcanic
mountains also occur in Moroto and Kotido Districts.
3.1.1 Implications of Geological/Topographic Characteristics on Road Projects
Topographical information is important for the design of road projects, and in planning for their
construction.  Steep areas would affect design considerations, while hilly areas may affect
efficiency of haulage. Although topography is studied in depth during the design stage, an initial
indication of the conditions is useful, particularly for planning purposes. Some topographical
considerations to be taken into account during the planning, design and construction stages are as
follows:
Planning stage
* locations where rock is close to the surface should be avoided as this will usually require
expensive excavation;
the stability of cuts against landslides should be considered;
* the strength of the soil beneath the road (subgrade) is influenced by the ground formation.
Design stagze
the selection of design standards is related to the terrain;
* grades and curvatures should be kept to the minimum necessary to satisfy the service
requirements of the road;
. to minimise drainage problems, locations on high grounds should be selected in contrast to
ones in valleys;
swamps/marshes and low-lying lands subject to flooding should be avoided;
. in hilly terrain, roads may need to go through passes in the hills or to cross ridges at their
lowest points;
* the best location for a road is the one that results in the minimum total cost of earthworks, ie.
quantities of excavation should balance as much as possible quantities of fill;
the design speed of a road has a bearing on the terrain being traversed;
the shape of the ground affects the hydrology and hydraulic designs of structures because:
- it determines the limits of the catchment area and therefore the runoff
- depressions in the ground hold back runoff water until they are filled
- the length and steepness of slopes determines how much of the precipitation becomes
part of the runoff.
Construction stage
install erosion prevention measures in side ditches in steep grades;
in hilly terrain, possibilities of landslides might exist.



26
3.2 Soils
Thoughi there have been attempts to reclassify the 124 soil units in Uganda to FAO classification
system, no FAO soil map of Uganda has been published. However, for the purposes of
incorporating soil data in environmental analysis during road projects, the soils can be
reclassified using information on textural classes. Map 4 shows a reclassification of the soil map
of Uganda based on soil texture to giving only 9 soil types out of the 124 classes. Such a
classification is useful for identifying sensitive soil types.
The types of soils are described on the basis of their productivity, and according to the
ciassification illustrated in Map 4.
Soils of very high to high productivity usually ranging between sandy loam and sandy clay-loam
and which occupy about 8% of the land in Uganda are to be found scattered in places like the
footslopes of Mount Elgon, in Nebbi and Kabarole districts and in large parts of Buganda region.
These areas with a rolling type of terrain whose slopes vary between 5 and 16 %, have rain forest
and elephant grass as their typical vegetation cover and receive between 1000 and 1375 mm of
rainfall on average per year.
Soils of moderate productivity are usualiv red clay-loams and cover approximately 14% of the
land area of Uganda. They are mainly to be found in areas with rolling to undulating type of
relief whose slopes range between 3 and 16 %, and which receive on average between 1000 and
1250 mm of rainfall per year. Such areas support a vegetative cover ranging from elephant grass
to forest re-growth and are spread out in places like Kapchorwa, Namalu in Moroto, Kabale.
Mabira in Mukono and Bushenyi.
Soils of fair productivity ranging between clay loam and sandy loam occupy the largest land area
of Uganda. amounting to at least 43%. These soils are widespread in the central plateau of
Uganda for example in Mubende, Kamuli, Jinja, Soroti, West Lira, Apac and Hoima. They
generally occupy areas with a rolling to undulating hills type of relief with slopes ranging
between 3 and 12 % and which receive between 1000 and 1250 mm of rain on average per year.
These soils whose natural vegetative cover is characterised by medium grass savanna, are able to
support both perennial and annual crops including cotton and tobacco but are unfavourable for
tree crops and plantains.
Soils of low productivity that range between sandy loam and clay and which occupy about 30%
of the Ugandan land surface are found scattered in association with other dominant soils in places
like Kadam, Tororo, Kidepo and Ishasha. Their main locations are in northern Uganda and in the
Western rift valley lowlands where they support a vegetative cover comprising short-grass
savanna. Areas occupied by these soils have a gently rolling to undulating type of relief and
receive annual rainfall averages of 1000 mm or less.
Soils of negligible productivity vary from those of sandy conditions e.g. sandy loam to plastic
clays and occupy about 3% of the land area of Uganda and are generally to be found in flat valley
bottoms in places like Mubende, Sango Bay and Kifu. They support a vegetation cover
comprising mainly of swamp communities, papyrus etc. associated with alluvial conditions and
the areas they occupy receive annual rainfall averages of about 1125 mm.
Soils of nil productivity are generally soils which would require draining and those which need to
be irrigated to make them productive. They occur as skeletal soils or peat soils mainly on flat
valley bottoms and flood plains and occupy a maximum of 2% of the surface area of Uganda.



MAP 4. SOILS
30100        30°30         31 '00        31 °30         32O00'        32'30         33°00          33°30'        34-00'        34t3C         35-00'
4-0                            4_ K00
3-30'~                                                                                                                                                             3-30
3W                                                                                                                        T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~100'
2-00'                                                                                                                                                              2'  100'
e   _                __    _  ___                 _        _  _. _ .          _               _~~~~~~~~________________-      ,0
1'30'                                                                                                                                             17               1-30'
30-00         3030          3100           31-30         3200          32-30          33            33°30         3400           3430          3500
50           0           50 Kilometers
Soil types
Clays                                         *   Major town
Sandy clay                                  /\/    International Boundarn
Clay loam                                          Road
Poorly drained soils                              Water
Sandy clay loam
Loamy sand
Sandy loam
Loam
Sand
Unclassified (refers to this map only)
ad- ABS,S d I4                                                                                                                     P-db&RS&G&L.
Lr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Alt^Bn IF SR A'199 ..  J  OM NC 



27
Areas with these type of soils receive on average between 1000 and 1250 mm of rain per year
and are mainly covered with short grass interspersed with shrubs and thickets.
3.2.1 Implications of Soil Types on Road Works
Using Map 4, it is possible to determine the extent and distribution of sensitive soil types such as
poorly drained and sandy soils. Both poorly drained and sandy soils may be regarded as sensitive
soils and they cover 13% of the Uganda surface area. The sensitive soils are located in low lying
and flat areas mainly on the western shores of Lakes Victoria and Kyoga, the Western Rift Valley
and most wetlands. This is not surprising because sandy soils are fluvial in nature and hence have
to be formed in flat and low lying areas after deposition. On the other hand, poorly drained soils
are also found in low lying areas such as wetlands.
Other soil types of importance to the road sector are clayey soils. Clayey soils, while they may be
a nuisance to road usage especially during the wet season, they have low soil erosion potential.
The clay soils are also widespread, accounting for about 11% of Uganda's surface. Sandy Loam,
mostly found in northern Uganda, account for the largest percentage cover (27%).
In addition, the soil map assists in planning for construction, in order to establish possible
sources of gravel and hardstone.
Other implications of soil types on the design and construction of roads are follows:
Design stage
* roads should be located on soils which require the least pavement thickness over them;
* knowledge of the properties of the soils enables a decision to be made as to whether treatment
is needed or not, and if so, the type of chemical stabiliser should be used;
* to achieve the best balance in earthworks between cuts and fills requires that the road be
located on soils that are suitable for road construction;
* the type and condition of the soil eg. granular and dry, affects how much of the initial part of
the storm actually runs off to reach the drainage structures;
* the type of soil determines the need and extent of grassing to be done on cut/side slopes, the
timing of its execution and duration of nurturing;
determines the stability of cuttings and embankments;
. type of soil, amongst other factors, determines whether erosion protection structures are
needed, and if so, influences the selection of their type ,design and locations.
Construction stage
. during construction of earthworks, water requirements and the types of equipment used for
compaction depend on the properties of the soil being used.
3.3 Rainfall
The variation of rainfall in space and time in Uganda depends on:
i.     convergence of the north-east and south-east monsoons within the inter-tropical
convergence zone,
ii.    the movement of the sun north and south of the Equator,
iii.   inflow of westerly winds from the Democratic Republic of Congo,



28
iv.    relief, and
v.     water bodies.
The mean annual rainfall varies from less than 500 mm in Karamoja to about 3000 mm over
Lake Victoria (Map 5). Table 3.1 shows mean monthly rainfall figures for some centres in
Uganda.
Uganda can be divided into five rainfall zones based upon both temporal and spatial variations of
rainfall. These zones are described below.
3.3.1 Zone I Lake Victoria Region
This zone extends for about 48 to 64 km around the shores of Lake Victoria. It has flat topped
hills with a uniform height of about 1300 metres above sea level. The primary vegetation consists
of short grass on hill tops, forests on valleys, and papyrus in swamps. The climate of the Lake
Victoria region is characterised by small seasonal changes in temperature. humidity and wind due
to the maritime influence of the lake. The limit of this region is where diurnal variations in
temperatures are greater than I0°C. Rainfall occurs throughout the year with two maxima
between March to May, and the other during October to December. The mean monthly rainfall
varies from 150 to 250 mm between March and May. April receives the highest rainfall. Rainfall
varies from 100 mm in October to 145 mm in November. The period from July to September
receives low rainfall of about 75 mm per month. Low rainfall is also experienced. between
January and February which have an average of about 60 to 75 mm of rain per month. Rainfall
decreases with distance from the lake. Entebbe, which falls within this zone, receives about 1500
mm of rain per year (Figure 3.1 and Table 3. 1).
3.3.2 Zone II Karamoja
The Karamoja region is made up of a flat plain with altitude between 900 and 1200 m, and peaks
that are at 2400 to 3000 m high. This region is characterised by the occurrence of rainfall in one
season only, April to August, as a result of the north-eastward movement of the inter-tropical
convergence zone. The dry season is experienced between November to March. During this
period the sky is cloudless and very high temperatures above 35°C occasionally occur. The
average annual rainfall for this region varies from 325 to 620 mm. Areas with high ground such
as Mt Moroto receives relatively high rainfall of about 890 mm (Figure 3.1 and Table 3. 1).
3.3.3 Zone III Western Uganda
This region occurs in the form of a narrow strip along the western Ugandan border. It covers the
high ground of the West Nile area, the escarpment along the eastern shores of Lake Albert, and
in parts of Kabarole, Bundibugyo and Kasese. Most of this region occurs within the Rift Valley.
Lake Albert which is at altitude of about 618 m is the lowest and hottest place in Uganda. This
region experiences a hot and dry season during December and February. The average annual
rainfall varies from about 750 to 1000 mm with 80 to 100 rainy days. Rainfall increases with
altitude. The mountains surrounding the Rift Valley receive as much as 1250 mm per year.



FIG 3.1 MEAN MONTHLY RAINFALL AT SELECTED STATIONS
300
250
200                 /
- -Entebbe
. 150                                                                                 Mbae
.= z ' / / t \\ / . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kisoro
> S _ ~~~~~~ / /,/ .%< \ 3_/ /< / , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~'Moroto
100
'°°1 C, /    \w\\\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\ \\  /- --    
50 ,-<                          \ s__._/  ,'                   '"      9     l
Jan    Feb    Mar   Apr   May   Jun    Jul   Aug   Sep    Oct   Nov   Dec
Jan   Feb    Mar   Apr   May   Jun    Jul   Aug   Sep    Oct   Nov   Dec



MAP 5. RAINFALL DISTRIBUTION
29'30'        30O00         30'3OY        310           31'30         32t00         32'30'        33'00O        33'30'        34'00         34'30'        35'00'
4100         -   -                                                                                                                                                    00
3'30'3'Y
N
-300                *ww                                                                                                                           -- - 0            3'00
3cOO't                                                                                                                                              ____ ______
21W                                                                                                                                                                  23O0
0'30'                                                                                                                                                                 'C
130~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13
29-30'        30`00         30-30'        31-00'        31-30'        32-00'        32-30'        3300          33'30'        34-00         34-30'        35'00
50           0           50  Kilometers
KEY
Rainfall (mm/year)
500 -75(0
750 - 1 000          O   Major town
1000 - 1250        /      Road
1250 - 1500              International Boundarn
1500 - 2000              Water
2000 - 2375
P-&-dbMRS&GGSLS,
S-ad-IR 1999.MO W19C



29
3.3.4 Zone IV Acholi-Kyoga
This zone covers West Nile, Kigezi Highlands, the area around Lake Kvoga, Bushenyi and part
of Mbarara. Rainfall occurs throughout the year. The wet season extends from April to October.
The period from April to May, and October receive the highest rainfall. Monthlv rainfall can be
as high as 150 to 200 mm. The occurrence of two periods of high rainfall is due to the passage of
the Equatorial troughs. November to February receives the lowest rainfall which varies from 20
to 60 mm per month. June and July also experience relatively low rainfall (100 to 150 mm per
month) in comparison with the wet months. The annual rainfall varies from I 000 to 1500 mm.
3.3.5  Zone V Ankole-Southern Uganda
Zone V is found in Ntungamo, Mbarara, Masaka, Mubende and Mpigi. It is hilly and has flat
topped hills on1 the northern parts. The altitude of hill tops is about 1500 m. There are
considerable swamps at an altitude of 900 m which are associated with Katonga River, and Lakes
Wamala and Kachira. The seasonal variation of rainfall is characterized by two wet periods,
April to May, and September to November, which are separated by relatively dry periods (Figure
3.1). This region receives about 1125 mm per year. A narrow stretch of land that extends from
Ntungamo, through Mbarara, and up to Lake Wamala receives less than 875 mm of rain per year.
In general there are about 90 to 130 rainy days in a year.
Table 3.1:      Mean Monthly Rainfall (mm) for Some Centres
Entebbe Gulu Kitgum  Masindi Mbale Soroti Ft Portal Bushenyi Kabale Mbarar Kisoro Arua Moroto
a
Jan  66       10   8       28       23      18   37        71       61      42      114    19    8
Feb  91      51   25       55       51     64    74        99       92     65       124    49    31
Mar 160      89   76       102      91     81    132       123       108    97      156    85    74
Apr 256      170  132      157      168    183   186       154       136    122     172    140   122
May 244      211  175      150      168    206   144       97       96      81      108    147   150
Jun  122     145  150      102      127    125   84        41       26      15      41      128   90
Jul  76       155  178     112      117    117   59        36       20      21      43      152   136
Aug 74       216  180      137      137    173   117       87       58      62      90      192   134
Sep  74      170  140      140      112    137   190       116      98      97      190    166   50
Oct 94       160  112      119      81      112   219      151      95      106     210    182   48
Nov  132     96   145      117      61     76    165       150       106    105     206    108   50
Dec  117     43   36       43       43     25    76        114      92      77      145    43    25
Ann  1506    1516 1357    1262      1179   1317  1483      1239     988    890       1599   1411  918
3.3.6 Rainfall and Roads
During the design and construction stages of road projects it is necessary to consider the rainfall
in the project area.
Design stage
* rainfall records within catchment areas are used in the estimation of the amount of runoff,
which determines the design of drainage structures;



30
. carriagewav and shoulders must provide adequate crossfalls to ensure that the precipitation
falling on the road surface is removed as quickly as possible in order to minimise the danger
to moving vehicles, and of water seeping into the pavement, causing its failure,
* the design of drainage and anti-erosion systems depends on rainfall;
the choice of road marking materials is influenced by rainfall in the following manner:
-      in wet areas (mean annual rainfall greater than 500mm) use of plastic pavement
materials is limited and bituminous surfacings have to be made as impervious as
possible
-      in dry areas (mean annual rainfall less than 500mm) higher plasticities in
pavement materials can be accepted;
* pavement thickness depends, amongst other factors, on the bearing capacity of the subgrade
whose CBR strengtih criterion is assessed either in its unsoaked or soaked condition depending
on whether the area is arid or not.
Construction staLe
* for very arid areas, dry compaction of some materials during construction is sometimes
recommended;
* rainfall records are used in the programming of the execution of roadworks.
3.4 Hydrolov
The drainage network in Uganda is characterised by the occurrence of several lakes, and
permanent and seasonal wetlands. Table 3.2 below gives areas covered by these lakes.
Table 3.2:    Ugandan Lakes
Lake                    Total Area         % of Area in Uganda        Depth
(sq km)                                       (m)
Victoria                68 457             42                          82
Albert                  5 335              55                         51
Edward                  2 203              29                          117
Kyoga & Kwania          2 047               100                        7
Bisina                  308                 100
George                  246                 100                        3
Most rivers in Uganda used to flow during the pre-Pleistocene era, almost parallel to each other,
towards the west where they joined the Congo River. Tectonic movements such as the down
faulting which created the Western Rift, and uplifting severed the connection with the Congo
River. This led to a change in flow direction towards the down warped zone which is the current
Lake Victoria. The drainage network of Uganda can be divided into 8 basins which are described
below and illustrated in Map 6.
Most rivers have 2 seasons of high flows and 2 seasons with low flows (see Table 3.3). High
flows are experienced from April to July (0.240 to 0.320 litres/sec/sq kkm) with peak flows
occurring in May. The other high flow period occurs during the December to January period
(0.180 to 0.190 litres/sec/sq km). February and March have relatively low flow  (0.150
litres/sec/sq km). The lowest flows occur from August to November. All months except April do
experience zero flows in some years. Monthly flows have a moderate variability with all months
having coefficients of variation of about 0.90.



MAP 6. HYDROLOGY
29°30         300W           3o°30'         31-00          31-30'         32'00'         32-30'         33-00          33-30'         34D0O'         34-30'         35-00'
4-'00'    _                                                                                                                                                             ---       4-00'
3'30                                                                                                                                                         _____Y___   3'30
230'
Iw                                                                                                                                                             1 000*
29-30         30'00'         30-30'         31'W           31-30          32-00          32-30'         33-0U          33-30          3400           34-30          3500'
50           0                K,do,nimck
KEY
// Ri ver
-         Water
/\/ Road
:     Major toAn
A      /I  lnternational Boundarv
-f     RSU G-SL..t
,fd,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U.,&' f MG4'H



31
3.4.1 Lake Victoria Basin
This comprises the part of the East African plateau which drains into Lake Victoria. The major
river occurring within this basin are Katonga and Kagera Rivers. Katonga River drails mostly the
area occurring in Masaka, Mubende, and Mpigi Districts. Kagera River drains the north-western
Tanzania, part of Rwanda, and then a very small area in Rakai District. The northern watershed
of the Lake Victoria basin lies very close to its shores. Most of the rivers which occur within this
basin are shallow and choked with papyrus, and have very sluggish flows. The Katonga River has
a catchment area of 13930 sq km, and an average annual flow of 2.5 m3/sec at the Kampala-
Masaka Road (Figure 3.2a). The river has a very small catchment yield of about 6 mm, which
gives a runoff coefficient of about 1%. Thus most of the rainfall is lost througl
evapotranspiration from swamps.
3.4.2 Kyoga Basin
The Kyoga basin occurs on the central and eastern parts of Uganda and it is formed by rivers
which drain into Lake Kyoga and Lake Kwania. This basin stretches from Kampala, Jinja,
Tororo, Mbale, Kapchorwa, Moroto, and up to Kotido. It occupies about 25% of Uganda. Rivers
which drain Mt Elgon have flash flows, and most have water falls. All other rivers are sluggish in
their flows. Rivers such as Mpologoma (Pallisa and Tororo Districts), Ukutat (Moroto, Soroti
Districts), and Okere (Soroti District) have wide papyrus covered valleys.
Rivers occurring in this basin have flow regimes of varying complexitv depending on their
locations. Rivers draining from the south-eastern Uganda such as Mpologoma have high flows
during the May to June period (10 litres/sec/sq km) (Figure 3.2b). The July-October period has
relatively low flows (4 to 5 litres/sec/sq km), which is followed by relatively high flows in
November and December (7 litres/sec/sq km). Lowest flows occur from January-April (3.5 to 5.5
litres/sec/sq km). Monthly flows have a high variability during the November-May period with
coefficients of variation ranging from 1.0 to 1.7. Catchment yields vary from 160 to 325 mm.
Rivers from the eastern part of this catchment, such as Namalu River in Moroto District,
experience high flows during one period only, July to September, with the highest flows
occurring in August (10 to 25 litres/sec/sq km) (Figure 3.2c). The December to April period is a
low flow season (1.8 to 4 litres/sec/sq km). Zero flows can occur during June to November. The
mean annual catchment yield is about 250 mm.
Rivers from northern part of Lake Kyoga have complex flow regimes (Figure 3.2d). The April to
May period experience high flows compared. Flows decrease slightly in June, and thereafter
gradually increase until peak flows in September. The mean annual catchment yield of rivers
draining from the north is about 130 mm.
3.4.3 Aswa Basin
The Aswa River joins the Nile River in Sudan. The northern and western parts of this basin
consists of lowlands. Rivers on this basin have a simple flow regime characterised by the
occurrence of high flows in one clearly defined season, July to October (Figure 3.2e). During this
period flows vary from 1.5 to 3.0 litres/sec/sq km. Low flows occur during the December to
March period (0.035 to 1.000 Iitres/sec/sq km). Zero flows can occur during this period. Flows
are highly variable during the low flow season (coefficient of variation = 1.0 to 2.7). Rivers
occurring on the Aswa basin have small catchment yields of about 35 mm.



FIG 3.2a
KATONGA RIVER AT KAMPALA-MASAKA ROAD
0.350                           -
0.300
0.250
r 0.200
0.150\/
U.
0.100
.nns
0.050
0.000  _.        ,  .    .                   - I-.II--
Jan       Feb        Mar        Apr       May        Jun        Jul       Aug       Sep        Oct        Nov        Dec



FIG 3.2b
MPOLOGOMA RIVER AT BUDUMBA
12.000    -- _---
10.000
8.000
U,
0
(A
4.000
2.0
0.000
Jan       Feb       Mar        Apr       May        Jun       Jul       Aug        Sep        Oct       Nov       Dec



FIG 3.2c NAMALU RIVER AT MOROTO ROAD
30.000
25.000
20.000
0
Q  15.000/                                                                          
U-
5.000
0.000J           b        Mr         A         M          J            l       A          S          O 
Jan       Feb        Mar        Apr       May        Jun        Jul        Aug       Sep        Oct        Nov        Dec



FIG 3.2d ENGET RIVER AT BATA-DOKOLO ROAD
7.000 0-
6.000
5.000
0~
2 4.000
Co
IL.
1.000
0.000                      -4-
Jan        Feb        Mar        Apr         May        Jun         Jul        Aug        Sep         Oct        Nov        Dec



FIG 3.2e AGAGO RIVER AT KITGUM-LIRA ROAD
3.000                                            _ _-                                              _ _                      _  -
2.500
2.000
a.
Je
U-
1.000/                                                -X
0 .500
0.000
Jan        Feb        Mar        Apr        May         Jun        Jul        Aug        Sep         Oct        Nov         Dec



32
3.4.4 Albert Nile Basin
This consists of rivers which drain into the Albert Nile from its outlet at Lake Albert up to the
Sudan border. The channel of the Albert Nile is shallow and it flows slowly within a wide valley.
Rivers from the west bank bring more water than those from the east. The tributaries of the
Albert Nile experience a gradually increase in flows from March to May (5 to 7 litres/sec/sq km),
and then a slight decrease in June (Figure 3.2f). High flows occur from July to November, with
peak flows in August (9 to 12 litres/sec/sq km). Zero flows can occur in all the months. Rivers
from the west such as Nyagak River have high mean annual catchment yields of about 245 mm.
Monthly flows have moderate variability (coefficient of variation = 0.6 to 1.0).
3.4.5 Albert System
The Albert System is made up of rivers which flow into the Western Rift and into Lake Albert.
The northern and north-western slopes of the Rwenzori Mountains form part of this basin. The
southern shores of Lake Albert is drained by Semliki River which connects Lakes Albert and
Edward. This river which has several water falls descends some 300 metres from Lake Edward to
Lake Albert. Rivers from the Rwenzori Mountains are fed by glaciers. Most of the rivers on this
basin are fast flowing and have water falls at sections where they descend into the rift.
3.4.6 Lake Edward System
This comprises rivers draining into Lakes Edward and George which are connected by the
Kazinga Channel. Rivers from the southern slopes of Rwenzori Mountains (Nyamugasani and
Mubuku Rivers), and those from Kigezi form part of this basin. Figure 3.2g shows the variation
of flow within the year on one of the rivers. High flows occur during two seasons in a year, April
to June, and August to November. During these seasons flows vary from 40 to 65 litres/sec/sq
km. The January to March period has the lowest flows. July has low flows compared to June and
August. This region has rivers with very high catchment yields. Rukoki River has a mean annual
yield of 1280 mm, while that of Mitano River is 272 mm. Zero flows do not occur on most of the
rivers. All the months have low variability (coefficient of variation = 0.4 to 0.8).
3.4.7 Kafu Basin
The Kafu Basin consists of the area drained by the Kafu River which joins the Victoria Nile
(Kyoga Nile) soon after it has left Lake Kyoga. It includes the area drained by the Victoria Nile
between Lakes Kyoga and Albert. Kafu River has a flow regime similar to that of Katonga River,
ie. two periods of high flows and two periods of low flows (see Figure 3.2h). High flows occur
during the April to June period. This is followed by a low flow period up to November.
December and January experience moderately high flows, which are followed by relatively low
flows during February and March. The Kafu River has relatively a low catchment yield of 43
mm. This is due to numerous wetlands which have high evapotranspiration losses.
3.4.8 Kidepo Basin
This occurs in the extreme north eastern part of Uganda occurring in Kotido and Kitgum
Districts.



FIG 3.2f NYAGAK RIVER AT NYAPEA
14.000
12. 000
10.000
8000\
6.000
0
CO
4.000
2.000
0.000            ,        .,     .   .   I    .   ,                               I          l          I
Jan       Feb        Mar        Apr        May        Jun        Jul        Aug        Sep        Oct        Nov        Dec



FIG 3.2g RUKOKI RIVER AT FORT PORTAL-KASESE ROAD
70.000                                                        _
60.000
50.000
o 40.000
_30.000-/
IL 
20.000
10.000
0.000 -   _
Jan       Feb        Mar        Apr        May        Jun        Jul       Aug        Sep        Oct        Nov        Dec



FIG 3.2h KAFU RIVER AT KAMPALA-GULU ROAD
3.000
2.5000
2.000
E
1.500
_
S.2
1.000
0.500
Jan       Feb        Mar        Apr       May        Jun        Jul       Aug        Sep        Oct        Nov       Dec



33
Table 3.3 gives mean monthly flows for the following rivers at given locations:
Katonga River at Kampala - Masaka Road
Mpologoma River at Bundumba
Namalu River at Mbale-Moroto Road
Enget River at Bata-Dokolo Road
Agago River at Kitgum-Lira Road
Nyagak River at Nyapea
Kafu River at Kampala-Gulu Road
Rukoki River at Fort Portal-Kasese Road
Table 3.3:    Mean Monthly Flows (Litres/Sec/Sq Km) For Selected Rivers
Katonga Mpologoma Namalu Enget Agago Nyagak Kafu Rukoki
Jan     0.185    3.807       2.432    1.657  0.064  3.953   1.680 19.829
Feb    0.157    1.731        1.946    1.800  0.035  3.488   1.099 21.160
Mar   0.158    1.394         1.811    1.324  0.403  5.017   0.771 23.917
Apr    0.235    2.806        2.162    3.533  0.436  6.860   0.772 40.459
May    0.322    10.614       7.243    5.133  0.762  7.093   1.455 65.359
Jun    0.288    9.826        5.108   4.152  0.879  6.329   1.560 40.707
Jul    0.203    5.155        10.486  5.610  1.507  9.136   1.124 30.945
Aug    0.114    3.672        26.081   6.019  2.777   12.027  0.943 48.077
Sep    0.086    4.555        15.027  6.867  2.938   11.478  1.088 59.392
Oct    0.077    4.856        8.811    6.610  1.736  10.930  1.296 57.624
Nov    0.120    7.703        8.649   4.286  1.009  10.332  2.076 46.829
Dec    0.194    7.214        4.162   2.362  0.526  6.146   2.528 46.829
Annual 0.178    5.293        7.865    4.124  1.094  7.757   1.368 40.597
Source: Department of Water, Ministry of Water, Lands and Environment, 1998.
3.4.9 Hydrological Considerations during the FRSP
From the preceding text, it is apparent that Uganda has an extensive network of rivers and
waterways. These have implications on road design, in terms of determining location and
numbers of culverts and bridges, which would also affect the cost of the project. Other
considerations are:
Planning stage
roads should preferably be located along watersheds to minimise the need for culverts and
bridges;
* swamps and marshes should be avoided;
the size of catchments of streams/rivers crossed by the road will affect peak flows which
determine the size of bridges in terms of waterways;
it is difficult to construct roads in poorly drained areas.
Design stage
a hydrological study of the area to be drained is an essential element in the design of the road
drainage as it provides information on runoff and stream flow characteristics which is used as
the basis for hydraulic design;



34
.  favourable sites for river crossing are preferably selected wvhere the road will be at righlt
angles to the stream/river centreline to reduce the high cost of major structures or large
culverts;
*  swamps/marshes and other low-lying areas subject to flooding should be avoided:
* the choice of a ridge route will minimise the number of culverts needed and also lead to better
foundation conditions.
Construction stage
* stockpiled materiasl are likely to be washed away in areas with high runoff rates:
* gullying is likely to occur in areas with high runoff.
Operation stage
Side drains are likely to be eroded in areas with high runoff;
Flooding of roads crossing swamps/marshes is a possibility.
3.5 Land Use
3.5.1 General
A land use map of Uganda (Map 7) has been produced for this study on the basis of a
combination of the UWA Protected Areas map, Forest Department's Forest Reserve map, the
National Biomass Study (1996) map of Land Cover Stratification (Vegetation), and the Agro-
ecological Map of Uganda (refer Map 8). Total areas and percentage cover of each land use type
in listed in Table 3.4. In terms of percentage cover, the main land use types are Protected Areas
(20.5 %), Fishing62 (15.7%), Small-scale farming in drier areas (15.5%), Grazing, with limited
cultivation (15.4%) and Small-scale farming in wetter areas (10.4%). Note that this does not
reflect the relative importance of each land use type in economic terms.
This land use has been assigned to open waters, which, of course, are also used for water
transport. Fishing may also occur in other areas (eg. in designated parts of National Parks), but
always as a land use type that is of secondary importance.



MAP 7. LAND USE
300C'       30'30'       31 0         31'3'        32'0.o       32'30        33 00        33'30        34O00        34-30        35°00
-~0                                                   L __ ______
430400
330                                                                                                                                                 3'30
30300        3030         3130 3130                 32W0 32-30                3300         3330         3400         343r         3500
so          n          5l KIlonsicirS,
KEY
_Tropical Forest Reserne
_ National Park                                         _ Grazing and limited Cultivation
Wildlife Reserve                                           Limiled de season grazmng
_ Forest Plantation                                     _ Fishing (Water)
G   Small Scale Farmmng in Pastoral Area                  _ Habitation (Cities and major towns)
Smtall Scale Farming in zener area
* Major town
; ..Small Scale Farrming in drier area                  vVI~ntemnasional Boundan
_ Pastoral Farnuing S~ stem                            A/Road 
_High Altitude Crop
_Large Scale Farming
2 .dL,,.v .IJ '.                                                                                                           AIUE.%W.   1999. k'  MO M
zms#ZttsSe-stteXi6                                                                               l]a:SR,I,MHC 



35
Table 3.4:     Land Use in Uganda
Land use type            Area                 Remarks
(km'2)
Protected Areas (UWA)    48,374      20.5     Many of the Community Wildlife Areas (formerly
Controlled Hunting Areas, and some (parts of)
Wildlife Sanctuaries and Reserves, which together
comprise 21,000 kin2, are likely to be degazetted.
Fishinr                  37,894      15.7     Mainly in open waters.
Small-scale farming in   37,342      15.5     Cotton, millet and some grazing
drier areas
Grazing, with limited    37,243      15.4    In areas of woodland, bushland and grassland.
cultivation
Small-scale farming in   25,115      10.4    Robusta  coffee,  bananas  and  maize,  in
wetter areas                                  combination with some grazing.
Pastoral farming systems   18,910    7.8      Dryland areas, generally without cultivation.
Wetland-based land use    13,830     5.8     Dry season grazing, fishing and harvesting of
reeds and sedges.
Forest Reserves          12,100      4.9     Control of many of the smaller reserves, which
make up about 1/3 of the network, may be handed
over from Forest Department to local government
or communities.
Small-scale farmine in   5,544       2.3      Mainly maize, millet.
pastoral areas
High altitude crops      3,520       1.4      Mainly Arabica coffee, wheat, potatoes.
Large-scale farming      224         0.1     Tea and sugarcane plantations
Forest plantations       326         0.1     Mainly pines, Eucalyptus and (some) Cypress;
some are located within Forest Reserves, while
others are located in newly gazetted National
Parks, and will gradually be replaced by natural
vegetation.
Habitation               n.a.*       0.1     Cities and major towns
Total                    240,700     100.0
* n.a. = not available. This figure could not be accurately determined
3.5.2 Protected Areas
In Uganda, there are three broad categories of protected areas63, namely: conservation areas (in
the PA system managed by the Uganda Wildlife Authority), forest reserves (managed by the
Forest Department) and cultural, historical and archaeological sites (managed by the Antiquities
and Museums Department). These protected areas altogether cover a total area of about 6.1
million ha, or 25.4 % of the country's total land area. These areas are described in detail in
Section 3.8, and are depicted in Maps 7, 10 and 11.
UWA's PA system is primarily for the conservation of the country's biological resources, but also
plays a role in attracting tourism, especially in a number of National Parks (eg. Queen Elizabeth,
Murchisoni Falls, Rwenzori). Formerly, many areas were designated as Game Reserves or
Controlled Hunting Areas (CHAs), but as much of the game in these areas is seriously depleted,
Wetlands may be regarded as a fourth type of protected area, as all wetlands are protected by
legislation. However, wetlands have generally not been included in officially gazetted protected
areas (see Section 3.8.3).



36
the emphasis has moved to that of conservation. It is expected that the total area of the PA system
will be down-sized considerably, as many of the current wildlife reserves and CHAs (together 3.6
million ha) are likely to be de-gazetted (see Section 3.8.1).
The Forest Reserves were formerly established for forest production and to a limited degree for
watershed protection. As with UWA's PA system, the emphasis has shifted to that of protection
of genetic resources and watershed protection, although forest production remains important.
3.5.3 Wetlands and Open Waters
Open waters - mainly lakes Victoria, Albert, George, Edward and Kyoga - extend over almost
38,000 km2 or 15.7% of the country, while permanent wetlands cover a further 2.2 %. The area of
seasonal wetlands (including swamp forest) is large, covering more than 14,169 km2 or about
5.88 % of the country  (see Table 3.5). Some of these seasonal wetlands are used for cultivation
(eg. rice farming around Lake Kyoga) or grazing, but most are not intensively used other than as
a local resource for fish, wildlife, thatch and other plant products. In many cases, they are also of
importance as a source of potable or irrigation water. The 600 ha Nakivubo swamp just southeast
of Kampala plays an important role in purifying waste water leaving the (rather ineffective)
Nakivubo sewage treatment plant.
Open waters are important for fisheries, and more than 4,000 landing sites are located along the
Ugandan shores of Lake Victoria alone (NEMA, 1996). Over the period 1985-1995, the annual
catch of fish in Uganda's waters peaked in 1993 at 276.200 metric tonnes, of which almost 25%
was caught in Lake Victoria. This represents a productivity of about 74 kg/ha. year, which is
reasonably productive for inland freshwater fisheries. The main species taken are Nile Perch
Lates niloticus, and various species of Tilapia (Oreochromis spp.), which in 1995 accounted for
about 42 % and 38 % of the total catch, respectively. However, fisheries production dropped to
103,000 metric tonnes per annum in 1994-95 (28 kg/ha year), and this has been largely attributed
to the impact of Water hyacinth Eichhornia crassipes, which interferes with fish breeding
grounds, lowers oxygen levels, and interferes with fishing gear.
3.5.4 Agriculture
Outside the protected areas and wetlands, land use in Uganda is largely determined by a
combination of topography, rainfall, and soil type. The highlands, which occupy about 7% of the
country's total land area, are divided into south-western, eastern, western and north-eastern
highlands. The first three highland areas have adequate rainfall, and are heavily populated; in
these areas agricultural activity is intensive and includes coffee, bananas and tea, with temperate
fruit, wheat, Arabica coffee and potatoes on higher ground. The latter are, for example, common
on the lower slopes of the Rwenzori Mountains, and in the montane area between Kabale and
Kisoro. in south-western Uganda.
In a broad zone around Lake Victoria, agricultural activity is also intensive, focusing on bananas,
coffee, sweet potatoes, sugar and cocoa, along with some animal husbandry. Dairy production is
important in these wetter pastoral areas. Other areas of intensive agriculture include small
64     Our figures differ from those of NEMA's (1996) State of the Environment Report for Uganda,
which records that permanent wetlands extend over 3.0% of the country, while seasonal wetlands
extend over 9.4%. Our figures are 2.2% and 5.88%, respectively. These discrepanies are discussed
in Section 3.8.3.



MAP 8. AGROECOLOGICAL ZONES
29°30      3C°00      30°3Q      31'00'     31'3C      32'0C       32'3C      33'00      33'30      34'00       34°30      35°0C
4-50'                                                                                                                                4'00
330'                                                                                                                                3A30'
3-00                                                               ___ A-':                                                          3 t-IS  'tj-tR5 300'
2'00'
023C                __                                                                                                               0230
0100*
.07   j;EdS   ,s  g ,@; _y                                                                        l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0D
0'30 r'                                               ^ <r                                      ;|-+>                                0-30'
030-
2930       30 00      30-30'     3100'      31'30'      32-00'     32'30'     33-00      33-30'      34°00      34°30      35'00
5ne       0         5n Kilometer,
KEY
Zone I (High Altitudc)                                *   Major town
[    Zone 2 (Pastoral Dtv to Semi-Arid Rangeland)         A/ Road
Zone 3 (Norilern and Eastern Uganda)                A/lntcrnational Boundar
Zone 4 (Southern anid Western Uganda)                     Water
I   kd  f & G!.SLeb
kuree of dslo \3 v 1 f l l j 41< l 2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~99 9g



37
regions aroind the townships of Arua. Gulu, Kigezi. Lira. Mbarara and Soroti (Hickman. 1986:
NEMA. 1996).
Large-scale farming is carried out in a number of large tea and sugarcane estates, which are
mainly located in the western part of Uganda (between Masindi and Hoima), the southwestern
part of the country (Kasese and Fort Portal), and between Kampala and Jinja. The area of these
estates is relatively small, totalling at about 22,400 hectares.
3.5.5 Livestock
Livestock farming is carried out under many different land use systems, usually in combination
with some form of cultivation. In wetter areas the emphasis is more on cultivation, and in the
wettest parts of the country, livestock supports a lively dairy industry. Livestock farming forms
the main form of land use along a broad and somewhat drier zone that runs from the south-
western to the north-eastern part of the country, and includes Ntungamo, Mbarara, Masaka,
Mubende, Kiboga, Luwero, Apac, Lira, Kitgum, Kotido and Karamoja districts. In all, livestock
husbandry is an important land use type in about half of the country.
More than 90% of the livestock in Uganda is owned by traditional herders, and only a small
percentage is owned by commercial ranchers. Cattle and goats are by far the most important. and
in 1995 their numbers totalled 5.2 and 5.5 million, respectively. Poultry are kept in greater
numbers, and the total number in 1995 was 21.8 million. Sheep and pigs are less common, with
numbers totalling 1.7 and 1.3 million, respectively, in 1995 (NEMA, 1996).
3.5.6 Plantations
Forest plantations occur both within Forest Department's Forest Reserves and as privately owned
plantations. Two broad types of plantation exist: Eucalyptus hardwood plantations, of which
18,600 ha existed in 1995, and pine softwood plantations, which covered about 14,000 ha in 1995
(NEMA, 1996). Some of these are included in newly gazetted national parks, such as the 100 ha
pine plantation at Kapkwata (east of Kapchorwa, along the Sironko-Suam Road) which is now
located within Mt. Elgon National Park, and will gradually be replaced by indigenous vegetation
once the pine trees have been felled (pers. comm., Mt. Elgon National Park Information Officer.
Mbale).
3.5.7 Habitation
Apart from Kampala, Jinja, Mbarara, Masaka and Entebbe, urban areas form only a minor
element in land use, and are limited to the larger rural towns such as Arua, Busia, Fort Portal,
Gulu, Kabale, Lira, Njeru, Soroti and Tororo. The total area of urban areas could not be
accurately determined using remote sensing imagery, as such features are barely discernible, and
are generaily of a size that is at the limit of what can be distinguished on a large scale map.
3.5.8 Implications of Land Use on Roads
The types of land use influence the traffic volumes and type of traffic using a road. This would
determine the priority of a road in terms of national development. For example a good road
network must service areas of high agricultural productivity so that produce can reach markets.



38
During the various stages of a road project the following land use considerations need to be takien
into account:
Planning stage
*  in urban areas, roads should be located along the edges of parklands and on undeveloped and
therefore less populated and less expensive land,
*  in urban areas, roads should be located as close as possible to principal parking terminals;
.  in rural areas, as much as possible, any new road should be located on existing ones to
mininise the use of farmland and to reduce total initial and maintenance costs;
*  in rural areas, roads should be located along the edges of properties so as to cause the
minimum interference to cultivation;
* roads should keep away from cemeteries, places of worship, hospitals and play grounds;
* the effect of a proposed road on existing or future utilities above or under the ground should
be considered, in order to avoid expensive relocation of these utilities.
Feasibility stage
* knowledge of the agricultural activities as a measure of the economic growth is needed during
the economic feasibilitv study of a road;
- in traffic forecasting, the type of traffic generated by agriculture or other land use activities of
an area is taken into account;
- knowledge of activities associated with land use is useful for planning when to carry out
traffic counts so to avoid this happening only when the traffic is at its peak eg during
harvesting season;
* the economic analysis of the benefits from saving time in freight haulage in terms of getting
the produce to the markets more quickly, the cost of delays in moving goods (consisting
chiefly of costs due to interest on the capital which the goods represent) and the costs due to
damage or spoilage of perishable goods.
Design stage
- the design speed of certain sections of the road depends on the use of the land adjoining those
sections eg. reduced design speed in settled areas;
- during the design of structures, land use of the catchments areas is taken into account as it
affects the runoff substantially (eg. areas with little vegetation have high runoff rates);
*  land use is considered during design in determining locations for bus bays, accesses;
* effects of land clearance may increase runoff and sedimentation in stream channels, so flood
peaks become higher and arrive more rapidly after rainfall. This may lead to flooding as the
maximum flow the structure is designed to carry gets exceeded.
Construction stage
roads may affect local drainage and interfere with crop irrigation;
poaching by road constuction crews
* destruction of sensitive habitats.
Operation stage
* increased access to wildlands and sensitive habitats;
• reduced transportation costs;
* improved agricultural productivity.



39
3.6 Vegetation & Natural Habitats
The composition and distribution of Uganda's vegetation has. during its recent geological historv
(Pleistocene), been largely determined by three environmental factors, temperature, moisture
availability and human disturbance. According to Hamilton (1974), moisture changes have
paralleled temperature changes in Uganda, with cold, relatively dry periods being alternated with
warmer, relatively moister periods. During warmer periods, tree taxa are more common, while
during drier periods grasses and other herbs such as Chenopodiaceae are more common. Human
activities such as widespread burning began to take effect from about 50,000 years ago, and
much of the vegetation found in Uganda's rangelands probably represents a fire climax, ie. a
vegetation adapted to, and modified by regular burning. There is also evidence of large scale
clearing of forest in Uganda for agricultural purposes, dating back to about 1,000 years B.C., for
example in the lowlands around the Rwenzori Mountains, (Hamilton, 1974). The net result of
human activities and climatic vagaries upon former forests, woodlands, shrublands and bushlands
is largely what we see today: a mosaic of farmland, grasslands, shrublands, woodlands and
scattered remnants of formerly large areas of forest.
In their map of Uganda's vegetation, Langdale-Brown et al.(1964) recognised a total of 86
vegetation types. For the FRSP study, this classification was simplified to the level of Langdale-
Brown et al. 's main vegetation types, which consists of 22 broad types such as woodlands, grass
steppe and high altitude forests, and largely follows the classification adopted by Lind and
Morrison (1974) in their landmark study of East African vegetation.
It should be noted, however, that the Langdale-Brown et al. map depicts natural vegetation only.
Since much of Uganda does not consist of natural vegetation, but of farmland and open water,
these two land-cover types are also included in the vegetation map produced for the FRSP study
(Map 9). In addition, built-up areas, which include settlements, towns and industrial areas, were
also mapped as separate units. The latter data was obtained from the National Biomass Study
(1996) Land Cover Stratification (Vegetation) map, which was digitally superimposed (in a GIS)
upon the original vegetation map by Langdale-Brown et al. (1964). The net result of this
combination is a classification consisting of Langdale-Brown et al. 's 22 main vegetation types,
plus farmland, open water, and built-up areas.
Map 9 (Vegetation) depicts the result of the mapping procedure carried out for this study, and the
net area and percentage cover of each vegetation type is indicated in Table 3.5.



MAP 9. VEGETATION
29-30'      3000         30'30        31-00'      31-30        32-00'       32-30'       33-00'      33°30        3400'        34t3a       35-00
30a
29-30       30-00'       30-30'       31-00       31-30        32-00'       32-30'       33-00       33-30        3.-00'       34t30'      35-00'
50         0          50  lo]lmeters
4'00'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . -                                                                                                                4'0
-  _  _   _  _  _   _  __   _  _   _  _  _    _       KEY            _   _    _  _   _  _   _  _  _   _  _   _  _   _  _   _
High Altitude Moorland and Heath                                  r-'  Grass Savanna
High Altitude Forest                                                         Tree and Shrub Steppe
_Medium Altitude Moist Evergreen Forest                                    Grass Steppe
_ High Altitude Motst Semi-deciduous Forest                            _ Bushland
Forest/Sas anna Mosaic                                                _ Di'. Thicket
Moist Thicket                                                           Seasonal zietiandL
_ Woodiand                                                                 Herbaceous Swamp (more-or-less permanent)
_ Open Water (Xsith Eichhomia crassipes/Water h'.actnth)               _ Snamp Forest
_ Moist Acacta Saxanna                                                     Farmland
But rospemmum Sav anna                                              _ Buit-up Area (settlements and tndusnr:)
Moist Combretutn Savanna
_  Palm Sasanna                                        *~~~~~~~~~~ Major town
_ Dn' Combretum San anna                                              A Road
Drx Acacia San-anna                                               I\/ntematmonal Boundari
2'30        NS                                                                                                       ..* 2bR5 00'..
__    ___30_   __ __M1E1?19930,MO                                                                                                  H
Sw  d .NDS ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G
WI*/rDlfs,~~~~5                                                                                            Vr l KiloGGi/rs



40
Table 3.5:    Vegetation Types
Vegetation type                                Area (km2)       Percentage cover
Farmland  (includes large  sugar and  tea          91,135.7            37.84
plan?tations, and post cultivation communities)
Open   water  (with  floating   vegetation,        37,835.7            15.71
especially   Eichhornia    crassipes/water
hyacinth)
Dry Combretumn savannas                            25,893.6            10.75
Seasonal wetlands                                  13,924.7            5.78
Butyrospermum savannas                             12,527.7            5.20
Dry Acacia savannas                                10,222.4            4.24
Grass savannas                                      9,216.0            3.83
Herbaceous swamps (more-or-less permanent)          5,230.9            2.17
Moist Combretum savannas                            4,583.3             1.90
Forest/savanna mosaics                              4.109.0             1.71
Dry thickets                                        4,013.8             1.67
Bushland                                            3,822.7            1.59
High altitude moist semi-deciduous forests          3,596.1            1.49
High altitude forests                               2,773.6            1.15
Woodlands                                           2,173.3            0.90
Medium altitude moist evergreen forest              1,795.6            0.75
Moist Acacia savannas                               1,732.3            0.72
Moist thickets                                      1,676.5            0.70
Tree and shrub steppes                               1,314.7           0.55
Palm savannas                                        1,264.7           0.53
Grass steppes                                         800.3            0.33
High altitude moorland and heath                      677.5            0.28
Built-up areas (settlements and industry)             264.5            0.11
Swamp forests                                         244.3            0.10
TOTAL                                             240,847.0            100.00
Note:  Table 3.5 includes anomalous vegetation types such as farmland, open water, built up areas, which
are usually mapped as land cover types. Maps such as Langdale-Brown et al (1964) do not
distinguish between the latter types (except open water). Given the large area of farmland, this
means that much is mapped as 'potential vegetation cover'.
Farmland and fallow farmland form by far the largest vegetation/land cover type, extending over
a total area of 91,000 km2 or almost 38% of Uganda's total area. The next in terms of size is
formed by open water, which extends over almost 38,000 km2 or almost 16% of the countrv's
total area. The largest natural vegetation type is formed by dry Combretum-dominated savannas,
of which Langdale-Brown et al. (1964) recognised 13 different types on the basis of co-dominant
trees, shrubs or grasses. These savannas extend over almost 11 % of Uganda. The next five largest
natural broad vegetation types are seasonal wetlands (Langdale-Brown et al. 's "Communities on
sites with impeded drainage"; which cover 5.78%), Butyrospermum savannas (5.2%), dry Acacia
savannas (4.24%), grass savannas (3.83%) and herbaceous swamps (2.17%). The latter are
dominated by either the sedge Cyperus papyrus or the grass Miscanthidiunm violaceum, while



41
grass savanias are generally dominated by either Theniieda triandra or Hvparrhenia spp..
generally in combination with one or more co-dominant grasses.
Tall forests occur mainly in four areas; in mountainous and hilly areas along the western and
southwestern border with the Democratic Republic of Congo, scattered in a zone around Lake
Victoria, on the islands in Lake Victoria, and on the slopes of Mount Elgon in eastern Uganda.
Woodlands occur predominantly in two regions, namely in central Uganda (Kiboga, Luwero and
Masindi districts), and north-northwestern Uganda (Arua, Gulu, Kitgum, Moyo). Bushlands
occur primarily in southwestern Uganda (Mbarara, Rakai, Masaka), northwestern Uganda
(Nebbi, Gulu) and in the northeastern and eastern part of the country, along the border with
Kenya (Kotido, Kitgum, Moroto). Grasslands occur inainly in the same districts as the bushlands.
3.6.1 Sensitive Habitat Types
Certain habitats - ie. vegetation types - are sensitive to disturbance and are easily degraded in the
course of development. Therefore, when development activities are carried out in such areas.
extra attention is required with regard to conducting EIAs and proposing mitigation measures. In
the case of construction of new roads, realignment to avoid such sensitive habitats may be the
best optioil.
These sensitive habitats include all types of wetlands (seasonal wetlands, herbaceous wetlands.
swamp forests, palm savannas, high altitude moorland), and semi-desert habitats (tree and shrub
steppes, grass steppes), as shown in Table 3.6. They cover a total area of about 23,000 km2, or
9.7% of the country6 5. The roads targeted by FRSP do not pass through or close to semi-desert
habitats, but they do pass through a number of wetlands, for example the roads around Pallisa
(Pallisa-Kumi, Pallisa-Mbale, and Pallisa-Tirinyi). This is dealt with further in Section 3.8.3 on
Wetlands.
Table 3.6:     Sensitive Habitats
Vegetation type                               Area (kmi)            Percentage cover
Seasonal wetlands                                       13,924.7            5.78
Herbaceous swamps (more-or-less permanent)               5,230.9            2.17
Palm savannas                                            1,264.7            0.53
High altitude moorland and heath                          677.5             0.28
Swamp forests                                             244.3             0.10
subtotal for wetland habitats*                          21,341.7            8.86
Tree and shrub steppes                                   1,314.7            0.55
Grass steppes                                              800.3            0.33
subtotal for desert habitats                             2,115.0            0.88
TOTAL                                                   23,457.1            9.74
*      Note that under the definition of wetlands under the Ramsar Convention, Uganda's open waters
would also be recognised as wetlands, bringing the total area to 57,913 km2 or 24% of Uganda.
65     According to vegetation mapping carried out for the project, wetlands (excluding open waters)
total about 8.33% of Uganda's area; a figure of 9.4% is usually quoted by the NWP and NEMA
(1996).



42
3.6.2 Vegetation and its Implications on Road Projects
The type and amount of vegetation in the upper and lower catchments of roads. and also along
them have a number of implications on road design and maintenance:
Planning stage
* avoid areas with unique/endangered plant species.
Design stage
* rate of overiand flow( run-off) on catchment areas and therefore concentration time used
during design of structures is considerably affected by the type of vegetation;
* a road should be sited where it does not affect unique plants that are of special value to the
society, eg. those that have medicinal properties;
* knowledge of the existing types of vegetation in an area should be made use of in
recommending the type of vegetation to be to be used for erosion control (including bio-
engineering techniques), avenue tree planting, and in rehabilitation of borrow areas, as some
types of vegetation are more effective than others in their uses.
Maintenance sta_e
X the height of the vegetation growing on the sides of the road has to be controlled by regular
trimming in order to maintain sight distances and view of the road furniture eg. traffic signs;
* knowledge of the characteristics of the existing vegetation is therefore important in planning
for its regular control.
Construction sta2e
new alignments may necessitate the clearing of forest or bush areas, some of which may harbour
unique or endangered species;
there will be an increased demand for fuelwood in the area, and provision for alternate fuels
should therefore be considered.
Operation stage
. opening up new areas may encourage encroachment and tree felling in previously impassable
areas.
3.7 Flora and fauna
3.7.1 Biodiversity
Because of its unique biogeographic location, Uganda harbours seven of Africa's 18 plant
kingdoms - more than any other African country - and its biological diversity is one of the
highest on the continent (Davenport & Matthews, 1995). It boasts more than half of all African
bird species, and is second only to the Democratic Republic of Congo in terms of number of
mammal species. In the latter, it is actually the 9th richest in the world, which is remarkable
considering its size. Within Uganda, this unique position is well recognised, and biodiversity has
received significant attention from GOU, especially during the 1990s, when:



43
*  Uuanda was one of the first nations to produce a nationwide biodiversitv assessment
(National Biodiversity Unit. 1992), whicih was presented at the United Nations Conference
on Environment and Development (UNCED) at Rio de Janeiro in 1992;
* in 1993-95, the Forest Department carried out a nation-wide assessment of the biological
diversity of all Forest Reserves larger than 5,000 ha (total of 66 areas), recording a wealth of
data on the country's biological resources. this data is recorded in a series of 33 reports (eg.
Davenport et al., 1996) and summarised in the Forest Department (1998);
*  in 1996-98, the Uganda Wildlife Authority (UWA) carried out surveys of biological
diversity in all former Controlled Hunting Areas (CHAs), and many of the Wildlife
Reserves, in order to create a rational basis for gazettement and de-gazettement of Protected
Areas.
In addition, Uganda is a signatory to the:
* Convention on the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (1968);
* Convention on Wetlands of International Importance Especially as Waterfowl Habitat (1971)
(commonly known as the Ramsar Convention)66;
* Convention on the International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
(1973) (commonly known by its acronym CITES); and
* in 1993 it ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD. 1992).
Unfortunately, due to years of unrest in the 1970s and 1980s, little wildlife remains outside the
current network of protected areas, which consists of areas included in UWA's Protected Area
System (National Parks, Wildlife Reserves, Wildlife Sanctuaries and Community Wildlife
Reserves; see Section 3.8.1) and Forest Reserves managed by the Forest Department (see Section
3.8.). Wetlands form a separate category of protected area, as they are protected by a blanket law
preventing disturbances in all wetlands nationwide and are not formally included in the PA
network (see Section 3.8.3).
In a legal sense, the National Environment Management Authority (NEMA) is responsible for
managing the country's biological diversity. Among others, NEMA is responsible for issuing
guidelines and prescribing measures for the conservation of biodiversity, and is to prepare and
maintain an inventory of the nation's biological diversity (see Box 1). As it is a co-ordinating
rather than an implementing body, its primary role in this field is to direct lead agencies such as
the Forest Department and UWA for the in situ protection of biodiversity.
Although mentioned in the National Environmental Statute (1995) as being a function of NEMA.
this agency does not operate a database on Uganda's biodiversity. Such a database has, however,
been developed since 1990 by MUIENR's National Biodiversity Data Bank (NBDB). Box 2
provides information about NBDB, including the volume of information stored, taxa covered,
and the type of outputs that can be generated.
66     Although Uganda is a signatory to the Ramsar Convention. it has not ratified the Convention.



44
Box 1: National Environmental Statute (1995) and Biodiversity
The following sections in the Statute address biodiversity:
Section 42: (1) The Authority <ie. NEMA>, shall in consultation with the Lead Agency,  issue guidelines
and prescribe measures for the conservation of biological diversity. (2) The A uthority may. in issuing
guidelines under subsection (1) - (a) speci&  national strategies, plans and programmes for the
conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity; (b) integrate the conservation and sustainable
utilisation ethic in relation to biological diversity in existing government activities and activities of private
persons; (c) identif, prepare and maintain an inventory of biological diversity of Uganda; (d) determine
which components of biological diversity are threatened with extinction: (e) identify potential threats to
biological diversity and devise measures to remove or investigate their effects.
Section 43: (1) The Authority shall, in consultation with the Lead Agency - (a) prescribe measures to ensure
the conservation of biological resources in-situ, (b) the Authority shall, in consultation with the Lead
Agency, issue guidelines for - (i) land use methods that are compatible with the conservation of biological
diversity; (ii) the selection and management of protected areas so as to promote the conservation of various
terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems of Uganda; (iii) the selection and management of buffer zones near
protected areas: (iv) special measures for protection of species, ecosystems, and habitats faced with
extinction: (v) prohibiting or controlling the introduction of alien species; (vi) integrating traditional
knowledgefor the conservation of biological diversity with mainstream scientific knowledge.



45
Box 2: National Biodiversitv Data Bank
The Makerere University Institute of Environment and Natural Resources (MUIENR) established a
National Biodiversity Data Bank (NBDB) in 1990, in order to store and analyse data on Uganda's
biodiversitv. Initially, the NBDB was based on a simple filing system consisting of datasheets per species,
but in 1993 - with GEF support - this evolved into a computerised system. The latter is still being
developed, and is as yet by no means complete in its dealing of various taxa and spatial distribution records.
Below, a summary is given of data availability in the NBDB per taxon. To date, a total of more than 25,000
observations of individual species have been entered into the data base.
NBDB coverage of various taxa
Taxon                 Checklist developedfor NBDB    Observation records entered in NBDB
fungi                 planned                                planned
lichens               planned                                planned
mosses                planned                                planned
ferns                 planned                                planned
flowering plants      checklist (incomplete)                 planned
insects               checklist for dragonflies, moths       planned
& butterflies
fish                  checklist developed                    planned
amphibians            checklist developed                    planned
reptiles              checklist developed                    planned
birds                 checklist developed                     observations entered
mammals               checklist developed                    observations entered
NBDB can produce maps depicting the spatial distribution of recorded observations, and to date this has
been carried out for individual species. This spatial data can also be combined with habitat data (eg. a
vegetation map), and from this the occurrence of recorded species can be extrapolated to other areas. This
GIS system also includes maps of existing forest reserves, National Parks and Wildlife Reserves, which can
also be combined with spatial data on species distribution. NBDB also stores information on the status of
each species, ie. Red Data Book status, IUCN status and CITES appendix listings. NBDB has been used to
review the coverage and effectiveness of Uganda's Protected Areas (Pomeroy et al., 1998). and can in
principle also be used to assess the occurrence of threatened birds and mammals along a certain stretch of
road targeted by MOWHC.
NBDB has a number of weaknesses that limit its applicability. Firstly, the coverage of various taxa is rather
limited, and to date only observations on birds and mammals have been entered. These groups are useful as
indicator species, but a full reliance on this may mean overlooking taxa with restricted range (eg. two
tree/shrub species endemic to Tororo Rock). Secondly, the majority of observations have been made along
roads, and assessments of populations and distribution of species relies heavily on extrapolation to other
areas of similar habitat. Lastly, NBDB's assessment of habitats is based on the vegetation map of Uganda
produced in 1964 by Lan-dale-Brown et al., which in turn was based on aerial photographs dating from
1959. Changes in the natural environment have been profound in many areas, and comparison with the
National Biomass Study (1996) shows that a large part (almost 35%) of the country now consists of small-
scale farmiland, rather than natural habitats.
3.7.2 Plant Resources
As mentioned earlier, Uganda is richly endowed with plant species. A total of 5,518 higher
plants, Angiosperms, have been recorded to date (National Biodiversity Unit, 1992), and if algae,
ferns, mosses and Gymnosperms are included this figure approaches 7,000 (Table 3.7).



46
Informationi about the spatial distribution of plant species in Uganida is far from complete. but it
is reasonable to assume that if significant areas of all of the major vegetation tvpes are
safeguarded, theni most plant species will also be adequately protected.
Table 3.7:    Plant Diversity in Uganda
Group                         Number of          Number of        Number of
families          genera           species
Lichens*                      9                  51               296
Fungi*                        9                  184              420
Algae                         20                 49               115
Mosses                        ?                  39               69
Ferns + allies                29                 102              386
Gymnosperms                   6                  10               40
Angiosperms / Monocotylodons  35                 267              1,458
Angiosperms / Dicotylodons     161               1,255            4,060
subtotal    higher     plants  196               1,522            5,518
(angiosperms)
Total                                            1,957            6,844
Source: adapted from National Biodiversity Unit (1992)
*      Lichens represent a symbiosis between single-celled algae and fungi.
Fungi are often placed separate from plants
While most vegetation types are included in either the UWA Protected Area System (see Table
3.8). or in the Forest Department's network of the Forest Reserves, a number of habitats appear to
have been neglected (see Section 3.8.1). Habitats that are not (sufficiently) included in the
existing PA System, which UWA aims to incorporate in the near future, include upland wetlands,
montane wetlands, and seasonal wetlands. Other habitats that are inadequately incorporated
include Grass Steppe and Swamp Forest, while Moist Acacia Savanna and Palm Savania67
appear to be threatened because of lack of protection in existing reserves (Pomeroy et al., 1998).
Once the hitherto neglected habitats have been included in the PA System and extra measures to
ensure the survival of Moist Acacia Savanna and Palm Savanna have been taken, it is expected
that most of Uganda's floral diversity will also be safeguarded.
Species that may end up not being protected, however, are restricted-range endemics (ie. endemic
species known from only one or a few, small localities). A known example in Uganda are a
number of tree and shrub species that occur only on Tororo Rock and no-where else: if the
vegetation on Tororo Rock were to be cleared, these species would become extinct. An inventory
of restricted-range endemic species has not been compiled, but it is highly important that this be
carried out soon, as these very localised endemics are among the rarest species present in
Uganda, and are highly vulnerable.
67     These habitat types follow the Langdale-Brown et al. (1964) vegetation map of Uganda.



47
Table 3.8:    Vegetation Tvpes in UWA's PA System
Vegetation type                         Area (kmi) Protected in PA   Percentage in
System (km2)     PA System
Freshwater swamp forest                        272                46            16.9
Upper montane forest                          3,303             1.971           59.7
Lower montane forest                           361                 0               0
Lowland evergreen broadleaf forest          24,932              1,245            5.0
Semi-evergreen, moist broadleaf forest       6,584             2,781            42.2
Deciduous/semi-deciduous      broadleaf          7                 0               0
forest
Thorn forest                                 18,505            12,067           65.2
Sparse trees/parkland                         1,340               32             2.4
Source: adapted from WCMC's Web Site
Outside the protected areas, only a few plants or plant groups are afforded legal protection.
Firstly, trees included in the Forest Department's list of Reserved Tree Species, Class I Hardwood
Trees (Table 3.9) are partly protected, as permission must be given by the Forest Department for
felling these trees for timber. Ironically, due to a quirk of the legal system, if felling is intended
for clearing an area for agricultural purposes, the Forest Department's permission is not required.
Secondly, some plants are protected by the CITES Convention to which Uganda is a partv (see
Section 3.7.1). This convention prevents or restricts the international trade of certain species or
groups of species, including Cycads, orchids and certain palms. However, this only applies to
international trade, and does not apply to in-country collecting or habitat destruction which is
probably responsible for the bulk of species loss in most countries.



48
Table 3.9:     Reserved Tree Species
Species                            Familv                Common or trade name
Afzelia africana                   Leguminosae           Afzelia, Beyo
Afzelia coriaria                   Leguminosae            Mugavu
Araucaria spp.                     Araucariaceae         Araucaria
Cedrella odorata                                         Cedrella
Chlorophora excelsa                                      Mvule, Muvule Iroko
Dalbergia melanoxylon              Leguminosae           Africa Black Wood. Ebonv
Entandrophragma angolense          Meliaceae             Mukusu, Budongo Mahogany,
Gedu Nohor
Enzandrophragma cylindricumn       Meliaceae             Muyovu, Sapele
Entandrophragma excelsa            Meliaceae             Muyovu
Entandrophragma utile              Mel iaceae            Mufumbi
Eucalyptus grandis                 Myrtaceae             Kalitunsi
Eucalyptus robusta                 Myrtaceae             Kalitunsi
Eucalyptus tereticornis            Myrtaceae             Kalitunsi
Fagara macrophvlla                 Rutaceae              East African Satinwood
Guarea cedrata                     Meliaceae             Scented Guarea
Hagenia abyssinica                 Rosaceae              Omujesi
Holoptelea grandis                                       Mumuli
Juniperus procera                  Cupressaceae          African Pencil Cedar. Munyama.
African Mahogany
Khaya grandifolia                                         Tido, Big-leaf Mahogany
Khava senegalensis                                       Senegal Mahoganv
Lovoa spp.                                               Uganda Walnut
Mitragyna spp.                     Rubiaceae             Abur, Nzingu
Ocotea usambarensis                Lauraceae             East African Camphorwood
Olea welwitschii                   Oleaceae              Elgon Olive
Podocarpus spp.                    Podocarpaceae         Podo
Tectona grandis                    Verbenaceae           Teak
Note:  Forest Department Class I Hardwood Trees, for which permission from the Forest Department is
required for felling. including areas outside Forest Reserves.
3.7.3 Animal Resources
Uganda's animal resources are one of the richest in Africa. The country harbours 1010 bird
species, which is more than half (54%) of all bird species (1865) recorded in Africa. In addition,
335 mammal species have been recorded. The total number of genera and species per animal
group is provided in Table 3.10.
According to IUCN (pers. comm. Muhweezi, 1998) the main threats to wildlife in Uganda are
hiabitat conversion, pressure on land (due to poverty), rapid population increase and lack of
development in non-agricultural sectors (ie. little development of industry). It may be added that
the country's wildlife was badly depleted by widespread hunting during the unstable 1970s and
1980s, and that populations have not significantly recovered in many areas, including protected
areas. The net result is that very little wildlife remains outside the existing protected areas
network, and even within the network populations are depleted. Many of the former Controlled
Hunting Areas and Wildlife Reserves have little in the way of wildlife remaining within their
boundaries.



49
Table 3.10:   Wildlife Species Diversity-
Group          Number of genera  Number of species    References
Insects               31 70                8999          National Biodiversitv Unit
(1992)
Molluscs               23                   83           Mandahl-Barth (1954)
Ormoding el al. (1996)
Fish                   64                  293           Greenwood (1966)
National Biodiversitv Unit
(1992)
Ormoding et al. (1996)
Amphibians             19                   5 1          Loveridge (1957)
National Biodiversity Unit
(1992)
Ormoding et al. (I1996)
Reptiles               75                   151          Loveridge (1957)
Pitman (1974)
National Biodiversity Unit
(1992)
Birds                 345                  1000          National Biodiversity Unit
1010         (1992)
Pomeroy et al. (I1998)
Mammals               153                  321           National Biodiversitv Unit
335           (1992)
L__________ __________ __________   _____________ _ _   Pom eroy   et al.  (I1998)
However, in spite of heavy losses in population numbers, most wildlife species are not depleted
to the point that recovery is unlikely, and many, if not most, species are afforded sufficient
protection in the country's protected areas network, especially in UWA's National Parks and the
Forest Department's Forest Reserves. For most species, this network would appear ample.
Pomeroy et al. (1998) report that while 70 bird species (out of 1010 recorded in Uganda) do not
occur in UWA's PA System, most of these probably do occur in the Forest Reserves. Also, while
58 % of 335 recorded wildlife species are amply protected by UWA's PA System, a significant
number of the remaining 140 species are likely to be adequately protected in the Forest Reserves.
In legal terms, Uganda's wildlife is afforded protection under the Uganda Wildlife Statute (1996)
(GOU, 1996), which states, among others, that the Minister may declare any species a protected
species, and that species that are protected by international conventions to which Uganda is a
party, are also afforded protection (Box 3). Unfortunately, in practice the situation is not very
clear as the Uganda Wildlife Statute does not include schedules of protected species, and the
Game (Preservation and Control) Act 1964 (GOU, 1964) regulates hunting and control, and does
not list any fully protected species. Also, with devolution of responsibilities from central to local
government. animals may be classified as protected or vermin, depending on the local situation.



50
Box 3: Uganda Wildlife Statute (1996)
Section 28: (1) The Minister may, on the recommendation of the Board, by statitorn order, declare any
species of wild plant or wild animal specijied in the order to be classified as a protected species under this
statute. (2) Species which migrate to or throuzgh Uganda which are protected znder any international
convention or treaty to which Uganda is partv and to which section 91 applies shall be protected under this
Statute. (3) Any order made under subsection (1) ma' apply to an individuial species throuigholit Uganda,
or to all or somne species in a specified area, or to varieties of a species including sex and age groups. (4)
An order made under subsection (I) shall state whether species of wild animals or plant shall be - (a) fiilly
protected species which may not be subject to wildlife use rights; or (b) partially protected species to be
utilised only subject to a grant of a wildlife use right.
Section 91: (1) Where Uganda is a party to any convention or treaty concerning wildlife, or in a case
where such a convention or treathy is required by the Constitution to be ratified, after it has been ratified in
accordance with the Constitution, the Minister may, by statutory order, and with the approval of
Parliament signified by its resolution- (a) set out the provisions of the convention or treaty; (b) give the
force of law in Uganda to the convention or treaty required to be given the force of laws in Uganda; (c)
amend any enactment other than the Constitution for the purpose of giving effect to the convention or
treatY; (d) make such other provision as may be necessarn for giving effect to the convention or treaty in
Uganda or for enabling Uganda to perform its obligations or exercise its rights under the convention or
treaty.
In spite of this, certain species are protected from international trade because of Uganda's
accession to the CITES convention. However, CITES does not apply to in-country hunting or
destruction of wildlife. Another complication in the legal sphere is that various laws (Uganda
Wildlife Statute 1996, the Game (Preservation and Control) Act, laws in magistrate courts) are
far from being harmonised. Fines for killing of wildlife have not been updated for decades, and if
for instance a person is caught being in possession of ivory, this may result in a very paltry UgSh
2.000 (US$ 1.60) fine. It is not very  surprising, therefore, that agencies such as UWA do not
pursue such matters in court.
Bird and mammal species occurring in IUCN listings, or otherwise recorded as threatened, are
listed in Tables 3.11 and 3.12.
Due to rising pressures on land, conflicts between humans and wildlife have been increasing in
recent years. In response to this problem, UWA organised a workshop in July 1998 (Ratter,
1998), on "problem animals", which are defined as animals that cause:
•  human injury or death,
livestock injury or death,
*   crop destruction,
*   compete with livestock for grazing,
*  destruction of infrastructure,
*   social disruption, or
•   lead to disease infection (notably of livestock).



51
Table 3.11:    Status of Ugandan Birds
Species                        Common English name                    IUCN Status
Alethe poliophrys              Red-throated Alethe                         K
Apalis karamojae               Karamoja Apalis                             K
Apalis rwenzorii               Collared Apalis                             K
Balaeniceps rex                Whale-headed Stork                          V
Balearica pavonina             Sudan Crowned Crane                         V
Balearica regulorum            Crowned Crane                               V
Batis diops                    Rwenzori Puff-back Flycatcher               K
Bradypterus alfredi            Bamboo Warbler                              K
Bradypterus carpalis           White-winged Rush Warbler                   K
Bradypterus graueri            Grauer's Rush Warbler                       R
Campephaga phoenicea           Red-shouldered Cuckoo Shrike                K
Caprimulgus batesi             Bates' Forest Nightjar                      R
Cercotrichas leucostricta      Northern Bearded Scrub-robin                K
Charadriusforbesi              Forbes' Plover                              K
Chlorocichla laetissima        Joyfull Greenbul                            K
Chloropeta (Acrocephalus)      Lesser Swamp Warbler                        K
gracilirostris
Ciconia ciconia                European White Stork                        K
Cisticola carruthersi          Carruther's Cisticola                       K
Columba albinucha             VWhite-naped Pigeon                          R
Cossypha roberti               Robert's Chat                               K
Crex crex                      European Cor Crake                          R
Cryptospiza reichenovii        Red-faced Crimsonwino                       K
Cryptospizajacksoni            Dusky Crimsonwing                           K
Cryptospiza shelleyi           Shelley's Crimsonwing                       K
Drvotiorchis spectablis        Congo Serpent Eagle                         R
Ephippiorhynchus senegalensis    Saddlebill Stork                          V
Eremoniela turneri             Turner's Eremomela                          K
Falco peregrinus               Peregrine Falcon                            V
Francolinusjacksoni            Jackson's Francolin                         R
Francolinus nahani             Nahan's Forest Francolin                    R
Francolinus nobilis            Handsome Francolin                          R
Glaucidium castaneum           Chestnut Owlet                              R
Glaucidium tephronotum         Red-chested Owlet                           R
Graueria vittata               Grauer's Warbler                            K
Hemitesia neumanni             Short-tailed Warbler                        K
Hieraaetus africanus           Cassin's Hawk-eagle                         R
Hiuundo atrocaerulea           Blue Swallow                                R
Indicator narokensis           Narok Honeyguide                            R
Indicator pumilio              Chapin's Least Honeyguide                   R
Laniariusfulleborni            Fullebom's Black Boubou                     K
Laniarius mufumbiri            Yellow-crowned Gonolek                      K
Lybius rubrifacies             Red-faced Barbet                             R
Melaenornis ardesiaca          Yellow-eyed Black Flycatcher                K
Melignomon zenkeri             Zenker's Honeyguide                         K
Muscicapa lendu                Lendu Flvcatcher                            K
Nectarinia alinae              Blue-headed Sunbird                         K
Nectarinia purpureiventris     Purple-breasted Sunbird                     K
Nectarinia regia               Regal Sunbird                                K
Nesocharis ansorgei            White-collared Oliveback                     K



52
Table 3.11 (cont): Status of Ugandan Birds
Species                         Common English name                     IUCN Status
Pachycoccyx audeberti           Thick-billed Cuckoo                          R
Parusfasciiventer               Stripe-breasted Tit                          K
Phyllastrephus loren:i          Sassi's Greenbul                             R
Phylloscopus budongoensis       Uganda Woodland Warbler                      K
Phylloscopus laetus             Red-faced Woodland Warbler                   K
Platysteira blisseti            Blisset's Wattle-eye                         K
Ploceus alienus                 Strange Weaver                               K
Ploceus spekeoides              Fox's Weaver                                 K
Prionops alberti                Yellow-crested Helmetshrike                  K
Pseudocalyptomena graueri       Grauer's Green Broadbill                     R
Serinus koliensis               Papyrus Canary                               K
Struthio camelus                Ostrich                                      V
Tauracojohnstoni                Rwenzori Turaco                              R
Turdus camaronensis                                                          K
Turdus kibalensis              ?                                             K
Turdus oberlaenderi            ?                                             R
Turdus ranganjicae                                                           R
Urotiorchus macrourus         Long-tailed Hawk                              R
Source: Based on National Biodiversity Unit (1992) for status and Williams & Arlott (1980) for
common names.
IUCN status:   Ex = extinct                   E = endangered
V = vuinerable                K = insufficiently known
R = rare



53
Table 3.12:   Status of Ugandan Mammals
Species                     Common English name           IUCN
Status
Actinonvxjubatus            Cheetah                          V
Aepyceros melampus          Impala                           R
Bideogale nigripes          Black-legged Mongoose            K
Cephalophus dorsalis        Bay Duiker                      Ex
Cephalophus leucogaster     Gabon Duiker                    Ex
Cephalophus nigrifrons      Black-fronted Duiker             E
Cephalophus rufilatus       Red-flanked Duiker              V
Cephalophus silvicultor     Yellow-backed Duiker            E
Ceratotherium simunm cottoni   White (Square-lipped) Rhino  Ex
Cercocehus albigenia        Grey-cheeked Mangabey           K
Cercocebus galeritus        Crested Mangabey                K
Diceros bicornis            Black (Hook-lipped) Rhino       Ex
Galago thomnasi             Thomas's Galago                 K
Gazella grantii             Grant's Gazelle                 K
Gorilla gorilla beringei    Eastern (Mountain) Gorilla      E
Hippotragus equinus         Roan Antelope                   R
Idiurus zenkeri             Pygmy Flying Squirrel           K
Loxodonta africana          African Elephant                V
Lycaon pictus               Wild Dog                        Ex
Madoqua guentheri           Guenther's Long-snouted         K
Dik-dik
Neotragus batesi            Bates's Pygmy Antelope          V
Okapiajohnstonii            Okapi                           Ex
Oreotragus oreotragus       Klipspringer                    R
Oryx gazella beisa          Beisa Oryx                      V
Pan troglodytes             Chimpanzee                      V
Panthera pardus             Leopard                         V
Raphicerus campestris       Steenbok                        Ex
Reduncafulvorufula          Mountain Reedbuck                E
Rhynchocyon cirnei          Checkered Elephant Shrew        K
Taurotragus (Tragelaphus)   Giant Eland                     Ex
derbianus
Boocercus (Tragelaphus)     Bongo                           Ex
eurvcerus
Tragelaphus iniberbis       Lesser Kudu                      R
Tragelaphus spekeii         Sitatunga                       K
Tragelaphus strepsiceros    Greater Kudu                     R
Source: Based on National Biodiversity Unit (1992) for status and Dorst & Dandelot (1972) for
common names.
Note: Table 3.12 does not include most smaller mammals, such as rodents.
IUCN status:  Ex = extinct               E = endangered
V = vulnerable             K= insufficiently known
R = rare



54
The so-called problem animals (20 species in all) discussed at the UWA workshop in July 1998
are listed in Table 3.13, along with their conservation value. When species with a high
conservation value (eg. elephant, gorilla and lion) cause problems in their interactions with
humans, livestock or crops, UWA will under most circumstances attempt to find a remedy for the
situation, for example by capturing the animals and translocating them to a nearby reserve. When
species with a medium conservation value (eg. hippo, kob and warthog) are involved, UWA will
take a case-by-case approach and intervene when appropriate. In the case of problems with
species with a low conservation value (eg. bushpig, baboon and Vervet Monkey), UWA will not
intervene, but allow local villagers to undertake actions, such as hunting or poison baiting.
Table 3.13:   Problem Animals
High Conservation Value   Medium Conservation Value   Low Conservation Value
Chimpanzee                 Buffalo                       Baboon*
Crocodile                  Bushbuck                      Bushpig*
Elephant                   Hippo                         Guineafowl
Gorilla                    Hyaena                        Quelea
Leopard                    Kob                           Vervet Monkey*
Lion                       Porcupine
Sitatunga                  Python
Warthog
Source: UWA, 1998.
*       iBaboon, Bushpig and Vervet Monkey are listed as vermin (GOU, 1964), and according to Ratter
(1998), the other species listed in Table 3.13 are protected by law, except the quelea and the
porcupine.
3.7.4 Roads, Fauna and Flora
At planning stage, areas harbouring sensitive faunal and floral species need to be taken into
account in order that alternative routes can be considered. During design, to reduce the impact of
a road on the fauna and flora the following could be done:
reduce the road cross-sections;
provide animal crossings;
lhave speed reducing devices;
* allow for artificial fences.
3.8 Protected Areas
There are four main types of protected areas in Uganda, namely i) areas included in UWA's
Protected Area System (UWA's PA system), ii) Forest Reserve managed by the Forest
Department, iii) wetlands, and iv) cultural and historical sites. In Section 3.5.2 protected areas
were discussed as a land use type; in this section the various types of protected area are dealt with
separately and in greater detail.
The four main types of protected areas are afforded different degrees of protection. Forest
Reserves and areas in the UWA PA system are officially gazetted, whereas wetlands are provided
with a 'blanket' protection under the National Environmental Statute(l995). While more than 200
cultural and historical sites are considered protected areas, only seven are officially gazetted.



MAP 10. PROTECTED AREAS
29°30           30-'W           3C3O             31-0            31-30           32'00           32°30            33200           33,3O           3400'            3430'            35-'
4°00'  -                               _    _     _    _            _        _                              _ _ _              _    _    _     o       t       _      __7                   4-00'
I'3°3 Y)_    3-30'
4~~~~~~OO~~~IM
A                                             ; MC                                                                                                           :
2'00   <   _   _          2,=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'0
1"30                                                                                           2_30_
t2'00'                                                                                                                                                                                      2-0'W
I TO< 
-33'                                                                                                                                        1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I30'
2930'           00-0            30'30            31-             31-30           32               32-3D           33-              33-30           34-00           34-3            35-
SI)             ni             5(! Kilomelers
R  '                 K'r
|  ABtiont PurIA                   W bvMW. ItCm.                 Bi a CrOW Hntg LecC                 |.U r  l  rc t R   _          |a.
___KEY _
Centtnl Forest Reserse          rNP  Bwmte, Impenetrasie          BKWR Satota Cotnac,r             EMCHA  East Man,                    BCFR   Buraga O.nt
G   Animal Sanetna-rs                          KiND  K,^Ee                         BUWY/ B.aottau                   KFCHA   K rtetaFaiN                BDCFRi  Badona
_ National Park                             KNP  KOnene          _               YWR Ch an,buta                   Ct/A    kink                      BGCFR  Buneeta
a   Wildlite ResenXe                           LMNP Lake Mbuto                     KWR  karuma                      LCHA    Lipan                      KCFER    K.syoha.Knnom
wEControlled 1Aanting Area                  MENP Mt Faite                       MWR/  Maittenlso                 NaCHA   Note (atone.I               KDCFR  K.aam
MFNP MuteflisonFails                SWRB  Total Sentk,              SECtHA   sarae                      MB FR  Matabigmbe
*   Major totetiM
MGN.P Masgahs                      KIWR titac,                      NCHAn   Napac                       MKCFR  Mt Ke,
A.iinterttattonal boundans    Ku                            R-mClGFs
GENT 0eRtt E nabeit,      AWRU Ft-1                        C..SO/A    SaMks, FAt              -CCF       a-ae
A/ tRoads lNP  Mt Riena                                                      PUWR PJn- UP K                   NTCHA   No tt Tso                  MBCFR  Mtoto
_ WiiRate                                     SLNP Senuk , l                       KTWR Katenna                     SK-LCHA   SUpo KtiaaRoK M                CFR MaR Kt
WCCtnE  WestMa -                   NM..CFR   Ka
NMCFR Naztto rMaa,.no
NNCFR  MIea K.N, et.
OCFR Gin, lEtash
P,ain di it  a RS 5 LaGS.lbRCFR R_h 
S~~~. ~~~Dai, 555                                                          /tLNPC1uEAEl-~  R   ,An.,s   SAAnS-k, Fc                         KGFR ae K     isga
Roads                                        RPM  R--S                             t<'UWR P-999NTHA  N.kT...                                          58FR   M.-hktf
SNP  S-W,k.  KTWR K.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.q.  SKC.A  S.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ K.-~~~~~~~~~~~  MCFR   M...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



55
Table 3.14 provides an overview of the various categories of protected areas. A few caveats need
to be added here:
*  six of the ten national parks have recently been gazetted, from a former status of Forest
Reserve;
*  only a negligible fraction of Uganda's wetlands (<2%) is included in either Forest Reserves
or the PA system;
*  of UWA's PA System, only the National Parks are core areas: other classes under the PA
System are currently under review, and much is likely to be de-gazetted, especially of the
Community Wildlife Areas, which comprise 57% of the total PA System;
*  The Forest Department's Forest Reserves are also undergoing changes in status, and it is
likely that only reserves >1,000 ha will remain under the Forest Department in the future,
when its status is changed to that of National Forest Authority;
*  the total area of wetlands is an issue of debate, as it depends on definitions; that of the
Ramsar Convention would include open waters such as Lakes Victoria, Kyoga, Albert and
Edward, while that used by the National Wetland Conservation and Management Programme
and GOU (1995) is much narrower and excludes open waters; open waters comprise 66% of
all wetlands (in the broader Ramsar definition); and
*  Cultural and Historical sites extend over a negligible area. and this is therefore omitted from
Table 3.14.
Whereas the total of all classes of protected areas extends over almost half of Uganda's total area.
the core areas that are protected by law and are likely to remain gazetted total 4.2 million ha or
about 17.6% of Uganda's total area.



56
Table 3.14:   Protected Areas in Uganda
Category          Class                  Area (ha)              Percentage cover
UWA               National Parks ***     1,115,500              4.63
Wildlife Reserves     876,400                3.64
Wildlife Sanctuaries    85.000               0.35
Community  Wildlife  2,760,500               11.46
Areas
Subtotal              4,837,400              20.08
Forest            Forest       Reserves  788,000                3.27
Department        >5,000 ha ***
Forest      Reserves  350,000                1.45
1,000-5,000 ha ***
Forest      Reserves  72,000                 0.30
<1,000 ha
Subtotal              1,210,000              5.02
Wetlands          Open water             3,783,570              15.7
Seasonal wetlands ***  1,392.470             5.78
Permanent herbaceous  523,090                2.17
swamps ***
High         altitude  50,000                0.21
moorland ***
Swamp forests ***     24,430                 0.10
Subtotal              5,773,560              23.96
Cultural      &   more than 200 known  negligible               negligible
historical sites    sites
Subtotal of core
areas *                                  4,243,490              17.6
Total   of   all                         11,820,960             49.1
'protected' areas
Core areas, as defined here, are legally protected and are likelv to remain so in future. Non-core
areas are likely to be (partially) degazetted, or in the case of open waters, do not fall under the
restricted definition of wetlands used by GOU.



57
Table 3.14 (cont):    Protected Areas in Uganda
Protected Area          District(s)              Size (ha)    Year of gazettal
National Parks
Murchison Falls         Gulu/Masindi/Apac        386,000     1952
Queen Elizabeth         Kasese/Bushenyi/         197,800     1952
Rukungiri
Kidepo Valley           Kotido                   144,200     1962
Lake Mburo              Mbarara                  36,500      1982
Bwindi Impenetrable     Kabale/Kisoro/Rukungiri   33,100     1991
Mgahinga Gorilla        Kisoro                   2,500       1991
Rwenzori Mountains      Kasese                   99,600      1991
Mount Elgon             Mbale                    117,200     1993
Kibale                  Kabarole                 76,600      1993
Semiliki                Bundibugyo               22,000      1993
Suibtotal                                        1,115,500
Wildlife Reserves
Kigezi                  Rukungiri                32,800      1952
Toro                    Bundibugyo               54.900      1959
Katonga                 Kabarole                 20,700      1964
Karuma                  Masindi                  71,300      1964
Pian-Upe                Moroto                   228,700     1964
Bokora                  Moroto                   203,400     1964
Matheniko               Moroto/Kotido            158,700     1964
Ajai                    Arua                     15,600      1965
Kyambura                Bushenyi                 15,500      1965
Bugungu                 Masindi                  74,800      1968
Subtotal                                         876,400
Wildlife Sanctuaries
Mountain Kei            Moyo                     52,300      -
Otze                    Moyo                     20,400      -
Entebbe                 Mpigi                    5,100        1951
Jinja                   Jinja                    3,200        1953
Dufule                  Moyo                     1.000        1959
Kazinga                 Kasese/Bushenyi          2,300        1959
Malawi                  Tororo                   700          1962
Subtotal                                         85,000



58
Table 3.14 (cont):    Protected Areas in Uganda
District(s)              Size (ha)    Y ear of gazettal
Community    Wildlife
Areas
Napak                   Moroto                   22,500
East Teso               Soroti                   50,400
North Karamoja          Kotido/Moroto             1.079,300    1963
South Karamoja          Moroto                   798,800      1963
Sebei                   Kapchorwa                 132,300     1963
West Madi               Moyo                     82,100       1963
East Madi               Moyo                     175,200      1963 _
Lipan                   Kitgum                   90,000       1963
Karuma Falls            Masindi                  24,100       1963
Kaiso                   Hoima                    22,700       1963
Buhuka                  Kibale/Hoima             1,800        1963
Semliki Flats           Bundibugyo               50,400       1963
Katonga                 Kabarole                 229,900      1963
Suhtotal                                         2,760,500
TOTAL                                            4,837,400
Source: UWA, Forestry Department, NWCMP, 1998.
3.8.1 The UWA Protected Area System
Existing PA System
The Protected Area System68 managed by the Uganda Wildlife Authority (UWA) includes a total
of ten National Parks, ten Wildlife Reserves, seven Wildlife Sanctuaries and thirteen Community
Wildlife Areas, which altogether extend over 4,837,400 ha or 20 % of the countrv's total area.
Map 10 indicates the location of each of these Protected Areas, while Table 3.15 provides
information about the regulations under each category of status. It must be pointed out, however,
that this entire system is currently being reviewed by UWA, and that a major downsizing is likelv
to occur in the near future (see below). Only the National Parks, which form the PA System's
crown jewels, are likely to pass this exercise unscathed.
The present PA System is highly diverse and scattered, situated predominantly in outlying parts
of the country. Most of Uganda's biomes, or major habitats, are represented; for example, there is
afromontane forest in the Bwindi Impenetrable National Park, lowland forest in Semliki National
Park, swamp in parts of Queen Elizabeth and Murchison Falls National Parks, savanna in several
parks and game reserves, while drier, even arid, formations are found in abundance in the cluster
of PAs in the north-east. Certain biomes such as wetlands are, however, under-represented and
the inclusion of additional areas to complement the existing system is likely to occur as part of
the ongoing review of the PA System.
68     Other protected areas, such as Forest Reserves, wetlands and cultural/historical sites are not
managed by UWA; these are dealt with in Sections 3.8.2 to 3.8.4.



59
Table 3.15:   Permitted Activities in Protected Areas
Protected Area            Objectives and Permitted Activities
National Parks            Objectives: NPs are areas of national importance for nature
and landscape conservation and natural heritage preservation.
They should be ecologically viable units.
Permitted activities: Viewing and scientific research.
Hunting of wildlife and disturbance of vegetation prohibited.
harvesting/removal of approved resources may be authorised
in designated areas.
Wildlife Reserves         Objectives: WRs are areas of importance for wildlife
(formerly Game Reserves)   conservation, utilisation and management. They should also be
of sufficient size for management of wildlife populations.
They may also serve as buffer zones to a NP.
Permitted activities: Wildlife conservation, recreation,
scenicviewing. consumptive utilisation (including sport
hunting), scientific research.
Wildlife Sanctuaries      Objectives: WSs are areas of varying size, designated for
(formerly Animal          specific biodiversity conservation purposes, including the
Sanctuaries)              preservation of a critical species.
Permitted activities: Recreation, scenic viewing, scientific
research. Hunting of animals and destruction of critical
habitats are prohibited.
Community Wildlife        Objectives: CWAs are wildlife conservation areas that are
Areas                     jointly managed with the communities in the area, which may
(formeriv Controlled      directly benefit through tourism, sustainable utilisation of
Hunting Areas)            wildlife, etc.
Permitted activities: Tourism, wildlife consumptive
utilisation, commercial and sport hunting, and varied mixed
land use practices, grazing and agricultural activities are
allowed where appropriate.
Ongoing Changes
The Wildlife Act (1996) brought about significant changes to the PA System, both to the
protected area nomenclature but also, in certain cases, to function. National Parks remained
unchanged, but Game Reserves became Wildlife Reserves, Animal Sanctuaries became Wildlife
Sanctuaries, and Controlled Hunting Areas are in the process of being converted (mainly) to
Community Wildlife Areas. At the same time, the Uganda Wildlife Authority was formed by the
amalgamation of two existing agencies, Uganda National Parks (UNP; formerly responsible for
National Parks) and the Game Department (formerly responsible for Game Reserves and
Controlled Hunting Areas). Its functions are described in Box 4. UWA resides under the
Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Industry, and is headed by the Chairman of a Board of Trustees.
Currently, there are about 1,100 staff (including field-based staff), but this will probably drop to
about 950 after downsizing and restructuring exercises within the organisation are completed.
The Controlled Hunting Areas (CHAs) are likely to see the most profound changes to status and
function. UWA's policy, and indeed the National Environmental Statute and Uganda Wildlife
Statute, require it to sustain a process of survey and research aimed at the rationalisation of the
protected area system. Surveys are largely the responsibility of UWA's Monitoring Section, who



60
have to date covered most (if not all) of Uganda's CHAs. This has resulted so far in a series of
internal documents (eg. Muhimbura-Atukunda et al., 1997). and their synthesis has led to the
development of a strategic plan for biodiversity conservation in the CHAs (Lamprey ei al.,
1998). A revised draft of the latter was due to appear by the end of September 1998.
Box 4: The Functions of UVWA
The Uganda Wildlife Statute (GOU, 1996), Section 6, states that UWA's functions are:
a)  to ensure stustainable management of wildlife conservation areas;
b) to develop and recommend policies on wildlife management to Government,
c) to co-ordinate the implementation of Government policies in the field of wildlife management;
d)  to identifv and recommend areas for declaration as wildlife conservation areas and the revocation of
such declaration;
e) to develop, implement and monitor collaborative arrangements for the management of wildlife;
fi  to establish management plans for wildlife conservation areas and for wildlife populations outside
wildlife conservation areas;
g) to establish policies and procedures for the sustainable utilisation of wildlife by and for the benefit of
the communities living in proximity to wildlife;
h)  to control and monitor industrial and mining developments in wildlife protected areas,-
i)  to monitor and control problem animals, and provide technical advice on the control of vermin;
j)  to control internal and external trade in specimens of wildlife;
k)  in consultation with other lead agencies, to control, develop or license the development of tourist
facilities in wildlife protected areas;
l) to consider reports from district wildlife committees and make necessary comments and decisions;
m) to promote the conservation of biological diversity ex-situ and to contribute to the establishment of
standards and regulations for that purpose;
n)  to promote wildlife research and knowledge of wildlife and wildlife conservation areas;
o) to disseminate information and promote public education and awareness of wildlife conservation and
management;
p)  to prepare an annual report on the state of wildlife and such other reports as may be prescribed;
q)  to encourage training in wildlife management;
r)  to charge fees for such services as it provides andfor such licenses, rights and other permission that it
may grant;
s) to perform such other functions as are specifically provided for in this Statute or as mav be delegated
to it by Government or by local government.
Though diverse, the present system lacks certain representative habitats such as wetlands and
certain montane habitats (see below), some of which mav be found in the existing CHAs.
Conversely, it is also becoming increasingly obvious that (parts of) CHAs are no longer of
conservation value, and will therefore be (partly) de-gazetted. The survey work carried out over
the past two years concentrated to a large extent on the CHAs, with a view to identifying areas
suitable for upgrading, wildlife management centred on communities, and those that should be
degazetted and allowed to revert to public land. All of the former CHAs will therefore change
their name or status, and sometimes both, in the near future. Those that emerge from the review
and survey process as Community Wildlife Areas will, as the new name implies, feature
decentralised wildlife management systems. UWA will be just one of several agencies or bodies
involved in decisions relating to land and resource use. In such cases, the intention is that district
councils and communities will take the lead in land use decisions and the exercising of wildlife
use rights conferred on them by UWA. Very much will depend on local initiative, and the mere
recognition of a CWA will not guarantee success. The current view within UWA is that only a
small number of CHAs will remain, for the simple reason that very little wildlife remains outside
the current network of National Parks, Wildlife Reserve and Forest Reserves.



61
Gazettal of New Areas
Few areas have been gazetted or degazetted during the past decades. All of the existing Wildlife
Reserves, Wildlife Sanctuaries and Controlled Hunting Areas (CHAs) and three of the ten
National Parks were all gazetted in the 1950s and 1960s, while six of the seven National Park-s
gazetted over the past two decades were former Forest Reserves, and gazettal simply meant a
change of status from one protected area category to another (Table 3.15). Formerly, reasons for
gazettal in the PA System were for watershed management, timber production, preservation of
big game and controlling tsetse area access. Protection of wetlands and of the country's biological
resources have only recently become important criteria for inclusion in the PA System, although
both are now firmly embedded in the legislation (pers. comm. IUCN Uganda Country Office),
and confirmed by Uganda's signing of both the Ramsar Convention and the Convention on
Biological Diversity (see Section 3.7.1). Although the Uganda Wildlife Act 1996 states that
gazettal of new areas is to be completed within two years. this has not yet occurred, and it is
obvious that the issue of gazetting new areas is politically sensitive and a topic that is hotly
debated.
As stated above, inventories of all districts are being conducted by UWA's Monitoring Team,
while the Forest Department has carried out extensive surveys of biological resources in all of its
reserves larger than 5,000 ha (see Section 3.8.2). These two sources of information will provide
the basis for a final decision regarding gazettal of new areas, and the two key documents for this
decision making will be the Forest Department (1998) and Lamprey at al. (1998), both of which
are due to appear at the end of September 1998.
Habitats that are not (sufficiently) included in the existing PA System, which UWA aims to
incorporate in the near future, include upland wetlands, montane wetlands, and seasonal
wetlands. Areas specifically targeted by UWA are the wetlands around Lake Kyoga (especially
the area around Lakes Bisina and Opeta), Kafu Basin in western Uganda, the Semliki Flats and
wetlands in the area around Lake Victoria.
The Inventory of Wetland Biodiversity in Uganda (Omoding et al., 1996) helped to prioritise
wetlands sites that are of significant biodiversity and recommendations were made for Lake
Nabugabo, Lake Bisina, Lake Munyanyange, Lake Katwe, Lake Mutanda, Lake Kachera,
Lutembe Bay, Muchoya swamp, Kitange swamp and Ssezibwa River to be included in a network
of protected areas.
FRSP and UWA's PA System
The roads targeted by FRSP will affect seven of the ten national parks, as these roads run through
or directly along through of these parks (Mount Elgon, Murchison Falls, Queen Elizabeth and
Semliki), or at a short distance from the park (Bwindi Impenetrable, Mgahinga Gorilla, Rwenzori
Mountains) (see Table 3.16).
Under the FRSP no new roads are anticipated, except for the Kampala Bypass, and therefore no
major impacts are expected to go through the existing PAs. There are likely to be some adverse
effects during the construction phase, due to direct human disturbance (noise, poaching, fuel
collecting, etc). After completion of the roads under FRSP, the situation becomes more complex.
The upgrading of existing roads leading to the Protected Areas is welcomed by some within
UWA, as this will facilitate access, both for management purposes and for tourists. It will also
provide better access to markets for local people and stimulate local economies, perhaps reducing
dependency on the resources of the Protected Areas. Improved, widened roads are also more



62
effective fire-breaks, and may help prevent the spread of at least some fire damage during the dry
season.
Others within UWA voice concern, as increased access simply makes poaching easier, and
(greatly) increased traffic through a Protected Area will be more difficult to control. Improved
roads also mean greater vehicle velocities, leading to a higher incidence of road kills. Also,
improved, wide paved roads form a more formidable barrier for wildlife to cross, and can lead to
fragmentation of populations within a park. Lastly, tourists may be tempted to by-pass the
official entrance to a given National Park and simply follow the improved trunk road leading
through the park, leading to a loss of revenue to UWA.
Table 3.16:   FRSP Roads Affecting National Parks
National Park   FRSP road section    Remarks
Bwindi         Kabale-Kisoro         Road passes through Ikumba, from where
Impenetrable                         another road (not targeted by FRSP) leads to
Bwindi; (some) increased access & tourism
expected.
Mgahinga       Kabale-Kisoro         Road through Kisoro passes many km from the
Gorilla                              park's boundary; increased access and tourism to
be expected.
Mount Elgon    Sironko-Suam          Part of the road SE of Kaburoron runs directly
along the park boundary, while elsewhere it runs
1-3 km's from the park boundary; access and
tourism will increase.
Murchison      Karuma-Pakwach        The first section (Karuma-Aparanga) largely runs
Falls                                through the park, while the section Purongo-
Pakwach runs directly along the parks northern
boundary; access and amount of traffic will
increase, as will tourism.
Queen          Katunguru-Kikorongo  Road passes through the middle of the park;
Elizabeth                            FRSP will lead to better accessibility, heavier
traffic use, more visitors to the park.
Rwenzori       Katunguru-Fort Portal  Improvement of both of these roads will increase
Mountains      Fort          Portal- access to this park; both roads lie at least several
Bundibugyo          km's from park boundaries.
Semliki        Fort          Portal- Road passes directly along half the length of the
Bundibugyo          park, forming the park's SE boundary.
3.8.2 Forest Reserves
The Forest Reserve Network
History up to 1990
At the turn of the century, forests covered approximately 12.7% of Uganda's total area, but by
1990 this had dropped to about 3%, with very little remaining outside government forest
reserves. In 1990 there were about 1.53 million ha of gazetted forests scattered in 733 reserves,
covering approximately 6.5% of the country's area (Map 7).



63
A forestry policy was first adopted by the government in 1929 and by 1990 it had been revised
three times. Initially, forestry policy emphasised the role of the Forest Department in the
protection of the environment, but the emphasis shifted in the early 1970s towards short-term
economic benefits from timber extraction. It was not until 1987 that this policy was altered,
marking a return to the importance of protective forestry. Under the latter, emphasis was placed
on the maintenance of enough forest land to ensure sufficient supplies of timber, to allow for
amenity and recreation, and to ensure the conservation of plants and animals in natural
ecosystems. This policy also specified that 20% of the total reserved forest area was to be
conserved in strict nature reserves and that a further 30% be protected from intensive forms of
forestry management in buffer zones (WCMC, 1992). From the late 1980s to the early 1990s,
Forest Reserves were classified as Central Forest Reserves, Local Forest Reserves, Village
Forests, Nature Reserves and Forest Parks (Box 5).
Box 5: Classification of Forest Reserves Until Early 1990s
Forest reserve: Prohibited activities include grazing, camping, fish farming, planting or cultivation of
crops, erection of buildings or enclosures, construction of roads, the use of such areas for recreational,
commercial, residential or industrial purposes, or the negligent lighting of fires; without written authority
from a senior forest officer.
Central forest reserve:  An area which may be declared by statutory order by the Minister. The Chief
Conservator may issue licenses for the cutting, taking, working or removal of forest produce. Prohibited
activities generally as for forest reserves.
Local forest reserve:    An area which may be declared by statutory order by the Minister. The
appropriate local authority is responsible for maintaining and controlling such areas. Local authority may
issue licenses for the cutting, taking, working or removal of forest produce and may make rules applicable
to any local forest reserve which it maintains and controls with the approval of the Minister. Prohibited
activities generally as forest reserve.
Village forest:  Any area within the jurisdiction of a local authority may be declared a village forest with
approval of the Minister. The control, management and utilisation of such areas is the responsibility of the
local authority. The local authority may issue licenses for the cutting, working, or removal of forest
produce. The negligent lighting of fires is prohibited in such areas.
Nature reserve: Any forest area may be declared closed to all forms of consumptive resource use at the
discretion of the senior forest officer and therein designated a nature reserve. Areas within forest reserves
which are set aside to preserve representative examples of ecosystems and to afford a higher degree of
protection to flora and fauna. Such areas receive minimal management interference and can be used for
research, education and environmental monitoring.
Forest park:    Such parks are to be established in areas with considerable conservation and/or landscape
appeal and recreation value. A multi-use management area where 50% of the area would be protected
against extractive resource use; mechanised exploitation is prohibited and manual harvesting of forest
products licensed and strictly regulated within designated areas. Park guards responsible for enforcing
regulations protecting plants and animals.
In 1990, Forest Department's reserves were distributed in such a way that 50% were located in
savanna woodland and forest plantation, 40% in tropical high forest, and 10% in montane
catchment areas. From the perspective of biodiversity and eco-tourism, the latter two categories
represent a very significant resource. Tropical high forest - and the reserves containing it - is
found chiefly in three geographical zones: (1) The eastern rim of the Rift Valley escarpment in
western Uganda, (2) a broad zone round the north-western shores of Lake Victoria, and (3) on



64
scattered mountains in the north and east of Uganda. In addition to the Forest Department's
reserves, there are about 2.000 km2 of private forests and an unknown -albeit small - area of
residual forest on public land. It has been estimated that only about half of the forestry land
essentially remains undisturbed, ie. with a good forest cover (WCMC, 1992).
Transitional Period 1990-98
The Forest Department has, in recent years, increasingly focused its activities on sustainable
management of forest resources and forest conservation.
Between 1991-93, the status of 14 of the larger forest reserves was altered to National Park or
they were included in existing National Parks. With the change in status, management of these
areas was handed over to Uganda National Parks (now UWA), and no less than six of the ten
National Parks now in Uganda are former Forest Reserves. At present, 1.21 million ha remain
under the Forest Department management, scattered over a total of 719 forest reserves (Table
3.1 7). The 46 reserves larger than 5,000 hectares cover a total area of about 788,000 ha or almost
2/3's of the Forest Department's forest reserve network. Of the remainder, 106 forest reserves are
10 ha or smaller, 163 are in the range of 101-1,000 ha, and 100 are in the 1,001-5,000 ha range
(Table 3.18).
Table 3.17:   Forest Reserve Size and Numbers
Sizeclass(hectares)             <11        11-100    101-1000   1001-5000   >5000
Number of reserves per class    106        163       304        100          46



65
Table 3.18:    Forest Reserves Larger Than 5,000 Hectares
Serial      No.  Forest reserve              District                 Area (ha)
Forest
Department
AP33             Maruzi                       Apac                    6,118
AR26             Mt. Kei                      Arua                    40,689
BS06             North Maramagambo            Bushenyi                29,127
GLI I            Kilak                        Gulu                     10,205
GL22             Wiceri                       Gulu                    6,470
IG18             South Busoga                Iganga                   16,382
KA 15            Kitechura                   Kabarole                 5,317
KGO2             Achwa River                 Kitgum                   8,459
KGO4             Agoro-agu                   Kitgum                   26,508
KG18             Nyangea-Napore              Kitgum                   14,066
KG 19            Ogili                        Kitgum                  5,348
KG28             Rom                         Kitgum                   10,904
K103             Kagombe                     Kibale                   11,331
K006             Kikonda                     Kiboga                   12,186
KO1 I            Taala                       Kiboga                   9,150
KTO I            Akur                         Kotido                  6,434
KT02             Alerek                      Kotido                   7,433
KT05             Kano                        Kotido                   8,293
KT09             Lwala                        Kotido                  5,884
KTIO             Morongole                    Kotido                   15,063
KTI 1            Nangolibwel                  Kotido                  20,210
KT13             Nyangea-Napore               Kotido                  27,677
KT15             Timu                         Kotido                   11,751
KT16             Zulia                        Kotido                   102,893
LU03             Kabwika-Majwalanganda        Luwero                  8,285
LU06             Kamusenene                   Luwero                  6,177
LU07             Kapimpini                    Luwero                  6,202
LU08             Kasagala                     Luwero                   10,298
MD08             Kasana-Kasambya              Mubende                 5,141
MKO3             Buyaga Dam                   Masaka                   14,192
MKO7             Kazooba                      Masaka                   7,423
MK20             Mujuzi                       Masaka                  6,079
MN33             Mabira                       Mukono                  29,964
MP49             Nsowe                        Mpigi                    5,097
MRO I             Kadam                       Moroto                   39,917
MR02             Moroto                       Moroto                  48,210
MR03             Napak                        Moroto                   20,316
MSOI             Budongo (part)               Masindi                  81,893
MS06             Kibeka                       Masindi                  9,570
MY04             Era                          Moyo                     7,389
MY08             Otzi (East)                  Moyo                     18,757
MY 11            Zoka                         Moyo                     6,089
NT02              Rwoho (part)                Ntungamo                 6,673
RA09             Kyalwamuka                   Rakai                    6,527
RAI I             Malabigambo                 Rakai                    11,173
RU 13             South Maramagambo           Rukungiri                15,175
TOTAL                                               _ _.               788,445



66
In principle, NEMA plays a co-ordinating role in the management of Uganda's forest resources,
as is described in the National Environment Statute ( 1995), Section 46:
(1) The Authority <ie. NEMA> shall, in consultation with the Lead Agency <ie. the Forest
Department> , issue guidelines and prescribe measures for the management of all forests in
Uganda. (2) The guidelines and measures issued or prescribed under subsection (1) shall take
into account- (a) forests in protected areas, including forest reserves, national parks and game
reserves; (b) forests on lands subject to interests held by private persons. (3J A1l/forests shall be
nmanaged in accordance with the principle of sustainable development. (4) The commercial
exploitation of any forest shall be carried out in accordance with the principle of optimum
sustainable yield as prescribed by paragraph (e) of subsection (1) of section (3). (5) Traditional
uses of forests which are indispensable to the local communities and are compatible with the
principle of sustainable development shall be protected (6) Notwithstanding the provisions of
subsections (3), (4) and (5), the Authority may, in consultation with the Lead Agency, expresslv
exclude human activities in any forest area by declaring a forest area a specially protected
forest.
In practice, however, management has largely been left up to the "Lead Agency", ie. the Forest
Department, as NEMA does not have the capacity to be actively involved in formulation of
guidelines and measures.
Changes in 1998-99
Until recently, Forest Reserves were classified as Central Forest Reserves, Local Forest
Reserves, Village Forests, Nature Reserves and Forest Parks, and all 733 reserves were managed
by the Forest Department. Shortcomings of this system were that there was overlap with UWA's
mandate for the preservation of biological resources, resources were stretched in order to manage
all 733 reserves, and local government had limited access to forest resources, which lead to
friction.
The system of forest management is now being entirely overhauled and simplified: management
of Nature Reserves and Forest Parks will be handed over to UWA, management of reserves 10 ha
or smaller (mostly classified as Village Forests) will be devolved to local authorities and villages,
and management of most reserves in the range of I 1-100 ha (former Local Forest Reserves) will
be handed over to local authorities (pers. comm., Forest Department, 1998). What remains within
direct Forest Department jurisdiction are Central Forest Reserves, which will simply be known as
Forest Reserves, and under the new system most of these will be subjected to a zoning plan. The
changes are summarised in Box 6.
Three zone types are to be recognised under the new system: Core Zones, Buffer Zones and
Production Zones. In the Core Zone, allowable activities will be much the same as in the original
Nature reserves, but the Buffer Zone is a new category, as in these areas some limited extractive
activities will be allowed. Activities in the Production Zone are to be much the same as in the
original Central Forest Reserves (CFRs). Not all Forest Reserves will have all three types of
zone, but it is expected that all of the larger reserves (ie. >5,000ha) will incorporate all three
zones.
Following parallel developments in other ministries (eg. formnulation of a Road Agency under the
MOWHC). the formation of a semi-autonomous National Forest Authiority is currently underway.
This will take some time, however, and actual formation probably will not occur until 1999, after
formalities and institutional hurdles have been cleared.



67
Box 6: Revised Forest Management System
System in early 1990s                       System as revised in 1998
1. Central forest reserve                   1. Forest reserves, with zoning plans and 3 zone
types:
- Core Zone (_ Nature reserve)
- Buffer Zone
- Production Zone
2. Local forest reserve                     2. Devolved to local forest authorities.
3. Village reserve                          3. Devolved to local authorities & villages.
4. Nature reserve                           4. Management handed over to UWA.
5. Forest park                              5. Management handed over to UWA.
Biodiversity and Forest Reserves
Over the past decade, the Forest Department has increasingly focused its activities on sustainable
management of forest resources and forest conservation. Its Nature Conservation Section,
supported by GEF/EU funding, carried out biodiversity surveys in 1993-95 in 65 major reserves,
with the intention of upgrading some of the best reserves to Strict Nature Reserves (the plan was
that 20% of Forest Reserves should be upgraded in this way over the next four years, and that at
least 50% of tropical high forest in Forest Reserves should be conserved). The latter has since
been overtaken by other events, including the establishment of UWA, restructuring of the Forest
Department and the transfer of a number of reserves to UWA. The results of these "Biodiversity
Studies in Forest Reserves" was published in 33 volumes in 1996, which are available at the
Forest Department headquarters in Kampala (see Annex III). These reports focus almost entirely
on biodiversity, dealing with major taxa that are readily identified and have a good indicator
value: trees and shrubs, birds, small mammals, butterflies and large moths. These biodiversity
reports do not deal with management issues, existing threats and habitat condition, nor do they
provide adequate maps, and as such they provide little more information than that of the area's
species diversity. An overview volume providing general conclusions is currently being produced
by the Forest Department (1998).
The biodiversity of the Forest Department's larger reserves, as determined by the Forest
Department (1998) is indicated in Table 3.19. Note that the total number of species recorded at a
particular site is not the most important criterion for determining if a given area is of significance
for the preservation of Uganda's biodiversity. Factors such as the occurrence of unique species or
vegetation types are deemed to be of greater significance. Mt. Elgon, for instance, does not score
very high in terms of overall biodiversity (ie. it has a moderately high total number of species),
but it scores high in overall biodiversity because it harbours a large number of endemic and
restricted-range species (Davenport et al., 1996).
Table 3.19 lists eight Prime Areas (Budongo, Bwindi, Kibale, Mt. Elgon, Mt. Moroto, Otzi,
Rwenzori, Semliki) which in 1993-5 (when the biodiversity studies were carried out) were
Uganda's most important forest reserves in terms of biodiversity conservation (Forest
Department, 1998). Each of these forest reserves contributes more than 2% of the national
protected area species complement, and supports at least one (broadly) endemic species. In
addition, most of these Prime Areas also have more than 1% of species within one taxon unique
to that particular forest. Since these biodiversity studies were carried out, however, Bwindi,



68
Kibale, Mt. Elgon, Rwenzori and Semliki. have been handed over to UWA and are now part of
UWA's Protected Area system.
Table 3.19 further lists a total of 11 Core Areas and 25 Secondary Areas, which are regarded as
'highly important' and 'important', respectively, for the conservation of species diversity in
Uganda's forests. The remaining reserves are deemed to be of little significance in terms of
biodiversity, although they may of course be important for other reasons.



69
Table 3.19:    Biodiversity of the Forest Department's More Important Reserves
Biodiversitycriteria'
Forest Reserve     Area   Reserve         Biodiversity    1   2   3   4   5   6
km2    suitability3    score2 
Prime areas
Budongo            825    **              15.4           +   +             +
Bwindi #           321                    high           +   +             +
Kibale #           558     **             moderate       +                 +
Mt. Elgon#         1192                   moderate       +   +   =
Mt. Moroto         483     ***            14.7           +   +             +   +
Otzi               188    ***             14.1           +                 +
Rwenzori #         996                    high           ±   +             +
Semliki #          219    ***             high           +   +             +
Core areas
Bugoma             401                    14.1           ==
Echuya             35      *              14.3                    +        +
Era                74      ***            13.4                +   +        +
Kalinzu M.         584     *              14.7                +   +        +
Kasyoha-K          390     **             15.6                +   +            +
Labwor Hills       437     ***            12.8                    +        +   +
Mabira             300                    13.0                    + = =        +
Mt. Kei            384     **             13.2                +   +        +   +
Nyangea-N          417     **             13.4                    + =
Sango Bay          151    **              13.9                +   +   _ +   +
Sesse Islands      43      **             11.5                +   +        +   +
Secondary areas
Agoro-Agu          235     *              12.8                        +   +
Igwe-Luvunya       20                     12.2                             +
Itwara             86      **             11.4                             +
Jubiya             36      **             12.4                             +
Kasagala           103    ***             12.0                             +   +
Kazooba            74                     11.1                                 +
Kijanabolola       65      **             11.0                             +
Kitechura          53      **             11.9                                 +
Kyambogo           89      **             low                                  +
Lokung             13      **             10.6                             +
Lwala              59      *              12.1 I
Mafuga             38      *              13.4                             +
Morongole          151     *              13.2                         +   +
Mpigi              261                    13.5                             +
Mt. Kadam          399    *               14.1                             +   +
Mt. Napak          203     ***            13.2            _+   +
Ogili              53      *              13.1                                  +
Rom                109    *               12.2                             +
Rwoho              90      **             12.0                             +
S. Busoga          163    *               12.5                             +   +
Taala              92                    .10.6                                  +
Timu               118    *               12.1                         +   +
Wabisi-Wajala      87      **             10.8                                  +
West Bugwe         30                     13.6
Zulia              1026                    moderate-low                _   _   +
Source: adapted from the Forest Department, 1998
These reserves have now become part of UWA's PA system.



70
Notes on Table 3.19
1. Biodiversity criteria
a) Site contributes >2% of national PA system species complement
b) Within any taxon >1% of species unique to forest
c) Site contributes 1-2% of national PA system complement
d) Within any taxon 0.5-1% of species unique to forest
e) Site supports at least one unique species of conservation significance (ie. broadly endemic)
f) Site supports vegetation type not otherwise represented in PA system
2. Biodiversity score: this is on a scale of 1-20. This is based on total number of species.
3. Reserve suitability. This is determined by a combination of biodiversity importance, multiple-use,
timber production and community use.
EIA and Forest Reserves
It is a legal requirement that ElAs are to be conducted for any significant development occurring
in or adjacent a gazetted Forest Reserve, but up to now sector-specific guidelines have not been
developed. All projects targeted by the FRSP - including pavement strengthening and upgrading
of roads from murram to paved - that pass through or immediately adjacent Forest Reserves, will
require full ElAs.
Road projects carried out on roads that pass through (or immediately adjacent) any of the prime,
core or secondary forest reserves (listed in Table 3.20), will have to take into account the
importance of the forest reserve for biodiversity, and invest significantly in mitigation measures.
Table 3.20 summarises the nine reserves likely to be affected by FRSP. Note that the status of
five of these nine reserves has in the meantime been altered to that of National Park.
EIA procedures within the Forest Department are such that, when EIA reports are submitted to
the Forest Department Commissioner, copies are distributed to a number of senior officers, either
in the Forest Management Section or the Forest Conservation Section. These officers, who have
an MSc level education and are supervised by an Assistant Commissioner, are generally quite
capable of handling and evaluating most of the submitted ElAs. A recommendation based on
their findings is usually conclusive for determining the Forest Department's stance on a
particular EIA.
Table 3.20:    Important Forest Reserves Possibly Affected by FRSP
No.    Forest Reserve                       Road Section                  Reason
1      Mt. Elgon (now a National Park)      Sironko - Kapchorwa          passes close to NP
2       West Bugwe                          Muwayo-Tororo                 passes through FR
3       lgwe-Luvunya                        Bugiri-Muwayo                runs along FR
4       Echuya                              Kabale-Kisoro                runs though FR
5      Kalinzu-Maramagambo (now  part of Bushenyi-Kasese                 runs though NP
National Park)
6       Kasyoha-Kitomi (now part of National  Bushenyi-Kasese            runs close to this part
Park)                                                             of the NP
7       Rwenzori (now a National Park)      Fort Portal-Bundibugyo        runs through NP
8       Semliki (now a National Park)       Fort Portal-Bundibugyo        runs through NP
9       Kitechura                           Kyenjojo-Mubende             runs though FR



71
3.8.3 Wetlands
Brief Description of Wetlands in Uganda
According to the Ugandan National Wetlands Conservation and Management Programme
(NWCMP) wetlands are defined as "an area that stays wet long enough for only certain plants
and animals to grow, even when there is no rain", and includes papyrus swamps, swamp forests,
riverine wetlands, lake edge, floodplains, damboos and artificial wetlands. The Ramsar
Convention on the other hand, uses a much broader definition of wetlands, which are defined as
"areas of marsh, fen, peatland or water, whether natural or artificial, pernmanent or temporary,
with water that is static orflowing, fresh, brackish or saline, including areas of marine water, the
depth of which at low tide does not exceed six metres"l Under the Ramsar definition, wetlands
may include riparian and coastal zones adjacent to the wetlands, lakes, and certain small island
ecosystems.
If the NWCMP definition is used, wetlands in Uganda extend over 21,000-3 1,000 km2, or
somewhere in the range of 9-12 % of the country's total area, depending on the source of the
information (Table 3.21). If the Ramsar definition is used, which includes open inland waters,
Uganda's wetlands extend over 18-24 % of the country's total area.
Table 3.21:   Wetland Area
Wetland definition      Total    area  Percentage        Reference
(km2)           cover
NWCMPI                      21,341            8.9        NWCMP
23,000            9.6        Min. Natural Resources, in
NEMA (1996)
29,000           12.1       Omoding et al. (1996)
29,589           12.3       Langdale-Brown e! al.
(1964)
30,105           12.5       National Biomass Study
(1996)
Ramsar2                     43,000            17.9       Hughes & Hughes (1992)
57,900           24.1       Ramsar Convention, 1971
Notes:
I      According to the National Wetlands Conservation and Management Programme (NWCMP)
wetlands are defined as "an area that stays wet long enoughfor only certain plants and animals to
grow, even when there is no rain", and includes papyrus swamps, swamp forests, riverine
wetlands, lake edge, floodplains, damboos and artificial wetlands.
2.     According to the Ramsar Convention, wetlands are defined as "areas of marsh, fen, peatland or
water, whether natural or artificial, permanent or temporary, with water that is static orflowing,
fresh, brackish or saline, including areas of marine water, the depth of which at low tide does not
exceed six metres" Furthermore, wetlands may include riparian and coastal zones adjacent to the
wetlands, lakes, and small island ecosystems.



72
As a contribution to the National Wetlands Conservation and Management Programme, a
National Wetlands Inventory was carried out between October, 1993 and December 1995
(Omoding et al., 1996). In all, 62 wetland sites were surveyed, but a number of wetlands assumed
to be of conservation importance could not be visited because of insecurity or inaccessibility, and
survey coverage is therefore assumed to be incomplete. The inventorv led to the classification of
twelve major wetland categories (ie. main types of wetlands; Table 3.22), and yielded important
information on the distribution of rare and endangered species. It also resulted in the main
indicator species for the twelve major wetland types.
The main wetlands in Uganda, based on Hughes and Hughes (1992) and Denny (1993) are:
the Western Rift Valley lakes and the swamps along their margins: L. George, L. Edward and
L. Albert;
* the very extensive papyrus and Miscanthidiumn swamps of Lake Kyoga and Lake Victoria.
* riverine swamps and floodplains of the Nile headwaters;
* the Kafu River swamps and floodplain;
the Okere River swamps and floodplain;
Lake Bisina and Lake Opeta with their associated papyrus and Miscanthidiuni dominated
swamps;
* high altitude valley lakes and associated swamps (Lake Bunyonyi, L. Mutanda, L. Mullehe);
and
*  high altitude Sphagnum bogs and moors scattered throughout all montane regions of Uganda.



73
Table 3.22:    Wetland Types in Uganda
A.       Freshwater emergent Reed swamps typically dominated by a single reed species:
i) Papyrus swamps, associated with Leersia hexandra, Ipomoea rubens,Polygonum
spp. etc.
ii) Miscanthidium swamps
iii) Typha swamps
iv) Vossia, associated with Cyperus mundri, etc..
v) Cladium swamps, associated with Hvdrocotyle, Myrica, Rubus
B.       Freshwater floating leafed but rooted vegetation communities dominated by:
i) Nymphaea spp., with Wisneria, Pistia, Lemna, Azolla, Trapa
ii) Potamogeton spp., with Ceratophyllum, Lemna
iii) Trapa natans
C.       Freshwater submerged rooted macrophytes dominated by:
i) Ceratophyllum in association with Lagarosiphon and/or Hydrilla with
Nitella spp.
ii) Ottelia in association with Najas spp.
iii) Najas in association with Potamogeton spp.
D.       Freshwater submerged not rooted macrophyte communities may have Ceratophvllum and
Lemna trisulca forming separate stand.
E.       The surface floating vegetation communities found associated with plants that grow at the
open water swamp interface, since their distribution is dependent on wind and water
movements.
F.       Flood plain herbaceous wetlands; very variable, but usually dominated by monocots:
i) Echincochloa - Panicum repens - Cynodon swamps, with Fimbristylis
and Vossia
ii) Loudetia - Cynodon - Setaria swamps, with Scieria, Fimbristylis, Cyperus and
Fuirena.
iii) Cynodon - Setaria - Hyparrhenia - Brachiaria swamps, associated with
Panicum repens
iv) Cyperus spp. - Leersia hexandra swamps
v) Orvza (wild rice) swamps, or man-made Oryza sativa swamps
G.       Acacia - Hyparrhenia dominated seasonally flooded wooded grasslands, associated with
Setaria spp., Pilliostigma thonningii and Zi-yphus mauritiana
H.       Palustrine swamp forests. Mixed species, usually with Phoenix reclinata and Raphia palms
occurring in the wettest areas, and commonly with Rauvolfia, Diospyros and Voacanga.
I.      Characteristic flora of riverine forests.
J.       Montane wetlands, commonly associated with:
i) Sphagnum spp., with other Byophyta such as Brachythecium, Senecio,
Helichrysum, Lobelia, Luzfula, and Hypericum
ii) Carex sp., associated with Alchemilla, Helichrysum, Luzula, Agrostis
and Cyperus nigricans
K.       Permanent saline wetlands, with Cyperus laevigatus pure stands and some Sporobolus
spicatus
L.       Saline habitats over wide salinity range, with Sporobolus spicatus in the most saline areas, S.
robustus in a moderately saline range, and S. pyramidalis in mildly saline areas.
Source: adapted from Ormoding et al. (1996)



74
Wetland Protection
Wetlands in Uganda are provided with a 'blanket' protection under the National Environment
Statute(]995), of which Section 37 reads:
No person shall a) reclaim or drain any wetland; b) erect, construct, place, alter, extend, remove
or demolish any structure that is fixed in, on, under or over any wetland: c) disturb any wetland
by drilling or tunnelling in a manner that has or is likely to have an adverse effect on the
wetland; d) deposit in, on or under any wetland any substance in a mnanner that has or is likely to
have an adverse effect on the wetland; e) destroy, damage or disturb any wetland in a manner
that has or is likely to have an adverse effect on any plant or animal or its habitat; f] introduce or
plant any exotic or introduced plant or animal in a wetland, unless he has written approval,fom
the Authority <ie. NEMA> given in consultation with the Lead Agency.
This legislation on wetlands further states that any proposed development activity in wetlands
larger than 0.25 ha require a full EIA.
In spite of recommendations made more than 10 years ago that wetlands should be better
represented in the Protected Area System (MacKinnon & MacKinnon, 1987), only some 2% of
the country's wetlands occur within UWAs PA System and the Forest Department's Forest
Reserves. The view held by some conservationists in Uganda is that threats to wetlands are
limited and that the current legislation affords ample protection. Formal inclusion of wetlands in
the Protected Area is therefore not considered a high priority in some circles.
What may also have contributed to a lack of formal protection of wetlands is the ambiguous
wording of the National Wetland Policy (Ministry of Natural Resources, 1995). This policy
specifically states in article 7.4 on the Conservation of Wetlands that the "Government will
establish fully "Protected Wetlands Areas" of important biological diversity".  Part of the
difficulty in achieving this is that "Protected Wetlands Areas" appear to be a new class of
protected area, that does not occur in the existing UWA Protected Area System. The question
then becomes: which governmental or semi-autonomous body is then qualified to manage
formally protected wetlands ?
While the various debates are still ongoing, it is obvious that reclamation and encroachment of
wetlands is occurring throughout the country. Data from the National Biomass Study (in NEMA,
1996) shows that on average 7.9% of Uganda's wetlands had been converted to other land uses.
This figure does not seem alarming, but it must be pointed out that in many districts this
percentage is much higher: in Jinja it is 76%, Kisoro 67%, Kabale 58%, Iganga 49%, Tororo
48%, Pallisa 36%, Rukungiri 31%, Kamuli 29%, Kampala 25% and Mbale 19%. In addition, not
all wetlands are equally affected. In Pallisa District, for instance, while 36% of all wetlands had
been converted (mainly for agricultural purposes such as rice cultivation), 68% of the seasonal
wetlands had been reclaimed, compared to only 0.7% of the permanent wetlands (NEMA (1997).
The main pressures behind conversion are increase in rice growing, ease of draining seasonal
wetlands, dry season grazing, subsistence hunting and harvesting of vegetation (eg. papyrus used
for mats and baskets). It must also be pointed out that the remote sensing imagery use by the
National Biomass Study dated from 1989-1992, and some of the aforementioned wetland
conversion percentages are therefore almost ten years old. Recent surveys by this study team in
Pallisa District shows that conversion to rice fields is ongoing.
The lack of formal gazettal of important wetlands was also one of the criticisms reported in the
recent external review of the Uganda National Wetlands Conservation and Management
Programme, carried out in August 1998 (ARCADIS-Euroconsult, 1998).



75
Proposed Wetland Protection
As mentioned under Section 3.8.1, Lake Nabugabo, Lake Bisina. Lake Munyanvange, Lake
Katwe, Lake Mutanda, Lake Kachera, Lutembe Bay, Muchoya swamp, Kitange swamp and River
Ssezibwa were prioritised to be included in a network of protected areas (Omoding et al., 1996).
These wetlands were selected based on their ecological characteristics, their biogeographical
location, their location within the nation's eight drainage basins and their relative pristine
conditions. Not all wetlands could be covered by the inventory due to problems of accessibility,
insurgent activities and logistical constraints. In its current third phase, NWCMP has developed
and operationalised criteria for selecting wetlands that should be gazetted. These criteria are
currently being used by the various district inventory teams and could result in the identification
of additional sites in need of protection.
Habitats that are not sufficiently included in the existing Protected Area System, which UWA
aims to incorporate in the near future, include upland wetlands, montane wetlands, and seasonal
wetlands. Areas specifically targeted by UWA include wetlands around Lake Kyoga (especially
the area around lakes Bisina and Opeta), Kafu basin in western Uganda, the Semliki Flats, and
wetlands in the area around Lake Victoria. IUCN has drafted criteria for the selection of at least
three wetland sites for inclusion in the PA System, namely Nakivubo69 (located four km
southeast of Kampala), Lake Nabugabo (a lake on the western shores of Lake Victoria, separated
from the latter by a narrow barrier) and Lake Bisina70.
Ramsar Convention
In 1988, the GOU acceded to (but has not ratified) the Convention on Wetlands of International
Importance especially as Waterfowl Habitat (commonly known as the Ramsar Convention, from
its place of adoption by Contracting Parties in 1971). This convention is an intergovernmental
treaty which provides for international co-operation for the conservation and wise use of
wetlands. One of the obligations under the Ramsar Convention by member states is to designate
wetlands of international importance for inclusion on the list of Ramsar sites. Uganda designated
Lake George on the so-called "Ramsar list" on the basis of its intemational importance, in terms
of ecological, botanical, limnological or hydrological values. Proposals are underway for three
additional Ramsar sites, namely Lake Nabugabo, the Nakivubo swamps and possibly Lake
Bisina.
Under the Convention, member states (Contracting Parties) are also obliged to develop a national
wetland policy and to include wetland conservation and wise use considerations within their
national land use planning. The Contracting Parties meet every three years to discuss national
experiences and review the status of sites. Uganda developed a National Wetland Policy in 1995
(Ministry of Natural Resources, 1995), and wetland issues are incorporated in the National
Environmental Action Plan (NEAP; Ministry of Natural Resources, 1994). In addition, a
management plan has been drafted for Lake George, and GOU has recently hosted the Pan-
African Regional Ramsar Meeting (July 1998).
Nakivubo wetland is a 600 ha swamp located 4 km south-east of Kampala city. It is of vital
importance to the city, as effluents from the city's ineffective Bugolobi Sewage Treatment
Plant are effectively cleansed by this wetland ecosystem. Loss of this wetland would lead to
discharge of unacceptably polluted effluents into Lake Victoria, and may eventually percolate
into the area's groundwater.
70     These three sites are also likely to be nominated as Ramsar Sites, ie. Wetlands of International
Importance, under the Ramsar Convention (see Section 3.8.3).



76
FRSP and Wetlands
Under the existing environmenital legislation, all road projects under FRSP will require full ElAs
for elements that pass through wetlands larger in area than 0.25 ha. In practice this means that
ElAs will hIave to be carried out on most road sections falling under the FRSP, as wetlands are
common throughout the country. As no new roads are to be constructed under the FRSP except
for the Kampala by-pass and perhaps a few realignments, impacts on wetlands are expected to be
limited, if proper precautions and adequate mitigation measures are taken. Potential risks include
enhanced erosion and siltation, oil and lubricant spillage, increased runoff, loss of vegetation,
poaching and fuel gathering by construction teams, and changes of hydrology. It is possible that
in some areas the hydrology might actually be restored to a condition that is closer to what it was
formerly, before construction of the initial road. This is likely to be the case in areas where
flooding of roads is currently a problem because of insufficient cross-drainage, for example on
the Pallisa-Tirinyi Road, and the Pallisa-Mbale Road.
3.8.4 Cultural & Historical sites
Antiquities & Museums Department's Network
The Department of Tourism, Wildlife and Antiquities (DTWA - forrnerly the Antiquities and
Museums Department), which is responsible for nearly 200 cultural and historic sites scattered
throughout the country, resides under the Ministry of Tourism. Trade and Industry (MOTTI)7'.
This will soon change, as a semi-autonomous body, the National Heritage Council. is currentlv
being established. This council will be answerable to MOTTI, but presided over by a Board of
Trustees and an Executive Director. DTWA has received two years of grant funds from the
World Bank's Institutional Development Facility for this restructuring exercise. After this,
provisions have been made to receive funds for further development out of the Protected Area
Management and Sustainable Development project, Phase 11 (PAMSU 11), which will also be
used for further development of UWA's PA system. The proposal for a World Bank loan to fund
PAMSU 11 has been submitted to Parliament for approval, but the outcome is likely to be
positive.
The National Environment Statute (1995) specifies that NEMA has a co-ordinating role in
identifying and managing Uganda's cultural heritage. Section 50 states:
(1) The Authority <ie. NEMA> shall, with the assistance of Local Environment Committees,
District Environment Committees and the Lead Agency <ie. DTWA> identify those elements,
objects and sites in the natural environment which are of cultural importance to the various
peoples of Uganda; (2) The Authority shall in such manner as may be prescribed, maintain a
register of all elements, objects and sites identified under (f), (3) The Authority shall, in
consultation with the Lead Agency, issue guidelines and prescribe measures for the management
or protection of cultural elements, objects and sites registered under this subsection.
In practice, however, NEMA has not been abie to carry out this role, which has largely been left
up to an under-funded DTWA.
7 1    Formerly DTWA was located within the Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Antiquities.



77
The location of some 100 of the almost 200 known archaeological and historic sites is indicated
in Map I11 and about 141 sites are listed in Table 3.23. Because of the lack of systematic
surveying and complete coverage, there can be little doubt that numerous other sites await
discovery. The known sites comprise approximately:
* 5 Miocene fossil sites
* 6 Pleistocene fossil sites
* 12 Early Stone Age sites. c. 50,000 B.C.
* 18 Middle to Late Stone Age sites. c. 50,000 B.C. - A.D. 1,000.
* 11 Rock-art and rock-gong sites, c. A.D. 500-1750
* 13 Iron age sites, c. up to A.D. 1,000
* 50 Archaeological (post 1500 AD) sites (earthworks, Royal Tombs, Royal Enclosures)
* 8 historical sites
* 1I Forts prior to 1890
* 45 Forts dating from 1890 - 1905
The best known and most accessible of established sites are the Royal Tombs at Kasubi
(administered by the National Museum on behalf of the Uganda Government), the Bigo mounds
and trenches (on the Katonga River north-west of Masaka). the mound complex at Ntusi (close to
Bigo) and the rock-art centred on Nyero (between Mbale and Soroti). Two of the most
spectacular prehistoric sites are rock shelters on Lolui Island and at Semwema. There are
numerous sites, notably the Royal Tombs, Stone Age and Iron Age and historical sites close to
Kampala. There are several sites within or close to the Murchison Falls National Park, numerous
Stone Age and early Iron Age sites within and close to the Rwenzori National Park (also open
exposures of Pleistocene fossils) and a locus of Stone Age, Iron Age and pre-colonial earthworks
(Royal Enclosures) close to the Lake Mburo National Park.
Provision exists in DTWA for Antiquities Assistants (ie. caretakers) to administer, protect and
maintain the following sites - Nyero Rock paintings, Mursa earthworks, Nakaima's shrine
(Mubende). Wamala, Mparo and Karambi Tombs, and Samuel Baker's Fort at Patiko. In practice,
however, some of these sites have been neglected due to shortage of funds, or, in the case of
Nyero, also because of the insurgency problem in the 1980s.
Onlv seven of these 200 sites have officially been gazetted for protection, namely the Nyero
Rock Paintings, Patiko Fort, Munsa Archaeological site, Mwende Hill Archaeological site. Bigo
Archaeological site, Ntusi Archaeological site, and Bureyorere Traditional site (a palace). In
addition, two sites have been recommended for gazettal, namely Napak Paleontological site (with
Miocene fossils), and Moroto Paleontological site (also with Miocene fossils). A number of
smaller sites have been de-gazetted in recent years, along with three major sites that have been
returned to local government for management, namely the Kasubi Tombs at Kampala, Mbaro
Tombs at Hoima, and Karambe Tombs at Fort Portal.



78
Table 3.23:   Cultural and Historical Sites
Types of cultural & historical sites*
#    Site               District          1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12
1    Akokoro            Apac                        +
2    Ibuje              Apac                        +
3    Lukungu            Apac                                            +
4    Karugutu           Bundibugyo        ==
5    Nyabusosi          Bundibugyo           +
6    15km W             Bundibugyo              +
Karungutu          _________________
7    Butare             Bushenyi                    +
8    Karambi            Bushenyi                                                 +
9    E shores Lake      Bushenyi             +  +
Edward
10   East Wadelai       Gulu             =
11   Pabbo              Gulu                                                +
12   Patiko             Gulu                                                +
13   1Skm NE Magungo  Gulu                      +  +_
14   30km W Kamdini   Gulu                         +  +
15   Baker's View       Hoima
16   Ensa za Kateboha   Hoima                                +
17   Hoima              Hoima                                       +
18   Fort Baranwa       Hoima           T 
19   Kibiro             Hoima                                 +
20   Kitanwa            Hoima                                                    +
21   Mparo Tombs        Hoima             _                        I  I
22   Buinja             Iganga            __
23   Fort Thruston      Iganga              r
24   Lolui Island       Iganga                         + +  +
25   Luba's             Iganga                      _
26   Sagitu Island      Iganga                                +
27   Sigulu Island      Iganga                                +
28   Wakoli's           Iganga                                          +
29   Jinja              Jinja                              +
30   Kigezi             Kabale                                +
31   Fort Briggs        Kabarole                                                 +
32   Fort de Winton     Kabarole                    _
33| Fort Gerry          Kabarole                                                 +
34   Fort Grant         Kabarole        T
35   Fort Kivari        Kabarole                                                 +
36   Fort Lorne         Kabarole                                     +
37   Fort Ntara         Kabarole                                                 +
38   Fort Roddy         Kabarole                                                 +
39   Fort Wavertree     Kabarole                    _+
40   Fort Stanley       Kalangala                                                +
41   Kampala            Kampala                     +      +                      +
42   Bukwa              Kapchorwa         +
43   Kirrwat             Kapchorwa                         _
44   Fort Edward         Kasese                                                   +



79
Table 3.23 (cont): Cultural and Historical Sites
Tvpes of cultural & historical site*
Site               District          1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9 1  10  11  12
45   Fort George         Kasese                                                   +
46   Kasese              Kasese                      +
47   Katunguru           Kasese                      +
48   E shores Lake       Kasese                  +  +
Edward
49   Kagadi              Kibale                      +
50   Kakumira            Kibale                                   +
51   Kibale              Kibale                                +      +
52   Kibengo             Kibale                                +
53   Munsa za            Kibale                                +
Kateboha
54   Mwenda's            Kibale                                          +
55   Semwema             Kibale                            +
56   Fort Kaduma         Kiboga                                                   +
57   Fort Lugard         Kiboga                                                   +
58   Fadibeh             Kitgum                                               +
59   Fajuli              Kitgum                                          +
60   Farajoh             Kitgum                                               +
61   Toror Hills         Kotido                            +
62   Mukongoro           Kumi                      .  .  .
63   Nyero               Kumi                           +
64   Opege               Kumi                 _
65   Kagaa               Lira                                                     +
66   Gordon's Mruli      Luwero                                               +
67   Kabagambe           Luwero                                                   +
68   Kapeeka             Luwero                                   +
69   Katuba              Luwero                                                   +
70   Kisalizi            Luwero                                                   +
7]   Bigo                Masaka                                +
72   Bulusana            Masaka                                                   +
73   Kagogo              Masaka                                +
74   Kasonko             Masaka                                +
75   Kiwala Pits         Masaka                             +
76   Lwentali            Masaka                         +
77   Masaka              Masaka                                                    +
78   Ntusi               Masaka                                +
79   Fajao               Masindi                                                   +
80   Fodwa               Masindi                                                   +
81   Foweira             Masindi          __+
82   Kisindini           Masindi                                              +
83   Kisuga              Masindi          _                                   +      
84   Koki                Masindi                                                   +
85   Londu               Masindi          ______+
86    Maeungo            Masindi              _               
87   Masinidi            Masindi          _                 
.88   Mruli              Masindi           _                                       +   



80
Table 3.23 (cont): Cultural and Historical Sites
=___ __________________                    Types of cultural & historical site*
#    Site                District         1  2  3  4 5    6  7  8  9  10   11  12
89   20 km E Bullisa     Masindi                 +
90   Nabumali            Mbale                                                    +
91   Walisi Hills        Mbale                       +
92   Bweyorere           Mbarara                 +  +
93   Kabingu             Mbarara                 +
94   Mbarara             Mbarara                     +
95   Orucliinga Valley    Mbarara             +  +  +
96   Loteteleit          Moroto                         +
97   Magosi             Moroto                      +
98   Moroto             Moroto                      +
99   Nakiloro           Moroto            +
100  Napak              Moroto            +
101  Bora               Moyo                                                 +
102  Dufile             Moyo                                  _
103  Faloro             Moyo              =
104  Entebbe            Mpigi                       +      +
105  Kibibi             Mpigi             __
106  numerous           Mpigi                                     +
107  Fort Raymond       Mubende                                                   +
108  Masaka Hill        Mubende                               +                   +
109  Mubende Hill       Mubende                               +
110  Tanda Pits         Mubende                            +
IlI  Bugoia Island      Mukono                   +
112  Bugungu            Mukono                   +
113  Buvuma Island      Mukono                   +
114  Galiraya           Mukono                                                    +
115  Moniko             Mukono                          +
116  Nakawungu          Mukono                      +
117  Urondoganyi        Mukono                                           +
118  Pacego             Nebbi                +
119  Wadelai            Nebbi                                                +
120  Budaka             Pallisa                                                   +
121  Gogonya            Pallisa                                                   +
122  Kakoro              Pallisa                        +
123  Bijja              Rakai                                                     +
124  Kabusameru         Rakai                                                     +
125  Kakuuto            Rakai                                                     +
126  Kasambia           Rakai                                                     +
127  Sango Hills        Rakai                    +
128  Akisim             Soroti            +
129  Asuret             Soroti                          +
130  Bululu             Soroti                                                    +
131  Onyeri              Soroti           _  _  _       +  -  _       _



81
* Types of cultural & historical sites:
Paleontological                                Archaeological (ethno-historic)
1. Principal Miocene fossil localities         7. Earthworks. etc..
2. Principal Pleistocene fossil localities     8. Royal Tombs (Buganda & Bunyoro only)
Archaeological (prehistory)                     9. Royal Enclosures
3. Early Stone Age site, c. 50,000 BC          Historical sites
4. Middle & Late Stone Age site, c. 50,000 BC -  10. Historical sites
AD 1,000                                        11. Forts prior to 1890
Certain cave sites at time transgressing into Iron  12. Forts from 1890-1905
Age
5. Rock paintings, engravings & gongs, c. AD 500-
1750
6. Early Iron Age sites, ? up to AD 1,000
Kev to Map 11
Number          Name           Number            Name          Number         Name
I    Nakiloro                 35      Ntusi                   69    Mukongoro
2     Bukwa                    36      Masaka Hill            70    Bululu
3     Akisim                  37       Kibengo                71    St. Stanley
4     Napak                    38      Munsa za Kateboha      72    Kagaa
5     Nyabusosi               39       Kigezi                 73    Bijje
6     Pacego                  40       Kasongo                74    Budaka
7     Magungo                 41       Kampala                75    Nabumali
8     Sango Hills             42       Kakumiro               76    Ft. Briggs
9     Bugungu                 43       Magungo                77    Ft. Thruston
10    Karugutu                 44      Fajuli                  78    Katuba
11    Butare                   45      Urondoganyi             79    Buinja
12    Kasese                   46      Faloro                  80    Ft. Barranwa
13    Katunguru                47      Faguli                  81    Galiraya
14    Nakawungu                48      Luba's                  82    Gogonyo
15    Bwevorere                49      Wakoli's                83    Fajao
16    No name                  50      Baker's View            84    Kasambia
17    Walasi hills             51      Masaka                  85    Kakuuto
18    Kagadi                   52      Masaka                  86    E. Wadelai
19    Akokoro                  53      Kisindizi               87    Burusana
20    Magosi                   54      Kisindizi               88    Ft. Wavertree
21    Loteteleit               55      Dufile                  89    Ft. Gerry
22    Onyeri                   56      Farajok                 90    Ft. Edward
23    Moniko                   57      Bora                    91    Ft. George
24    Kibiro                   58      Wadelai                 92    Ft. Grant
25    Kakoro                   59      Fadibek                 93    Karambi
26    Lwentale                 60      Fabbo                   94    Kabagambe
27    Asuret                   61      Fatiko                  95    Ft. Raymond
28    Nyero                    62      FT. Lugard              96    Oruchinga Valley
29    Toror Hills              63      FT. Kaduma              97    Kiwara peats
30    Luzira                   64      Ft. Kivari              98    Entebbe
31    Tanda Pits               65      Ft. Grant               99    Londu
32    Mubende Hill             66      Koki                    100   Ibuje
33    Kibale                   67      Kisalizi                10!   Foda
34    Ensa-za Katebwoha        68      Kitanwa



NIAP 11. HISTORICAL, CUTLTURAL AND ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES
29-30'       30-00        30-30'      3100         3130'        32'00'       3230         33-00        33-30'       34-00        34-30'       3500'
;-00 _ _        ___                  _                 ___                                                                                 -             4-00'
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4
*  Earlie Soe AeSts c 0OtB
zoo Ars0SE < Xd - xto~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
-*W                                                                                                                                                      26'tfl30'
.30~~~ ~             ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ Mao !town.l
1-00   Middle and Late1Storic Age Sites c50.OOOBC - AD. 00
c1-g                                              1A300
* Roycial Tiombe(uene andsi Localitionly
*   Hnniptrial PestoeeFsi  oait     ies
*  Eraprlier  1890geSts    < OtB
*   Fah^orts 1890-1905te
Royal~ Tombs (Buganda and Bunyoro Ponl) )
.0 Royal Enclosures (Ankole onh 0vhere large eatth sorks remain)
C'30onalSie
*  FnspnrC89
*   Fons 1890-1905 ~       ~           8
Sr dGwo0v1As_ Lilr  AtSVRS ;99/xrMVll



82
Effect of the FRSP on Cultural and Historical Sites
In general, DTWA does not expect the FRSP to have negative repercussions on Uganda's
archaeological and historical sites, as (apart from the Kampala Bypass) no new roads are
expected to be constructed. Also, none of the roads targeted by the FRSP pass precariously close
to any of the known sites.
Feeder roads are currently being constructed in Murchison Falls NP and Queen Elizabeth NP.
and DTWA have been consulted to provide information and expertise. In Murchison Fall NP. a
DTWA team located several archaeological sites near the proposed alignment, which illustrates
the need for DTWA involvement. In the past DTWA was not always consulted, which lead to the
loss of important artefacts and remains in at least several sites. In general, the Commissioner of
DTWA expects FRSP to contribute in a positive way, by making archaeological and historical
sites more accessible for both domestic and foreign tourists, which will eventually translate into
more revenue for the organisation.
3.8.5 Protected Areas and Roads: General Considerations
In Sections 3.8.1 to 3.8.4, the implications of UWA's protected areas, forests, wetlands and
cultural and historic sites have been discussed. In this section some general considerations to be
taken into account during the planning and design stages are put forward.
Planning stage
new roads or realignments should not be made to pass through protected areas.
Design stage
* provision should be made for behaviour modifiers to regulate speed,
* provision should be made for traffic signs forbidding vehicles to stop in these areas, and
warning of the likely presence of animals on the road;
barriers and parking bays should be located at the beginning and end of these areas to enable
inspection of vehicle contents.
3.9 Demograihy and Ethnic Distribution
Road Sector development is a multi-dimensional concept that encompasses not only the economic
and social aspects of national activity, but also those related to population and the use and
management of environmental resources (SOER, 1996). The challenge for the FRSP is to ensure
that communities avoid situations where severe stress is put on them and the environment due to
road sector development activities.
3.9.1 Demography
Population
By 1996. Uganda's population was estimated at 19.8 million having increased from 16.7 million in
1991. The growth rate by 1991 was estimated at 2.5% per annum. The percentage of women is
higher (50.9%) throughout the country with a few districts where men are in the majority (eg.



b   o   8   8 o                     Fo bOv    
b~~~~~~~~~~.... . .. ..
X           <-S,i,-...:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....
o   X   8   b e  e   ob   en   b nb   o  en
t ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ m



83
Kalangala). Of the 19.8 million people. 89% of them are rural while only 11% live in the urban
areas. Despite the smaller urban population, most motor vehicles are found in urban areas with the
capital city of Kampala accounting for over 50% of the total motor vehicle fleet (Magezi, 1997).
Population Densitv
The population density varies from the lowest of 12 people per square kilometre in Moroto (Kotido
= 15, Kitgum = 22) to 301 people per square kilometre in Kisoro (Mbale = 284, Kabale = 246). In
high population density areas, land value tends to be high making compensation very expensive.
Urban Population
By definition the 1991 Housing and Population Census defines an urban centre as "any gazetted
centre with 1,000 persons or more". The urban population growth rate is quite high with a number
of urban centres (eg. Busia, Lira) recording a growth rate of more than 10% per annum. At this
rate, it is projected that by 2015, over 26% of the population will live in urban areas. In all urban
centres the percentage of women is higher than that of men. The high urban population growth rate
means that the design Average Daily Traffic (ADT) for the roads could easily be exceeded in a
short period.
Family Characteristics
Uganda is a patrilineal society whereby over 75% of all households are male headed. There are
about 4.8 person per household in the rural areas which drops to 4.2 in the urban areas. Most of the
population are young and by 1995, the dependency ratio which is the number of people (young and
old) as a percentage of those between 15 and 64 was 122.
Table 3.24 shows selected demographic characteristics, while population densities are depicted in
Map 12.
Table 3.24:   Selected Demographic Characteristics
Indicator                                                Census Year
1980        1991
Population (Millions)                                  12.64        16.67
Growth rate (% per annum)                                2.7          2.5
Sex ratio (males per 100 females)                       98.2         96.5
Total fertility rate (per 1000  persons)                 7.2          7.1
Urban Population (%)                                     8.7         11.3
Population Density (p/sq.km)                            64.4         85.0
Dependence ratio                                         100         102
Source: Uganda Demographic and Health Survey, 1995.
Life Expectancv
Although the global life expectancy is about 65 years, in Uganda it has dropped to about 40.7 years.
This is mainly due to high mortality rate among young children as well as the impact of AIDS.



84
Major Causes of Diseases and Death
Malaria is responsible for the largest number of under-five in-patient deaths (21.4%). followed by
measles (9.9%), diarrhoea (8.2%), pneumonia (7.5%) and AIDS (5.1%). Other diseases include
Guinea Worm affecting up to 20% of the population in the North and North East of Uganda, and
Acute Respiratory Infections (ARI).
Per Capita Income
The Human Development Index (UNDP 1997), shows also that the Northern region had the lowest
per capita Income at US $ 185, while Central region (mostly Bantu) had the highest at US $ 494.
This is followed by Western Uganda at US $ 231 per capita.
3.9.2 Ethnic Distribution
Uganda has over 45 ethnic groups. The 1991 Housing and Population Census lists the major ethnic
groups to include the Acholi, Langi, Lugbara and Alur in the Northern region. These are all Nilotic
groups.
In the Eastern Region, the significant Ethnic groups include the Basoga, Bagishu, Badama, Bagwere
and Banyole. These are Bantu ethnic groups. The biggest ethnic group in Central Region are the
Baganda, while the Western Region includes the Batoro, Banyankole, Bakiga and Banvoro. All
these are Bantu-speaking ethnic groups.
There are cultural and ethnic differences between a Bantu South and a Nilotic North. The North
East is occupied by the Karamojong pastoralists who are Nilo Hamites.
Map 13 shows the distribution of the major ethnic groups in Uganda.
3.9.3 Demographic Characteristics for Road Works & Network Planning
Certain demographic-related data are need to be considered during road works:
Planninse stage
• the distance of the centres of population from the road network;
• the volumes of goods moved by current means including headloading, animal transport and by
agricultural tractor;
* the volumes of movement by people;
* the opportunity costs of their time and the other costs involved (e.g. the costs of animal
transport or of tractors used to transport people);
* the extent of diversion of existing traffic to motor vehicle once the new road is provided.
Feasibilitv staae
* assessment of possible resettlement due to a new road or realignment;
locations for borrow pits, quarries and contractor's camp should be selected away from settled
areas to avoid impacting on the latter negatively;
* rural-urban migration trends to plan for facilities to cater for this



MAP 13. ETHNIC DISTRIBUTION
300oo        3030         31o00        31'30        320oo         32-30        3300         33'30        340oo         34030
5'O[
400                                                                                                                                                  4'00
3'30                                                                                                                                                  3'30
230W
200              _ _z
2'30'                                                                                                           2'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30
230000                      32a          3 0          3 3          3300'
0*30r                                                                                                                                                 130
50          0          501 Kilometers
KEY    -                ____                   
PEOPLES
C]  Bantu                  *   Major town
Nilotic                  Water
A/V Road
Nilo-Hamitic        ,A/District Boundan
_   Sudanic       oKIntemational Boundary
,h  dd.,ofd2  ABS ydD                                                                                           P,ohxdhd,vRS&GlSLob



85
road side interviews ( during traffic survey) are done to sample of vehicles to determine their
type, start and end points of their joumey. trip purpose. the number of passengers and
commodity carried.
Design stage
* for geometric design and evaluation of economic benefits, the volume and composition of
current and future traffic needs to be known in terms of cars, light goods vehicles, trucks.
buses, non-motorised vehicles, etc;
* for structural design purposes of paved roads the number and axle loading of heavier vehicles
need to be considered;
* cross-section parameters are related to traffic flows of all types ie. vehicular, pedestrians and
non-motorised. Cost effective ways of segregating non-motorised traffic and of providing
special crossing facilities are thought of at the earliest stage in the design process.
3.10 Environmentaliv Sensitive Areas
Environmentally sensitive areas can be defined as areas that are particularly sensitive to
development pressures, and where a developing agency needs to strongly incorporate the special
needs of such a site into their modus operandi. Environmentally sensitive areas can be both
ecologically sensitive areas, which are defined by the World Bank (1993) as being "areas that are
of significant value in their natural state", or areas that are of socio-cultural significance or
sensitivity. Cultural or historical sites and densely populated urban centres are examples of the
latter category. In all such areas, extra precautions must be taken to avoid significant
environmental impacts. In many cases, this will mean extra investments in mitigation measures.
while in some cases these areas will simply have to be avoided, resulting, for example, in the
abandonment of a project or the realignment of a section of road. For all projects that will
potentially affect environmentally sensitive areas, an EIA is likely to be required.
Ecologically Sensitive Areas as defined by the World Bank (1993) are areas that may contain
unique features, maintain key natural processes, support rare plants or animals and their habitats.
or provide important breeding areas for wildlife. Some Ecologically Sensitive Areas are natural.
w.hile others may have been significantly altered by certain human activities. In terms of
management, some Ecologically Sensitive Areas will prosper through "benign neglect" while
others will require intensive management to restore or maintain their natural values. Criteria
given by the World Bank for Ecologically Sensitive Areas, and corresponding areas in Uganda,
and listed in Table 3.25 under categories A-F. Areas that are socio-culturally sensitive are listed
under categories G and H.
In summary, Uganda's Environmentally Sensitive Areas (ESAs) can be described as:
all gazetted parks and reserves that are managed by UWA;
all gazetted Forest Reserves managed by the Forest Department;
. wetlands;
* desert habitats;
* cultural and historical sites managed by DTWA; and
* densely populated urban centres.
The location of these ESAs can be identified from Maps 2 to 12.



86
Table 3.25:   Environmentallv Sensitive Areas
Category  Environmentally Sensitive Areas   Areas In Uganda
A          Areas that provide protection of  Forests on steep watersheds: generally
steep slopes, especially in watershed  these areas are already covered by
areas, against erosion.           existing NPs and Forest Reserves.
B          Areas that support important natural  Grass steppes and tree/shrub steppes;
vegetation on soils of inherently low  desert habitats that cover some 2,115
productivity, that would yield little   square km.
of value to human communities if
transformed.
C          Areas that regulate and purify water  Wetlands, which extend over 21,000-
flow.                             30,000 square km.
D          Areas that provide conditions     Mainly areas in UWA's Protected Area
essential for the perpetuation of  System, the Forest Department's
species of medicinal and genetic  Reserves, and wetlands.
conservation value.
E          Sites that maintain conditions vital   Mainly areas in UWA's Protected Area
for the perpetuation of species that   System, Forest Department's Reserves,
enhance the attractiveness of the  and wetlands.
landscape or the viability of
protected areas.
F          Sites that provide critical habitat  Mainly areas in UWA's Protected Area
that threatened species use for   System. and wetlands.
breeding, feeding or staging.
G          Areas of cultural or historical   The 200+ sites managed by the
significance.                     Antiquities and Museums Department.
H          Areas that are densely populated  All urban centres.
and are important for human
habitation.
3.10.1 Road Works Activities and ESAs
Road works activities in environmentally sensitive areas could disturb or destroy them.
Consequently most considerations would revolve around suitable mitigation measures. Some
mitigating considerations are:
Planning stage
a new roads and realignments should avoid passing through such places and when they must,
full environmental analysis must be carried out in order to arrive at feasible mitigating
measures for minimising, eliminating or offsetting adverse effects;



87
l liaison with the authorities responsible for any affected environmentally sensitive areas is
essential.
Design stage
* provision should be made for rest areas, design features such as deep ditches, narrow
shoulders and barriers to discourage road side stops
* contractor's camps, borrow pits, quarries should be sited away from these areas
. provision of traffic signs warning of the danger posed by animals, landslides, and also for
informing the public of some of the attractions.
Construction stage
* erosion prevention measures should be installed in side ditches in steep grades;
* steep cuts should be avoided;
* in low-lying areas drainage must ensure wetlands on both sides of the roadway will receive
waterflow.



88
4. ANALYSIS OF THE POTENTIAL IMPACTS OF THE FRSP
4.1 FRSP Activities
A brief description of the First Road Sector Project has been given in Chapter I of this document.
The major roadworks will arise from the second component of the FRSP (Component B) which
comprises:
i)    widening of urban sections of some trunk roads in Kampala from 2 lane to 4 lane roads
(dualisation);
ii)    strengthening of the pavement on some roads;
iii)   upgrading of some gravel roads to paved ones
iv)    upgrading 1700 km of feeder roads; and
v)     development of a road to bypass Kampala.
Activities to be undertaken during the improvement of the pavement will greatly depend on tihe
conditions prevailing along each road. Some sections of these roads may require building them
up from base, sub-base or sub-grade levels. Activities to be undertaken when upgrading gravel
roads to paved ones will also depend on the conditions of the gravel roads.
This chapter is intended to give the reader an indication of the typical impacts that are likely to
occur during and as a result of the proposed activities carried out for FRSP road projects. The
exact nature, magnitude and significance of each of the potential impacts resulting from these
activities will only be determined when ElAs are conducted for each of these road projects.
Mitigation of these environmental and social impacts will be necessary in order to:
i)    minimise or eliminate adverse environmental impacts.
ii)    enihance beneficial impacts, and
iii)   protect the right of individuals and communities to compensation for any losses that may
arise.
Mitigation options will depend on the nature of the potential impacts. and for FRSP road
projects, will have to consider:
*      chaniges in the locations of new alignments
lchaniges in design of sections of these roads
monetary compensation
replacing damaged property, or resources
relocation of property, resource (vegetation, infrastructure), and
rehabilitation of any damages.
Environmental monitoring will have to be undertaken as part of the environmental management
of FRSP projects. Monitoring will have the following objectives:
to ensure compliance with conditions for project approval;
to determine the effectiveness of mitigation measures;
to assess the accuracy of impact prediction that will be done during ElAs for each these
road projects;



89
to provide baseline conditions against which future conditions may be compared witil:
to establish any new impacts that may arise after implementation of these projects.
Since most of the roadworks to be undertaken under the FRSP are common to all its components
described above, all the possible roadworks activities are presented below, together with their
environmental impacts, mitigation, and monitoring of impacts and mitigation measures.
Although this analysis highlights the negative impacts, it should be noted that road improvement
has enormous positive socio-economic benefits. These include improved access to markets.
hospitals, schools as well as improved standards of living, and increased national productivity,
among others.
4.2 Survevinv
Activities
This involves the establishment of the centreline of the road and marking the limit of the road
reserve for existing roads or new alignments. Minor clearance of vegetation may be done to
facilitate access for the surveying team. Surveying will be done for all components of the FRSP.
Impacts
The potential impact of surveying and pegging the road reserve is the development of insecurity
among land owners if it is perceived that the road may take up part of their lands. This impact is
likely to be significant for the proposed Kampala Bypass, the dualisation of trunk roads in
Kampala. and new alignments for existing roads.
Mitigation
TIhe surveving team should inform local leaders before they move into an area. The team must
explain the purpose of surveys to minimise insecurity, which may be felt by those who perceive
that they may lose land to the road. When the survey team has to work on lands owned bv
individuals, they must inform these owners whether the road is likely to take up part of their
lands. Procedures for receiving compensation for those who may lose land to the road must be
clearly explained.
Monitoring
The district road engineers should ensure that these consultations have taken place. Leaders of
communities in which surveys will be done should communicate any problems that may arise to
the district road engineers.
4.3 Land Acquisition
Activities
The development of the Kampala Bypass, the dualisation of urban sections of trunk roads out of
Kampala. and any new alignments on existing roads will require land which was being used for
other purposes to be acquired. Negotiations with owners and/or occupiers of such lands will have
to be done in order to agree on compensation for any adverse impact of relocation.



90
Impacts
Land acquisition has foilowing potential impacts:
i)     Loss of comnmercial/residential land. In most urban centres there is a high probability that
individuals have  built within  the  road  reserve.   These  buildings  range  from
commercial/business premises to residential houses. The quality of structures varies from
temporary to semi-permanent and permanent structures. Road construction may lead to
their removal and subsequent displacement of people and loss of property. As a result,
people who lose their residential properties may become destitute, particularly if they do
not use compensation provided to obtain alternative shelter. Another impact could be
reduced accommodation for tenants and increased rents within the neighbourhood.
ii)    Disruption of people's livelihoods. Most of roadside premises are occupied by tenants who
have no security of tenure. Some of the on-going economic activities in roadside premises
include workshops, markets and dwelling units. Once these are removed it means people's
livelihood is disrupted. Apart from loss of family income, there will also be loss of income
to urban authorities as a result of displacement/resettlement. This is so because even the
"illegal" roadside businesses are known to pay taxes/fees to the urban authorities.
iii)    Loss of agricultural lands. Among some of the more denselv populated districts, loss of
farmiand could have very severe consequences. The districts which will be mostly affected
include Mbale, Kisoro and Kabale. This is most likely to happen to the poorer households
who have small parcels of land. During up-grading of roads from murram to paved, it is
often necessary to create road diversions which often pass through peoples' farms. Apart
from disrupting farming activities, this exposes crops and livestock to external hazards such
as diseases, thefts, accidents, etc. Often times such diversions do not attract compensation
for the poor. Food insecurity, income deprivation and malnutrition also becomes an issue
for those who lose agricultural lands.
iv)    Loss of Access to Commoni Property.  Road construction may hinder or prevent access to
common property such as wells and watering holes, forests, grazing land, and ancestral or
religious shrines.
v)     Joblessness: This is more serious in urban areas. Job opportunities are likely to decrease
after the disruption of these communities and removal of their operational infrastructure
such as shops, markets and workshops. Bearing in mind that over 75% of Uganda's labour
force is involved in agriculture, the loss of jobs in rural areas is an issue when labourers
lose access to land which has been expropriated.
vi)    Social  Disarticulation:    Poorer  members  of  the  community  affected  by
resettlement/displacement may not have the social and economic resources to appeal for
help if patterns of their social organisations are dismantled. This results in psychological
stress and prolonged delays in social rehabilitation. In addition, relocation leads to the break
up of social relationships.
All the FRSP road projects have the potential to cause these impacts to some extent, particularly
in the case of the Kampala Bypass, realignments for existing roads, and widening of urban trunk
roads from 2 lanes to 4 lanes. Pavement strengthening is not likely to generate major impacts
since all the roads have road reserves within which agricultural and residential use of the land is
not permitted. Similarly upgrading of roads is not expected to cause significant impacts with
respect to loss of land, except where realignment of some sections will be done.



91
Mitigation
The iocal authorities and communitv leaders should be involved when selecting routes of
proposed new alignments. The local authorities on their part should ensure that the views of
communities regarding route selections are obtained. Once the general route has been agreed
upon. the selection of the exact road alignments should wherever possible avoid built up and
cultivated areas so as to minimise loss of both residential and cultivated lands.
Compensation is considered a mitigation measure. For expropriated properties compensation is a
constitutional requirement in Uganda whereby both property and human rights are protected. (refer
Chapter 3). Compulsory deprivation of one's property is prohibited by the Constitution except when
the acquisition is necessary for public use among other things; but such acquisition has to be
compensated for promptly, adequately and fairly. Road sector planning/development should take
this requirement into account. Compensation may be material, financial or both.
Past experience in Uganda (and particularly with respect to road development projects) highlights
legislated compensation. In this case compensation provides for the owners of property and makes
no allowance for tenants, employees, or squatters (eg. on Mitvana-Mubende road and recently on
Zana-Kibuye road). This has been unfortunate because the majority of the affected people do not
receive any form of compensation, particularly in urban areas.
RAFU/Road Agency in conjunction with the Ministry of Water, Lands and Environment (which
deals with compensation) as well as the Office of the Prime Minister (which deals with
resettlement) should be transparent when dealing with those who are likely to lose part of their
land. The local leaders should be involved during the negotiations for compensation for lands to
be taken by the road. The Ministry of Gender, Labour and Social Development should also be
involved in land acquisition and measures put in place to minimise adverse impacts, eg. to ensure
that money paid as compensation is invested properly for the general good of the affected
families.
It is therefore imperative that as part of EIA studies where compensation and relocation are
issues, detailed compensation and relocation plans are drawn up.
Acquisition of agricultural lands for the road should be done after harvesting to minimise crop
losses, and consequently food insecurity. Those who lose such lands must be given adequate
compensation and sufficient time to enable them to acquire alternative pieces of lands before the
beginning of the next agricultural season.
Most social impacts are aggravated due to lack of awareness. However, when formal measures are
put in place to inform the public about the impacts and the possible mitigation measures, the gravity
of impacts can be reduced. For example, if people who are to be displaced by a road are told well in
advance, thev can plan for relocation. For awareness programmes to be fully appreciated, they
should involve the public and take into account gender concerns.
After a road project has disrupted the livelihood of communities, the most desirable option is to
restore the incomes of the affected people. This applies for both relocated communities and those
whose assets/business have been removed. It may be done after the baseline survey undertaken
during the EIA study has identified the socio-economic factors of the disturbed community.
If some houselholds have to be relocated in order to make way for the road, they should be
relocated within the same community in order to minimise breaking of family and social
relationships.



92
Often times the construction or improvement of a road may destroy cultural or ancestral sites
leading to severe stress. Mitigation measures can include efforts to relocate cultural sites (eg. burial
grounds) after all the cultural rites have been performed. On the other hand, some ancestral sites
cannot be relocated, in which case mitigation may include arrangements for communities to visit
the sites from time to time. It may be that serious counselling can assist the affected community.
Monitoring
The environmental unit within RAFU/Road Agency should be responsible for monitoring the
compensation and resettlement processes necessitated by FRSP roads projects. Monitoring
should be done annually for a period of about three years after relocation or resettlement. Such
monitoring will require close cooperation between the Ministry of Water, Lands and
Environment, the Office of the Prime Minister and RAFU/Road Agency.
4.4 Recruitment of Labour Force
Activities
Labour will have to be recruited in order to undertake the various activities of each of the
components of the FRSP. The number of people to be employed on each road project will depend
on the scale of operation.
Impacts
The recruitment of workers may have the following potential impacts:
i)    Creation of employment opportunities;
ii)    Increase in disposable incomes for households with members employed on road projects;
iii)   Increase in social promiscuity such as gambling, drinking, and prostitution as a result of
increased disposable incomes;
iv)    Spread of diseases through the movement of workers and indulgence in promiscuous
activities;
v)    Influx of people to areas with road construction projects for the sake of securing
employment.
The significance of the above impacts will depend on the number of people to the employed for
each project. Recruitment policies such as giving preferences to members of the local community
will also determine both the magnitudes and significance of these impacts.
Mitigation
Local communities should be given first preference in the recruitment of unskilled and semi-
skilled employees. This will enhance the positive impacts of the FRSP, and minimise influx of
people seeking employment on these projects, and the associated development of unplanned
settlements. Awareness must be created within the camps with regard to health problems arising
from social promiscuity. Contractors should collaborate with health officials so that condoms are
made readily available to road construction crews. Gambling and consumption of illicit alcohol
within camps used by construction crews should be strictly prohibited. Women should be
encouraged to participate in roadworks, and this can by stipulating that women should make up a
certain percentage of the workforce, particularly for labour-based maintenance activities.



93
Monitoring
The Resident Engineer should be overall in charge of monitoring the conduct of the contractor
and his workforce. The contractor's site engineer should keep records of illnesses or abstentions
due to illness among the road construction workers. Local health officials should also keep
similar records. District engineers should liaise with the police in monitoring criminal activities
that may be associated with road construction workers, eg. assaults, thefts. gambling. These
records will assist in determining the effectiveness of mitigation measures, or emergence of
impacts that were not initially predicted when ElAs were done for these roads.
4.5 Plant and Eguipment Sites, Materials Stores and Accommodation Sites
Activities
Road activities will require sites where plant, equipment and construction material can be safely
stored. These may be temporary or permanent road maintenance or construction camps. Plant and
equipment such as crushers, asphalt plants, haulage trucks, trailers. etc, will need to be located at
a specific site. Materials that require storage are cement, lime, bitumen, oils, lubricants, petrol,
diesel, explosives, sand, aggregates, gravel, traffic signs, guard rails, concrete products (kerbs,
culverts, marker posts, etc), road marking paints, and bitumen adhesives. In addition, employees
engaged during road construction may need accommodation depending on whether they have
been recruited from local communities or distant places.
Impacts
Setting aside land for plant and equipment sites, material storage and accommodation of workers
will need temporary acquisition of land which may be used for other beneficial purposes.
Bitumen preparation of bitumen and maintenance of vehicles will result in spillage of fuels and
bitumen will impair the usefulness of these sites. Materials, oils and lubricants washed away
from storage sites has the potential to contaminate water. Solid waste will be generated at both
storage sites and accommodation camps, which could reduce the aesthetic appeal of these areas,
and contaminates water bodies. Poor sanitation at camps accommodating road construction
crews will also lead to the contamination of water bodies. There will also be an increased
demand for fuelwood.
Mitigation
Plant and equipment sites, materials stores and accommodation camps should not be sited on
land whicih in future could be used for agricultural purposes. Floors of temporary worksilops
should be lined with concrete to avoid percolation of spilled oils and fuels into groundwater.
Used oil should be collected for recycling rather than disposed into pits.
Facilities for collection and the safe disposal of litter should be provided at both sites, workshops
and camps. All road construction crews should be under strict instructions that both solid and
liquid wastes must be disposed into designated facilities. Routine inspections aimed at assessing
the effectiveness of waste management systems should be undertaken by the contractor's site
engineer and  the  Resident Engineer, reporting  to  the  environmental  units  in  the
MOWHC/RAFU/Road Agency. Proper toilet facilities should be provided at workshops,
accommodation camps and at quarries and borrow pits.



94
For those road construction projects whicih will have a significant number of workers who have
to be accommodated at camps, the contractor should provide sources of energy for domestic
purposes. This could be in the form of firewood obtained from sources approved by the Forest
Department, paraffin or electricity.
Monitoring
The contractor's site engineer, the Resident Engineer, district road engineer, district
environmental officer, and health officials will need to monitor that agreed standards of waste
management and sanitation are being abided with. This will require routine inspections, which
may be done once every month or 3 months depending on the duration of road construction.
4.6 Land Cleariniz
Activities
In the case of new roads such as the Kampala Bypass and new alignments on existing roads,
clearing will often involve demolishing structures and cutting vegetation growing along tihe road.
Improvement of the pavement and upgrading of a road will involve cutting of trees and bushes in
some sections, and demolishing structures that may have encroached onto the road reserve. All
materials cleared from the road will need to be disposed of.
Impacts
Clearing of land during pavement strengthening and upgrading of roads is not likelv to cause
major and significant impacts as this will be done within the existing road reserve. However, the
widening of those roads which will be converted from 2 to 4 lane roads, and clearing during the
construction of the Kampala Bypass or where a new road alignment is required. will have the
potential to cause the following significant impacts.  These include loss of vegetation,
destruction of plant and animal habitats; loss of species of medicinal, economic, or
nutritional value; destruction of existing infrastructure, eg. buildings, electrical transmission
lines, telephone lines, water and waste water pipelines;
Mitigation
Loss of vegetation can be minimised by avoiding protected areas, forests (gazetted or otherwise
important forests) and wetlands.
Rare and/or endangered plant and animals species found along the road should be relocated, if
possible, or an alternative route should be suggested to preserve these species. Seeds of rare
and/or endangered plant species should be collected and submitted for storage at the national
herbarium. Plants of medicinal and economic value should be salvaged and given to local
communities.
Monitoring
The contractor's site engineer and the Resident Engineer will have to monitor that only plants
within the road construction area are cleared. This will require that trees which should be cut are
first marked using paint before this has been done. The district road engineers, district
environmenltal officers, and Forest Department need to independently monitor clearance of
vegetation.



95
4.7 Ouarries and Borrow Pits
Activities
Hardstone and gravel have to be extracted for the sub-base, base and surfacing in road
construction and improvement. Locations of quarry sites are identified at the planning stage.
Owners of properties on which potential sites for hardstone and gravel quarries have been
identified are first informed about the intention to obtain the material from their properties. If
these owners are agreeable to this, then a survey of the quality and quantity of the stone and
gravel that is available at each site is conducted. Negotiations will then be undertaken with each
of the property owners for an acceptable compensation level, and the rehabilitation process on
completion of excavation.
During excavation, all the vegetation is cleared and stacked for use by the land owner. Grass and
topsoil are stripped and stockpiled for use during rehabilitation of gravel quarry sites. Then
extraction and stockpiling of overburden is done.
Borrow material is used where the amount of material obtained from cuts cannot cover the
sections of fills, and low-lying areas such as swamps. Consequently, borrow pits are often
identified during construction. When a potential site for borrow material has been identified,
negotiations with the relevant land owner will be conducted so as to agree on compensation, and
the rehabilitation process. Thereafter, trees are cut followed by stripping of topsoil. Fill quality
material will then be excavated and stockpiled.
Impacts
The establishment of quarries and borrow pits may cause conflicts between road agencies and
owners of properties on which these quarries/pits will be developed. Property owners may
perceive the MOWHC/RAFU/Road Agency or its contractors of being unfair or exploitative
when determining compensation.
Clearing of vegetation for gravel pits will cause some loss of vegetation. The significance of this
loss of vegetation depends on how valuable the vegetation was on the affected properties; for
example if clearing will lead to loss of important habitats, an increase in soil erosion, or loss of
firewood sources.
Excavation causes noise and dust pollution, leading to discomfort and an increase in respiratory
infections.
Collection of water in quarries gravel pits may facilitate breeding of disease causing vectors.
However, in semi-arid regions, exhausted quarries and gravel pits can be used to harvest water
for irrigation of crops, or as a watering pan for livestock.
Mitigation
Owners of land on which quarries and borrow pits will be developed have to be adequately
compensated. RAFU/Road Agency and the contractors should deal with those who will be
adversely affected in a transparent and fair manner. Local leaders should also be involved during
the negotiations for compensation, so as to avoid individuals from misinforming other members
of these communities. The clearing of vegetation at these sites should be restricted to the area
where actual excavations will take place. Therefore before vegetation clearance is done, trees that
have to be felled should be marked.



96
Quarries and borrow pits should be restored or rehabilitated to in as far as is possible to their
original conditions. This will require backfilling or smootheninig of side slopes and landscaping.
For those property owners who wish to use these pits for collecting water or for future
excavation, side slopes of these pits must be smoothened and the quarry/pit perimeter fenced.
The dangers associated with the breeding of vectors causing diseases in these pits must be fully
explained to the owners and the local community.
Monitoring
The district road engineers, Resident Engineers and district environmental officers will have to
monitor that property owners are compensated for material taken from their lands and that agreed
rehabilitation processes for quarries and borrow pits have been followed by the contractors.
4.8 Access roads
Activities
If quarries, borrow areas, and construction camps are not served by existing roads. then
temporary access roads will have to be constructed. Where quarries and borrow pits occur oii
privately owned land, negotiations with the relevant land owners have to be done so as to agree
on the locations, method of construction, and rehabilitation of these access roads.
The construction of access roads may entail:
i)     shiifting fences,
ii)    clearing of vegetation and stripping topsoil,
iii)    grading and shaping to enable shedding of water,
iv)    formation of temporary side drains and offshoots, and installation of cross culverts if
necessary,
v)     compaction of existing ground or of an improvement layer.
When an access road is no longer required. it will be obliterated by ripping the ground to
facilitate revegetation without encouraging soil erosion.
Impacts
The construction and use of access roads may cause the loss of vegetation, erosion of soils, and
reduction of water quality through deposition of materials washed away from the road surface
and drains.
The magnitude and significance of these impacts will partly depend on the extent of vegetation
covered and prevailing soils erosion rates in the project area.
Mitigation
Existing roads and tracks should be used wherever possible as access roads in order to minimise
clearance of vegetation. Land with steep slopes should be avoided when constructing access
roads. Erosion checks (such as stone pitching, scour checks, check dams and/or maintaining a
grass cover within drains) should be constructed in drains along access roads.



97
Adverse effects on water quality due to the delivery of soils eroded along access roads are best
minimised by preventing soil erosion along these roads. When these access roads are no longer in
use, they should be rehabilitated by loosening the soil through ripping, and planting grass to
prevent soil erosion.
Monitoring
The Resident Engineer should ensure that these mitigation measures are put in place by the
contractor, and that rehabilitation is done.
4.9 Earthworks
Activities
Earthworks which will be done when upgrading a road may include:
i)     Clearing of vegetation and stripping of topsoil over the area within the road reserve lying
between the edges of the existing road and those of the road prism to be constructed;
ii)    Grading, shaping and compacting the existing ground in some sections to receive
selected sub-grade;
iii)    Excavating and filling some sections followed by compaction to improve the vertical
profile;
iv)    Formation of side drains, and offshoots before laying and compacting the existing (in
situ) or improved (imported) sub-grade.
With respect to pavement strengthening, earthworks may include the above activities, and in
addition the following activities will be undertaken:
i)     Scarification of the existing shoulder material, to determine its suitability for pavement
strengthening, and if found unsuitable addition of new materials or chemical stabilisers
such as lime;
ii)    Widening of the road shoulder;
iii)    Widening of embankments on some sections by benching into the existing ground and
building up in layers using fill quality material from borrow areas;
iv)    Scarification of the existing bituminous surfacing and failed pavement layers in some
sections before adding and mixing in the new materials. Chemical stabilisation of some
materials and adding water before compaction;
v)     Carrying out isolated base repairs, by excavating  localised areas with unsuitable
materials, and replacing this with imported gravel, followed by stabilisation and
compaction;
vi)    Scarifying the existing bituminous surfacing and mixing it with base material and
stabiliser to form an overlay over some sections;
vii)   Some sections of the road may require to have the geometry of the vertical profile
improved which in the case of elimination or reduction of sag curves entail construction
of earthworks over the existing paved road layer before laying of pavement layers.
The activities that are likely to be undertaken during the dualisation of trunk roads in urban areas
and construction of the Kampala Bypass are given below:
i)     Clearing of vegetation and stripping of topsoil over the corridor within which the
second carriageway or the alignment for the Bypass will be accommodated;



98
ii)    Excavating the road formation in cuts and then use this material if suitable to
form the compacted embankments layers;
iii)    Excavating to spoil material that is unsuitable to form the road bed and replacing
it with suitable materials from cuts or borrow areas which is compacted in
layers;
iv)    Excavating side drains, catchwater drains, offshoots, outfall drains, and
foundations of other drainage structures;
v)     Scarifying and compacting the existing material if suitable to form the sub-grade in cuts
or laying and compacting selected sub-grade materials. Scarifying and compacting the
existing material if suitable to form the sub-grade in cuts or laying and compacting
selected sub-grade materials.
Impacts
Earthworks have several potential impacts. Excavation can lead to soil erosion. Stockpiles of
earth and cutting and filling can destroy vegetation. Rolling boulders can endanger human life
and property. Such an impact is likely to arise when developing new alignments in hilly areas for
those roads that will be upgraded, eg. along the Sironko-Muyembe-Kapchorwa-Suam Road.
Earthworks on prominent relief features, particularly in mountainous regions such as those
occurring along the Sironko-Muyembe-Kapchorwa-Suam Road and the Kabale-Kisoro-Bunagana
Road, may mar the landscape.
Cutting in hilly areas may create unstable slopes which may cause landslides. Washing away of
soil from stockpiles and various other spoil materials into rivers will reduce the quality of water
thirough increased turbidity. Haulage trucks moving along undesignated routes are likely to
compact the soil. This will reduce the infiltration capacity and promote surface flow, and
consequently soil wash.
Blasting and movement of haulage trucks will increase prevailing noise levels, especially in
densely populated areas. If such noise occurs at night, near schools and hospitals, it could have
negative and major social impacts.
Dust generated by the excavation works and movement of haulage trucks on unpaved roads near
settlements has the potential to stain household goods and cause eye and respiratory infections.
Deposition of dust on horticultural crops will impair their growth and quality.
Earthworks can damage archaeological, historical and cultural sites. This may arise during
construction of any new alignments on roads that will be upgraded, the Kampala Bypass, and
widening of 2 lane to 4 lane roads. Religious sites and buildings of historical importance are very
vulnerable to this impact in urban areas such as Kampala, and all other towns in which road
works will be done during the FRSP.
Mitigation
Stockpiles of earth should not be placed where there is vegetation, particularly young plants
whicih have been planted deliberately. Cuts should not exceed the angle of repose which could
lead to rock falls, slips, and landslides. Where rock falls, slips, and landslides are likely to occur,
unstable materials should be removed from these slopes. Grouting can improve the stability of
unstable slopes.



99
Roads used by haulage trucks during construction should wherever possible be located away
from schools, and hospitals. These haulage trucks and other heavy road construction vehicles
(caterpillars, dumper trucks) should not be used at night in residential areas. The use of exhaust
brakes should be prohibited in built up areas.
Gravel roads used by haulage trucks during road construction should be sprinkled with water to
minimise dust emission if these roads are located within settlements.
The Kampala Bypass and new alignments on existing roads should avoid archaeological,
historical and cultural sites, wetlands, protected areas and forest reserves.  Whlere this is
unavoidable, then relevant experts must be consulted to develop the best solution. All road
construction workers must be under strict instruction that once archaeological materials have
been found during earthworks, no further work should be done until the permission from the
Department of Tourism, Wildlife and Antiquities has been obtained.
Where earthworks have disturbed the landscape, it must be restored, as far as is possible, to its
original state, particularly in scenic areas.
Monitoring
Ensuring the earthworks are carried out in an environmentally and socially acceptable manner is
the responsibility of the Resident Engineer, or the district engineer in the case of maintenance
works. The environmental units in MOWHC/RAFU/Road Agency should oversee that this is
done satisfactorily.
4.10 Surfacin2
Activities
Surfacing of roads will be done so as to:
i)     protect the pavement from ingress of water which would weaken it;
ii)    provide a smooth and skid resistant riding surface;
iii)    arrest further deterioration of an existing bituminous surfacing which is often evident
from cracks, loss of chippings and the formation of potholes; and
iv)    provide a dust free riding surface.
Surfacing of roads will mostly entail application of a single or double surface treatment on roads
with light traffic, or an application of an asphalt concrete wearing course on heavily trafficked
roads, eg. the Bypass and dualised roads in Kampala. Prior to the application of the surfacing, a
bituminous prime coat is applied on the base layer. Application of a surface treatment involves
spraying hot bitumen on the road surface followed by placing single size aggregates which range
in size from 6 to 20 mm. Bitumen is heated using either electricity, firewood, diesel or gas.
The application of an asphalt surfacing involves spraying a thin film of tar coat followed by the
laying of a hot mixture of aggregates, filler, and bituminous binder prepared at predetermined
proportions mostly in a stationary plant.



100
Impacts
Crushing plants emit substantial amounts of dust. and are also very noisy. Dust may lead to
respiratory disorders (particularly for workers), while noise is an irritant.
Firewood used to heat bitumen may deplete the amount of firewood available for use by the
local community. Heating of bitumen may lead to burning of vegetation due to accidental fires.
Preparation of bitumen also presents hazards to the workers handling it, in terms of fumes and
the risk of hot bitumen spilling on them. The transportation of heated bitumen on roads used by
the public creates a hazard to the other vehicular traffic.
Mitigation
The use of firewood for heating bitumen should be prohibited. If this is unavoidable, contractors
should consult the Forest Department about acceptable sources of firewood. Contractors should
not obtain firewood for this purpose from forests reserves used by local communities for their
firewood supply.
Workers handling bitumen or working on crushing plants should be provided with protective gear
such as ear muffs and face masks. Crushing and asphalt plants should be sited down wind of
settlements, wherever possible. If this is not possible (as in the case of roads traversing through
urban areas), then the residents near the plant sites should be told of the intention to site the
plants at particular locations.
When heated bitumen is being transported on roads open to the public, waming signs should be
placed on vehicles moving this bitumen. In hilly areas where the sight of these vehicles may be
hindered. warning signs should be placed along the road indicating the presence of vehicles
moving heated bitumen.
Monitoring
The Resident Engineer and district road engineer should ensure that contractors take heed of
recommended mitigation measures. Crushing and asphalt plants should be visited regularly for
inspection.
4.11 Bridges and Culverts
Activities
During the strengthening of pavements, upgrading of roads, widening of 2 to 4 lane roads, there
may be a need to repair, replace or modify existing bridges and culverts. Bridges and culverts
may have to be widened. In the case of the Kampala Bypass or realignments, new bridges and
culverts will have to be constructed.
Impacts
The construction of bridges and culverts may cause overflowing of channel banks if the
structures are inadequately designed, and therefore cause water logging which may damage
cultivated lands if they are affected. Flow velocities may reduce resulting in deposition of
sediments, and thereby causing changes to the channel profile. Conversely, the reduction of the
channel width would flow velocities to increase and subsequent scouring of the channel.



101
Bridges that are submerged during high flows pose a hazard to those who may want to cross
them.
Within wetlands such as those that are crossed by the Tirinyi-Pallisa Road and the Mbale-Pallisa
Road, bridges and culverts that do not adequately accommodate flow will increase water levels
upstream of the road, and therefore cause widening of wetlands. Downstream of the bridges or
culverts, water levels may reduce and consequently cause shrinking of the wetlands.
Mitigation
All the above-mentioned impacts would not occur if the bridges or culverts did not hinder the
flow of water below or through them. Therefore bridges and culverts must be designed to
accommodate design floods. Bridges should ideally be oriented perpendicular to the flowing
water so as to avoid restriction to flow of water. Where river banks are erodible, gabions and
other measures to minimise erosion should be put in place.  Culverts must  be levelled
appropriately so that they are self-cleaning.
Where a bridge is likely to be overtopped frequently staff gaugyes indicating water depth above
the bridge should be erected so as to warn those who may be tempted to cross flooded bridges.
Monitoring
Resident Engineers and district road engineers should undertake routine inspections of chaninel
conditions at bridges and culverts to determine any possible occurrence of erosion and deposition
of materials within channels.
4.12 Drains
Activities
For existing roads, drains may need cleaning, widening, and strengthening against erosion. On
new roads such as the Kampala Bypass and dual carriageway roads, drainage requirements may
entail the provision of the following drainage facilities:
Catchwater drains    are constructed away from the road and collect runoff before it gets to
the road.
French drains        are sub-surface structures which drain water under the road and away
from it.
Kerb drains          are erected along the edges of the road surfacing in area with high fills,
and drain runoff from the road, down the side slopes using chutes.
Mitre drains         are sometimes referred to as offshoots. They drain water away from the
side drains.
Side drains          run parallel and adjacent to the road. They drain water from the road and
adjacent lands, and dispose it away from the road.



102
Impacts
Drains commonly cause soil erosion and subsequent development of gullies due to high flow
velocities along them. Gully formation along side drains presents a hazard to traffic, human
and animal lives. In addition, gullies may erode the road structure itself. Discharge of sediments
eroded from drains reduces water quality by increasing turbidity.
Inadequate drainage may lead to flooding of agricultural lands and homesteads; this  is
sometimes also caused by discharge from offshoots.
Drains may interfere with access to properties. particularly where they are deep and no
provision has been made for crossing them.
Mitigation
Soil erosion checks should be put in place where ever necessary along drains. These checks
include scour checks, paving of drains, stone pitching at inlets and outlets to culverts,
stabilisation basins. Offshoots should not discharge into agricultural lands and homesteads, and
the construction of infiltration ditches must be considered as an alternative.  However, if
offshoots must discharge onto agricultural or private land, then provision must be made for the
safe discharge of water (for example by constructing artificial waterways).
The deterioration of the water quality due to the discharge of eroded soils into rivers is best
avoided by preventing soil erosion within road drains.
Monitoring
The Resident Engineers/district road engineer should ensure that all these measures are put in
place before contractors are certified to have completed road construction. When the road is
operational, the district road engineer should routinely inspect drains for any soil erosion or
siltation that mav be taking place within them.
4.13 Diversions
Activities
When road construction is being conducted on an existing road, traffic will need to be diverted
into other roads if these exist. Where diversion roads are non-existent, one lane of the road under
rehabilitation would have to be closed to traffic while work is taking place on the other. If this is
not possible a temporary diversion road may be constructed within the road reserve. In some
cases temporary diversion roads may have to be put up on lands that are privately owned.
Negotiations with the relevant land owners will have to be undertaken regarding construction
procedure, rehabilitation, and compensation.
Impacts
Diversions ma' necessitate the clearing of vegetation.
On roads witih heavy traffic. detours may cause traffic congestion and therefore increase travel
times. Traffic congestion, and detours on unpaved roads will also generate noise and air



103
pollution from exhaust fumes. Diversions which are not adequately sign posted can increase
traffic accidents. Detours along existing roads may lead to increased accidents involving locals
especially the elderly and children who need to adjust to the sudden increase in traffic flow.
Unplanned diversions mav cause soil erosion and subsequent formation of gullies.
Mitigation
Wherever possible, diversions should utilise existing roads. If this is unavoidable. then trees
should only be cut within that portion required for the road only. On completion of road
construction, these detour roads should be rehabilitated by ripping and planting grass.
In areas with high volumes of traffic, warning signs of the presence of diversions should be
placed along the road where there are still opportunities for road users to use alternative roads.
Diversion roads or detours should be selected so that they can handle anticipated peak traffic
without causing unreasonable delays to traffic.
Monitoring
The Resident Engineer and district road engineer should routinely monitor problems that may
arise due to diversion roads. This will require having open lines of communication with leaders
of communities which are affected by these diversion roads.
4.14 Rehabilitation/Restoration
The nature of the rehabilitation to be undertaken will depend on the damage caused to various
environmental attributes. Traditionally rehabilitation, which is sometimes referred to as final
clearance, involves the following activities:
i)     Demolishing temporary structures put up during road construction, eg. worksliops.
ii)    Cleaning of sites used for storing road construction materials, and temporary camps used
for accommodating road construction workers.
iii)    Disposal of bitumen wastes.
iv)    Smoothening and landscaping of borrow pits and in some cases backfilling them using
spoil materials.
v)     Backfilling and landscaping gravel pits where this had been agreed upon with land
owners.
vi)    Covering boulders and stones exposed during road construction.
vii)    Ripping and re-vegetating temporary access roads.
4.15 Impacts on Women
The impacts described above will affect men, women and children. Thus when planning mitigation
measures due consideration should be given to men, women and children. If this is done.
disadvantaged groups especially women can benefit from the implementation of impact mitigation
measures.
The following areas will be of direct benefit to women if affirmative action is taken.



104
i)     Emplovment Opportunities. Plantinp of embankments, grubbing, and mulching can provide
employment opportunities for women.. In addition at camp sites women can be emploved
to cook for the workforce. maintain the campsite, improve sanitation in the camp, restore
the campsite after use to its original condition (as far as is possible). etc. A deliberate policy
to employ women is required during the construction, maintenance and management of
roads.
ii)    Health.  As mitigation against the spread of infectious diseases especially sexually
transmitted diseases, employees may be subjected to regular health examinations. Women
employed on the road projects can also take advantage of these measures to improve on1
their health as well as that of their children.
iii)    Road Safety. During and after road construction, it is recommended that cycle paths, foot
paths, road signs and road furniture are put in place and communities should be sensitized
to use them. This will directly benefit children and their mothers who are the most frequent
pedestrian users of the road facility.
iv)    Local Production Stimulation. Improved roads stimulate increased production which in turn
increases tasks for women. The introduction of non-motorized transport eg. donkevs to
transport produce to the markets, would enhance this impact, while decreasing the work
load on women.



105
5. PUBLIC PARTICIPATION IN ROAD SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
5.1 Public Involvement in Road Sector Development
Community involvement is an essential element of environmental management of roads. It is
necessary therefore to develop procedures and skills for informing the public and other interested
parties about proposed road projects. Consultation and participation should be used to include the
community in the decision-making process.
There are a number of advantages which accrue from public involvement. These include the
following:
*  Non-technical factors in the assessment of environmental factors will be highlighted. This
removes problems which could be experienced in road project implementation through lack of
timely consultation.
*  Public consultation dispels rumours and negative publicity resulting from information which
reaches the public through informal channels. Information is often general and frequently
inaccurate, unless it has come through a public involvement programme.
*  Public consultation helps to disseminate information which can be the basis of constructive
dialogue between road proponents and other stakeholders.
*  It gives the community an opportunity to make an input.
*  In some cases, public consultation can reduce the incidence of involuntary resettlement to
voluntary resettlement. The main objective in relocation programmes is to reduce forced
resettlement as much as possible.
*  It identifies the different roles played by men and women in environmental road management
programmes.
Public participation highlights the plight of disadvantaged groups whose voice would not have
been heard. In resettlement programmes women and other individuals who live on community
property are more adversely affected by resettlement.
*  It assists in identifying alternative road designs for reducing resettlement.
*  It identifies local machinery through which resettlement and compensation arrangements can be
handled.
On the other hand, failure to involve the public can be counterproductive, especially to the
community. Among the negative social impacts, the following are more common to those who
have been resettled or displaced:-
Landlessness: Land expropriation takes away the foundation upon which social and economic
production systems are constructed.



106
* Joblessness: This affects both urban and rural resettlers. The dual carriageway in Kampala and
the roads to be constructed through other urban centres are likely to disrupt shopkeepers, shop-
workers and small business men and women.
* Homelessness: For the same reasons as above some families may remain homeless for long
periods if resettlement programmes are not community responsive through public participation
and consultation.
* Marginalisation: If roads pass through farms they can make them economically not viable.
Owners of such farms if they were not involved in public participation would feel marginalised.
This can lead to food insecurity.
5.2 Public Involvement and Gender Concerns in Road Sector Management
A recent study (ref. Elizabeth Kharono, unpublished) on the DANIDA supported road construction
programmes in Uganda did reveal that a number of omissions existed with respect to public
participation and gender concerns. In the earlier planning and design phases there had been
consultations with people, especially at the district level, but no gender analysis was carried out and
subsequently no gender desegregated data was obtained. Although the targeted group included all
the people in the districts where the feeder road projects operated, they were not categorized by
gender. The study concluded that although the projects were on feeder roads construction and
maintenance and included sensitisation of the district leaders, the implications of the project on
women and women's situation was not addressed. A number of other gaps existed, including the
following:
- the gender perspective does not consistently run through the whole process of analysis and
recommended actions;
• there is an obvious absence of recommendations which specifically address gender
considerations;
* the proposed recruitment process for workers, contractors and technical staff does not include
measures to increase participation by women.
The National Environment Management Authority (NEMA) provides guidelines and procedures for
public participation and involvement in the overall EIA processes. Unfortunately, these guidelines
are gender neutral. For example the involvement of women in the process is not highlighted. There
is provision for holding public hearings. Participants in public hearings are not necessarily gender
balanced. The foregoing is not in line with the requirements of the Local Government Statute 1995
which address gender imbalances so as to increase the involvement of the communities in decision
making and improving delivery of services.
On the other hand the World Bank Environmental Assessment Sourcebook stipulates that
participation is an involuntary process in which people, including marginal groups such as the poor,
women and minorities, come together with project authorities.



107
6. ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS IN MOWHC DOCUMENTATION
6.1 Provisions for Environmental Consideration
The importance of environmental consideration at all stages of the road project cycle is clearly
brought up by the existence of provisions for protecting the environment in the MOWTC's Road
Design Manual and Maintenance Manual, and in tender documents including the General
Specifications for Road and Bridge Works.
In this chapter, the existing provisions regarding environmental issues in the MOWTC's standard
documents including the Conditions of Contract are highlighted so that road engineers involved
in environmental management as well as EIA practitioners can use this chapter as a reference.
These provisions are presented in tabular form for ease of reference.
The contents of this chapter intend to impart a sound understanding of environmental issues that
affect road works by emphasising on:
i)    the importance of incorporating environmental mitigation  measures during  the
preparation of the detailed design of a road project;
ii)    the inclusions of details of the contractor's obligations vis-a-vis protecting the
environment during preparation of contract documents for road construction/maintenance
works.
iii)   the need to have in the Bill of Quantities, for costing purposes, explicit items for
environmental mitigation measures.
iv)    the need for inclusion of special clauses in the road construction/maintenance
supervision contract committing the consultant responsible for supervision to undertake
and ensure, in the same way as for the contractor, that all directives, legislation and
specific clauses in the contractor's contract concerning environmental protection and
improvement are complied with.
Thus in addition to listing the relevant environmental clauses, suggestions have made for
additional clauses that should be included in these documents in order to enhance their
environmental content.



Table 6.1:    Road( Design Manual: Environmental Aspects
PROPOSED
SECTION                ITEM                                  EXISTING PROVISIONS                                   ADDITIONS
4.GEOMETRIC         4.1 INTRODUCTION       Design standard adopted must take into account the environmental road
DESIGN                                     conditions.
4.2 SELECTION OF       Selection of design standards is related to road function ,volume of traffic and   For roads passing through
DESIGN STANDARDS  terrain , with additional procedures for the recognition and appropriate    environmentally sensitive
treatment of potential hazards. Special signing will only be necessary where the  areas, the cross-section
information available to the driver may lead to incorrect interpretation and  can be modified to reduce
consequent danger.                                                    the impact by using
narrower widths, lower
Cross-section parameters are related to traffic flows of all types, and will vary   vertical alignments,
with the requirements of vehicular traffic and with the needs of pedestrians and  smaller cuts and fills and
non-motorised traffic vehicles.                                       flatter side slopes.
Providing longer sight
lines for drivers will
reduce collisions with
animals.
4.6 PROVISION FOR    Two features which are recommended where large numbers of non-motorised    Allowance for cycle and
NON-MOTORISED          users travel on the shoulders are:                                     footpaths complete with
TRAFFIC                                                                                       safety fences should be
*  The shoulders should be sealed                                     made in the design.
*  They should be clearly segregated by the use of edge of carriageway  Traffic signs prohibiting
surface markings or other measures.                                parking on the shoulders
should be catered for.



PROPOSED
SECTION                 ITEM                                   EXISTING PROVISIONS                                     ADDITIONS
4.12 SAFETY             Non-motorised traffic shotild normally be segregated onto sealed shoulders of   Provision of parking bays
appropriate width. Clear delineation is essential and may be achieved by road    at all major centres to
markings , use of different coloured surface, surface texture or kerb features.    discourage heavy vehicles
from parking on the road
Kerb features may include edge strips or intermittent placement of slightly  or roadside particularly at
raised blocks. They must be clearly marked and should only be introduced on    night. These parking bays
roads of Design Class I and 11, ie. Bitumen roads in Category A (Primary  should be provided just
roads)and Category B (Secondary roads)                                   outside major settlements
to avoid disturbance.
Traffic on the approach to crossing facilities, or through villages where many
crossing pedestrian movements are concentrated may be slowed down by the    Provision for the
use of road humps or other pavement features like rumble strips.         introduction of behaviour
modifiers, such as noise
Shoulder width must reflect the characteristic of these non-motorised traffic  producing textures,
using it.                                                                especially when
approaching or going
Design features should be such that the effects of a driver loosing control and   through an
swerving off the road will be minimised by:                              environmentally or
sociologically sensitive
*  not having steep open side drains                                     area, or a hazardous
section.
*  not having trees planted immediately adjacent to the road.
Provision for overhead
*  having guard-rails installed only at sites of known accidents risks because   footbridges or
of their high installation and maintenance costs.                    underpasses/tunnels.
Provision for the
widening of bridges to
provide for segregated
footpaths.



PROPOSED
SFsCTION               ITEM                                 EXISTING PROVISIONS                                  ADDITIONS
6.ROAD              6.1 GENERAL            Road Furniture represents a collection of marginal elements intended to  The public should be
FURNITURE                                  improve the driver's perception and comprehension of the continually changing  sensitised on the need to
appearance of the road.                                              maintain the road
furniture.
6.2 TRAFFIC            Traffic islands are generally included in the design for the following purposes:  The kerbs defining the
ISLANDS                                                                                     traffic islands should be
*  separation of conflicts                                           cleatly painted so that
they are visible.
* control of angle of conflict
* reduction of excessive pavement areas
* regulation of traffic and indication of proper use of junction
* arrangements to favour a predominant turning movement
* protection of pedestrians
* protection and storage of turning vehicles
* location of traffic signs.
6.3 KERBS              The edging to vehicle paths at junctions, bus-stops or parking bays can be  Delineating kerbs to be
clearly marked by the use of kerbs.                                   clearly painted so that
they are visible.
Where there is a footpath or cycle track alongside the carriageway a continuous
edge kerb combined with a reflectorised line is recommended.



PROPOSED
SECTION                 ITEM                                  EXISTING PROVISIONS                                    ADDITIONS
6.4 MARKER POSTS    Marker posts are intended to make drivers aware of potential hazards such as    Having marker posts with
abrupt changes in shoulder width, abrupt changes in the alignment ,approaches  reflectors installed on
to structures etc. They assist in a timely perception of the alignment and when   sections of road going
equipped with reflectors, provide good optical guidance at night.      through animal habitats
would by their reflectivity
at night help to keep the
animals away from the
path of motorists.
6.5 SAFETY FENCES    A safety fence shall be provided at sections or point of traffic hazard, such as    To lower the impact of
fixed objects along the edge of the shoulder, high fills, steep side slopes at  road noise, noise barriers
escarpments or along water courses etc., where the hazard of hitting the safety  in the form of earth-
fence is considered a desirable substitute for a more serious accident.  mounds or walls of wood,
live fences e.g. euphorbia
and cypress, metal, or
concrete could be
employed to form a solid
obstacle between the road
and roadside
communities
6.6 OTHER FENCES        By having them on the edges of the road reserve they serve the purpose of
AND GATES               controlling access to developments and preventing encroachment of the road
reserve by these developments.



PROPOSED
SECTION                ITEM                                  EXISTING PROVISIONS                                   ADDITIONS
6.7 TRAFFIC SIGNS      Traffic signs should provide essential information to drivers for their safe and   Traffic signs prohibiting
AND ROAD               efficient manoeuvring on the road. Road markings delineate the pavement  hunting, warning of the
MARKINGS               edges and thereby clarify the paths that vehicles are to follow. Traffic sign road  dangers of fires and of
marking plans should be prepared, withi reference to the Manual for Traffic  animals crossing the road
Signs in Uganda, as an integral part of the design process.           and forbidding vehicles
to stop should be erected
on stretches of road going
through the Parks, Forest
Reserves and Protected
Areas.



PROPOSED
SECTION                ITEM                                   EXISTING PROVISIONS                                   ADDITIONS
8 HYDROLOGY         8.2 BASIC POLICY ON  The basic policy followed in the design of road drainage is as follows:   Provision for the digging
AND DRAINAGE    DRAINAGE DESIGN                                                                                    of infiltration ditches and
a) In rural areas, soils and physical features permitting, the road shall be  soak-pits within the road
drained into the road reserve,                                     reserve if water cannot be
discharged into lower
b) Where natural watercourse and drainage channel exists the road reserve  catchment.
shall be drained directly into them,
Provision for erosion
c) Where conditions necessitate drainage beyond the reserve, additional land   protection works on the
shall be acquired for the necessary drainage channels, but this should be  outfall drains beyond the
the exception rather than the rule,                                 road reserve and
acquisition of land for the
same should be made to
cover distances upto
where safe discharge can
be made.
8.4 HYDRAULIC          Scour of the drainage structures can be eliminated by the effective use of:
CULVERTS
a) gabion mattresses
b) handplaced or dumped rip-rap
c) stone pitching (plain or grouted)
d) concrete (in situ or interlocking blocks.)
e) cut off wall at the culvert exit.



PROPOSED
SECTION                 ITEM                                  EXISTING PROVISIONS                                    ADDITIONS
8.5 DRAINAGE OF        The control of stormwater from the road surface should be by means of    The channels that carry
THE ROAD PRISM.         channels and gutters, while catch water drains, mitre banks and berms are used  water originating from
outside the road prism.                                                 the road prism to beyond
the road reserve
Drainage channels                                                       boundaries, should be
designed as part of the
These include gutters ( formed by kerbs and asphalt berns), chutes, side drain   drainage system of the
ditches, toes of fill channels, channels formed by catch water berms and mitre   road in order to
banks.                                                                  avoid/reduce the damage
eg. sedimentation,
The amount of erosion control and maintenance can be minimised largely by    erosion etc. that they
the use of:                                                             cause on the features into
which they discharge.
a) flat side slopes, rounded and blended with the natural terrain
By constructing
b) mitre banks and berms                                                intercepting ditches,
bypass channels, settling
c) protective coverings such as concrete lining, stone pitching, grass sodding   ponds etc., muddy water
and hydroseeding.                                                    from de-watering work
Alternatively rock cut offs acting as weirs could be installed in the channel at   shall be prevented from
regular intervals. A drainage channel should be graded to produce velocities  entering into streams,
that neither erode nor cause deposition in the channel.                 flowing or dry
Drainage of Road Pavement                                               rivercourses, lakes and
underground water
High fills should be provided with asphalt type berms or concrete kerb and  courses.
channel combinations to prevent erosion of the fill slopes. Water collecting
along such gutters should be discharged at regular intervals into open chutes
down the fill slope. Pipes chtites are not favoured.



PROPOSED
SECTION                  ITEM                                     EXISTING PROVISIONS                                      ADDITIONS
8.6 SUBSURFACE           The aim of subsurface drainage is the removal of detrimental quantities of  Ensure water is drained
DRAINAGE                 ground water to ensure stable road bed and side slope conditions.           to safe recipient body so
as not to cause impacts
Two types of subsurface drain may be necessary in road construction:        e.g. soil erosion at
discharge point.
* Pipe Subsurface Drains
* Stabilisation Trenches.



Table 6.2:    MOWTC's General Specifications For Road And Bridge Works Vol. IIIA, 1992
SECTION                  CLAUSE                            EXISTING PROVISIONS                                 PROPOSED ADDITIONS
1200                   1213-Contractor's activities a)  Contractor to enter borrow areas or temporary access   New introductory paragraphs:
GENERAL                 in respect of Property          roads after agreeing in writing with the owner of the
REQUIREMENTS            outside the Site Boundary       properties in respect of the following matters:    The provisions of this Clause shall apply
AND PROVISIONS.         and services moved,              i) The location, extent and use of borrow areas, haul  mtuiandis m7utandis to:
damaged or altered                  roads, construction roads and bypasses outside the  *  those areas approved for the purpose of
site boundary;                                    disposing of spoil material; and
ii) Compensation for land or materials taken or for    *  those areas occupied by the Contractor for his
land temporarily used or occupied;                establishment on site or for any other purpose
iii) Reinstatement of property occupied, used,        and for the Engineer's office and laboratory.
damaged or destroyed or compensation therefore
in lieu of reinstatement.
These arrangements shall be signed by all the parties
concerned and delivered to the Engineer.
On completion of his operation the Contractor shall obtain,
from the owner concerned, a written statement that either:
i) the owner is satisfied that the Contractor has fulfilled his
obligations under any written agreement, or in the absence
of a written agreement, that
ii) the owner is satisfied that he has received all the
compensation he is entitled to and also is satisfied that all
property occupied including borrow areas, haul roads,
construction roads is properly restored and in a
satisfactory condition.
1220 -.Water             The contractor shall make his own arrangements for procuring  Add new paragraphs
water needed for construction and other purposes. All sources  To avoid competition with local communities for:
of water used must be approved by the Engineer           i) water resources, the contractor is to provide
water for his camp by either drilling a
borehole or having water supplied by bowsers
without stressing the aquifer or water source.



SECTION                   CLAUSE                             EXISTING PROVISIONS                                   PROPOSED ADDITIONS
1224 - Use of Explosives   The Contractor will be permitted to use explosives for    In addition to any requirements of local
and Demolition.           breaking up rock and hard material during excavations, for  regulations, the contractor shall adopt precautions
demolishing existing structures etc., subject to meeting the  when using explosives which prevent scattering
various conditions eg. ensure safety to persons, properties,  of rocks, stumps or other debris outside the work
public utilities etc.                                      area, and prevent damage to surrounding trees,
shrubbery and vegetation.
Special care to be taken near pipelines especially
those conveying oil and sewage because of the
risk of contamination in case of damage.
The people likely to be affected by the blasting
should be informed in advance and no such
blasting should be carried out at night.
1300                     1302-                     a) Camps, Equipment and Testing Facilities.                 Add the following new paragraphs to subclause
CONTRACTOR'S             General requirements         The choice of all sites for the establishment of camps shall  1302(a)
ESTABLISI-IMENT ON                                    be to the approval of the Engineer. This will include
SITE                                                  accommodation, sanitary conveniences, maintenance and    To avoid competition with local communities for:
testing facilities necessary for his personnel, equipment,    i)  water resources, the Contractor is to provide
stores, process control etc.                                water for his camp by either drilling a
borehole or having water supplied by bowsers
b) Legal Regulations and Responsibility to the Public.         without stressing the aquifer or water source.
The Contractor shall take the necessary steps to comply  ii) fuielwood, the Contractor is to provide
with the terms of the General Conditions of Contract,       alternative fuel options (electricity, gas,
particularly in respect of insurances and indemnities       kerosene ) or a central canteen to economise
required, and he shall comply with all regulations of       on fuel or fuelwood/charcoal usage and not to
Statutory Authorities.                                      deplete local fuelwood supplies.
The Contractor shall also make arrangements for
c) Handing Over of the Site.                               the provision of:
The site will be handed over to the contractor in lengths  i)  food supplies for workers to minimise local
and areas as specified in the Special Provisions.           price inflation
ii) health facilities for the workforce, incliding
provision of anti-malarials and prophylactics
against STDs.



SECTION                  CLAUSE                             EXISTING PROVISIONS                                 PROPOSED ADDITIONS
To avoid air pollution from asphalt plants and
crushers, the Contractor shall ensure that plant
and equipment are not located near homesteads or
settlements. He shall also ensure that vehicles and
construction plant receive regular and effective
maintenance to avoid emission of large quantities
of exhaust fumes and spillage of oils and
lubricants.
By using such turbidity control measures as
gravel-filter entrapment dikes, approved
flocculating processes that are not harmful to fish,
recirculation systems for washing of aggregates
etc., wastewater from aggregate processing,
concrete batching or other construction operations
will be made to contain as little as possible of
settleable material before being discharged into
streams, watercourses or other surface waters.
All waste water and sewage from office,
residential and mobile camps shall be piped to
soak pits or other disposal areas constructed in
accordance with local government regulations,
and where and when such regulations require it
the Contractor shall obtain a permit or other
appropriate documentation approving the disposal
methods used.
All used fuels, oils, other plant or vehicle fluids,
and old tyres and tubes shall be collected to a
central disposal area on a daily basis and disposed
of in a manner approved by the Engineer and not
harmful to the environment.



SECTION                  CLAUSE                            EXISTING PROVISIONS                                 PROPOSED ADDITIONS
The Contractor!s workshops, office and yard area
shall be located and arranged in a manner to
preserve trees and vegetation to the maximum
practicable extent. On abandonment, all
temporary buildings, including concrete footing
and slabs, and all construction materials and
debris shall be removed from the site. The area
shall be re-graded as required, so that all surfaces
drain naturally, blend with the natural terrain and
are left in a condition that will facilitate natural
revegetation, provide for proper drainage and
prevent erosion.
Provision be made for the wearing of safety
vests/jackets by all the workforce and also masks
and ear mufflers for those working on asphalt
plants and with drilling equipment respectively.
1400                    1404- Services for the   a) Sanitary arrangements.                                Removal and disposal of sewage shall be carried
ACCOMMODATION,   Engineer's staff.               When no Municipal sewage treatment is available, the      out in a manner that is acceptable to the local
SERVICES, AND                                    Contractor shall provide the necessary septic tanks for all  Public Health Authorities.
ATTENDANCE FOR                                   latrines.
THE ENGINEER'S
STAFF.                                           Waste water and septic tank effluent shall be taken into
properly designed trench-drains. The Contractor shall also
provide for the removal of all rubbish.
When the construction of septic tanks or water borne
sewerage is not feasible, the Contractor shall construct
conservancy tanks and arrange for the removal and disposal of
sewage.



SECTION                  CLAUSE                            EXISTING PROVISIONS                                 PROPOSED ADDITIONS
1500                    1501 - Scope             This section covers the construction and maintenance of the    Add the following new sub-clause 1502(j)
ACCOMMODATION                                     necessary detours and bypasses, barricades and signs, and
OF TRAFFIC                                       everything necessary for the safe and easy passage of all  The Contractor will be held liable for any damage
public traffic during the construction period and during the  resulting from dust originating from detours and
Defects Liability Period and also the obliteration of the  bypasses. To minimise the damage from noise and
bypasses as they become redundant.                       dust the contractor shall:
i) use low dust standard road surface materials
ii) retain live fences along the detours
iii) dampen the surface periodically
iv) install speed calming devices like speed
humps, rumble strips especially near and in
settlements, schools and hospitals.
As far as possible deviations should remain
within the road reserve and after completion of
the road works should be rehabilitated/landscaped
and replanted
1512 - Measurement and    Payment shall be made in two equal instalments in respect of
Payment..          each section. The first instalment will be made suitable
bypasses have been approved for use. The second instalment
shall become due when the traffic can be accommodated on
the new road, all bypasses have been obliterated and all
general obligations of the Contractor have been complied
with, all to the satisfaction of the Engineer.
1700                    1702 -                   a) The extent of Clearing (removal of all trees including the   Designated flora includes trees listed on the
CLEARING AND            Clearing and Grubbing        disposal of all material resulting thereof ) and Grubbing    Reserve species list of the Forest Department.
GRUBBING                                             shall be as instructed by the Engineer.
b) Conservation of Topsoil together with any grass and other
suitable vegetation shall be as ordered by the Engineer.
c) Conservation of Flora



SECTION                   CLAUSE                             EXISTING PROVISIONS                                   PROPOSED ADDITIONS
Where provided for in the Special Provisions, certain
designated flora encountered shall be carefully protected by
the Contractor. He shall include in his tendered rates for
clearing and/or grubbing, for the careful removal and planting
of the flora in a protected and fenced-off area and on
completion of the road., for the replanting in suitable positions
in the road reserve in accordance with the Engineer's
_____________________  instructions.
1703 - Execution of Work.  The portions of the road reserve that fall within the limits of    1703(a) Add the following paragraph:
1 703(a) - Areas to be    the road prism, as well as certain borrow areas may require to
cleared and/ or Grubbed.   be cleared and /or grubbed. The Engineer shall designate the    The Contractor shall control the clearing and/ or
areas to be cleared and such areas shall not necessarily be  grubbing to ensure that the portions of the road
limited to those mentioned above.                          reserve that fall outside the limits of the
construction width or such areas as the Engineer
shall designate, shall not be cleared and / or
grubbed.
2100                     2101- Scope.              This section covers all work in connection with the excavation  Add the following to the first paragraph:
SURFACE WATER                                      and construction of open drains, subsurface drains, banks and
AND DRAINAGE.                                      dikes at the locations and to the sizes, shapes, grades and  There will be provision for the digging of
dimensions as shown on the Drawings or as directed by the  infiltration ditches and soak pits within the road
Engineer.                                                  reserve if water cannot be discharged into lower
catchment.
Provision shall be made for the implementation of
measures, as will be directed by the Engineer to
prevent/reduce damage e.g. sedimentation,
erosion, water pollution as a result of outfall
drains discharging into the lower catchment
beyond the road reserve, water collected in the
side drains.



SECTION                 CLAUSE                            EXISTING PROVISIONS                               PROPOSED ADDITIONS
2400                   2401 - Scope.            Scope- This section covers the furnishing of materials and
PITCHING,                                       construction of a protective covering in stone pitching, or cast
STONEWORK AND                                   in situ concrete pitching on exposed surfaces such as
EROSION                                         earthslopes, drains and stream beds, as well as heavier
PROTECTION.                                     protection in the form of rip rap all as shown on the Drawings
or ordered by the Engineer.
3100                   3101 -Scope              This section covers the work involved in obtaining borrow  The provisions of the clauses in this section shall
BORROW                                          materials for work under this Contract, including negotiations,  apply mutandis mutandis to materials to be got
MATERIALS                                       except as provided hereinafter, with owners of the land on  from hard stone quarries.
which borrow areas are started. Clearing the site, stripping
and disposing of excess overburden, excavating selected
material for use of the works and finishing off the borrow
areas.                                                 _________________________
3102- Negotiations with    a) The Contractor shall, before entering private property for   Add the following new paragraphs to subclause
Owners and Authorities.     the purpose of opening borrow pits, constructing access    (a) of this clause:
roads, temporarily occupying certain land or inspecting
the areas concerned negotiate with and serve notice upon   The Contractor shall have previously submitted a
the owners of his intention of doing so, all in accordance   plan in respect of each borrow/quarry area
with National legislation and the provisions of Clause  covering:
1213 hereof.                                        *  location and area;
b) The Contractor shall settle all claims in respect of  *  access arrangements;
royalties, loss of crops or other matters to which the  *  a working plan, giving an outline of the
owner may be entitled in terms of National legislation as a  direction, phasing and depth of working;
result of the Contractor's entering upon, and temporary  *  a reinstatement plan, giving details of final
occupation of private land, use of haul roads and his   grading, drainage and sediment control re-
removal of material from the landowner's property.      soiling and re-vegetation measures and design
after-use;
*  arrangements for consultation with
a) the owner of the property
b) any affected community.
The plan must indicate where stripped topsoil will
be stockpiled for later re-use in reinstatement and
how it will be protected from intervening erosion.



SECTION                   CLAUSE                             EXISTING PROVISIONS                                   PROPOSED ADDITIONS
The agreement shall be subject to prior approval
by the Engineer and by the local Environmental
Officer and must contain the following
provisions:
i)  Full reinstatement including planting, of
property occupied, used, damaged or
destroyed to existing or better condition;
ii) Compensation in lieu of full reinstatement
will not be approved unless the landowner
wishes, with the approval of the local
Environmental Officer and the Local Council
to:
a) use the area after being levelled as a
construction site for buildings;
b) allow water to collect for use as a fish
pond or for recreational purposes eg.
water sports;
c) continue exploiting the material site
commercially.
In all the above cases the areas will have to be
made safe by fencing to restrict access.
3100                     3104 (a) Clearing and     The Contractor's rate for borrowed material must include for
BORROW                   Grubbing, Topsoil and     clearing, grubbing and the removal of topsoil and overburden.
MATERIALS                Overburden.
3105- Finishing off Borrow  On completion of his operations in a borrow area the      Reinstatement shall include grass cover using
Areas.                    Contractor shall reinstate the entire area so as to blend with  either seed with fertiliser according to soil
the surrounding area to permit the re-establishment of     analysis, or vegetative grass cover all in
vegetation. For this purpose the borrow area shall be shaped    accordance with the advice which the Contractor
to even contours.                                          shall obtain from the Agriculture Department, and
preferably will restore the site to a productive use,
such as pasture/grasslands or as a woodlot.



SECTION                  CLAUSE                              EXISTING PROVISIONS                                  PROPOSED ADDITIONS
All material in and around the borrow area, whether spoil  The Contractor shall protect the grass cover from
from road building operations, excess stockpiled material,  grazing for one growing season or a minimum of
oversize material left in the borrow pit, material resulting  six months. Reinstatement shall obviate safety
from the clearing and grtibbing operations and excess     hazards by benching end walls in rock and
overburden, shall be used or disposed of as directed by the  grading faces in other materials.
Engineer.                                                 Borrow areas/quarries shall be finally screened
from the road, if possible by reforestation along
Material not capable of supporting vegetation shall be buried   the roadside.
and used in shaping the borrow area and subsequently covered
with soft material. All available soft material shall be spread    The finishing of the borrow area/ quarry shall, as
evenly to the thickness directed and where sufficient material   much as possible, be completed before the
is not available for this purpose to cover the entire area, the he  equipment is moved to another one and shall also
remaining portions shall be scarified along the contours so as   be to the satisfaction of the District
to avoid undue erosion.                                   Environmental Officer.
All haul roads shall be obliterated and the surface scarified,
earthbanks constructed to prevent erosion and all damaged
fences and other structures reinstated.
The shaping and the finishing-off of the borrow pit shall be
done in such a way that the borrow pit will be properly
drained whenever practicable and where required the
Contractor shall place earthbanks to divert any surface water
away from the borrow area. The finishing-off of the borrow
area shall be to the entire satisfaction of the Engineer, and the
Contractor shall submit to the Engineer a signed certificate
from the landowner stating that he is fully satisfied with the
finishing-off of any borrow area. The Contractor's attention
is drawn to the provision of clause 1213 above in this respect.
3100                    3108- Measurement and      Procuring and furnishing borrow material shall not be payable  Add the following paragraph:
BORROW                  Payment.                   directly but shall be considered as a subsidiary obligation of
MATERIALS                                          the Contractor covered under the contract prices paid for the    The unit prices for procuring and furnishing
various items of work in which the materials are used.     borrow materials/hard stones shall be separate
from the prices of reinstating the borrow
__________________________ __________________________________________________________  pits/quarries.



SECTION                  CLAUSE                             EXISTING PROVISIONS                                 PROPOSED ADDITIONS
It shall include full compensations for all obligations,
expenses, operations and work prescribed in Section 1200 of
the Specifications as well as all supervision, labour,
equipment, tools and incidentals necessary thereto, including
all such expenses as may be necessary to control test all
materials, to drain and protect borrow areas and to complete
all negotiations with and payment to landowners as specified
as well as clearing ands grubbing, removal of topsoil and
overburden and the final shaping and finishing-off of the
____________________ _   borrow     pit.
3400-                   3406-Stripping of Topsoil,  Prior to starting any cut excavations, road bed preparations or
CONSTRUCTION OF    Clearing and Grubbing.    embankment construction, the contractor shall obtain from the
THE ROAD                                          Engineer his instructions regarding any stripping of topsoil or
SUBGRADE                                          clearing and grubbing that may be reqtuired.
3407-Cut and Borrow.      a)Dimensions of Cuts.
The dimensions of cuts shall be generally in accordance with
the details of the typical cross-sections and interchange etc.,
as shown in the Drawings and further defined or amended
during the course of construction by instructions from the
Engineer. The Contractor shall obtain instructions in advance
from the Engineer regarding the slopes of the sides of cutting
etc.
f) Disposal of Surplus Material                          Add the following paragraph to subclause (f)
Any surplus material arising from excavations, including any   The Engineer shall approve dumping of surplus
waste or oversize material bladed off the road, shall be  material where it will not have a visual impact
disposed of as directed by the Engineer who may require that   and most preferably in borrow pits/quarries for
the material be utilised in uniform widening of fills or the  the purpose of restoration. Dumped material to be
flattening of slopes, or be deposited in such places and for  spread, covered with a topsoil layer and re-
such purposes as he may direct. Spoil material shall not  vegetated.
require compaction but must, if required be spread ,shaped,
given a smooth surface such as is normally obtained with
careful bulldozer operations.



SECTION                  CLAUSE                            EXISTING PROVISIONS                                 PROPOSED ADDITIONS
g) General.
The Contractor shall exercise proper care when excavating
cuts not to loosen, where this can be avoided, any material
outside the specified cut line, whether by ripping, blasting or
other means and thereby endangering the structural stability of
the slopes or subsequently causing undue erosion or
disintegration the batters.
3400-                   3408- Finishing of Slope;   c) General.
CONSTRUCTION OF                                  Except in solid rock the tops and bottoms of all slopes,
THE ROAD                                          including the slopes of drainage ditches, shall be rounded as
SUBGRADE                                         indicated on the Drawings or as ordered by the Engineer.
When so directed by the Engineer adjustment in slopes shall
be made to avoid injury to standing trees and to harmonise
with the existing landscape features.
The slopes of cuts and fills which are designated for grassing
shall, after finishing be prepared for grass planting and/or
topsoil for grass planting as specified in Section 5700
3415- Protection of Road   All cuts and fill slopes shall be maintained by the Contractor
Prism and Structures     until final acceptance of the road. All erosion and flood
damage to the slopes shall be properly repaired, as specified
in Clause 1219.
Side drains discharging from cults and all other drains shall be
so constructed as to avoid damage to fill by erosion.



SECTION                 CLAUSE                            EXISTING PROVISIONS                                PROPOSED ADDITIONS
51 00-GABIONS          5 101 -Scope              This section covers the construction of gabion walls and
aprons for the construction of retaining walls, lining of
channels, revetments and other anti-erosion structures.
Generally gabions shall be galvanised steel wire-mesh cages
packed with rock.
5200 - GUIDE BLOCKS. .5201 -. Scope              This section covers the supply and erection of guide blocks in
position and in accordance with the dimensions as shown on
the drawings or as directed by the Engineer.
5300- GUARD RAILS    5301 - Scope                This section covers the supply, installation and maintenance
of metal plate beam guard-rails at locations and in conformity
with the details, dimensions and design shown on the
drawings or as directed by the Engineer.



SECTION                  CLAUSE                            EXISTING PROVISIONS                                 PROPOSED ADDITIONS
5400 - ROAD SIGNS       5401-Scope                This section covers the stipply and erection of permanent road
traffic signs alongside and over the carriageway, ramps and
cross roads at interchanges and at the locations indicated on
the drawings or as directed by the Engineer.
f) Time of erection
Road traffic signs shall be erected immediately prior to the
opening of the road to the public traffic unless otherwise
decided by the Engineer.
5407 - Protection and    The Contractor shall protect the completed road signs against
Maintenance              damages until it is finally accepted by the Employer, and he
shall maintain the road signs until the defects liability
certificate is issued.



SECTION                  CLAUSE                             EXISTING PROVISIONS                                 PROPOSED ADDITIONS
5500 - ROAD TRAFFIC  5501 - Scope                 T his section covers the permanent marking of the road surface
MARKTNGS                                          with white or yellow painted lines or symbols as indicated on
the drawings or where required by the Engineer.
5600 - LANDSCAPING   5601 - Scope                 This section covers the landscaping of areas outside the road    Change the section head to read
AND GRASSING                                      prism, the establishment of vegetation for functional and  'LANDSCAPING AND REVEGETATING'
aesthetic purposes on cut and fill slopes and such other areas
as may be required.
5602 - Materials          a)The type of fertiliser to be used shall be one of the   Add the following new subclauses;
following:
i) Agricultural lime                                  g) Avenue/Roadside Tree Planting;
ii) Super phosphate                                   Avenue trees, where so required shall be planted
iii) Limestone ammonium-nitrate                       at least 1 .50m inside the limits of the road reserve
b) Grass cuttings shall be fresh cuttings of an approved type.   on both sides of the road, at 5.00m centres
c) Grass seed - only good quality fresh seed shall be used and   longitudinally, or as the Engineer may direct.
the types of seed in the seed mixture shall be as in Clause
5606 (b).                                                h) Planting of Shrubs and Trees on Slopes:
d) Topsoil                                               Shrubs and trees shall be planted on the slopes as
Topsoil shall consist of fertile loamy soil and shall be  will be directed by the Engineer.
obtained wherever suitable material occurs, either in the road
reserve from areas where cuts and fills are to be constructed    The contractor shall provide complete
or from borrow areas to be cleared. The Engineer shall   maintenance for a period of one year after
indicate to the Contractor his requirements regarding the  planting, including erecting protection cages,
quantity of topsoil required and the areas from which it shall   watering, clearing around the tree etc.
be selected and removed.
If the Contractor fails to conserve topsoil as instructed, he
shall obtain suitable substitute material from other sources at
no extra cost to the Employer.
Where so specified, the Contractor shall procure and firnish
topsoil from his own source outside the site, such source shall
be approved by the Engineer.



Table 6.3:    MOWTC's Maintenance Manual (1998)
CHAPTER                SECTION            EXISTING PROVISIONS                                                   PROPOSED ADDITIONS
4. ROAD SAFETY         4.1 GENERAL        Road accidents are caused by human factors, the condition and design features  Reference should be made to sections
of the road, the mechanical condition of vehicles and the environment. Road    5200, 5300, 5400 and 5500 of M 0
maintenance can decrease road accidents by contributing to road condition  W T C's General Specifications for
and design. The following have been identified as causes of road accidents in   Road and Bridge Works Vol. IIIA,
Uganda on which road maintenance can affect.                          1992.
* Narrow shoulders
* Lack of road markings, signs and furniture                         The public should be sensitised on
* Potholed roads                                                     the need to preserve the traffic signs,
* Inadequate drainage                                                guard-rails, guide posts, bridge
* Tight bends on rural roads                                         railings, etc.
The pavements should therefore be kept in a state that is safe to road users.
Pavements should be pot hole-free and edges of pavement should be in good
shape.
Road signs, road marking and guard rails should all be provided on roads to
guide and assist drivers and promote safety.
Maintenance of such provisions should be done as a routine and should form a
vital component of the entire road maintenance programme.            -             _



CHAPTER                SECTION           EXISTING PROVISIONS                                                  PROPOSED ADDITIONS
4.2 SAFETY        When maintenance work is carried out on or close to the carriageway, all the   Protective clothing to include masks
MEASURES AND  adequate measures have to be taken to warn and protect road users and    and ear mufflers that are to be worn
TRAFFIC           maintenance workers. All supervisors and foremen must be instructed on  by those working on asphalt plants
CONTROI,          safety measures, including traffic control and the use of the temporary road    and with drills/jack hammers
signs. Each road maintenance group should be provided with signs    respectively.
appropriate to the work it is carrying out and all foremen and supervisors
should be trained in their use and layout. All temporary signs must be
removed as soon as the work they relate to is complete. During the
maintenance work safety vests/jackets should be worn by all of the workforce.
All vehicles and equipment should carry yellow flashing warning lights. If
warning light is not available, vehicles and equipment should carry a red flag.
Reference should be made to the M. 0. W. T. & C's General Specifications
for Road and Bridge Works Volume IIIA 1992 Section 1500: Accommodation
of Traffic.
5. ROAD RESERVE        5.1               A road system is not complete without a road reserve. Road reserves, like the   The people living along the road
name suggests, can be used to provide area for road construction. This often    should be sensitised against
happens when a road is to be upgraded or widened.                   encroaching on the road reserves.
Road reserves also improve the visibility of a road way.            The Road Reserve boundary should
In view of their importance to the entire road, reserves should be selfishly  be clearly marked using posts placed
guarded. Developers should not be allowed to encroach on road reserve the    at fixed intervals of say 0.5 km.
first time.
It otherwise becomes a lot harder to evict a developer from the road reserve
once serious development has already been made.
Such developments may include buildings, crop gardens etc.____
6. ENVIRONMENTAL   6.1 GENERAL           Roads and road operations affect the environment in a number of ways such    Reference to be made to the Annex to
ISSUES                                   as air and water pollution, noise, dust, erosion etc.                MOWTC's General Specifications
This chapter provides a suimmary of measures that are currently recommended  for Road and Bridge Works Volume
in order to take consideration the five topics in water management, soil  IIlA, 1992.
conservation, sand encroachment, protection of vegetation and roads that pass
through villages.
(Adapted from Road Maintenance and the Environment published by tlle
-World Bank).                                                        _



CHAPTER                SECTION           EXISTING PROVISIONS                                                  PROPOSED ADDITIONS
6.2               Management that incorporates environmental considerations in road
INSTITUTIONAL  maintenance requires consultations between the various parties, preparation of
ASPECTS           environmental regulations for the three categories of works- routine
maintenance, periodic maintenance and rehabilitation- and adoption of the
necessary support measures for managing such operations.
6.2.1 Parties     a) M.O.W.T.& C through the Department of Maintenance
involved          b) public works Companies
c) consultants, consulting firms and research and training institutions.
6.2.2 Contractual   Road maintenance contracts tend to be awarded to the formal (large
relations among   companies, SME's, small contractors) or the informal private sector (village
the various parties  communities, NGO's etc.). The main types of roads maintenance contracts are
as follows:
a) contracts for studies of road maintenance works, relating to the study of
maintenance needs (routine, periodic and rehabilitation works ), preparation
of detailed designs and the formulation of contract tender documents;
b) contracts for the supervision and monitoring of maintenance works
contracts;
c) road maintenance contracts awarded to the contractor.
These types of contracts should include clauses pertaining to environmental
protection and improvement on areas adjacent to the road through the road
maintenance works.



CHAPTER               SECTION            EXISTING PROVISIONS                                                     PROPOSED ADDITIONS
6.2.3 Road         Certain clauses should be included in contracts for the execution of
Maintenance        conventional maintenance tasks, in order to take into account the road
Works.             environment. These clauses should focus mainly on the following points;
a) General obligations of the contractor
The road maintenance works contract should include a list of all guidelines and
regulatory and legal texts governing the environment and its improvement. The
obligations of the contractor will remain in effect until the final acceptance of
those works which will be delivered only after full completion of the
environmental improvement works envisaged in the contract.
b) areas surrounding worksite facilities: the set-up of the planned facilities will
be subject to prior approval following submission of a description detailing the
provisions designed to protect the environment and what will be done to restore
the site upon completion of the maintenance works. Arrangements are to be
included in order to avoid polluting water drainage.
c) precautions during the execution of the maintenance works: in the daily
organisation of the worksite, the contractor must take all appropriate measures
to minimise any environmental damage by applying contractual provisions (
limiting the areas used for equipment movement and borrow pit areas,
scarifying and rehabilitating the areas used for worksite operation, safeguarding
of vegetation during the works and restoration of plant cover etc.)
d) safeguarding/restoration of natural runoff flows: limit water pollution caused
by suspended matter
e) protection to the local living conditions alongside the road during and after
the works.



CHAPTER              SECTION             EXISTING PROVISIONS                                                    PROPOSED ADDITIONS
6.2.4 Support      A true environmental improvement and road maintenance policy is viable only
measures          if the parties involved are active players.
Training: Priority in environmental training must be given to those responsible
for the design/programming and execution of road projects. The program
should be made to increase the awareness and training of other public and
private parties.
Training programs already exist. 
6.3 TECHNICAL    Taking the environment into consideration in road maintenance activities  Reference to be made to Sections
ASPECTS            involves adopting technical measures that are translated into norms or standards  1700, 2100, 2400, 3100, 3400 and
by reason of the repetitive nature of the operations involved.         5600 of the MOWTC's General
Specifications for Road and Bridge
Works Vol. IIIA, 1992.
6.3.1 Water        Water is a precious resource that must be preserved but it can be damaging to    The unit prices for digging, outside
Management         village roads and can erode fertile land.                              the road reserve, of runouts (intended
Roadway water: The creation of turnouts (or mitre drains) which extend along   to carry runoff from the road to a
contour levels is recommended. On the flattest terrain, retention basins of  point where the water does not cause
various sizes can be put in place.                                     erosion ) and water storage basins( to
receive runoff water from the road )
should be separated from that for open
drain excavation within the road
reserve.
6.3.2. Soil        Roadway and embankment soil. On sections with definite slopes, measures to
Conservation       guide the water down to the foot of the embankment (curbs, water lines, gullies,
drainage channels along the embankment are necessary).
Embankments can be protected against erosion by adding topsoil and sowing
local species of grass, planting tufts of grass with tap roots (parsipalum,
vetiver) in a hex pattern or laying strips of sod.
Ditches. In order to prevent erosion of the sides and bottom of ditches, it is
necessary to reduce the quantity of water (by creation of additional turnouts)
and slow down its flow(by construction of appropriate devices). Planting grass
on the sides of ditches can be an intermediate solution for increasing resistance
to erosion. When the slope of a ditch is pronounced or the soil is highly
_________    ______  ____ susceptible to erosion, concrete or stone lining of the ditch is recommended.



CHAPTER               SECTION              EXISTING PROVISIONS                                                   PROPOSED ADDITIONS
6.3.3. Maintaining   Selection and careful use of borrow pits can appreciably reduce the damage
the vegetation       caused to vegetation by road works. Advantage should also be taken of
maintenance activities to replant trees, particularly in villages.
In sensitive or protected areas, brush clearing must be limited to the direct
needs of the construction or maintenance works (roadbed, limitation of
amounts to be dumped, preservation of large trees in the borrow areas) and
replanting must be made mandatory.
6.3.4 Passage through  Simple precautions reduce the disruptions caused to villagers by the execution  (Add the following new sub-clauses)
villages             of road maintenance works.
Precautions during the works:- Disruptions caused to local people, particularly  c) by erecting speed bumps to lessen
residents of the villages passed through, can be appreciably reduced, and at    the dust raised by and /or reduce the
low cost, as follows                                                  speed of fast moving vehicles.
a) by requiring that the contractor pays special attention to the way in which
he organises and executes the work                                    d) by adding compaction to simple
b) by slightly modifying the specifications for the works for example,  reshaping
compacting with sprinkling rather than dry compacting, in order to keep dust
down.
Permanent improvements:- Normal road maintenance, and especially full scale
rehabilitation is an opportunity to be seized to improve or correct the road's
passage through a village. The most common measures might be:
a) improvement of the longitudinal profile of the road
b) widening of the road and creation of parking areas which will significantly
improve safety for both residents and road users.
c) reinforcement/paving of shoulders which are very exposed to deterioration
from truck parking (such reinforcement will mean future maintenance savings)
d) improvement(or creation) of a system of drainingwater from the road.
6.3.5 Borrow pit     Borrow pits and borrow areas should be carefully reinstated. It is good  Change the section head to read
reinstatement        practice to stockpile the overburden (vegetation and "unwanted" top    'Reinstatement of Borrow pit and
agricultural soils) material, and to spread it over ( after extraction of suitable    Hard Stone Quarry'
material for road works), properly landscaped to encourage vegetation, and
generally minimise soil erosion and restore the beauty of the environment.



CHAPTER               SECTION              EXISTING PROVISIONS                                                     PROPOSED ADDITIONS
The same treatment should be given to stone quarries.                  A unit price should be set for the
MOWTC's General specifications for Road and Bridge Works, Volume IIIA    stockpiling by the contractor of
section 3100 specifies the use of the borrow materials and quarries.   materials at the borrow pits to be used
later on for patching, thereby
ensuring availability of a stock of
suitable materials at the least cost for
the labour-based works.
A unit price should be set for the
spreading of stripped materials from
previous works or borrowings in
order to foster regrowth of natural
vegetation and water drainage.
Excavation should be planned such
that when one section has been
exploited, it is
rehabilitated/landscaped and
replanted, while excavation of
another section begins.
The borrow pits/quarries are to be
made safe by fencing them off and by
limiting their accessibility.



CHAPTER               SECTION             EXISTING PROVISIONS                                                   PROPOSED ADDITIONS
8. METHODS OF        8.3 MOWTC ROAD
WORK                 DESIGN
MAINTENANCE
SPECIFICATIONS
MI00: MANUAL        All the debris arising from all the 11 no. manual maintenance activities  Disposal methods to receive the
MAINTENANCE         ranging from MI01( weeding of Gravel Carriageways and shoulders) to MIII  approval of the Local Environmental
SPECIFICATIONS    (Painting of Guard-rails and Headwalls) is to be disposed of at least 25 metres  Committee.
distant from the road centreline, without damaging the road formnation
pavement or structures or adjacent to public/private property in any way and
all to the satisfaction of the Employer.
M200:
MECHANISED          These specifications are to be read in conjunction with Volume IIIA- General   For all the activities requiring
MAINTENANCE         Specifications for Road and Bridge Works of MOWTC's Standard Contract    material from borrow pits;
SPECIFICATIONS    Documents which shall generally apply to these maintenance works, save only  *  the unit prices for preparation and
M201. PREAMBLE   where specific maintenance works are specified herein and to prove to be in  application of materials should be
conflict with the General Specifications, in which case the particular   separated from other prices in
maintenance specification shall govern.                                  order to track the cost of limiting
the area used for borrow pits
designated borrow pits to be used
in order to avoid uncontrolled
spread of the damage to the
natural environment.
All the debris arising from each of the 7 no. activities namely M202, M203,    Disposal methods to be also to the
M204, M207, M210, M21 I and M214 is to be disposed of at least 25 metres    satisfaction of the Local
distant from the road centreline, without damaging the road formation  Environmental Committee.
pavement or structures or adjacent public/private property in any way and all   Because the length of the side or
to the satisfaction of the Employer.                                 turnouts to be cleaned varies witlh
each road and their environmental
impact is different, unit price for
ditch cleaning should be separated
from that for reshaping and
_________________  __________  ________  ________   ________   ______________  __________  __   ree ravelling  of  the   road    surface .  l



138
6.2 Road Construction and Maintenance Contracts
The following documents comprise the tender for a road project:
Type        Volume      Section           Subject
Invitation to Tender ( under separate cover)
Standard    IA                            Tender Documents for Road and Bridge Works.
Document
I                Invitation to Tenderers
2                Documentation for Tender
Guide      IB                             Tender Documents for Road and Bridge Works.
Document
3                Schedules
4                Bill of Quantities
Standard    1I                           Conditions of Contract for Road and Bridge Works.
Document
Standard    IIIA                         General Specifications for Road and Bridge Works
Document
IIIB                         Special Provisions to General Specifications
IV                           Drawings
Consultants acting for the Ministry of Works, Housing and Communications are normally
expected to incorporate the standard volumes IA, II and IIIA in their tender package and use
these and the guide volume IB to prepare the remainder of their tender package, namely volumes
IB, IIIB and IV.
According to Clause 5.2 of Conditions of Contract for Road and Bridge Works Vol. 11-
Conditions of Particular Application, the documents forming the Contract shall take precedence
in the order in which they are set out in the Form of Agreement, as follows:
a) The Employer's Letter of Acceptance
b) The Contractor's Tender including separate Memoranda
c) The Addenda to Tender Documents
d) The Conditions of Contract, Part II -Conditions of particular Application.
e) The Conditions of Contract, Part I -General Conditions ( Fourth Edition 1987
published by FIDIC).
f) The Bill of Quantities
g) The Drawings
h) The Special Provisions to the General Specifications
i) The General Specifications



139
It is therefore proposed that, at the tender preparation stage, issues pertaining to the environment
be handled as follows:
. The Economic Feasibility and Preliminary Engineering Design Report should take into
account the recommendations of the Environmental Impact Assessment Study carried out;
* At the Detailed Design Stage any necessary environmental mitigation (or enhancement)
measures identified in the feasibility stage should be incorporated into the design and all its
construction details drawn up;
* Pre-qualification of contractors for invitation to tender should be made to require, as far as is
possible, submission of an environmental protection statement and a health and safety
statement, which would then be developed into full action plans in the final bid.
In order to assist with this, existing provisions in the Conditions of Contract which refer to
environmental issues are listed in the tables below.



140
Table 6.4:    Standard Clauses in Conditions of Contract relating to Environmental
Issues
General Conditions                                       Clause
Engineer's Duties and Powers                                 2
Priority of Contract Documents                               5.2
General Obligations
Site Operations and Methods of Construction                  8.2
Inspection of Site                                           11.1
Not Foreseeable Physical Obstruction or Conditions           12.2
Employment of Local Personnel                                16.4
Safety, Security and Protection of the Environment           19.1
Care of the Works                                            20.1
Damage to Persons and Property                               22.1
Accident or Injury to Workmen                                24.1
Compliance with Statutes, regulations                        26.1
Fossils                                                      27.1
Royalties                                                    28.2
Interference with Traffic and adjoining Properties           29.1
Avoidance of Damage to Roads                                 30.1
Clearance of Site on Compietion                              33.1
Labour
Engagement of staff and labour                               34.1
Housing for Labour                                           34.4
Accident Prevention Officer; Accidents                       34.5
Health and Safety                                            34.6
Measures against Insect and Pest Nuisance                    34.7
Epidemics                                                    34.8
Supply of Foodstuffs                                         34.10
Supply of Water                                              34.11
Alcohol, Liquor or Drugs                                     34.12
Arms and Ammunition                                          34.13
Festivals and Religious Customs                              34.14
Disorderly Conduct                                           34.15
Records of Safety and Health                                 35.2
Reporting of Accidents                                       35.3
Commencement and Delays
Rights of Way and Facilities                                 42.3
Restriction on Working Hours                                 45.1



141
Table 6.5:    Clauses in the General Specifications for Road and Bridge Works
Vol. IIIA
Item                                                  Clause(s)
Contractor's activities in respect of Property outside the Site  1213
Boundary
Water                                                 1220
Use of Explosives and Demolition                      1224
General requirement on Contractor's Establishment on Site   1302
Services for the Engineer's Staff                     1404
Accommodation of Traffic                              1501 and 1512
Clearing and Grubbing                                 1702, 1703 and
1703(a)
Surface Water and Drainage                            2101
Pitching, Stonework and Erosion Protection            2401
Borrow Materials                                      3101, 3102, 3104(a)
,3105 and 3108
Construction of the Road Subgrade                     3406, 3407, 3408 and
3415
Gabions                                               5100
Guide Blocks                                          5201
Guard rails                                           5301
Road Signs                                            5401 and 5407
Road Traffic Markings                                 5501
Landscaping and Grassing                              5601 and 5602
Construction details for environmental mitigation measures identified at feasibility stage are
normally drawn up by the Consultant in the Book of Drawings which forms Vol. IV of the
Contract Document.
The Special Provisions to the General Specifications normally contain a write up on management
of environmental matters
The Bill of Quantities would normally contain pay items based on the General Specifications'
measurement and payment, for mitigation measures against the impacts on the environment that
are to be executed.



142
The Items in the Bill of Quantities relating to environmental mitigation measures should include
the following aspects of work:
Table 6.6:    Environmental Mitigation Measures in the Bill of Quantities
ITEM                                                       UNIT
a) Improving the Landscape
Filling borrow pits and quarries by using excavated        m3
topsoil/overburden.
Sprigging borrow pits, quarries and dump sites.            Ha.
Restoring temporary construction roads.                    km
Avenue/Road side tree planting.                            no. trees
Replacing cut trees and afforestation.                     no. trees
Filling borrow pits/quarries using surplus material excavated from   m3-km
the road.
b) Protecting the Environment:
Arresting air pollution ( including dust).                lump sum
Controlling noise pollution.                              lump sum
c) Ensuring safety/ security and social and cultural harmony in
local community:
Excavating turn-outs, infiltration ditches and storage basins  m3
beyond the road reserve.
Carrving out educational and information programmes.       lump sum
Fencing off camps and danger areas.                       lump sum
Establishing workable solid waste management system.       lump sum
Donating the buildings, bore holes etc. to the local community on   lump sum
completion of the project.
The section of the Special Specifications dealing with matters relating to the environment should
be adopted from the proposed addition to MOWTC's General Specifications to Road and Bridge
Works Vol IIIA as described in Section 6.3.1 below.
6.3 Recommendations for Inclusion of Environmental Clauses into MOWHC
Documentation
In the tables above, additions to existing clauses in MOWHC documentation have been proposed.
In this section, we present recommendations for inclusion of clauses in the various documents
6.3.1 MOWTC General Specifications
It will be noted that the MOWTC's General Specifications do not have a separate section on
environmental protection. The following section should be added to the General Specifications
in order tv ensure that environmental management considerations are adopted by Supervising
Engineers and Contractors alike.



143
SECTION 1800: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND WASTE DISPOSAL.
Clause 1801 Landscape Preservation
(a)   General
The Contractor shall exercise care to conserve the natural landscape and shall conduct his
construction operations so as to prevent any unnecessary destruction, scarring, or
defacing of the natural surroundings in the vicinity of the work. Except where clearing is
required for permanent works, approved construction roads, or excavation operations. all
trees, native shrubbery, and vegetation shall be preserved and shall be protected from
damage by the Contractor's construction operation and equipment. The edges of clearing
and cuts through trees, shrubbery, and vegetation shall be irregularly shaped to soften the
uLidesirable visual impact of straight lines. Movement of labour and equipment within
the right-of-way and over routes provided for access to the work shall be performed in a
manner to prevent damage to grazing land, crops, or property.
Except as otherwise provided in Section 5600 special reseeding or replanting will not be
required under these specifications; however, on completion of the work, all work areas
not seeded shall be scarified and left in a condition which will facilitate natural
revegetation, provide for proper drainage, and prevent erosion. All unnecessary
destruction, scarring, damage, or defacing of the landscape resulting from the
Contractor's operations shall be repaired. replanted. reseeded or otherwise corrected as
directed by the Engineer, and at the Contractor's expense.
(b)   Construction Roads
The location, alignment, and grade of construction roads shall be subject to approval of
the Engineer. When no longer required by the Contractor, construction roads shall, if
required by the Engineer, be restored to the original contour and made impassable to
vehicular traffic. The surfaces of such construction roads shall be scarified as needed to
provide a condition which will facilitate natural revegetation. provide for proper
drainage, and prevent erosion.
( c)   Construction Facilities
The Contractor's workshops, office, and yard area shall be located and arranged in a
manner to preserve trees and vegetation to the maximum practicable extent. On
abandonment, all temporary buildings, including concrete footings and slabs, and all
construction materials and debris shall be removed from the site. The area shall be
regraded, as required, so that all surfaces drain naturally, blend with natural terrain, and
are left in a condition that will facilitate natural revegetation, provide for proper
drainage, and prevent erosion.
(d)   Blasting Precautions
In addition to any requirements of local regulations, the Contractor shall adopt
precautions when using explosives which will prevent scattering of rocks, stumps, or
other debris outside the work area, and prevent damage to surrounding
trees, shrubbery and vegetation.



144
Clause 1802 Preservation of Trees and Shrubbery
(a)   Preservation
All trees and shrubbery which are not specifically required to be cleared or removed for
construction purposes shall be preserved and shall be protected from any damage that
may be caused by the Contractor's construction operations and equipment. Special care
shall be exercised where trees or shrubs are exposed to injuries by construction
equipment, blasting, excavating, dumping, chemical damage, or other operations; and the
Contractor shall adequately protect such trees by use of protective barriers or other
methods approved by the Engineer. The removal of trees or shrubs will be permitted only
after prior approval by the Engineer.
The layout of the Contractor s construction facilities such as workshops, warehouses,
storage areas, and parking areas; location of access and haul routes; and operation in
borrow and spoil areas shall be planned and conducted in such a manner that all trees and
shrubbery not approved for removal by the Engineer shall be preserved and adequately
protected from either direct or indirect damage by the Contractor's operations.
Except in emergency cases or when otherwise approved by the Engineer, trees shall not
be used as anchorages. Where such use is approved, the trunk shall be wrapped in with a
sufficient thickness of approved protective material before any rope. cable, or wire is
placed.
(b)   Repair or Treatment of Damage.
The Contractor shall be responsible for injuries to trees and shrubs caused by his
operations. The term 'injury' shall include, without limitation, bruising, scarring, tearing,
and braking of roots, trunk or branches. All injured trees and shrubs shall be repaired or
treated without delay, at the Contractor's expense. If damage occurs, the Engineer will
determine method of repair or treatment to be used for injured trees and shrubs as
recommended by an experienced horticulturist or a licensed tree surgeon provided by and
at the expense of the Contractor. All repairs or treatment of injured trees shall be
performed under the direction of an experienced horticulturist or a licensed tree surgeon
provided by and at the expense of the Contractor.
(c)   Replacement
Trees or Shrubs that, in the opinion of the Engineer, are beyond saving shall be removed
and replaced early in the next planting season. The replacements shall be the same
species, or other approved species, and of the maximum size that is practicable to plant
and sustain growth in the particular environment. Replacement trees and shrubs shall be
staved, watered and maintained for a period of I year from the date of replacement.
Clause 1803 Prevention of Water Pollution
(a)   General
The Contractor's construction activities shall be performed by methods that will prevent
entrance, or accidental spillage, of solid matter, contaminants, debris, and other
pollutants and wastes into streams, flowing or dry watercourses, lakes, and underground
water sources. Such pollutants and wastes include, but are not restricted to, refuse,



145
garbage, cement, concrete, sanitary waste. industrial waste, radioactive substances. oil.
and other petroleum products. aggregate processing tailings, mineral salts, and thermal
pollution.
Dewatering work for structure foundations or earthwork operations adjacent to, or
encroaching on, streams or watercourses. shall be conducted in a manner to prevent
muddy water and eroded materials from  entering the streams or watercourses bv
construction of intercepting ditches, bypass channels, barriers, settling ponds or by other
approved means. Excavated materials or other construction materials shall not be
stockpiled or deposited near or on streambanks, lake shorelines, or other watercourse
perimeters where they can be washed away by high water or storm runoff or can in any
way encroach upon watercourse itself.
Turbidity increases in a stream or other bodies of water that are caused by construction
activities shall be strictly controlled. When necessary to perform required construction
work in a stream channel, the turbidity may be increased, as approved by the Engineer,
for the shortest practicable period required to complete such work. This required
construction work may include such work as diversion of a stream, construction or
removal of cofferdams, specified earthworks in or adjacent to a stream channel, pile
driving, and construction of turbidity control structures. Mechanised equipment shall not
be operating in flowing water except as necessary to construct crossings or to perform
the required construction.
Wastewater from  aggregate processing, concrete  batching, or other construction
operations shall not enter streams, watercourses, or other surface waters without the use
of such turbidity control methods as settling ponds. gravel-filter entrapment dikes.
approved flocculating processes that are not harmful to fish, recirculation systems for
washing of aggregates or other approved methods. Any such wastewaters, discharged
into surface waters shall contain the least concentration of settleable material possible.
For the purpose of these specifications, settleable material is defined as that material
which will settle from the water by gravity during a 1-hour quiescent detention period.
(b)   Compliance with Laws and Regulations
The Contractor shall comply with all applicable Ugandan laws, orders, regulations and
water quality standards concerning the control and abatement of water pollution.
Clause 1804 Abatement of air pollution
Thie Contractor shall comply with applicable Ugandan laws and regulations concerning
the prevention and control of air pollution. Notwithstanding the above in conduct of
construction activities and operation of equipment, the Contractor shall utilise such
practicable methods and devices as are reasonably available to control, prevent, and
otherwise minimise atmospheric emissions or discharges of air contaminants.
The emission of dust into the atmosphere shall be strictly controlled during the
manufacture, handling and storage of concrete and road aggregates, and the Contractor
shall use such methods and equipment as are necessary for the collection and disposal or
prevention, of dust during these operations. The Contractor's methods of storing and
handling cement and pozzolans shall also include means of eliminating atmospheric
discharges of dust.



146
Equipment and vehicles that show excessive emissions of exhaust gases due to poor
engine adjustments, or other inefficient operating conditions, shall not be operated until
corrective repairs or adjustments are made.
Burning of materials resulting from clearing of trees and brush, combustible construction
materials, and rubbish will be permitted only when atmospheric conditions for burning
are considered favourable and when authorised by the Engineer. In lieu of burning, such
combustible materials may be disposed of by other methods as provided in Clause 1810
hereof. Where open burning is permitted. the burn piles shall be properly constructed to
minimise smoke, and in no case shall unapproved materials, such as tires, plastics, rubber
products, asphalt products. or other materials that create heavy black smoke or nuisance
odours, be burned.
Dust nuisance resulting from construction activities shall be prevented in accordance
with Clause 1805.
Clause 1805 Dust Abatement
During the performance of the work required by this specifications or any other
appurtenant thereto, whether on right-of-way provided bv the Employer or elsewhere, the
Contractor shall furnish all the labour, equipment, materials, and means required, and
shall carry out proper and efficient measures wherever and as often as necessary to
reduce the dust nuisance, and to prevent dust which has originated from his operations
from damaging crops, orchards, cultivated fields and dwellings, or causing nuisance to
persons. The Contractor will be held liable for any damage resulting from dust
originating from his operations under this specifications on the right-of-way or
elsewhere. The Engineer may direct sprinkling or other measures for dust abatement if
necessary to obtain adequate control.
The cost of complying with this paragraph shall be included in the prices tendered in the
B ill of Quantities for other items of work.
Clause 1806 Noise Abatement
The Contractor shall comply with applicable Ugandan laws, orders, and regulations
concerning the prevention, control and abatement of excessive noise.
Blasting, the use of jackhammers, pile driving, rock crushing, or other operations
producing high-intensity impact noise may be performed at night only upon approval of
the Engineer.
Clause 1807 Light Abatement
The Contractor shall exercise special care to direct all stationary floodlights to shine
downward at an angle less than horizontal. These floodlights shall also be shielded so as
not to be a nuisance to surrounding areas. No lighting shall include a residence in its
direct beam.
The Contractor shall be responsible for correcting lighting problems when they occur as
directed by the Engineer.



147
Clause 1808 Preservation of Historical and Archaeological Data.
The Contractor agrees that should he or any of his employees in the performance of this
contract discover evidence of possible scientific, prehistoric, or archaeological data he
will notify the Engineer immediately giving the location and nature of the findings.
Written confirmation shall be forwarded within 2 days. The Contractor shall exercise
care so as not to damage artefacts or fossils uncovered during excavation operations and
shall provide such co-operation and assistance as may be necessary to preserve the
findings for removal or other disposition by the Employer. The Contractor will also
report his findings to the Department of Tourism, Wildlife and Antiquities.
Where appropriate by reason of a discovery, the Engineer may order delays in the time of
performance, or changes in the work, or both. If such delays, or changes, or both, are
ordered, the time of performance and contract price shall be adjusted in accordance with
the applicable clause in the General Conditions of Contract.
The Contractor agrees to insert this Clause in all subcontracts which involve the
performance of work on the terrain of the site.
Clause 1 809 Pesticides.
Pesticides include herbicides, insecticides, fungicides, rodenticides, pesticides, surface
disinfectants, animal repellents and insect repellents. Should the Contractor find it
necessary to use pesticides in work areas of this contract, he shall submit his plan for
such use to the Engineer for written approval.
The Contractor shall read and comply with all labelling requirements when using
pesticides.
The cost of complying with this Clause shall be included in the prices tendered in the Bill
of Quantities for other items of work.
Clause 1 810 Cleanup and Disposal of Waste Materials.
(a)   Cleanup
The Contractor shall, at all times, keep the construction area, including storage areas
used, free from accumulation of waste materials or rubbish.
All waste water and sewage from office, residential and mobile camps shall be piped to
soak pits or other disposal areas constructed in accordance with local government
regulations, and where and when such regulations require it the Contractor shall obtain a
permit or other appropriate documentation approving the disposal methods used.
All used fuels, oils, other plant or vehicle fluids, and old tyres and tubes shall be
collected to a central disposal area on a daily basis and disposed of in a manner approved
by the Engineer.
Servicing of plant, equipment and vehicles shall whenever possible be carried out at a
workshop area. This workshop area shall be equipped with secure storage areas for fuels,
oils and other fluids constructed in such a way as to contain any spillage which may
occur, and similar storage where fluids can be stored securely prior to their disposal.



148
When servicing of plant, equipment and vehicles is carried out awav from the work-shop
area it shall be done at locations and in such a manner as to avoid spillage and
contamination of streams and other drainage courses. Any spillage shall be cleaned up by
either burning in place or collecting the contaminated soils and burning them at the
central disposal area, all to the satisfaction of the Engineer.
Prior to the completion of the work, the Contractor shall remove from the vicinity of the
work all plant facilities, buildings, rubbish, unused materials, concrete forms and other
like material, belonging to him or used under his directions during construction.
All work areas shall be graded and left in a neat manner conforming to the natural
appearance of the landscape as provided in Clause 1801.
Any residue deposited on the ground from washing out truck mixers, agitating trucks or
any other similar concrete operations shall be buried or cleaned up in a manner
acceptable to the Engineer.
In the event of the Contractor's failure to perform the above work, the work may be
performed by the Employer, at the expense of the Contractor, and his surety or sureties
shall be liable therefor.
(b)   Disposal of Waste Material
(i)   General
Waste materials including, but not restricted to, refuse, garbage, sanitary
wastes, industrial wastes, and oil and other petroleum products, shall be
disposed of by the Contractor. Disposal of combustible materials shall be
by burying, where burial of such materials is approved by the Engineer,
by burning, where burning of approved materials is permitted; or by
removal from the construction area. Disposal of non-combustible
materials shall be by burying, where burial of such materials is approved
by the Engineer, or by removal from the construction area. Waste
materials removed from the construction area shall be dumped at an
approved dump.
(ii)   Disposal of Material by Burying
Only materials approved by the Engineer may be buried. Burial shall be
in pits and the location, size and depth of which shall be approved by the
Engineer. The pits shall be covered by at least 0.6 metre of earth material
prior to abandonment.
(iii)   Disposal of Material by Burning
All materials to be burned shall be piled in designated burning areas in
such a manner as will cause the least fire hazards. Burning shall be
thorough and complete and all charred pieces remaining after burning,
except for scattered small pieces, shall be removed from the construction
area and disposed of as otherwise provided in this Clause.



149
The Contractor shall. at all times, take special precautions to prevent fire
from spreading beyond the piles being burned and shall be liable for any
damage caused by his burning operations. The Contractor shall have
available, at all times. suitable equipment and supplies for use in
preventing and suppressing fires and shall be subject to all laws and
regulations locally applicable for pre-suppression, suppression and
prevention of fires.
(iv)   Disposal of Material by Removal
Material to be disposed of by removal from the construction area shall be
removed from the area prior to the completion of the work under these
specifications. All materials removed shall become the property of the
Contractor.
Materials to be disposed of by dumping shall be hauled to an approved
dump. It shall be the responsibility of the Contractor to make any
arrangements with private parties and with local officials pertinent to
locations and regulations of such dumping. Any fees for charges required
to be paid for dumping of materials shall be paid by the Contractor and
shall be included in the prices tendered in the Bills of Quantities for
other items of work.
Clause l 81 I Measurements and Payment
Except as specifically included in the Bill of Quantities or otherwise provided above, no
separate measurement or payment will be made for any work included in this Section. the
relevant cost of all these requirements being included by the Contractor in the Bill of
Quantities for other items of work.
6.3.2 Construction and Maintenance Supervision Contracts
Road construction and maintenance supervision contracts should include the following clauses
concerning protection and improvement of the road environment.  These clauses will be
additional to those customarily incorporated into such contracts.
A.    General Clause: Commitment of Supervisory Office
The consultant responsible for supervision shall undertake, in the same way as the
contractor, to comply with and to ensure compliance with all directives and legislation
concerning environmental protection and improvement as well as the specific clauses
included in the contractor's contract.
B.     Special Clauses
1)     Supervision of Utilisation of Quarries and Borrow Pits
The supervisor/engineer shall ensure proper utilisation by the contractor of the
quarries/pits designated by the detailed design with the aim of lessening the
environmental impact of his activities as follows:



150
a) Preparation of materials in the quarry or pit.
The supervisor/engineer shall oversee the preparation of gravel materials in the pit or
quarry (stripping, bulking and piling) and mainly:
* the designation of trees to be protected;
* the storage of stripped material in areas where it will not hinder water drainage;
* the restoration of the site around the quarry/pit to its natural state by spreading; the
stored stripped material to facilitate water percolation and natural plant regrowth;
* the re-establishment of the previous natural flow patterns;
* the improvement of the site appearance by burying the large blocks of stone which
had been dug off;
* the digging of ditches and runouts to carry water and maintenance of access ramps.
The supervisor/engineer shall ensure and report that the work site environment is
restored to its natural state, after use, by the contractor.
b) Volume of materials stored in quarry/pit
The supervisor/engineer shall notify the contractor of the volume of material that may
require to be stored per quarry/pit for later use. The stockpiles of materials stored for this
purpose shall be clearly distinguishable and readily accessible; the supervisor/engineer
shall formally turn these stockpiles over to the local authority responsible for their
subsequent use.
2)     Supervision of Consttuction and Drainage Works
a) Construction of runouts
The supervisor/engineer shall determine the runouts to be constructed for retention
purposes and shall specify:
* their technical specifications
* their length
* their minimum lengthwise gradient
b) Construction of storage basins
The supervisor/engineer shall locate the water storage basins to be constructed in suitable
natural sites and shall avoid tree removal. In the field he shall determine the dimensions
and position of each basin with respect to the road and specify the rules to be observed
regarding environmental protection.
3)     Tree Planting
The supervisor/engineer shall instruct the contractor where trees are to be planted and the
type of protection to be provided. He shall ensure that the contractor makes provision for
the water needed for the trees to grow and promptly to replace any dead trees. The
supervisor/engineer shall submit a report stating the number and condition of the
plantings at the time of final acceptance.



151
7. SUMMARY
This volume has presented a comprehensive description of the various environmental and social
aspects affecting, and affected by, road works activities. This section summarises the contents of
the document.
7.1 Legal Framework for Environmental Management
There are a number of legal instruments that address environmental issues. These are:
* Constitution of Uganda, 1995
E Local Governments Act, 1997
* Uganda Wildlife Statute, 1996
* National Environment Statute, 1995
* Land Act 1998
* Water Statute 1995
* Roads Act
e Access to Roads Act
* Forest Act
i Mining Act
* Town and Country Planning Act
* Electricity Act.
The National Environment Statute is perhaps the most important. in that it provides for an
institutional framework  for environmental management, through the establishment of the
National Environment Management Authority; it also specifies management measures, addresses
pollution control and stipulates mechanisms for enforcement of the law.
Property rights and compensation are catered for under the following legal instruments:
* Constitution of Uganda, 1995
* Survey Act
* Land Act
* Roads Act
* Access to Roads Act
In addition, the MOWHC general conditions of contract also make provision for compensation.
7.2 The Phvsical. Natural and Social Environment
Topography
Uganda is part of the African interior plateau comprising four altitudinal zones:
i)    land below 900 masl,
ii)    land between 900 and 1200 masl,
iii)   land between 1200 masl and 2000 masl, and
iv)    land over 2000 masl.



152
Soils
A simplified classification gives the main soil types as:
sandy loam and sandy clay loam      8% of land area
red clay-loams                     14%
clay loam and sandy loam clay      43%
sandy loam and clay                30%
sandy loam to plastic clays        3%
skeletal/peat soils                2%
Rainfall
There are four rainfall zones:
Zone I        Lake Victoria Region        ranges from 150-1500 mm per year
Zone 11       Karamoja                    average 325-620 mm per year
Zone Il      Western Uganda              average 750- 1000 mm per year
Zone IV       Ankole-Southeni Uganda      average 1125 mm per year
Hydrology
The drainage network is divided into eight basins:
Lake Victoria Basin                       Kyoga Basin
Aswa Basin                                Albert Nile Basin
Albert System                             Lake Edward System
Kafu Basin                                Kidepo Basin
Land Use
The main land uses in the country are:
Protected areas      25.4%                Wetlands and open waters    21.5%
Agriculture          29.7%                livestock                   23.2%
Plantations          0.1%                 Habitation                  0.1%
Vegetation
There are numerous vegetation types found in Uganda, ranging from forests to savannas to
wetlands.
Flora and Fauna
Uganda harbours seven of Africa's 18 plant kingdoms, and over 1000 bird species and 335
mammal species have been recorded. In terms of biodiversity therefore, it is one of the most
unique places on earth.



153
Prolected Areas
Protected areas in Uganda fall under three categories:
i)     Uganda Wildlife Authority Protected Areas (includes 10 national parks,  10 wildlife
reserves, 7 wildlife sanctuaries and 13 community wildlife areas) covering 20% of the
total land area of the country;
ii)    Forests. Gazetted forests and reserves cover approximately 6.5% of the country's area.
Forest reserves consist of savanna woodland, forest plantation, tropical hiah forest, and
montane catchment areas.
iii)    Wetlands extend over 9 to 12% of the total land area
Archaeological and Historic Sites
There are almost 200 known archaeological and historic sites in Uganda, ranging from Miocene
and Pleistocene fossil sites, to stone age sites, to tombs and forts.
7.3 Potential Impacts of the FRSP
FRSP sub-projects may affect the physical environment (eg. soils, water, air), the natural
environment (eg. forests, wetlands, etc) and/or the human or social environment (public health,
income).
The potential environmental and social impacts that occur during road works are described
according to the various activities involved. Impacts result from:
- Surveying                                 - Earthworks
- Land acquisition                          - Surfacing
- Recruitment of labour                     - Bridges and culverts
- Plant and equipment, stores and camps     - Drains
- Land clearing                             - Diversions
- Quarries and borrow pits
Mitigation of environmental and social impacts is necessary in order to minimise or eliminate
adverse environmental impacts; enhance beneficial impacts; and protect the rights of individuals
and communities to compensation for any losses that may arise.
Mitigation options will depend on the nature of the potential impacts, and for FRSP road
projects, will have to consider:
changes in the locations of new alignments
lchanges in design of sections of these roads
*      monetary compensation
*      replacing damaged property, or resources
relocation of property, resource (vegetation, infrastructure), and
rehabilitation of any damages.
Environmental monitoring is undertaken to ensure compliance with conditions for project
approval, to determine the effectiveness of mitigation measures and to predict unforeseen
impacts.



154
7.4 Public Involvement
It is essential to involve local people in environmental management because:
*  they will be most affected by the road project
*  they have a good understanding of their local natural and social environment
*  they will be able to assist in impact identification and mitigation
*  they will be more interested in participating in maintenance of the road if there is a sense of
"ownership."
7.5 Environmental Considerations in MOWHC Documentation
The tables below summarise provisions in existing MOWHC manuals and documents for
environmental management.
Table 7.1:     Standard Clauses in Conditions of Contract relating to Environmental
Issues
General Conditions                                         Clause
Engineer's Duties and Powers                                 2
Priority of Contract Documents                               5.2
General Obligations
Site Operations and Methods of Construction                  8.2
Inspection of Site                                           11.1
Not Foreseeable Physical Obstruction or Conditions           12.2
Employment of Local Personnel                                16.4
Safety, Security and Protection of the Environment           19.1
Care of the Works                                            20.1
Damage to Persons and Property                               22.1
Accident or Injury to Workmen                                24.1
Compliance with Statutes, regulations                        26.1
Fossils                                                      27.1
Royalties                                                    28.2
Interference with Traffic and adjoining Properties           29.1
Avoidance of Damage to Roads                                 30.1
Clearance of Site on Completion                              33.1
Labour
Engagement of staff and labour                               34.1
Housing for Labour                                           34.4
Accident Prevention Officer; Accidents                       34.5
Health and Safety                                            34.6
Measures against Insect and Pest Nuisance                    34.7
Epidemics                                                    34.8
Supply of Foodstuffs                                         34.10
Supply of Water                                              34.11
Alcohol, Liquor or Drugs                                     34.12
Arms and Ammunition                                          34.13
Festivals and Religious Customs                              34.14
Disorderly Conduct                                           34.15
Records of Safety and Health                                 35.2
Reporting of Accidents                                       35.3
Commencement and Delays
Rights of Way and Facilities                                 42.3
Restriction on Working Hours                                 45.1



155
Table 7.2:     Clauses in the General Specifications for Road and Bridge Works
Vol. IILA
Item                                                        Clause(s)
Contractor's activities in respect of Property outside the Site  1213
Boundary
Water                                                       1220
Use of Explosives and Demolition                            1224
General requirement on Contractor's Establishment on Site   1302
Services for the Engineer's Staff                           1404
Accommodation of Traffic                                    1501 and 1512
Clearing and Grubbing                                       1702, 1703 and 1703(a)
Surface Water and Drainage                                  2101
Pitching, Stonework and Erosion Protection                  2401
Borrow Materials                                            3101, 3102, 3104(a)
,3105 and 3108
Construction of the Road Subgrade                           3406, 3407, 3408 and
3415
Gabions                                                     5100
Guide Blocks                                                5201
Guard rails                                                 5301
Road Signs                                                  5401 and 5407
Road Traffic Markings                                       5501
Landscaping and Grassing                                    5601 and 5602
Table 7.3:     Sections in the Road Design Manual Dealing with Environment Issues
Section                                       Sub-section
4. Geometric Design                           4.1 Introduction
4.2 Selection of Design Standards
4.6 Provision for Non-Motorised Traffic
4.12 Safety
6. Road Furniture                             6.1 General
6.2 Traffic Islands
6.3 Kerbs
6.4 Marker Posts
6.5 Safety Measures
6.6 Other Fences and Gates
6.7 Traffic Signs and Road Markings
8. Hydrology and Drainage                     8.2 Basic Policy on Drainage Design
8..4 Hydraulic Culverts
8.5 Drainage of the Road Prism
8.6 Subsurface Drainage



156
Table 7.4:     Sections in the Maintenance Manual Dealing with Environmental Issues
Chapter                                     Section
4. Road Safety                              4.1 General
4.2 Safety measures and Traffic control
5. Road Reserve                             5.1 Road reserve
6. Environmental Issues                     6.1 General
6.2 Institutional Aspects
6.2.1 Parties involved
6.2.2 Contractual relations among the various
parties
6.2.3 Road maintenance works
6.2.4 Support measures
6.3.1 Water management
6.3.2 Soil conservation
6.3.3 Maintaining the vegetation
6.3.4 Passage through villages
6.3.5 Borrow pit reinstatement
8. Methods of Work                          8.3 M 0 W T C Road maintenance specifications
In addition, it is recommended that the General Specifications include a section (Section 1800)
exclusively on Environmental Protection and Waste Disposal. This section would address:
*  landscape preservation
*  preservation of trees and shrubbery
*  prevention of water pollution
*  abatement of air pollution
*  noise abatement
*  dust abatement
*  light abatement
*  preservation of historical and archaeological data
*  use of pesticides
*  clean up and disposal of waste material
*  measurements and payments (inclusion of environmental protection items in the Bill of
Quantities).
Construction and maintenance supervision contracts should incorporate general clauses on
commitment of the supervisory office to environmental management. In addition the contracts
should have special clauses on the supervision of the utilisation of borrow pits and construction
of drainage works.



Annexes



A - I
ANNEX I: REFERENCES
ARCADIS-Euroconsult (1998) - Uganda National Wetlands Conservation and Management
Programme. Draft Final Report of the External Review Mission. For the Royal Netherlands
Embassy, Kampala.
Davenport, T. And R. Matthews (1995) - A wealth of species come to light. Swara (Nairobi)
18(3):26-29.
Davenport, T., P. Howard and C. Dickinson (1996) - Mount Elgon National Park.
Biodiversity Report. Biodiversity Report Series, No. 1. Forest Department, Government of
Uganda, Kampala.
Denny, P. (1993) - Eastern Africa. In: D.F. Whigham, D. Dykyjova and S. Hejny (Eds.),
Wetlands of the World I. Inventory, ecology and management. Handbook of Vegetation
Science 15/2. Kluwer Academic Publ., Dordrecht, Boston and London, p:32-46.
DoF (1998) - Nature Conservation Master Plan (volume 1). The Plan. Forest Department,
GOU, Kampala. (in press; expected October 1998)
Dorst, J. And P. Dandelot (1972) - Larger Mammals of Africa. Collins Field Guide. 2nd
edition. Harper Collins Publishers, London, Glasgow, Sydney, Auckland, Toronto,
Johannesburg.
GOU (1964) - The Game (Preservation and Control) Act. Chapter 226, revised edition 1964.
Government of Uganda. Government Printer, Entebbe, p: 3069-3128.
GOU (1995) - The National Environment Statute, 1995. Statutes Supplement No. 3, 19th
May 1995. Government of Uganda, Government Printer, Entebbe.
GOU (1996) - The Uganda Wildlife Statute, 1996. Statute No. 14. (also printed as Statutes
Supplement No. 8, Uganda Gazette No. 32, volume LXXXIX, 24 May 1996. UPPC Printers,
Entebbe). Government of Uganda, Government Printer, Entebbe.
Greenwood, P.H. (1966) - Fishes of Uganda. Uganda Society, Kamnpala. (unseen)
Hamilton, A. (1974) - The history of the vegetation. In. E.M. Lind and M.E.S. Morrison, East
African Vegetation. Longman Group Ltd., London, p: 188-209.
Hickman, G. (1986) - Lands and Peoples of East Africa. Third Edition. Longman Group Ltd.,
Harlow, U.K., 217 pp.
Hughes, R.H. and J.S. Hughes (1992) - A Directory of African Wetlands. IJCN-WCU, UNEP
and WCMC, Gland, Switzerland and Cambridge, U.K.
Lamprey, R., A. Muhimbura-Atukunda, F. Buhanga, F. Egunga, J. Okecha, J. Omoy and F.
Michaelmore (1998) - Strategic Plan for Biodiversity Conservation in the former Controlled
HuntingAreas of Uganda. Uganda Wildlife Authority. First draft July 1998.. Revised draft
due late September.
Langdale-Brown, I., H.A. Osmaston & J.G. Wilson (1964) - The vegetation of Uganda and
its bearing on land-use. Government Printer, Entebbe.



A - 2
Lind, E.M. and M.E.S. Morrison (1974) - East African Vegetation. Longman Group Ltd.,
London.
Loveridge, A. (1957) - Checklist of the Reptiles and Amphibians of East Africa. Bull. of the
Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard, vol. 117 (2): 153-362. (unseen)
MacKinnon, J. and K. MacKinnon (1987) - Review of the Protected Area System in the
Afrotropical Realm. IUCN, Gland, Switzerland and Cambridge, U.K.
Mandahl-Barth. G. (1954) - Thefreshwater molluscs of Uganda and adjacent territories.
Annales du Musee Royal du Congo Belge (Tervuren). Series 8. Sciences Zoologiques, vol. 32.
(unseen)
MNR (1994) - The National Environment Management Policy for Uganda; Ministry of
Natural Resources; GOU, Kampala.
MNR (1994) - The National Environmental Action Plan. Ministry of Natural Resources,
GOU, Kampala.
MNR (1995) - National Policyfor the Conservation and Management of Wetland Resources.
Ministry of Natural Resources, GOU, Kampala.
MOWTC (1998) - Maintenance Manual; GOU.
MOWTC (1994) - Road Design Manual; GOU.
MOWTC (1992) - Tender Documents for Road and Bridge Works, Vols IA and IB; GOU
MOWTC (1992) - Conditions of Contract for Road and Bridge Works, Vol 11; GOU
MOWTC (1992) - General Specifications for Road and Bridge Works, Vol lIIA; GOU
Muhimbura-Atukunda, A., E. Buhanga, J. Okecha and R.H. Lamprey (1997) - Draft Regional
Protected Area System Plan For The Wildlife Areas Of Karamoja, Uganda. Uganda Wildlife
Authority, Kampala.
National Biodiversity Unit (1992) - Uganda Country Study On Costs, Benefits And Unmet
Needs Of Biological Diversity Conservation. Department of Environment Protection,
Ministry of Water, Energy, Minerals and Environment Protection, Government of Uganda.
SIDA/UNEP.
National Biomass Study (1996) - Uganda Land Cover Stratification (Vegetation) with
Districts, Counties and Protected Areas (1996). Scale 1:900,000. Forest Department, GOU,
Kampala.
NEMA (1996) - State of the Environment Reportfor Uganda 1996. National Environment
Management Authority, Kampala.
NEMA (1997) - District State of Environment Report for Pallisa District. National
Environment Management Authority, Kampala.



A - 3
Omoding, J., T. Otim, P.E. Ekisa and N.M. Mutekanga (1996) - Inventory of wetland
biodiversity in Uganda. Activities, methodologies and results. UNO/RAF/006/GEF Field
Document 25. FAO, Kampala, September 1996.
Pitman, C.R.S. (1974) - A Guide to the Snakes of Uganda. Revised edition, Wheldon and
Wesley, Codicote. (unseen)
Pomeroy, D., H. Tushabe & M. Green (1998) - Using Biodiversity Data To Review Coverage
Of Uganda's Protected Areas. Journal of East African Natural History. (submitted)
Ratter, A. (1998) - Problem Animal Control Workshop. Kampala, 1-3 July 1998. Uganda
Wildlife Authority, unpublished report.
Williams, J.G. and N. Arlott (1980) - A Field Guide To The Birds Of East Africa. W. Collins,
London, Glasgow, Sydney, Auckland, Toronto, Johannesburg.
WCMC (1992) - Protected Areas of the World: A Review of National Systems. World
Conservation Monitoring Centre, Cambridge, U.K.
World Bank (1993) - Ecologically Sensitive Sites in Africa. Volume Il: Eastern Africa.
Compiled by the World Conservation Monitoring Centre for the World Bank, Washington
D.C., USA.
World Bank (1994) - Roads and the Environment: A Handbook- Report TWU  13;
Washington D.C. USA.



A -4
ANNEX H: THE BIODIVERSITY REPORT SERIES
Produced in 1996 by the Forest Department, GOU, and are generally edited by Tim
Davenport and Peter Howard (on occasion with third parties).
Report #      Forest Reserve(s)
No. I         Mount Elgon National Park
No. 2         Rwenzori Mountains National Park
No. 3         Budongo Forest Reserve
No. 4         Kalinzu-Maramagambo Forest Reserve
No. 5         Kibale National Park
No. 6         Moroto, Kadam and Napak Forest Reserves
No. 7         Labwor Hills Forest Reserves
No. 8         Nyangea-Napore, Rom and Ogili Forest reserves
No. 9         Bugoma Forest Reserve
No. 10        Kagombe, Matiri and Kitechura Forest Reserves
No. 11        Kasyoha-Kitomi Forest Reserve
No. 12        Mount Kei Forest Reserve
No. 13        Mabira Forest Reserve
No. 14        Agoro-Agu and Lokung Forest Reserves
No. 15        Semliki National Park
No. 16        Itwara Forest Reserve
No. 17        Otzi and Era Forest Reserves
No. 18        South Busoga Forest Reserve
No. 19        Bwindi Impenetrable National Park
No. 20        Sango Bay Forest Reserves
No. 21        Morungole, Timu and Lwala Forest Reserves
No. 22        Echuya and Mafuga Forest Reserves
No. 23        Mujuzi, Sesse Islands and Jubiya Forest Reserves
No. 24        Mpanga, Zika and Mpigi Forest Reserves
No. 25        Luwero District Forest Reserves
No. 26        Kilak, Aswa River, Wiceri, Zoka and Opit Forest Reserves
No. 27        Luunga, Namwasa, Taala and Bigwezi-Gunga Forest Reserves
No. 28        Bukaleba and Mukono Forest Reserves
No. 29        West Bugwe and Igwe-Luvunya Forest Reserves
No. 30        Kibeka and Maruzi Hills Forest Reserves
No. 31        Kazooba, Kasana-Kasambya and Nsowe Forest Reserves
No. 32        Rwoho and Kijanabolola Forest Reserves
No. 33        Kisangi Forest Reserve



