Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8512
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1586-TU)
APRIL 4, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distibuton and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -
ABBREVIATIONS
Al      =  Artificial Insemination
FAO-CP  =  United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization-Cooperative
Programme
IDA     =  International Development Association
IBRD    =  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
GDPI    =  General Directorate of Projects and Implementation
GDVS    =  General Directorate of Veterinary Services
LDP     =  General Directorate of Livestock Development Projects
MAFRA   =  Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs
MINAG   =  Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock
PDA     =  Provincial Directorate of Agriculture
SAL     =  Structural Adjustment Loan
SPO     =  Turkish State Planning Office
TCZB    =  Turkish Agricultural Bank
TSEK    =  Turkish Milk Industry Organization
TYT     =  Turkish Wool and Mohair Corporation
TZDK    =  Turkish Agricultural Supply Organization



THE WORLD SANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
US.A.
O0t* dw obehtmm
April 4, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Turkey
Fourth Livestock Development Proiect (Loan 1586-TU)
Attached, for information, Is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Turkey: Fourth Livestock Development Project (Loan
1586-TU)" prepared by the Europe, Middle East ane North Africa Regional
Office. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document hus a rsied   distibuon NW  Y be wed by tistsoi poi Ponf_
of theit o21icb dutes ilu contonts may not edXowi be disclood wihou WaMi Bak aubhLn



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION 'REPORT
TURKEY
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1586-TU)
Table of Contents
T -,e No.
PREFACE                                                          i
BASIC DATA SHEET                                                ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                              iv
I. BACKGROUND                                                         1
A.  The Livestock Subsector                                       2
B.  Government Policy for Livestock Development                   4
C.  Bank's Involvement in Livestock Subsector                     4
D.  Livestock Development Projects                                4
E. Fourth Livestock Development Project                           6
II.  PROJECT IDENTIFIZATION, PREPARATION AND PROCESSING                7
A.  Identification/Preparation                                    7
B.  Project Concept                                               7
C.  The Government's View                                         8
D.  Appraisal                                                     8
E.  Negotiations                                                  9
F. Board Presentation                                            10
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                           10
A.  Loan Effectiveness                                           10
B.  Project Start-up                                             10
C.  Project Restructuring                                        13
D.  Implementation of Project Components                         14
E.  Technical Specialists                                        16
F.  Monitoring                                                   17
IV.  OPERATING PERFORMANCE                                            17
A.  Disbursements                                                17
B.  Procurement                                                  18
C.  Loan Amendments/Covenants                                    19
D.  Closing Date                                                 20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by tecipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont'd)
Pase No.
V.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT                          20
A.  MAFRA Reorganization                                           20
B.  TCZB's Performance                                             21
C.  Bank Performance                                               22
D.  Credit Uptake                                                  22
E.  Accessibility of Credit to Small Farmers                       22
F.  Marketing and Prices                                           23
VI.  PROJECT IMPACT                                                      24
A.  Introduction                                                   24
-B.  Farm Income and Financial Rates of Return                      24
C.  Economic Impact                                                27
D.  Environmental Impact                                           29
E.  Project Sustainability                                         29
ANNEXES
1. Actual and Cumulative Disbursements
2. Distribution of Loan Proceeds: Comparison of Appraisal vs. Actual
3. Use of Loan Proceeds for Imports: Livestock and Machinery
4. Distribution of Inputs by Province
5. Comparison of Number of Subprojects Financed by Project:
Appraisal vs. Actual
6. Distribution of Subprojects According to Province
7. Beef Improvement (10-Head Model): Financial Performance
8. Sheep Improvement (50-Ewe Model): Financial Performance
9. Dairy Cattle Improvement (5-Cow Model):  Financial Performance
10. Dairy Cattle Improvement (12-Cow Model): Financial Performance
11. Dairy Cattle Improvement (30-Cow Model): Financial Performance
12.  Beef Improvement (10-Head Model):  Total Incremental Benefits
13.  Sheep Improvement (50-Ewe Model):  Total Incremental Benefits
14. Dairy Cattle Improvement (5-Cow Model):  Total Incremental Benefits
15. Dairy Cattle Improvement (12-Cow Model): Total Incremental Benefits
16. Dairy Cattle Improvement (30-Cow Model): Total Incremental Benefits
17. Economic Rate of Return
18. Financial Farmgate Prices of Inputs and Products (at 1986 prices)
NAPS
IBRD 13431R1
13432R



TIURKE
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1586-TU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report  (PCR) for the Fourth
Livestock Development Project in Turkey, for which Loan 1586-TU in the
amount of US$24.0 mill;.on was approved on June 2, 1978.   The loan was
closed on June 30, 1985.  The last disbursement took place on December 31,
1985.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division of the
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office and is based on the
Borrower's completion report; monitoring and evaluation reports; the Staff
Appraisal Report; the Loan and Project Agreements; supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank
memoranda.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower on November 10, 1989, for comments
by January 3, 1990, but none were received.



- ii. -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECJ
BASIC DATA SHEET
A. Kay Protect Data
Appraisal          Actual or           Actual as X
Estimate        Curret  Es imate _     of E.timt
Total Project Cost (LT million)
(USS million)                  83.20
Loan Amount Oisbursed (USS million)                 24.00                21.87               91.0
Cancelled as of January 20. 1986                      -                   2.13
Date Physical Components Completed                June 198S           Dec. 1985              n.a
Proportion then Coupleted
Institutional Performance                        Satisfactory           Poor
Number of Jobs Created                               n.a.           750 man-years
Financial Rates of Return (2)                       23-43                 8-21
CumulatiXe Disbursements (USI million)
FY7°    FY80    EF        EThZ    EM       E          E8       Fi
Appraisal Estimate                   0.2     2.2      5.6      9.8    15.3    21.3    24.0    24.0
Actual                               -       -        -        S.0     6.0      6.S    11.5    21.9
Actual as Percent of Estimate                                 S1.0    39.0    31.0    48.0    91.0
Amount Cancelled (1/20/86)                             US$2.13 million
Date of Final Disbursement                             January 20. 1986
S.  Missioan.fDtAA
No. of   Handays    Speciality        Performance      Types of
Tvne of Mission       UQigahIyIaa    Persons  in iLeJld   Resresente    .Ratina.....         Problems
Status Trmnd
identification/
Preparation            Oct 76           4         20       E A L E                   -
Preparation             Dec 76           2         10       L E                         
Preparation              Jan 77          1         14        L                          
Appraisal                Oct 77          5         25        L EG FC-                            -
Supervision I           Jul 78           1         25       L                          
Supervision It          Oct 78           1          2       L                 1       1I
Supervisici hIII .      May 79           1         17       L.                2       3       P M
Supervision IV           Jul 80          2         66       LIL               3       2       SMNT
Supervision V           may81)           2         54       L L               3       3       T HU
Supervision VI          Nov81t           2         56        E L              2       2       M TB
Supervision VlI         Dec 82           3         54       A LE              3       3       MT 8
Supervision VIII        Aug 83           1         11       A                 3       I       M T 9
Supervision IX          Apr 84           2         34       A A               2       1       H T 
Supervision X           Oct 84           1         24       A                 2       1       U T 
Supervision Xl          Jun 85           1         25       A                 2       2       H T B
Supervision XII          Feb 86          1         10       A                 3       1       MYTS
LI  Includes days spent by supervision missions III to Xr on supervision of other projects.
particularly the Second ard Third Livestock Development prdjects.
A a Agriculturist/Agronomist. C = Credit snecialist. EC Economist, F = Financial Analyst.
G = Generalist. I  Agroindustries Specialist. L a Livestock Specialist.
I = Problem Free or Minor Problems. 2 = Moderate Problems. 3 = Major Problems.
I = Improving. 2 = Stationary. 3 = Deteriorating.
B  Financial. H = Managerial, T = Tecnnical. P = Political, 0 =Other.



- iii -
C. Other Project Data
Original                             Actual or
Plan          Revisions        Current Estimate
First Mention in Files      July 1976                            Jul 1976
Negotiations                April 1978                           Apr 1978
Board Approval              06/02/78                             06/02/78
Loan Agreement              06/05/78                             06/05/78
Effectiveness               09/14/78                             10/31/78
Closing Date                06/30/85                             06/30/85
Borrower                    Government of the Republic of Turkey
Executing Agency            General Directorate of Livestock Development Projects/
General Directorate of Projects and Implementation
Fiscal Year of Borrower    March 1 - February 28
Related Projects ¢'         Fifth Livestock Development Project
Loan Number              1862-TU
Loan Amount             US$51 million
Loan Agreement Date     May 13, 1980
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)                Turkish Lira (LT)
Currency Exchange Rate
Appraisal Year Average (1978)               US$1.00 = LT 25.25
Intermediary Years Average (1978-1984)      US$1.00 2 LT 162.16
Completion Year Average (1985)              US$1.00 2 LT 521.98
1/ The Fifth Livestock Project is not really a follow-on project to the Fourth
Project (serving the less developed provinces of the East) but rather the
Third Project (covering primarily the more advanced provinces).



- iv -
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1586-TU)
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Findinas
i.       This project, a follow-up investment to raise productivity and output
in the livestock subsector, was largely succcssful in terms of economic and
financial returns of investments financed. However, this success was
incidental because it was achieved through modifications in project design,
reducing the emphasis on large-scale dairy and imported cows, and increasing
funding to expansion of fattening activities where the technology was already
known to the local inhabitants. Thus the project did not meet its original
goals for introducing technical change involving improved livestock breeds and
management of the grazing resources. Nevertheless, the coincidental results
of the project were beneficial to both the participating farmers and the
economy.
ii.      Initial delays in implementation and problems relating to staffing
and budgetary resources did not significantly affect the project's impact
because of the changes in project design which were made at the later stages
of project implementation in accordance with the changing economic environment
in the country. These delays and problems resulted in no disbursements during
the first three years of project implementation.
iii.     Both the borrower and the Bank exhibited a flexible approach
throughout the implementation period, despite their initial lack of
concurrence on the project's scope and size. This flexibility resulted in a
series of project restructuring which played a critical role in the eventual
achievement of the project's revised objectives.
iv.      Although the project was originally designed for an economy different
from the one that prevailed after 1981, the import bias in the project design
was rather regrettable because it discriminated against improved and more
appropriate technology (e.g. cattle breeds and machinery) that was locally
produced. The removal of this design deficiency proved beneficial to project
participants as well as suppliers of locally improved livestock breeds.
v.       The borrower's weak commitment to the project, epitomized by
provision of insufficient budgetary allocations, inadequate extension and
animal health services in the project area, and shortages and rapid turnover
of senior technical staff, was rooted in the country's weak resource base and
unfavorable macroeconomic developments. Initial disagreements with the Bank
on project scope and emphasis also contributed to the Borrower's weak
commitment during implementation.
vi.      Institutional performance was generally poor because of inadequate
capacity to manage and coordinate project activities by the implementing
agencies and the overall project management setup proved less responsive to
the needs and problems of the project than envisaged at appraisal.



- v -
vii.     Changes in TCZB's lending policy, at the Bank's urging, was critical
in facilitating the participation of small farmers in the project's credit
program. This was achieved through the adoption of cosigners and acceptance
of chattel mortgages, in lieu of land title, as the basic form of credit
guarantee for subloans.
viii.    Beef and sheep fattening/breeding proved very popular and profitable
among project participants. This was partly due to favorable prices and
partly because of their compatibility with the farmer's socio-cultural
practices and managerial skills.
ix.      Large-scale dairy farming under the project was not particularly
profitable in comparison with small-scale dairy farming or beef and sheep
fattening/breeding. Large dairy farmers also suffered serious liquidity
problems in the first three years of adoption. This prompted TCZB to
reschedule interest payments on dairy loans thereby subsidizing large-scale
dairy farming operations.
x.       Financial rates of return for individual project activities as well
as the project's economic rate of return indicate that the project has been
rewarding to both the individual participants and the economy as a whole. The
financial rates of return of project activities (ranging from 82 to 21%) are
within the appraisal low ranges of 14-38S. The economic rate of return (16X)
equally falls within the lower range of appraisal estimates of 171 (as
revealed by the SAR's sensitivity analysis).
xi.      The project, designed to partially replace the use of natural
pastures with cultivated fodder and concentrated feeds and to increase
livestock production through the use of less (but high performance) animals,
has had a positive impact on the environment. This was achieved by avoiding
or reducing the major causes of destruction of natural pasture (i.e. heavy and
continuous grazing, ear"' grazing and uncontrolled communal grazing)
increasingly through the use of concentrates and better utilization of
agricultural waste (e.g. cereal hay).
xii.     The project's sustainability in the long run (other than the
expansion of fattening activities) is threatened by its failure to create:
(a) autonomous grass roots organizations (e.g. grazing associations), (b) a
framework for beneficiary participation in the adoption and sustenance of the
project's technical packages (e.g. milk and heifer purchasing/sales
cooperatives), (c) mechanisms for making dairying compatible with the
socio-cultural environment and farmers' management skills, and (d) improved
animal health and technical services.
Lessons Learned
xiii.    Flexibility, exercised during implementation by both the borrower and
the Bank, in modifying the project design to suit a new and changing economic
environment can be critical to the eventual success and sustainability of a
project.



- vi -
xiv.     The borrower's commitment to the project, as measured by the ability
and willingness to provide human and financial resources and to make adequate
policy and institutional changes, can play a critical role in the success of
project implementation. However, the borrower's ability and willingness to
honor its commitment to the project is dependent on the available resource
base and macroeconomic developments within the country.
xv.      Import bias in project design which excluded the financing of
domestically produced cattle and equipment should have been avoided
irrespective of the prevailing or prospective exchange rate and trade policy
in the country.
xvi.     Design of livestock projects in Turkey (and other developing
countries) should emphasize compatibility of project technical packages with
the socio-cultural environment and farmers' managerial skills and experience.
xvii.    Well-timed policy and institutional changes during project
implementation car. provide the necessary (perhaps not sufficient) incentives
for adoption of a project's technical packages by farmers, provided such
packages are financially profitable ab initio. The adoption of unprofitable
packages by farmers is virtually insensitive to such changes.
xviii.   Ill-designed or inappropriate technical packages (in relation to the
quality and range of available support services) of a project can be costly,
not only in terms of financial losses incurred by farmers participating in a
project, but also in terms of subsidies which might be necessary to sustain or
encourage their adoption by farmers.
xix.     Building up the capacity of financial intermediaries for preparing,
appraising and supervising farm investment loans effectively is a better
strategy than splitting such responsibilities between a financial intermediary
and ministerial agricultural experts.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1586-TU)
I. BACKGROUND
1.01     Prior to 1978, the Bank and IDA had made eight loans and seven
credits to Turkey totaling US$362.7 millionl' in the agricultural and
livestock sectors, of which US$42.0 million was for livestock development.
The Fourth Livestock Development Project was a repeater project intended to
consolidate and expand the modernization of livestock production in eastern
Turkey which was initiated under the Second Livestock Development Project
(Credit 330-TU). More specifically, Livestock IV was to introduce in eastern
Turkey the improved dairy production concepts and practices which were
developed for western and central Turkey under the First and Third Livestock
Development Projects (Credit 236-TU and Loan 1265-TU, respectivcly). The
project was implemented under very difficult socioeconomic conditions which
characterized the Turkish economy during the period 1978-85. This had an
important bearing on the implementation of the project.
1.02     During 1973-76, Turkey's economy experienced a real growth rate of
7.71 per year. This was financed by large short-term borrowings and a heavy
drawdown on its foreign resources. The resulting external debt burden led to
an abrupt disruption in growth in mid-1977 which experienced a sharp
deterioration in creditworthiness, severe shortages of imports, disruptions in
industrial production and rise in unemployment. GNP growth steadily declined
from 4.31 in 1977 and turned negative in 1979 and 1980, but recovered to an
average of 4.4% during 1981-85. Domestic inflation, as measured by the
whclesale price index, rose from 242 in 1977 to about 1002 in 1980 before it
declined to an average of 35% during 1981-85.
1.03     In response to this severe crisis, the Government announced in early
1980 a new economic strategy aimed at stabilizing the economy, placing greater
reliance on market forces than on quantitative controls and encouraging
efficient growth of the private sector. To implement this strategy, the
Government initiated wide-ranging reforms involving a number of key policy
areas: exchange rate adjustment (large nominal devaluation followed by
continual adjustment to maintain a competitive exchange rate); import
1/ These comprised the following projects: Grain Storage, Ln 27-TU,
US$3.9 M; Seyhan Irrigation, Ln 63-TU, US$25.2 M, Cr 38-TU, US$20.0 M;
Fruit and Vegetable Export, Ln 762-TU, US$10.0 M, Cr 257-TU, US$15.0 M;
Intensive Dairy Production, Cr 236-TU, US$4.5 M; Irrigation Rehabilitation
Completion, Cr 281-TU, US$18.0 M; Second Livestock Development, Cr 330-TU,
US$16.0 M; Seyhan Irrigation Stage II, Ln 587-TU, US$12.0 M, Cr 143-TU,
US$14.2 M; Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose, Ln 883-TU, US$44.0 M, Cr 360-TU,
US$30.0 M; Corum-Cankiri Rural Development, Ln 1130-TU, US$75.0 M,
Agriculture Credit and Agroindustries, Ln 1248-TU, US$53.4 M; Third
Livestock Development, Ln 1265-TU, US$21.5 M.



liberalization (elimination of the quota list, shifting imports to the more
liberalized list; reduction in guarantee deposits, simplification of
regulations and centralization of import administration); export promotion
(payment of indirect tax rebates, export credit, priority access to foreign
exchanges for duty free imports of inputs, relaxation of export price controls
and procedural simplifications); public sector reforms (freeing most SEEs from
price controls, rationalizing publin investment); financial sector policies
(deregulation of interest rates, reduction of selective credits, capital
market legislation); monetary policies (control of monetary aggregates to curb
inflation); and tax reforms (to increase resource mobilization and restructure
investment incentives to promote exports).
1.04     These policy initiatives have been further deepened with the
assistance of five SALs, and agriculture, financial and energy sector
adjustment loans, and support from the IMF. The reform program entered a new
phase from early 1984 with greater emphasis on real exchange rate
devaluations, rapid import liberalization, maintenance of positive real
interest rates for deposits and SEE reforms to improve efficiency and
financial viability. Private sector investments were also supported through a
number of generous investments incentives.
1.05     The economic situation in 1985-86 has been more favorable compared to
the situation i1 the early 1980s. This was in part due to exogenous factors,
such as abundant availability of agricultural commodities and sharply lower
oil prices in dollar terms, which helped reduce the rate of inflation to 25%
by the end of 1986 compared to 381 in 1985.
A. The Livestock Subsector
1.06     The Bank carried out a comprehensive agricultural sector survey in
1982. "  The report highlighted the importance of livestock as a significant
resource in Turkey. The country is generally acknowledged as having one of
the largest livestock resources in Europe and the Middle East, but its
exploitation has remained minimal because of inefficient animal husbandry
practices and low productivity.
1.07     The First, Second and Third Development Plans had targets for growth
of livestock output of 5.6%, 4.8% and 5% per annum, respectively. But the
actual growth rates over the period 1963-1975 was only 2.5% per annum,'
barely matching the human population growth rate. Livestock production
comprises about one-third of the gross value of agricultural production.
Animal ownership continues to be widely distributed within the rural
population despite the fact that most towns and villages possess common
grazing lands. Most village families, even with little or no land, possess
one or two cows besides owning some sheep and goats. Turkish farmers in the
1/  The comprehensive survey was published in three volumes, "Turkey:
Agricultural Development Alternatives for Growth with Exports," June 30,
1983, Report No. 4204-TU.
2/  Even this figure of 2.5% growth rate is to be regarded with caution since
the national statistics on livestock lack precision and were based on
inadequate sampling techniques, and production figures derived by applying
average production coefficients.



eastern parts of the country are traditional livestock keepers. Farming is
typically mixed with a close interdependence between crop and animal
production. The livestock feed base varies between the different
agro-climatic regions within the country. Livestock products, particularly
meat, milk and milk products, comprise the main source of food and income for
small farmers.
1.08     The overall productivity of the livestock sector, especially in the
project area, was and continues to be low. Basically, animals were being kept
as scavengers subsisting almost entirely on residues from re eal crops, on
volunteer growth appearing on croplands during the fallow b ason, and on
natural grazing on the poorer, non-arable lands. It was a rational system
because it utilized resources with no alternative use. From the viewpoint of
maximizing productivity, however, it had several shortcomings. Because of its
low quality, it is insufficient to meet both the maintenance and production
needs of animals, particularly in the winter and during periods of drought.
Farmers make virtually no attempt to match feed supply with animal
requirements. Technical coefficients tend to be uniformly poor and the output
of the subsector, as measured by offtake rates, is therefore low.
1.09     The productivity of sheep and goats is slightly better than cattle,
since they appear to enjoy a comparative advantage in that they utilize
low-quality feed resources more efficiently. They can utilize fallen grain in
cereal fields after harvest better and can graze short stubble and poor
natural grassland more effectively than cattle. Consequently, technical
coefficients for sheep and goats and offtake are higher.
1.10     Dairy productivity has also remained low.  Although milk and milk
products are traditional in the Turkish diet, dairying remains
non-specialized, and milk production is incidental to livestock keeping. Milk
production is generally low for all breed types. Annual production from dairy
cattle is further depressed by a long calving interval and a low calving
percentage, as in the case of beef cattle.
1.11     Another related issue in livestock production in the project area is
the problem of overstocking in relation to the available grazing resource.
Even though total grazing animals have increased slowly (at less than 12 p.a.)
over recent years, the smaller area available for grazing and the transfer of
the better quality grazing lands to cropping have progressively reduced the
quantity and the quality of natural pastures, so that there appears to be too
many animals for the available feed supply.
1.12     In the project area, farmers were observed to resist culling and
reduction of animal numbers, unless they were supplied with better quality
animals to maintain and increase their incomes. Turkish pastoral farmers hold
firmly to the belief that there is "safety in numbers." Many also considered
that native stock do not respond adequately to better feeding and management
and that the extra effort is not worthwhile. These were, perhaps, the reasons
for farmers' general reluctance to cu'Ll herds and flocks. Probably important
also was the fact that over time they had become accustomed to equating a
certain size of herd or flock with a particular offtake and income. This was
the case with dairymen who maintained that extra numbers assured better
chances of having a cow regularly to maintain the supply of milk to the family.



- 4 -
B. Government Policy for Livestock Development
1.13     Government's agricultural and livestock policies in the first three
Five-Year Development Plans have emphasized increased production in order to
satisfy both rising domestic demand and to encourage exports. Government had
also become increasingly conscious of income inequities in the country,
particularly between urban and rural dwellers and between western and eastern
Turkey. This has led to an awareness of the need to provide for greater rural
development in eastern Turkey, which in turn focused attention on the need to
assist livestock producers in the area since they comprise the majority of the
rural population there. In each of its three succeeding Five-year Plans, the
Government has given increasing emphasis to developing livestock subsector
through:
(a)  expanding outlets for incremental production via improved
processing/marketing facilities;
(b)  increasing the profitability of livestock production via price
incentives; and
(c)  improving the efficiency of production by the introduction of new
technology at the farm level facilitated by term credit linked with
technical assistance.
C. Bank's Involvement in Livestock Subsector
1.14     Bank strategy for support of agricultural sector.  The Bank's overall
recent strategy for assisting agricultural sector development in Turkey has
been focused at supporting policy reforms to reduce distortions in producer
incentives, stimulating primary production and strengthening the input supply,
processing, marketing and credit delivery systems. The achievement of these
objectives has been sought through policy and institutional changes which were
introduced starting in 1980 with support from five Structural Adjustment Loans
(SALs) and an Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan. These have aimed at
providing a transition from a highly subsidized and protected system of
agricultural production to a system which is essentially self-reliant and
responsive to policy signals and the market conditions. The Bank's livestock
lending activities occurred before this strategy was developed at a time when
an overvalued exchange rate distorted the incentives affecting the livestock
sector. At that time efforts were concentrated on modernizing livestock
through importation of improved livestock combined with special extension and
credit programs.
D. Livestock Development Projects
1.15     The Fourth Livestock Development Project was implemented in
conjunction with four other Bank-assisted projects. The First Livestock
Project,-L which became effective in 1971 during Turkey's Second Plan,
represented the first major attempt by Government to modernize the dairy
subsector. Its strategy was to establish a nucleus of over 3,000 imported
pedigree Holstein
1/ Appraisal Report: PA-36a, January 26, 1971.



- 5 -
animals on private farms in and around the four main milk consuming centers in
western Turkey (Ankara, Istanbul, Izmir and Adana), in order to provide a
source of breeding stock for genetic upgrading of indigenous herds. The
project, comnleted in February 1977, I was successful in achieving its major
objective. It also set up some 150 demonstrations of modern dairying, promoted
modern dai.rying through provision of credit and technical assistance to
farmers, and strengthened the General Directorate of Livestock Development
Projects (LDP), Turkish Agricultural Bank (TCZB) and General Directorate of
Veterinary Services (GDVS) infrastructure. This institutional development
played a critical role in the implementation of subsequent livestock projects,
including the fourth and fifth livestock projects. The introduction of new
technology (new and pure breeds) in Turkish dairy industry under the project
heralded the beginning of a long-term and tedious path toward modernization
and improvement in overall productivity.
1.16     The Second Livestock Project (Credit 330-TU), ' effective in 1972
during the Second Plan period, comprised two subprojects, a fattening
subproject (FSD) and a village development subproject (VSD). It represented
Government's first serious attempt to encourage fattening on a wide scale in
some 20 provinces throughout Turkey. It also introduced modern village
livestock development in three provinces in eastern Turkey (Erzurum, Kars,
Agri), through the provision of credit and technical assistance to farmers.
Implementation of this project was generally successful. In general,
technical coefficients projected at appraisal have been met or exceeded.
Animal health problems have been well contained, although some serious disease
outbreaks (e.g. foot and mouth, anthrax and blackleg) were experienced in a
few areas, either because the health program was not followed or because drugs
and vaccines of poor quality were used. There is the possibility also that,
because of veterinary staffing constraints, treatment in some cases was late
or not provided. A disappointing aspect of the project has been the difficult
encountered in developing the group action concept. It was envisaged at
appraisal that some 430 farmer groups (tractor/machinery, irrigation, pasture
improvement and bull groups) would be established, but the concept has not
been widely accepted by farmers. Conceptually, the group action approach was
considered to be sound and also relevant to the situation in eastern Turkey,
but it required more time and promotion in order to gain general acceptance by
farmers of the area who are conservative. In common with the First and Third
Projects, the implementation of the Second Project also experienced delays in
the early stages. Because of its location (i.e. eastern Turkey), delays in
recruitment of qualified and experienced staff resulted in implementation
slippage. Over two years were lost before adequate staffing could be
recruited to permit project start-up. Despite these shortfalls, both
subprojects are considered to have generally attained their overall technical
objectives as well as establishing an infrastructure and experience which will
be crucial in the design and implementation of future livestock development
projects in the area.
1/ Details of project implementation and lessons learned have been described
in the completion report (August 9, 1977).
2/ Appraisal Report PA-122a, March 15, 1972.



- 6 -
1.17     The Third Livestock Project (Loan 1265-TU),'-' effective in early
1977 during the Third Plan and a r-epeater of the first project, was aimed at
consolidating and expanding the progress made under its predecessor as well as
extending coverage to include Konya, Kayseri and Malatya. Over 10,000
pedigree Holstein and Brown Swiss heifers and bulls were imported under the
project. Infrastructural development within LDP, TCZB and GDVS, initiated
under the first project, was continued. A particular feature of this project
was the small (5-cow) village farmer component which represents an attempt,
for the first time in Turkey, to extend (on a pilot basis) credit and new
technology (i.e. pure breeds) to some 300 small livestock producers.
1.18     The Fifth Livestock Project (Loan 1862-TU), which became effective in
November 1980, was designed to consolidate and expand the progress made under
previous livestock projects and to initiate Bank-assisted efforts in the
fields of artificial insemination, sheep and goat breeding for quality breed
production, and poultry production. The project sought to achieve these
objectives through the provision of supervised credit to 2,900 farmers for
dairy, sheep, goat and poultry development and livestock fattening in 20
central and eastern provinces of the country. Provision was also made for
disease control and animal breeding services as well as for mohair piocessing
facilities.
E. Fourth Livestock Development Project
1.19     The primary objective of the project was to raise the efficiency and
output of livestock production through the introduction of improved
technology, management and expansion of the forage base by rational land
utilization. These objectives were to be achieved through the provision of
supervised credit to village producers for farm development (i.e. barn
improvements, purchases of imported livestock, machinery, seed, fertilizer and
other inputs). The project, being located in a relatively poorer part of
Turkey (para 2.07), was mainly intended to raise the incomes of the small
farmer.-'
..20     The project was to finance farm investments during a six-year period
beginning in 1978. Under the project, supervised credit was provided for:
(a) Karaman and Merino sheep improvement involving the establishment of 50-ewe
units on about 2,700 farms, (b) beef cattle improvement involving the
establishment of 10-cow units on about 500 farms, and (c) dairy cattle
improvement on about 1,500 farms of 5-cow units, 400 farms of 12-cow units,
100 farms of 30-cow units. In addition, the project was to provide funds for
(a) a technical services component to provide farm development planning and
supervision and veterinary health services, (b) a milk industry study
component focusing on the policies, investment program, organization,
management, operations and marketing activities of TSEK (the government-owned
1/ Appraisal Report No. 1027-TU, May 10, 1976.
2/ According to the project brief (Dec. 30, 1977) a small farmer was defined
as one with a net annual pre-developmental income of LT 35,000 (about
US$1,750), at least 75l of which was derived from agricultural (farm)
sources. Based on a national average family size of six, this was
equivalent to about $290 per capita. If the lower income strata of
eastern Turkey were to be considered, their average family size consists
of about 8 persons, which would then reduce the per capita income to $220.



-7-
milk distribution company), (c) local and overseas training of project and
government staff dealing with livestock development, and (d) surveys and field
research in forage production, utilization, animal production and veterinary
health care.
1.21     Total project costs, including taxes and price contingencies, were
estimated at US$83.2 million (LT 1,605.0 million) as of December 1977, with an
estimated foreign exchange cost of US$24.0 million (LT 464.2 million),
representing 29% of total project costs. TCZB was expected to finance about
US$32.4 million, or 39Z of total cost, and farmer contributions were estimated
at about US$9.0 million, or 11% of total cost. The Government was expected to
contribute the remaining US$17.8 million, or 21% of total cost. The Bank loan
of US$24.0 million was to cover the total foreign exchange cost and was for a
term of 17 years including a 4-year grace period at an interest rate of 7.52
per annum.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND PROCESSING
A. Identification/Preparation
2.01     The suggestion for a follow-up project for livestock development was
discussed by a supervision mission (Livestock Development II, Credit 330-TU)
in July 1976 with the Minister responsible for Agriculture, who expressed
interest in such a project. The Bank suggested that the Fourth Livestock
Development Project should be centered mainly in the southeast to complement
and consolidate the achievements of the first three livestock projects, and
other Bank-assisted projects such as the Corum-Cankiri Project (Loan 1130-TU)
and the Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1248-TU). The preparation of the
project was undertaken by the General Directorate of Livestock Development
Projects (LDP) of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock (MINAG) with
assistance from FAO-CP during 1976-77.
B. Project Concept
2.02     The Bank's concept of Livestock IV was principally centered around
village development based on cattle/sheep breeding and some dairying in the
northeast of Turkey. Cattle/sheep breeding was well justified since cattle
and sheep were an important resource in eastern Turkey where a majority of the
relatively small and poor farmers are found. Support to dairy development was
justified on the grounds that it would supply milk to a network of dairy
plants planned for the northeast region. Fattening was originally excluded
from Livestock IV, since it was covered under numerous other projects (such as
Livestock II and the Agricultural Credit Project). Moreover, since fattening
was very profitable, credit for it was generally available from commercial
sources. In summary, the project's concept was to increase the number of
small farmer participants in the village livestock development process,
concentrate on additional feed production, reduce the specialized dairy farm
component to a scale that would match local demand for fresh milk products,
undertake a study of the milk collection and processing industry and establish
an applied research program to tackle critical problems relating to rangeland
use, fallow forage crops and sheep breeds in the region.



- 8 -
C. The Government's View
2.03     The Turkish Government was considering livestock development in a
much larger area (comprising 28 provinces) than the Bank. It was apparent
that the Government wanted the proposed project to be similar to the previous
or concurrent livestock projects. Because of the land tenure and collateral
problems, the Government initially favored restricting lending to medium and
large farmers. Although the Government recognized the importance of providing
credit to the small farmers, it was prepared to have this done on a pilot
basis rather than on a large scale.
2.04     Furthermore, Government intended to include a wider range of
activities under the proposed project, ranging from intensive dairying to
village development (including fattening, sheep and cattle breeding,
construction of dairy factories, milk collection centers, abattoirs,
establishment of AI facilities, marketing facilities, purchase of farm
machinery, etc.). This government project proposal was estimated to cost
US$84 million (or US$110 million with contingencies) over a five-year
period. This cost estimate was broken down into: (a) improvement of village
livestock (US$22.3 million or 271), (b) intensification of milk production
(US$13.1 million or 16%), (c) beef and lamb fattening (US$14.5 million or
171), (d) meat processing (US$15.6 million or 191). (e) milk collection and
processing (US$15.5 million or 19X), and (f) technical services, consultants
and studies (US$3.0 million or 41). The Government did not propose any
changes in the existing system of farm credit.
2.05     The Bank expressed concern over the Government's proposal to have the
project cover 28 provinces, since LDP did not have the resources and the
institutional capacity for such a large project. In addition, the Bank did
not agree with the Government's view that only a widely dispersed project was
necessary to obtain sufficient number of farmers to participate in the
project. In this connection, the collateral problem was appreciated and pilot
efforts involving small farmers in dairy production were already underway in
the third livestock project.
D. Appraisal
2.06     The Government was believed to be taking adequate steps to resolve
the major macroeconomic problems facing the economy at the time of project
appraisal. Specifically, these included: (a) mobilization of sufficient
domestic resources through improved tax administration and increased levies,
decreasing public consumption, selectively increasing prices of SEE products
and services and resorting to less inflationary financing; (b) improving
balance of payments through stimulation of exports and import controls; and
(c) broadening the sources and instruments of external resource mobilization
as well as adopting appropriate debt management policies. These steps turned
out to be inadequate to avoid the serious economic difficulties which Turkey
faced beginning in 1979, leading to high inflation rates, the need for debt
rescheduling, massive devaluation, and a significant structural adjustment
program.



- 9 -
2.07     The project recommended by the appraisal mission differed
substantially in scope and emphasis from the Government's proposals. The
appraisal mission gave stronger emphasis to village dairy development than
that proposed by the Government in the preparation document. The appraisal
mission also reduced the project area to selected counties of the provinces of
Kars, Agri, Hakkari, Van, Bitlis, Mus, Bingol, Diyarbakir, Erzincan, Erzurum
and Gurushane, representing less than 30% of the area proposed by the
Government. Furthermore, milk and meat processing were excluded from the
project by the appraisal mission to reduce the project activities to a
manageable scale of operation in line with resource availability and existing
institutional capacity.
2.08     The management of project implementation was similar to the other
three livestock projects. Responsibility was shared by LDP/TCZB with
assistance from GDVS. Special provisions were made under the proposed project
to ensure that a substantial proportion of the funds would be onlent to small
farmers for livestock development.
E. Negotiations
2.09     Agreements.  Negotiations for the project were held in Washington
during April 24-28, 1978. There was masked agreement with regard to the
project concept and scope as appraised and with the suggested implementation
schedule which specified June 1985 as the completion date. However, given the
weak commitment displayed by the Borrower during implementation, this general
agreement was anything but masked. The pre-negotiation issues and
disagreements (paras 2.05 and 2.07) resurfaced as weak commitment by the
implementing ministry during implementation. Nevertheless, the only main
issue raised during negotiations was the onlending rate to farmers by TCZB.
2.10     Issues.  The Loan Committee's recommendation was to increase the
onlending rate from 111 to 151 to keep interest rate positive. This issue was
discussed at considerable length during negotiations and it was also raised by
the Bank President during his visit to Turkey in early 1978. The Turkish
delegation recognized the need to adjust interest rates as a means of
fostering better resource mobilization and allocation in the economy, and
stated that substantial increases in interest rates, by as much as 4% for
industry and agroindustries (from 141 to 181), were made in February 1978 as
part of the IMF stabilization program. The Government's position with regard
to interest rates in agriculture was that the economic measures taken were
having an adverse impact on farmer's incomes and that the medium- and
long-term rates for lending to general agriculture should be Iept at 10.51, a
rate applied by the People's Bank for small-scale industry. With the 0.5% of
annual commission charged by TCZB, the effective cost to the farmers was 11%.
Given this background, since about 501 of the project funds were targeted for
small farmers in the least developed areas of Turkey, and since this rate was
agreeable to the IMF, an agreement was reached that the onlending rate to
farmers would be not less than 11%. It was also agreed that the overall
interest rate policy would continue to be reviewed and that appropriate
changes would be made on the basis of the findings of a Financial Sector Study
which was then being undertaken with Bank assistance.



- 10 -
F. Board Presentation
2.11     The loan was approved by the Executive Directors of the Bank on
June 2, 1978. A Board member raised the issue of the onlending rate being
negative and enquired about the efforts being made to make it positive. Bank
staff responded that this matter was discussed at a high level between Bank
management and Government officials earlier, and that the Government was
unwilling to adjust the general agricultural interest rate soon after reaching
a standby agreement with the IMF which had raised interest rates substantially
for lending in other sectors. Another enquiry was made on the revised TCZB
procedures for lending to small farmers, the value of the cosigner's guarantee
if the financial standing of the cosigner was not to be of primary importance,
and the situation regarding land titles in the project area. Bank staff
responded that TCZB was required by law to have at least one cosigner if other
forms of collateral were not available, and the main guarantee for TCZB was
based on the expected future income of the farmer which was estimated by the
farm development plan. Regarding land titles, since in the majority of cases
the titles were not available, the suggested revised procedures were agreed
with TCZB policy to lend to small farmers. Another question was raised about
the milk industry study component and whether the focus on TSEK, the
Government milk organization, was appropriate, especially since state
organizations were facing substantial operational difficulties, and whether it
would not be better to strengthen the private sector milk industry. Bank
staff responded that the study would include private as well as public
institutions in the milk industry, but in light of the substantial public
investments made in TSEK, this would be studied in more detail. Other
questions relating to procurement and beneficiaries were clarified by Bank
staff. The loan was signed on June 5, 1978.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Loan Effectiveness
3.01     The loan was expected to be effective on or about September 14,
1978. There were no special conditions except that the execution and delivery
of the Loan Agreement required ratification by all necessary governmental and
corporate authorities. Since the Government had changed and Parliament was
adjourned until October, loan effectiveness was delayed until October 31, 1978.
B. Prolect Start-up
3.02     The project experienced start-up delays from the very beginning.  The
initial postponement of effectiveness from September 14 to October 31, 1978
caused disruptions in the start-up of field work due to the beginning of harsh
winter in eastern Turkey. The key problem faced right at the beginning was
the inability of LDP to attract and retain adequate numbers of qualified staff
required to implement the project.
3.03     According to the Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b)(ii), LDP was to
appoint 9 agronomists, 12 veterinarians, 10 middle level technicians and 2
headquarters staff by December 31, 1978. LDP was also required to establish a



- 11 -
regional/provincial office in Van, 3 provincial offices and 4 technical group
offices before the end of 1978. However, by May 1979, only 1 agronomist, 3
veterinarians, 6 middle level technicians and 2 headquarters staff had been
appointed and posted to the project area. Furthermore, none of the offices
had been established. The Government blamed these delays on the general
deterioration of the economy.
3.04     Most Turkish professionals preferred to work in the more developed
western, southern and central parts of the country (the areas of third
livestock project) where living conditions are better. LDP, finding it
extremely difficult to recruit experienced veterinarians and agronomists to
fill vacancies in the project, resorted to the employment of fresh university
graduates who had very little experience. While the work in the project area
provided them with an opportunity to gain experience, there was high staff
turnovt.  totaling more than three-fourths of the number recruited in 1978 and
1979. Most of the young staff recruited considered the project positions as a
stepping stone to better jobs elsewhere or into the compulsory military
service. The limited bargaining power of the LDPs against veterinarians and
agronomists led to locating a greater number of them than needed at
headquarters in Ankara.
3.05     A number of measures were however introduced by the Government to
recruit and retain experienced project personnel in the eastern provinces.
These included the appointment of personnel on fixed-term contracts carrying
higher salaries, nearly twice that of the equivalent civil service posts, and
general increases in salaries and per diem allowances. While these were
encouraging steps, they were found to be inadequate. A suggestion made during
the second supervision mission in October 1978 was to use a special
operational fund to grant higher allowances to staff in such arduous areas as
eastern Turkey. This fund was common to all IDA/IBRD financed livestock
projects and was being financed from a portion of the interest payments of
farmers on subloans. It was specifically established to provide LDP staff
with better fringe benefits than those of the regular civil service in order
to attract and retain qualified and experienced technicians. Even though such
a fund was set up, it could not get off the ground, due to the Turkish
Treasury's objection that such special allowances were not consistent with
official government policy which stipulated equitable benefits to all civil
servants irrespective of their service station in the country. This policy,
however, had been breached by other organizations/projects such as TOPRAKSU,
the Corum-Cankiri project, DSI, Sugar Corporation, Agricultural Supply
Organization, which were paying their employees higher salaries and/or
offering better benefits. This problem of incentives and benefits still
remains an issue for the sustainability of the project in the Eastern Region
(para 6.18).
3.06     The Turkish authorities took no action on this issue despite repeated
verbal and written requests by the Bank. Since the start-up of the project
was getting substantially behind schedule, the Bank sent two strongly worded
letters to the implementing agencies. On September 29, 1980, senior Bank
management wrote the Ministry of Agriculture and the General Director of LDP,
with copies to Lhe Ministry of Finance and SPO. These letters highlighted
three major problems which were seriously undermining the implementation of
the supervised credit program:



- 12 -
(a) insufficient budgetary allocations for transport, per diem and
overtime;
(b) inadequate provision of animal health services in the project areas;
and
(c) shortages and rapid turnover of senior technical staff resulting from
inadequate incentives.
3.07     Furthermore, the letters also elucidated the technical problems
associated with staff training, procurement of dairy cows and recording of
data on imported cattle.
3.08     These letters produced quick and dramatic response, but only insofar
as budgetary allocations were concerned. The LDP was immediately provided
with increased budgetary allocation for the operation and maintenance of
vehicles and for clearing the imported jeeps from Customs. The budgetary
allocation was also matched with the project's needs by taking into
consideration annual discretionary growth and inflation, rather than the
arbitrary limit of only 8-102 over the previous year's allocation approved by
MOF and SPO.
3.09     Inadequate transport and staff housing were the other key problems
constraining project start-up. The number of LDP vehicles totaled 59 during
mid-February 1980 and had increased by only one since end of March 1979.
These vehicles were made up by nine different makes and about 20% of them were
non-operative at any one given time because of shortage of funds for repairs
and maintenance. Moreover, the budget for fuel was pitifully low: for
example, in FY79 (ending February 1980) the fuel budget of LT 2.3 million was
just adequate to permit extension workers to average 30 km/car/day; too low
for both extension and supervision of subloans, especially when many of these
vehicles were also being used for the transport of staff to and from LDP
offices. In subsequent years, 60 additional jeeps were imported to alleviate
the transport bottleneck. However, batteries, tires, fuel and spare parts
were also in short supply. As a result, the existing transport capacity was
not being fully utilized; adversely affecting the delivery of services to
farmers. The Agricultural Supply Organization (TZDK), from which government
organizations, like LDP, were required to procure their spares, could not
operate effectively and were, at times, several months in arrears in clearing
outstanding orders. Fuel shortage was a national problem and it was
particularly serious during the first year of proje-t implementation. Since
the project was targeted to provide and supervise smaller, poorer farmers in
remote areas of eastern Turkey with intensive technical services, staff
mobility was critical to the success of the project. The acute shortage of
suitable staff housing also impeded project implementation.
3.10     It must be remembered that the first years of implementation in
1979/80 were characterized by rapid deterioration of the economy. While some
of the problems described above could have been reduced if sufficient
incentives and safeguards were built into the project design, the Government's
options at that time were extremely limited. For example, the incorporation
of an acceptable "incentive scheme" to attract qualified personnel to the
area, and an assured and adequate supply of fuel and spare parts (batteries,



- 13 -
tyres, spares) could have cushioned the project somewhat against the
structural problems in the economy. However, this is not easy to do in a
situation characterized with structural inadequacies as they existed in Turkey
then. The borrower's commitment to the project was effectively undermined by
the economic reality.
3.11     Even as the economy improved the incentive problem continued to
impede the implementation of the project; it continues to be a major issue in
the eastern provinces of the country.  The Government strongly believes that
an incentive system,L' like the one designed for this and other projects,
would set precedent and open up a pandora's box of requests for similar
privileges by the civil service in other parts of the country. So the
Government was neither committed to nor enthusiastic about the incentive
system which was agreed with the Bank during project design and negotiations.
In addition to Government's resistance to implementing the incentive system,
was the fact that the Director General of LDP had previously held a senior
post in the state personnel office and he was not prepared to set a precedent
that would have caused administrative problems within the civil service.
C. Project Restructuring
3.12     Until 1981, the demand for imported cattle and loans was relatively
strong.  However, in 1981, when inflation was running high and TSER reduced
the milk price, dairy farming became unattractive and many farmers withdrew
from the project. This was reflected in the relatively large numbers of loan
application withdrawals."' Despite the milk price being rectified within
about six months, the demand for imported cattle remained weak because local
purebred cattle started to become available at considerably lower prices than
imported ones (principally as a result of the adoption of realistic exchange
rates, involving considerable depreciation of the local currency against major
world currencies). This caused considerable decline in the demand for
subloans because only direct foreign exchange costs for livestock purchases
1/  The incentive schemes prepared by the Bank and the Turkish Government
essentially divided the country into three hardship regions other than
Ankara headquarters and accorded special project, housing, outfit and per
diem allowances to staff commensurate with their seniority and ardship
rating of their duty stations. Annual cost of this scheme was estimated
in December 1980 to be LT 32.8 million (US$0.37 million), representing a
full staffing increase of only 9% above that requested by LDP for FY87.
Various options were suggested including increasing the contribution of
farmers to SOF from 0.5% to 2 or 3X, the increase coming from the
Government's interest spread which ranged from 12.5S to 20.5% based on an
onlending rate of 24X, utilization of funds from SAL, and transferring SOF
to a commercial or savings bank to earn interest.
2/  An effort to curtail this through a system of indexing the value of
machinery and cattle to account for changes in exchange rates so that
subborrowers when selling cattle or machinery had to pay TCZB at the
indexed price in addition to taxes levied with respect to machines was not
very successful. Only careful selection and supervision by adequately
trained staff helped curtail the number of withdrawals.



- 14 -
were eligible for financing and locally bred animals were excluded. Although
the project was originally designed for an economy (with an overvalued
currency and trade restriction) different from the one which prevailed in
1981, the import-bias of the project as rather regrettable because it
discriminated against local breeds which were perhaps better suited to local
conditions than the imrorted breeds. By excluding local breeds, the project
implicitly discouraged investments in the development of local breeds by both
the private and public sectors. Beginning in 1980, the new government adopted
more realistic economic policies (particularly a relatively realistic currency
exchange rate) which significantly raised the price of imported cattle
relative to locally bred ones, and provided a strong stimulus to livestock
exports and to intensive fattening of cattle and sheep within Turkey. This
project and other livestock projects financed by the Bank did not include
intensive fattening. In order to avoid the above design shortcomings and to
make the project more relevant to the prevailing economic situation in the
country, the following modifications were belatedly incorporated in the
project in 1983:
(a) Eligibility for loan proceeds was extended to cover the indirect
foreign exchange cost of locally bred improved cattle and sheep.
(b) Cattle and sheep fattening loans were made eligible for financing,
recognizing increased profitability of meat production and export
following more realistic exchange rates.
(c) Eligibility for loan proceeds was extended to financing of the
estimated foreign exchange cost (which was not allowed earlier) of
locally procured farm machinery, equipment, livestock housing,
pasture and forage production, feeds and other inputs.
Liberalization of the economy meant that a variety of imported and
domestically assembled agricultural equipment could be procured
through local dealers at competitive prices, permitting farmers a
wider choice of equipment than hitherto. Complementarity between
inputs and infrastructure development was considered a key to
increasing livestock productivity.
3.13     Revised procedures were subsequently agreed between TCZB and LDP
under which subloan applications directly to TCZB would be forwarded to LDP to
determine eligibility for inclusion in the project. Subloans found eligible
would be submitted for Bank financing and would receive LDP technical
services. In September 1984, a second revision of the Project was agreed. In
recognition of the continued high demand for livestock credit in the more
developed areas of Western and Central Turkey, and the relatively low demand
in the East, it was agreed, following closure of Livestock III, that up to 252
($6 million) from Livestock IV could be used in the former Livestock III
provinces.
D. Implementation of Project Components
3.14     Credit.  The project was originally designed to provide credit to
small farmers in 11 provinces in Eastern Turkey. The total number of loans
made from project start-up (October 1978) until November 1985, the period for
which data is available, was 3,803, with 2,273 (or 602) in the original



- 15 -
project area and 1,530 (402) in the Livestock III project area (Annex 6). The
majority of the loans were made in the provinces of Kars (351), followed by
Erzurum (131). The number of loans made in the rest of the provinces ranged
from 5 loans (0.12) to 225 loans (61). Loans for beef fattening accounted for
the bulk of the credit amount, comprising 572, followed by sheep improvement,
27T. Loans for dairy cattle made up the remaining 161. The composition of
the number of dairy cattle loans by farm size were: loans for 5-cow farms
accounted for 351, 12-cow farms 511, and 30-cow farms 141. Credit for group
action farms was insignificant. However, in the original project area, loans
for sheep improvement (which involved a relatively large proportion of small
farmers) accounted for the largest amount of loans, followed by beef cattle
fattening which mainly consisted of large farmers. On average, credit
constituted about 701 of project cost, with the remaining 30% being the
farmer's contribution.
3.15     Since, according to the original project design, the PDA staff were
responsible for the development of farm plans for subsequent financing by
TCZB, a wide variation is observed in the number of loans made per staff in
the various provinces in the original project area. The ratio of number of
loans per staff for the period October 1978 to November 1985 ranges from 4 in
Diyarbakir to 42 in Kars. The ratios in the upper end were in Ersurum (32),
Agri (16), Erzincan (13), and Van (12), while in the other provinces,
Gurusbane (16), Bitlis (12), Mus (2), Bingol (2) showed a relatively dismal
performance. In restrospect, therefore, the project's impact might have been
greater if the limited staff and financial resources were concentrated in
fewer provinces within the original project area where demand was higher.
However, it should be acknowledged that relative demand for dairy, sheep and
beef cattle was significantly affected by exchange rate and other economic
changes, which could not have been foreseen at appraisal.
3.16     Repayment.  Although available data do not permit assessing the
situation of arrears and repayment of the farmers, it was stated by the TCZB
officials in Erzurum that the repayment performance was generally better for
small dairy farmers, and for farmers engaged in beef and sheep fattening. In
both absolute and relative terms, these farmers had the least amount of
arrears outstanding in sharp contrast to that of the medium and large dairy
farmers. Arrears, consisting of principal and accumulated interest, were
highest for loans made for 10-30 cow operations. This was largely due to the
high mortality rates experienced by farmers in the initial years of project
implementation and to the low returns to this type of farmer (para 6.03).
Since low credit recovery essentially constitutes a subsidy to defaulting
borrowers, it is obvious that relatively large farmers were the major
beneficiaries of the subsidies implied by rescheduling of loan payments.
This, of course, has important policy implications with regard to resource
allocation via the credit system and raises the issue of equity among
livestock producers.
3.17     Animal husbandry.  Major problems were experienced by farmers in the
provision of forage, for neither the quantity nor the quality of forage was
adequate. This was particularly bad in winter. The LDP's extension service
did not pay adequate attention to the problems of forage production and
conservation. There are a number of reasons for this:



- 16 -
(a) Farmers' confidence in the advice given by the village extension
worker on animal production is generally minimal.
(b) Most extension workers have had little training in animal production
systems and are neither confident nor competent in advising livestock
farmers.
(c) The packages on forage production available to extension workers were
very limited and there was no backup support in terms of information
on the management required to achieve improved output of high quality
forage.
Although the importance of providing adequate feeding on a continuous basis
iss repeatedly emphasized by Bank supervision missions, this did not help for
reasons stated above.
3.18     Animal care.  Care of animals was found to be inadequate.  For
example, the cattle's hoofs were not regularly trimmed and cut, especially in
those cases where cattle did not walk enough to keep their feet in shape
through regular usage.
3.19     Animal housing.  The environmental conditions of the animals in the
project area were observed to be very poor. The barns were poorly designed,
with inadequate ventilation, lighting, and sanitation facilities. There
appears to be a widespread belief among the livestock farmers that the animals
had to be kept enclosed most of the time in relatively dim lighting
conditions. Perhaps over time, and with improved extension and technical
services, better housing could be provided to the livestock farmers in eastern
Turkey.
3.20     Mortality.  lnitial mortality rates were very high due to lack of
adaptation and outbreax of foot and mouth disease. The project's emphasis on
vaccination helped lower the mortality in later years of p-oject
implementation.
E. Technical Specialists
3.21     The Loan Agreement provided for the recruitment of three technical
specialists (Section 3.01(b)(v)) to be in place by December 31, 1978. Efforts
were made through local embassies and direct correspondence with companies for
the recruitment of qualified specialists, but were fruitless. A decision was
reached to redeploy four technical specialists who were previously employed by
LDP to service LDP needs generally where and when needed, rather than
specifically assigning them to specific projects. This was felt necessary
because Livestock II was nearing completion and the Government felt that
Livestock III could be carried out by local staff. This was in contrast to
the provisions made in the Loan Agreement which called for three specialists
ia each project. The four specialists had good understanding of the Turkish
language and had several years of experience. Their performance and impact on
project implementation was, however, circumscribed by the project management
setup which was both cumbersome and less responsive to the needs of the
project.



- 17 -
F. Monitoring
3.22     The project provided for the development of a national scheme of
pedigree performance recording system to preserve the genetic merit in the
offspring of imported animals, selection of superior animals to breed from,
and to evaluate the productivity of the imported cattle. While this
monitoring was successful in the project areas in central Turkey, around
Ankara and Istanbul, it was very poor in the project areas serviced by the
Fourth Livestock project. In particular, there was little or no uniformity in
the procedures adopted for recording production data among the various
provinces and much of the data was inaccurate. Moreover, very few of the
technical staff associated with data collection were fully aware of the
usefulness of the records and the manner by which these would assist in
formulating programs to improve livestock productivity. The lack of timely
monitoring and evaluation of project data limited MAFRA's efforts in the
planning of forward-looking strategies and in consolidating gains made in
earlier projects.
3.23     Section 3.05(c) of the Loan Agreement stipulated the need for GDVS
staff to monitor the progress of not less than 20% of the farm plans prepared
annually in each of the five development models of the project during project
implementation. All data pertinent to the execution of the farm development
plans within each model were to be maintained by the responsible project
technicians. An evaluation was to have been carried out to determine the
effects of the project and to follow its progress against project
implementation schedule. This was not carried out due to the very limited
staff in the project area and lack of adequate training to undertake this
activity. The limited staff were preoccupied with the preparation of farm
development plans and had little time to undertake monitoring activities.
Operationally, there were shortages of funds for travel which prevented the
technicians from making regular visits to project farms to collect the
necessary information.
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
A. Disbursements
4.01     Loan disbursements were substantially below appraisal expectations
(Annex 1). No disbursements were made in the first three years of project
implementation (FY79, FY80 and FY81), since much of the livestock and
machinery procurement was done after FY81 (Annex 3). This was, of course, an
obvious manifestation of the Borrower's lack of commitment to project
implementation, although initial procurement problems were also partly
responsible. By the end of FY85, only US$11.5 million or 482 of the loan
funds had been disbursed, leaving a total of US$12.5 million undisbursed. The
reason for this large undisbursed amount at the end of FY85 was that subloans
were made by TCZB from its own sources (corresponding to an amount of about
US$12 million), which needed to be reviewed by MAFRA for conformity to loan
requirements. The original loan was made at a time of foreign exchange
restrictions so that farmers who wanted imported cattle or farm equipment had
to go to LDP. Other livestock loans went through TCZB normal channels. With



- 18 -
liberalization and exchange rate changes, equipment became available through
normal commercial channels and domestically produced improved cattle became
more attractive than imports. The reformulated project made TCZB loans
eligible for financing provided they met project technical criteria and were
accepted by MAFRA as eligible for its technical assistance. Efforts to have
TCZB and LDP staff work together as teams in loan approval were not
effective. Thus it became necessary for LDP staff to review TCZB loans
afterwards to determine eligibility. However, TCZB local staff had little
incentive to process such paperwork. After repeated requests by the Bank, the
Government submitted withdrawal requests amounting to US$11.7 million, and
after further requests the Bank received confirmation that MAFRA had reviewed
and approved these applications.
B. Procurement
4.02     Procurement of imported cattle was based on three quotations from at
least two countries as stipulated in the Loan Agreement. This was resisted by
the Turkish Government since they preferred importing the best blood stock
available and wanted the Turkish cattle buying commission to select only good
cattle where and when they were offered and to pay the going price for them.
This was contrary to Bank procurement procedures and was extremely expensive
and difficult to organize. The Bank expressed concern over the quality of
cattle when shipment exceeded 1,150 animals, which was the case in March
1980. A recommendation was then made to limit each shipment to no more than
500 animals at a time so as to provide opportunities for the supplier to offer
and the buying commission to select quality stock. An understanding was
reached that for procurement of animals, specifications would be tightened,
imports restricted to no more than 500 animals at a time, a data bank set up
in cattle importing firms with comments on quality and prices, tender
invitations restricted to reputable firms only and finally rejecting firms if
they supplied poor quality animals.
4.03     The original project also financed the importation of various farm
equipment, such as tractors, hay baler, forage harvester, fixed and portable
milking machinery units, self propelled mower, hay rake, etc. These were
satisfactorily procured through ICB.  However, there were incidents when the
procurement of farm machinery did not coincide with the importation of animals
which resulted ir. disrupting the farm development plan schedule. Furthermore,
the bulk importation of machines from different suppliers with different
specifications caused difficulties in their utilization and maintenance.
4.04     It was envisaged at appraisal that about 12,000 improved cattle would
be imported consisting of in-calf heifers and bulls. These would be
predominantly Brown Swiss since they were considered well suited to conditions
in eastern Turkey. However, only 3,257 in-calf heifers and 38 bulls were
actually imported, representing about 251 of that estimated at appraisal.
Most of the imported animals were Brown Swiss and Friesian, originating from
West Germany, Austria, Denmark and Switzerland. This dramatic decline in
imported cattle was due to the availability of locally bred improved cattle at
substantially lower prices than imported cattle (as a result of post-appraisal
exchange rate changes). This led to the removal of import-bias in the project
design in 1983 when the financing of locally bred improved animals under the
subloans to farmers was finally permitted.



- 19 -
C. Loan Amendments/Covenants
4.05     The Loan Agreement was first revised on July 11, 1983 to correct the
problems of slow disbursements by allowing financing of the indirect foreign
exchange cost of subloans for:
(a) financing the purchase of domestic improved breeds for dairying;
(b) financing beef and sheep fattening through short-term credit; and
(c) financing locally procured farm machinery, equipment, livestock
housing, pasture and forage production, feeds and other inputs.
4.06     A second revision to the Loan Agreement was made on September 26,
1984 to allow up to 252 of project funds ($6 million equivalent) to be used
for subloans to farmers in the provincial areas covered by the Third Livestock
project.
4.07     Another amendment in the Loan Agreement was related to the change in
TCZB's collateral requirement following the new Agricultural Credit Law of
April 17, 1979 (amending the credit law of 1937) and subsequent guidelines of
September 1979 (annex to Circular 4770 of June 1979). These guidelines
provided for considerable liberalization of access to credit by small farmers
through relaxing collateral requirements. In particular, under Articles 23(e)
and (h) of the guidelines, loans in any amount could be made on the basis of
individual project and of chattel mortgages on livestock and machinery, while
loans of up to LT 750,000 could be made with the guarantee of one or more
cosigners (usually farmers). These provisions replaced paragraph 2.2 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement where the minimum limit for requiring land
title as collateral was LT 150,000. About half of the increase compensated
for inflation, while the balance represented real increase to financing of
farm investments. This liberalization of lending conditions was in line with
the Bank's thinking. It was designed to assist small farmers since many of
them did not have title deeds to their land.
4.08     The Borrower did not comply adequately with two covenants:
(a) provision of funds, facilities and services to carry out project
activities; and
(b) TCZB to inform beneficiaries of amounts to their subloan accounts and
to regularly visit beneficiary farms. The problem of subloan amounts
was due to the lag between borrowing, livestock procurement, and
arrival in Turkey, combined with the rapid depreciation of the lira.
Thus by the time imported livestock arrived in Turkey, the amount of
the loan in TL was frequently much higher than the farmer had
anticipated and applied for.
4.09     The Borrower also failed to recruit and retain an adequate number of
qualified and experienced staff to provide technical services to farmers in a
satisfactory manner. TCZB branch managers were not able to make periodic
visits to beneficiary farms, largely due to heavy workload.



- 20 -
D. Closing Date
4.10     The original Closing Date was June 30, 1985.  In view of lagging
disbursements, the Government requested a one-year extension of the closing
date in March 1985. The Bank requested the preparation of an action plan for
improving project performance including improvement of the extension service
and livestock health services as a condition of closing date extension.
Accordingly, an action plan was prepared but did not meet Bank requirements.
Rather than prepare a more comprehensive Action Plan, the Government chose to
have MAFRA staff review TCZB's lending activity in the project area to
determine which loans met project criteria. While the original Closing Date
was adhered to, the books were kept open until December 31, 1985 to allow
disbursements against subloans made by TCZB prior to June 30, 1985.
V. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
5.01     The project's management structure was similar to the previous three
projects since it was considered satisfactory. Overall management was the
responsibility of LDP, with detailed implementation of technical and financial
aspects being undertaken by VSD of LDP. VSD was headed by a project manager
located in Ankara and he was responsible to the General Director of LDP. This
arrangement overburdened the project manager, and with inadequate departmental
support, the processing of subloan applications was adversely affected.
5.02     The management of the project relied solely on the Director General
of LDP, who did not delegate many of the responsibilities and functions to his
deputies. This resulted in the institutional system being less responsive to
the project's needs and problems. It would be prudent in future projects that
management at the second tier carry some of the management responsibilities
and thereby assist in the continuity of the project in the event of
personality changes at the top.
A. MAFRA Reorganization
5.03     MAFRA was reorganized in directions broadly recommended by the Bank
in June 1984. This resulted in abolishing the General Directorate of
Livestock Development Projects (LDP). LDP was originally created within MAFRA
as an implementing unit for World Bank-assisted livestock projects. This was
an attempt to bridge the gap which prevailed at that time between agricultural
extension staff and veterinarians and to provide livestock farmers with a
comprehensive service encompassing all aspects of animal husbandry and forage
production. The impact of the old organizational structure in achieving its
objective had been mixed since deficiencies in the provision of technical
services by LDP and coordination with the veterinary services continued to be
the single most important constraint to a satisfactory performance of
livestock projects.
5.04     Under the reorganization, a General Directorate of Projects and
Implementation (GDPI) was created at the headquarters in Ankara. Within this
directorate, coordinators were appointed to manage each of the externally
assisted projects. In the field, the ex-LDP offices and staff were merged



- 21 -
into the newly created Provincial Directorates of Agriculture (PDA). The
reorganization merged various separate extension services and decentralized
decision making to the field level. Reorganization also consolidated several
of the formerly separate field services of MAFRA (viz., extension, plant
protection, veterinary services, LDP, etc.). A projects and statistics
section was created with the responsibility for coordination (both within PDA
and with '¶CZB on credit matters) of the special projects carried out by
MAFRA/PDA in the provinces. The Section is also responsible for preparing
budgets for the whole Provincial Directorate of Agriculture and for
statistical data collection and economic matters. This section is assisted by
the District Agricultural Offices, which are organized along the same lines as
the PDA. Identification of farmers, farm plan preparation under the Livestock
Development Projects and corresponding extension activities are carried out by
the Village Group Technicians (VGTs) under the supervision of and support from
the District and Provincial Agricultural Offices. This section maintains all
the original records and documentation.
5.05     In comparison to the previous setup for LDP, the responsibility for
executing LDP's functions in the field has now been entrusted to staff who
also have other responsibilities, whether in the projects and statistics
section or at the village/farmers level (where the Village Group Technician
has multipurpose duties encompassing the whole spectrum of extension
activities in the villages assigned to him). Since all sections at the
provincial level were under the authority of a single Provincial Director of
Agriculture (while earlier similar services were provided by separate field
agencies reporting to separate General Directorates in Ankara), it was
expected that coordination and mutual support at the field level would become
easier. In the past, the lack of coordination between LDP and the separate
veterinary services had resulted in serious animal health problems in many of
the project farms.
5.06     At the provincial level, the staff have not yet fully adjusted to the
new setup and it appears that, despite the decentralized nature of the setup,
approvals are still being sought from headquarters in Ankara. The few staff
at headquarters are being overworked and they cannot cope with the various
demands from the provincial offices.
B. TCZB's Performance
5.07     The basic project concept was to assist the small farmer in the poor
areas of eastern Turkey through supervised credit. However, the achievement
of this objective through the envisaged institutional arrangement proved
difficult. Under the original project concept, the PDA staff prepared the
farm development plans and submitted them to TCZB for approval. This arrange-
ment was necessary because TCZB did not have adequate technical expertise to
prepare such plans. This entailed long delays in approving farm plans by
TCZB. Since TCZB was not involved in the preparation and appraisal of farm
development plans, it found it difficult to supervise the subloans, while the
shortage of staff could not permit PDA to carry out the supervision work. In
the future, more emphasis ought to be placed on strengthening TCZB's ability
to prepare, appraise and supervise livestock development farm plans. This is
the concept being utilized under the Second Agricultural Credit Project (Loan
2318-TU) and under the proposed Third Agricultural Credit Project.



- 22 -
C. Bank Performance
5.08     Bank performance relating to the project was generally satisfactory.
The Bank's stance on issues relating to project scope and focus during
appraisal proved helpful to the eventual success of the project. Given the
problems that dogged project implementation, the ambitious project design
proposed by the Government would have been fatal to the success of the
project. The Bank's insistence on a small farmer component in the credit
program was farsighted and proved to be of strategic importance. However, the
Bank was entirely responsible for the design shortcomings which haunted
project implementation; these included the project's bias for imported cattle
and equipment and against locally bred cattle and domestically produced
equipment and inappropriate technical packages (especially large-scale
dairying).
5.09     During implementation, the Bank responded fairly well to the
challenges posed by the adjustment process in the Turkish economy. The Bank
was emphatic, albeit unsuccessful, in getting the Government to improve the
incentive structure of the project staff and to provide adequate staff and
budgetary resources to the project. The country's narrow resource base
(including both financial and human resources) and the worsening macroeconomic
imbalances did not help the Bank's case. However, the Bank responded
responsibly to overcome some of the initial design shortcomings by suggesting
or agreeing to amendments in the Loan Agreement which substantially
restructured the project (paras 3.12-3.13). This restructuring contributed
significantly to the success of the project. The Bank succeeded in getting
the Government to abide with the Bank's procurement guidelines for goods.
D. Credit Uptake
5.10     Credit uptake by small farmers for farm development under the project
was rather encouraging. About 52X of the loan was actually spent on livestock
subloans to small farmers, well in excess of the 222 envisaged at appraisal.
Perhaps a better way to improve the income levels of the poorest small farmers
would have been to improve the provision of technical services relating to
animal health, animal husbandry and marketing to complement the project's
credit package. Inadequacy in the provision of these services considerably
weakened the profitability of the credit package and, hence, accounted for its
slow and weak uptake during project implementation. According to TCZB, the
dairy farmers' repayment performance has been rather disappointing, mainly
because of poor loan discipline, inadequate supervision and poor profitability
of the credit package for large dairying (para 6.04).
E. Accessibility of Credit to Small Farmers
5.11     Small farmers were originally unable to participate in the credit
programs of TCZB due to stringent collateral requirements. As this project
aimed to provide credit to small farmers, some changes were made in TCZB's
lending policy. The main change made by TCZB was to accept cosigners, in lieu
of land title, as the basic form of credit guarantee for subloans. It also
accepted chattel mortgages on movable assets as supplementary collateral
provided the full credit amount was covered either by land title or a cosigner



- 23 -
guarantee. This change in policy by TCZB enabled some smaller farmers to
qualify for credit under the project. TCZB was then able to provide finance
to smaller farmers for viable farm plans on the basis of good character as
recommended by LDP staff. The farm plans were prepared by LDP staff as in the
case of the previous three livestock projects and the Government shared the
risk of lending to small farmers on a 50:50 basis.
F. Marketing and Prices
Markets
5.12     As expected at appraisal, the bulk of the project's output is
absorbed by the local market which is still characterized by seasonal
shortages of milk for processing by local modern processing plants (generally
operating below capacity). Meanwhile much of the production is sold to small,
private-sector mobile cheese makers, who frequently pay higher prices but
whose produce does not meet the modern hygienic standards to which Turkey
aspires. The project's output of 51,600 tons of milk per annum is processed
into cheese, butter, yoghurt and ayran which are very popular among the local
population. Domestic production of milk has generally declined in Turkey and
imports of dairy products have significantly increased. Surplus sales of
powdered milk and cheese by the EC have been causing some disruption in the
domestic market. Finished beef cattle, dairy cow heifers, culled dairy cows
and ewes have experienced a strong and rising demand in the local market which
is entirely dominated by private traders. While some of these traders
purchase livestock to meet local consumption, some of them act as local agents
for livestock traders in major cities, like Istanbul and Ankara where the
livestock is shipped for consumption. Much of the project's wool is purchased
for domestic processing by the state-owned TYT (Turkish Wool and Mohair
Corporation) and private wool processors. Domestic market prospects for the
project's output appear good in view of chronic shortages in the local market
and rising consumption :n the domestic market as a result of population growth
and gradual rise in incomes, particularly in major urban centers of the
country.
Prices
5.13     Domestic prices for livestock and livestock products have generally
remained attractive to domestic producers, despite the disruptions caused by
the EC dumping practices, decrease of oil revenue in the Gulf States in recent
years (affecting their demand for imported livestock) and decrease in real
prices for raw milk (determined in part by the Milk Industry Organization 
TSEK). Nonetheless, the prospects are for a gradual increase in domestic and
world market prices for most project's products. The exception is sheep which
will continue to face stiff competition and declining demand in its
traditional markets in the Arab Gulf States.



- 24 -
VI. PROJECT IMPACT
A. Introduction
6.01     The project's monitoring and evaluation did not take place as
envisaged at appraisal. No satisfactory collection and analysis of technical
and financial data was done by NAFRA staff to permit meaningful evaluation of
the project's effects. Consequently, data on the actual costs and benefits of
the project are incomplete and unreliable. The PCR draft prepared by the
borrower based its analysis of the project's impact on the SAR estimates and
costs in disregard of the changes that occurred during the period of project
implementation. However, in this report, attempt has been made to reconstruct
the farm models (developed during appraisal) to reflect the reality that was
encountered during project implementation. These farm models, intuitively
assumed to be representative of the various project participants, constitute
the basis for estimating the project's impact. The project's impact is
measured in terms of farm incomes, financial returns and economic rate of
return. Qualitative assessment of the project's environmental impact and
sustainability have also been made.
6.02     Five farm models have been reconstructed by valuing product and input
prices on the basis of 1986 farmgate prices in the domestic market. These
prices include a 10% value-added tax on all commercially purchased inputs
(concentrates) and a 32 production tax on sales of livestock and livestock
products. The Wholesale Price Indices have been uised to express domestic
prices for the period 1980-85 into 1986 prices (Annex 18). International real
price projections have been used to estimate domestic prices of commercially
traded commodities for the remaining period of the project. Relative farmgate
prices and costs have been assumed to remain unchanged so that changes
resulting from increases in the general price level in the economy would be
self-compensating.
B. Farm Income and Financial Rates of Return
Participants and Incomes
6.03     For the period for which data is available (through November 1,
1985), a total of about 3,803 family farms (Annex 6), compared to the
appraisal estimate of 5,200 family farms, actually participated in the
implementation of the project. These family farms were distributed as
follows: 1,043 sheep farms, 2,186 beef cattle farms, and 574 dairy farms
(Annex 5). Fifty-two percent of the participating farms fall in the category
of small farms. The distribution of the participants by type of enterprise is
summarized in Annex 5, while that by province is given in Annex 6. About
3,295 purebred cattle (mainly Brown Swiss and Friesian) were imported and
distributed to farmers under the project as well as farm equipment and
machinery (Annex 2).
6.04     Increases in income and returns to on-farm investments for the
participating farms at full development have been estimated as follows:



- 25 -
No. of                            Farmers'
Farm      Participants      Net Farm Income   Financial
Size       SAR     CRE        SAR      CRE     Returns
--Us$----       IRR (2)
Sheep Improvement     50-ewe      2,700   2,186      2,608    1,996       21
Beef Improvement      10-head       500   1,043      4,856    4,499       30
Dairy Improvement     5-cow       1,500     202      5,056    3,261       22
Dairy Improvement      12-cow       400     292    10,776   10,034         16
Dairy Improvement     30-cow        100      80    23,416   14,604          3
Note:  SAR = Staff Appraisal Report.
CRE - Completion Report estimates.
6.05     Although all farm incomes of participants were expected to at least
double (except for eve breeders) at full development, this is not likely to
happen for all categories of farmers. The income of sheep farmers, which was
estimated to increase by 341 at appraisal, may rise by only 3% over the
initial (without project) income. Generally, dairy farmers' incomes as well
as returns to investments, are likely to be lower than envisaged at appraisal
for the following reasons:
(a)  the project's technical packages have not resulted in significant
increases in yields and production as envisaged at appraisal, largely
as a result of (i) poor quality of concentrates or fodder/pasture;
(ii) inadequate training of farmers in the production of fodder and
pasture crops; and (ii) improper use and maintenance of farm
machinery by farmers;
(b)  poor animal husbandry is still widespread among project participants;
(c)  the new dairy technology introduced by the project is not entirely
compatible with the existing socio-cultural system of the population
in the project area; and
(d)  the policy and institutional environment has generated little
incentive for improved performance by farmers (e.g. subsidies on
concentrates have induced misuse of the resource by individual
farmers, while communal use of the grazing resource has resulted in
poor management and misuse of the resource as well as rendering
disease control measures ineffective and expensive to individual
farmers).
6.06     Farmers' financial returns have been highest in beef fattening (302),
followed by small-scale dairying (22%) and sheep fattening/breeding (212).
Returns to large-scale dairy farmers were generally low, particularly to
farmers with 30 cows. This explains the phenomenal popularity of beef
fattening in which the appraisal target of 500 participants turned out to be
more than double by the end of project implementation. The reasons behind the
relatively high profitability of beef cattle and sheep fattening are stated in
para 6.07 below. The relatively better profitability of small-scale dairying



- 26 -
in relation to large-scale dairy farming lies in the appropriateness of the
technical package involved in terms of its demand on management skills and
availability of resources (feeds etc.). Small-scale dairying was designed as
a relatively labor-intensive production system with minimum investment in farm
machinery and buildings and hence, had relatively low fixed costs. On the
other hand, large-scale dairying (12-30 cow models) was designed as a
relatively capital intensive production system with a high proportion of fixed
costs in terms of farm machinery and buildings. The profitability of
large-scale dairying was therefore sensitive to the degree with which these
fixed assets were utilized and to the yield levels achieved, both of which
have been low among large-scale dairy farmers. In restrospect, the
large-scale models with their relatively high capital and management intensity
should have not been adopted because of the uncertainties which existed at
appraisal relating to improvement in yields achievable by unskilled and
inexperienced farmers, prices for milk and heifers, availability of spare
parts and local skills for maintenance of imported farm machinery (tractors,
mower and milking machines).
Financial Returns of Components
6.07    The financial rates of return of the individual project components
are based on the assumptions that (a) farmers would continue to have access to
institutional credit and (b) a large proportion of the incomes generated by
the project would be reinvested in the project activities by the individual
farmers. On the basis of these assumptions, the following financial rates of
return have been estimated:
Farm Size Financial Rate of Return (%)
SAR         CRE
Sheep Improvement     50-ewe             24           19
Beef Improvement      10-head            36           21
Dairy Improvement     5-cow              23           20
Dairy Improvement      12-cow            42           12
Dairy Improvement      30-cow            43            8
6.08     These rates of return indicate that it has been quite financially
rewarding for some farmers to undertake the on-farm investments required by
the new technologies introduced by the project. The major reasons for the
relatively low rates of return for large dairy farming are stated in
para 6.04. Beef and sheep improvement, involving joint production of meat and
milk, and small-scale dairying, have been relatively more profitable than the
other activities. Two reasons account for the remarkable profitability of
beef improvement. First, beef and milk production is a tradition to many
farmers in the project area and, therefore, consistent with tradition and
management experience of many farmers. The cattle breed involved (i.e.
improved East Anatolia cattle) is a well-known technology to all farmers and
best suited to both ecological and management conditions in the project area.
Hence beef cattle fattening or breeding did not require significant changes in
husbandry practices, health services and grazing/feed resources as implied in
the dairy technologies introduced under the project. This should be noted and
given attention during the design of future livestock products in the country.



- 27 -
6.09     The relatively high rates of return expected from investments in
large-scale dairy farming are not likely to materialize for reasons cited in
para 6.04. In particular, the management and capital intensity of dairy
farming make it extremely sensitive to favorable policy and institutional
changes which hardly occurred in the Turkish livestock subsector during
project implementation.
6.10     On the basis of the farm models (Annexes 7-11), serious liquidity
problems were experienced by large-scale dairy farmers in the first three
years of adoption. Most farmers in other categories could apparently service
their debt right from the first year in which the loan was made. In practice,
most large-scale dairy farmers could not repay their loans and pay interest to
TCZB. This loan defaulting was caused by severe liquidity problems among
large-scale dairy farmers. Ineffective loan supervision by TCZB also
contributed to loan defaulting. Consequently, TCZB, at the behest of the
Government, agreed to reschedule interest payment to become due in the third
year rather than the first year of each subloan for dairy farmers.
C. Economic Impact
Benefits and Beneficiaries
6.11     At full development (year 12) the project is now expected to generate
the following incremental outputs per year:
Product              Unit               SAR         CRE       CRE/SAR
Cow milk           million kg           52.4        51.6        0.98
Sheep milk         million kg            2.7         3.9        1.44
Dairy cattle       head ('000)           7.2         4.0        0.56
Beef cattle        head. ('000)          1.5        15.0       10.00
Sheep              head ('000)          27.0        76.3        2.83
Wool               tons                378.0       381.7        1.01
6.12     Production of cow milk includes production from dairy and beef cows,
of which dairy cows contributed about 36.1 million kg. This amount is only
702 of appraisal estimates and is largely due to the extremely lower rate of
adoption (29% of appraisal estimates). Production of beef cattle is
significantly higher than appraisal estimates because of the higher adoption
rate (tenfold) than appraisal estimate and, more significantly, because this
component, for economic reasons, transformed itself from a breeding activity
to largely a beef fattening activity. This meant a significantly higher
offtake rate of animals than that assumed at appraisal. Significant increases
in sheep production were also achieved for the same reasons, but at the
expense of wool production.
6.13     The direct beneficiaries of the project consist of a total of 3,803
family farms (through November 1, 1985), 52% of which are in the category of
small farms (compared to only 35S assumed at appraisal). Their incomes have
increased (para 6.03) and are, most probably, more evenly distributed than
those of non-participating farmers in the project area. All project
activities (except beef fattening) have resulted in incremental employment



- 28 -
equivalent to 750 man-years per annum, most of which is provided by family
labor. This has, of cotrse, resulted in better utilization of family labor in
an area characterized by apparent rural unemployment and underemployment. The
project has also benefited other groups of persons indirectly. These include
people who have provided goods and services in connection with farm building
construction, farm machinery and feed supplies.
6.14     It is not easy to quantify the impact of the project on poverty
eradication in Eastern Anatolia. However, the bulk of the project's
incremental production of livestock and livestock products (para 5.10) was
marketed locally and this has somewhat made an impact on nutritional
improvement among the population. Since poverty is largely a function of
purchasing power, the incremental incomes achieved by the participating
families has positively contributed to poverty reduction.
Economic Rate of Return
6.15     The project's rate of return to the economy has been calculated on
the basis of the five farm models. The following assumptions underline the
analysis.
(a) Benefits and costs have been expressed in terms of 1986 border prices
at the farmgate.
(b) Traded commodities have been valued using border prices based on
Turkey's actual (1980-85) export and import unit values (where
available) and the Bank's projections in real terms of world market
trends (1986-95).
(c) Domestic prices of non-traded goods and labor have been adjusted by
standard conversion factors (SCFs) to translate them to border
prices: 0.79 (1980-81), 0.80 (1982-84), 0.79 (1985-86), and 0.81
(1987-99).
(d) Family labor has been valued (before adjustment by SCFs) at its
estimated opportunity cost during off-peak season.
(e) Benefits and costs have been adjusted for all apparent transfer
payments (e.g. taxes, subsidies, tariffs, etc.).
(f) Participation in project implementation by adopting farms has been
phased-in at the rate of 17Z of each total number of participants of
each project activity over the period of implementation (6 years).
(g) A project life of 20 years has been assumed in the analysis of all
investment activities. Residual herd values were credited to the
benefit stream of the respective farm models.
6.16     On the basis of these assumptions, the economic rate of return of the
project is estimated at 16Z (Appendix 17). The base economic rate of return
estimated at appraisal was 20X; this was expected to fall to about 17% if the
cost of on-farm investments and operating costs were concurrently to increase
by l0Z or if milk yields for cows and ewes were to decrease by 10. Dairy



- 29 -
milk actually decreased by nearly 31X. Given the economic and institutional
problems encountered during implementation, the estimated ERR is satisfactory
and within the range estimated during appraisal. In this sense, the project
had a very favorable impact on the Turkish economy as predicted at appraisal.
The project achieved its major objectives in a satisfactory manner.
D. Environmental Impact
6.17     Much of the grazing land in the project area is owned and used
communally and there is strong evidence of overgrazing which, together with
encroachment from cultivation, increase in number of animals dependent on
natural pastures and ranges a; well as failure to observe proper grazing
principles, has resulted in a progressive decline in both the acreage and the
quality of the natural pastures and ranges. The project was designed to
partially substitute natural pastures for cultivated pastures (wheat straw and
alfalfa hay) and concentrated feeds and to increase both milk yield and
production through the use of less number of high performance cows. In this
way, the project partially avoided the major cause of natural pasture
destruction, namely heavy and continuous grazing, early grazing and
uncontrolled grazing. Although it is not possible to quantify the impact of
these measures on the grazing resource, they certainly contributed to the
process of stabilizing the grazing lands and ranges in the project area and
avoided further degradation of the resource. In this sense, the incremental
head of animals associated with the project was less harmful to the
environment than it would have been under the continuation of a natural
pasture-based animal production system.
E. Proiect Sustainability
6.18     The project's strategy was to provide conditions conducive to stable
long-term productivity increases in the livestock subsector. The project's
capacity to generate the expected benefits in the long term cannot be judged
now because the project is too young. However, since a large proportion of
the loan proceeds financed incremental operating expenditures (feeds),"'
less than expected production capacity in terms of infrastructure and
production systems was created for sustained production levels. However, the
profitability of fattening perhaps did permit expansion of this type of
operation on a self-sustaining basis. The long-term viability of the project
will depend on self-sustained increases in productivity at the farm level and
the Government's commitment to provide resource support and develop efficient
institutions for the project area. However, as discussed earlier, the weak
management environment under which the project was implemented posed a high
risk of making the project (other than the expansion of fattening operations)
less sustainable in the short run. In the long term, the project's sustain-
ability is threatened by the project's failure to create: (a) autonomous
grass roots organizations (e.g. grazing associations); (b) a framework for
beneficiary participation in the adoption and sustenance of the project's
technical packages (e.g. milk and heifer sales cooperatives); (c) mechanisms
for making the project's technology compatible with the socioeconomic and
cultural environment; and (d) improved animal health and technical services.
1/ Since the definition of incremental operating expenditures did not take
account of the high inflatioi' during the project period, a portion of what
was financed turned out not to be incremental in real terms.



- 30 -
6.19     Finally, the borrower's initial lack of commitment to the project was
partly responsible for the unsatisfactory performance of the project in the
short ran. The lack of commitment was indicated by the Government's: (a)
inadequate budgetary contribution to project costs. especially recurrent costs
to the extension service; (b) delayed acquisition and allocation of offices
and housing required by the project; (c) delayed and inadequate staffing of
project institutions; (d) reluctance to make timely and appropriate policy
changes (e.g. milk prices and subsidies on heifers from government fa,ims,
etc.); and (e) delayed compliance with loan agreement covenants. The
long-term sustainability of the project will depend on the borrower's
commitment to remove these constraints.



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 1586-TU
Actual and Cumulative Disbursements
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year                       Appraisal      Actual as 2
and Quarter              Actual      Estimate       of Appraisal
1979:   Mar 1980                          0.1
Jun 1980                          0.2
1980:   Sep 1979                          0.4
Dec 1979                          1.0
Mar 1980                          1.4
Jun 1980                          2.2
1981:   Sep 1980                          3.0
Dec 1980                          4.2
Mar 1981                          4.8
Jun 1981                          5.6
1982:   Sep 1981             3.2          6.6              48
Dec 1981             3.9          8.0              49
Mar 1982             4.6          8.8              52
Jun 1982             5.0          9.8              51
1983:   Sep 1982              5.5        11.3              49
Dec 1982             5.5         13.1              42
Mar 1983             5.8         14.1              41
Jun 1983             6.0         15.3              39
1984:   Sep 1983             6.1         17.1              36
Dec 1983             6.1         19.1              32
Mar 1984             6.4         20.1              32
Jun 1984             6.5         21.3              31
1985:   Sep 1984             6.6         22.5              29
Dec 1984             8.0         24.0              33
Mar 1985             8.7                           36
Jun 1985            11.5                           48
1986:   Sep 1985             12.2                          51
Dec 1985            21.9                           91



- 32 -
ANNEX 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURltEY
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 1586-TU
Distribution of Loan ProtgAds: Camarison ot Agnraisal vs. Actual
(USS '000)
Loan              first             Second
Category                Agreement   X      Revision    X      Revision    X        Actual      X
7-11-83           9-26-84
I. Livestock
(a) For Small Farmers     5.500   22.9         500    2.1       1.500    6.3         736.0    3.0
(b) For Small Farmers
and Other Farmers     7.000   29.2       3.500   14.6       3.500   14.6       3,210.9   13.4
UI. Farm Machinery
and Equipment             2.000    8.3       1.600    6.7       1.600    6.7       1.694.8    7.1
IIr. Feed Expenditures         4.500   18.8      13,400   55.8      15.400   64.1      15,466.2   64.4
IV. Technical Services.
Technical Studies
and Vehicles              2,000    8.3       2.000    8.3       2.000    8.3         757.3    3.1
V. Unallocated                3,000   12.5      3,000   12.5        -        -            -      -
VI. Cancelled                   ---                                  -                 2.134.a    9.0
Total                    24.000  100.0      24.000  100.0      24,000  100.0      24.000.0  100.0



- 33 -
ANNEX 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 1586-TU
Use of Loan Proceeds for Imports:
Livestock and Machinery
IBRD Fiscal Year:  FY81    FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   Total
Livestock /
Heifers
Brown Swiss             781   1,541    410    129                         2,861
Friesian                        224    139            33                    396
Bulls                   27       11                                          38
Total                808   1,776    549    129      33                  3,295
Machinery
Tractors                80       45      -     13      2                    140
Hay baler                10       7             4       1                    22
Forage harvester          2       2                                           4
M. Self 0 Propelled      65      17            36     48                    166
V. Disc                  10       4                                          14
Finger Bar               17      10             2                            29
Hay Rake                 22      10             4       1                    37
Milking Machinery:
Fixed (4-unit)        15        3             -                            18
Fixed (2-unit)          2       5             5                            12
Portable (2-unit)     50       12            24                            86
A   From Table 2 of Project Completion Report prepared by Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs.



PROJECT C0MPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMET PROIECT
LOMS ls86-TU
Distribution of Inputs by Provinep
Aga     Binanil  BIitls  Divarbakir  gr2unean   Er2m   fGhaana   Makkari   K                Hua     Yi   low
Inputs
Seeds il (kg)
Alfalfa (Kayseri
or Bilensoy)         19,500    1,500       -       7,100     23,500      62,000      -          -       24,500   8,900      -
Sainfoin              12,000      100       -       7.000     11,000      53,500      -          -       45,000       -      -
Vetch                      -       50       -      13,000     34,000      27,400      -          -       24,000       -      -
Black Erzurum
Vetch L-147                -    2,000       -       4,000           -     25,000      -          -       80,000       -      -
Malie Silage               -      400       -           -           -          -      -          -        1.000
Sudan Grass                -        -       -       1,000          -           -      -          -            -       -      -
Animal Beet                -        -       -       1,000           -          -      -          -            -       -      -
Oat                        -        -       -           -      2,000       2.000      -          -        1,000       -      -
Agricultural
Engineer                  2        3      2            2          3           1      -          1            4       3     2       23
Veterinarian               I        I       -           1           -          2      1          -            7        1     3      17
Agricultural
Technicians               2        3      2            3           1          7      2          1           18       6      3      48
Animal Health
Technicians               2        1      -            -           1          6      1          -            2       2      1      16
Total Staff              7        8      4            6          5          16      4         2            31      12     9      104
Ll  From Table 2 of Project Completion Report prepared by Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs.
LI The nwiber of staff indicated are those working in 1985. Data compiled from distribution of staff by type provided In Tables
26-A and 26-B in PCR prepared by the M1inistry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs.
I0



- 35 -
ANNEX 5
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 1586-TU
Comparison of Number of Subprojects Financed by Prolect
Appraisal vs. Actual
X of Appraisal
Appraisal      Actual      Original
Estimate        as of       Project
Oct-Nov 1977   Nov. 1 t85      Area      Total
No. of Subproiects Operational
Liv. IV Project Area A         5,200         2,273          44      )
Liv. III Project Area /2           -         1,530           -      )73
Type of Enterprise
(a) Sheep Improvement
Liv. IV Project Area           2,700         1,001          37      )
Liv. III Project Area               -           42           -      )39
(b) Beef Cattle Improvement /3
Liv. IV Project Area             500           828        (166)    )
Liv. III Project Area               -        1,358           -      )(437)
(c) Dairy Cattle Improvement
(5-cow units)
Liv. IV Project Area            1,500          130           9      )
Liv. III Project Area               -           72           -      )13
(d) Dairy Cattle Improvement
(12-cow units)
Liv. IV Project Area             400           248          62      )
Liv. III Project Area               -           44           -      )73
(e) Dairy Cattle Improvement
(30-cow units)
Liv. IV Project Area             100            66          66      )
Liv. III Project Area               -           14           -      )80
No. of Small Farmers                 2,680        1,964           -       73
/A   Original project area (eastern Turkey).
/2   Provinces of former Livestock III Project (mostly western Turkey)
included in Livestock IV since September 1984.
/3   At appraisal, this category was for improvement of beef breeding herds.
Financing of animal purchasing (cattle and sheep) for fattening was
subsequently allowed under Livestock IV starting in July 1983. All
fattening projects (cattle as well as well as sheep) have been counted
under the "Beef Cattle Improvement" category for the figures of the
"Current Supervision" column.



-36 -
ANNEX 6
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUMEY
FOURTH LIVESTOCK OEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Distribution of Stubroeects According to Province
Date Oftice                 Beet Cattle           Dairy Cattle
Established         Sheep    Fattening       5-cow   12-Cow   30-cow    Total
Orifinal Proiect Area a
Erzurum          Jan 8 1984            321         116           31       23        21       512
Van               Jul 7 1979            10          49           16        21       14        110
Kars              Dec 18 1974          633         497           1S       151       18     1,314
Agri             Mar 31 1975            10          47           23        27        8        115
Erzincan         July 4 1979             8          37           1S         4        3        67
Diyarbakir       Apr 2 1980             13           10           1         1        1         26
Us5               Oct 23 1979            4           10           2         4        0         20
8ingol            Dec IS 1980            0           8            1         2        1         12
sitlis            Feb 13 1981            1          30            8         7        0        46
Gurushane         Dec 14 1978            1           16           0         6        0         23
Nakkari           DOec 14 1978                     --A                              .      .1  2  Q. 2a
Subtotal                           10.1 .fl                    llQ      2ia        {i     2.273
Livestock III Protect Area a
Conrt                                    1         102            3         0        1        107
Cankiri                                  0          25            0         1        0        26
Kirsehir                                18          105           2         3        1        129
Mersin                                   0          71            1         1        1         74
Izmir                                    2          73            0        0         1        76
Aydin                                    0         200           17         7        1       225
Istanbul                                 0          63            0        4         2        69
Edirne                                   0           18           2         1        0        21
Kirklareli                               0           9            1         1        0         11
tekirdag                                12          43            7         7        0        69
Kocael1                                  0           3            1         1        0          s
Sakarya                                  1          8S            4        0         2        92
Bolu                                     0           9            1         1        1         12
Bursa                                    S          20            1         2        0        28
Kastaimnu                                2          56           20         7        1        86
Balikesir                                1          35            0         3        2        41
Omnil1                                  0          30           11         2        0        43
Manisa                                   0          61            1         0        0        62
Adana                                    ¢          81           10         1        0        92
Adtyaman                                 0           12           0         0        1         13
Hatay                                    0          Ss            0         0        0         55
Malatya                                  0          154           0         1        1        156
Yozgat                                   0          36            0         0        0         36
Zonguldak                               Q            12          _Q        Q        Q          12
Subtotal                                42         3sa                    A44       14     1 S30
Total                        1.043        2.186          202      292        80     3.803
/a Subprojects established from project start-up (October 1978) until November 1. 1985.
La  Subprojects established from September 1984 until November 1. 1985.



- 37-
025                                           TURKEY
~~~~~~~~ ~~ANNEX 7
LIVESTOCK DEVELIOPdENT PROJ8CT                            ---------
BEEP CATTLR IUPROVENEfNVIO-Cow Nodel)
Financial Performance(fTV 000)
ProJect Years
without            with
1-20      1.0       2.0       3.0      4.0       5.0       6.0      7.0      8-20
Production/Sales:                     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Beef                                     1425.0   2778.8   4166.5   4317.3   7712.3   7402.2   6903.0   5850.0   5850.0
Bilk                                     1051.2    702.0   1054.0   1102.0   1238.0   1432.0   1500.0   1560.0   1560.0
Subtotal Production/Sales               2476.2   3480.8   5220.5   5419.3   8950.3   8834.2   8403.0   7410.0   7410.0
Production Costs:
lIvesteent
Barn constr.                             1234.0   5396.0
lanure pit                                         315.4
Sugarbeet s¼'                                      210.0
Equipment                                          123.0
liscellaneous                             234.0    121.6
Subtotal Investment                      1468.0   6166.0
Operating expenses:
Cattle purchase                               -   1482.0   2745.6   3357.9   3209.7   3330.6   3313.1   3120.0   3120.0
feed purchase                                 -    357.5    722.7   1182.6   1281.2   1543.9   1182.6    821.3    821.3
leterinary ainerals                        28.5      9.5      24.6      65.9     75.9      84.9      60.0     60.0      54.0
General exp.                              123.0    152.0    132.8    118.5    102.5        76.5      54.0      54.0     30.0
Energy Uater                                        57.0      84.5      73.8     65.9      56.9      42.5     30.0      30.0
Repair &aintenance                                 367.0    454.0    447.0    427.0    407.0    387.0    367.0    367.0
Production tax                             74.3    104.4    156.6    162.6    268.5    265.0    252.1    222.3    222.3
Subtotal Inputs                           225.8   2529.4   4320.8   5408.3   5430.7   5764.8   5291.3   4674.6   4644.6
Subtotal Production Costs                1693.8   8695.4   4320.8   5408.3   5430.7   5764.8   5291.3   4674.6   4644.6
Casb Flow Before linancing                782.4  -5214.6    899.7       11.0   3519.6   3069.4   3111.7   2735.4   2765.4
Sources of Finance
Disbursements on L.T.Loan                         4316.6
Transfer from previous period                     4378.8   5408.3   5430.7   5764.8   5291.3   4674.6   4644.6   4644.6
Less Transf. to Next Period                       4320.8   4320.8   5408.3   5430.7   5764.8   5291.3   4674.6   4644.6
Subtotal Sources of Finance                   _   4374.6   1087.5       22.4    334.1   -473.5   -616.7    -30.0         0.0
Loan Repayments:
L.T.Principal                                      516.4    531.9    578.1    622.2    657.6    692.9    717.3             -
L.T.Interest                                  _    254.4    238.9    192.7    148.6    113.2         77.9     53.5         _
Subtotal Loan Repayments                           770.8    710.8    770.8    770.8    770.8    770.8    770.8              -
let linancing                                     3603.8    316.7   -748.4   -436.7  -1244.3  -1387.5   -800.8           0.0
Family Fare Benefits After linancing   782.4  -1610.8   1216.4   -737.4   3082.9   1825.1   1724.2   1934.6   2765.4
Inremental Fare Benefits AfterFinane             -2393.2    434.0  -1519.8   2300.5   1042.7    941.8   1152.2   1983.0
IBB-          0.2
0.'
0.3



- 38 -
.05                                                              mini
1o00  LI1SCI 7-   10 P M          ? P....C..--
.............................. ............................... .
Sh"ep lpoeuentl5O-le Moel)
.............. ....................... ........... ...
Fianlcial Performace(nt,804)
. ...... ..............
wIthout          with project
'1-20                1.0      2.0     3.0      4.0      5.0      6.0     t.0    8-20
........ ........... ......... I--------------------------------------------------
Din Productlonlsales:
Milk                                  100.8            290.0   354.2   412.0   822.5   852.5   637.5   450.0   450.0
lool                                  140.6            108.0   340.0   488.1   464.6   401.6   299.8   211.1   211.1
les                                  513.0                 _   184.4   322.5  1544.4  1335.4   996.6   104.0   104.0
lss                                                        _    45.3    39.8    31.3    38.0    28.3    20.0    20.0
You  feuales                                               -   212.9   165.2   230.4   239.4   178.2   120.0   120.0
Young mles                            129.0                     453.0   554.4   14.0   760.0   566.0   400.0   400.0
Subtotal Production/Sales                              863.4            398.0  1599.8  2841.8  3845.2  3626.9  2706.4  1905.1  1905.1
Prodection Costs:
IDvestmeat
bra constraction                         -            1528.2
lIe parchae                              _            1290.0
an purebase                                            114.0
alfalfa utab.                                          304.2
Miscelluaeous                                          352.8
Subtotal Investment                                        -           3S59.2
Operating IpeSe:
Concetrates                           62.0             184.4   179.1   177.1   193.2   229.4   257.6   261.8   281.8
Alfalfa                                                106.8  1106.6   96.7   658.    108.8   445.0   393.8   393.6
yet. upenses                          33.3              64.8   133.5   116.9   103.6    85.5    53.7    417.5    41.5
hebug energ                                             57.0    42.2    36.9    32.7    21.0    17.0    15.0    15.0
Iepirhaintenance                         _                       91.2    67.4    59.0    52.3       4.4    21.1    27.1
biscellaneou                           13.3             91.2   151.1   132.8   111.7   101.4    63.3    56.0    56.0
Production taz(31)                    26.5              11.9    48.0    79.3   115.4   106.0    81.2    51.2    51.2
Subtotal Operating Costs                               135.1            1124.2  1152.2  1519.1  140.1  1313.3   961.1   818.3   818.4
Subtotal Prodctioa costs                               135.1           4713.4  1152.2  1579.1   180.1  1313.3   961.1   816.3   618.4
Ca   Flo Before linancin                               748.3           -4315.4  -152.5  1062.6  2365.2  2313.1  1145.3  1027.3  1021.3
Sources of fince
DishtBements o n L.O.Lo a                                  -           2512.4
transfer from pretious period                              _           2201.0  1186.1  1602.9  1480.1  1313.3  '961.1   878.3   878.4
Less transfer to sent period                               _           1786.1  1602.9  1480.1  1313.3   961.1  861.3   818.4   818.4
Subtotal Sources of Finance                                _           2926.1   183.8   122.8   166.8   352.2    82.8    -0.1          0.0
Luo  lepaymts:
L.t. Principal                                                          300.6   314.0   336.4   354.4   376.8   381.6   399.6 0
L.t. Interest                                              _            148.0   134.6   112.2    94.2    11.8    61.0    49.0
Subtotal LO D  epaments                                    _            448.6   448.6    40.6   448.6   448.6   448.6   448.6            _
et lFinani                                                 -           2418.1  -264.8  -325.8  -281.8   -96.4  -385.8  -448.1          0.0
Frm Fally Beaefits Ufter Fiancing                      650.5          -1611.3   112.3  1386.4  2647.0  2410.1   tIll.l  1476.0  101O.3
lremental Farm Benefib After Fiancing                      -          -24187.8  -538.2   737.9  1996.5  1159.6  1460.6   025.5   371.0
III:         0.3
RIF       1407.7
0.2



- 39 -
.A0125                                       lURKE?
--------                                            ANNEX 9
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPET PROJECT                            -
Dairy Cattle JsprovesentfS-Com ifodiP
Financial PerformancetTLOOOt
Unit    Project Years
without with
1-15     1.0      2.0      3.0      4.0      5.0      b.0      7.0    9-15
-------    ---------------- ~
NAin Production/Sales:
wilt                                  239.5  1440.0  1694.0   1527.8  2326.6  2842.4  3179.0  2992.0  2992.0
Cull cos-indig.                       229.0   855.0                  _        _                          -
Cull co*-ibpr.                                 142.5    105.6
Young bulls-indig                     399.0   399.0
Young bulls-iapr.                                                450.4   405.9   460.9   645.3   P66.7   612.0
In-calf heifer-indig.
In-calf heifer-iopr.                  142.5   399.0
Subtotal Production/Sales            1009.0  3235.5  1789.6  1978.2  2732.5  3303.3  3824.3  3858.7  3604.0
Production Costss
Investeent
Barn constr.                                  1570.5
Feed storage                                   303.2
Silaqe pit                                     281.5
Nanure pit                                     224.4
Equiment                                       549.5
Alfalfa establ.                                256.5
Cattle purchase                               1723.5
Niscellaneous                                  209.4
Subtotal innstment                            5117.5
OperatingexpenSes
Inputs
Concetrates-cows                      337.3   393.8   266.7   251.9   401.9   412.7   463.4    5e6.8   506.9
Concetrates-calves                             237.3   207.4   182.6   213.7   276.9   310.9   339.9   339.9
forage cost                                    655.9   568.3   596.5   636.0   485.1   302.8   268.0   269.0
Veterinary-Al                           2.9    12.3    17.2    23.1    26.6    34.0    27.1    24.0    24.0
Fuulkenergy                            76.0   118.8   105.0    92.2    67.5    42.4    38.7    34.5    34.5
Repairlaintenatce                      38.0   194.2   155.0   113.4    71.2    63.0    59.0    54.7    54.7
Niscellaneous                                  295.2   282.8   248.5   191.9   114.1   104.5    99.7    99.7
Production tax                         30.3    97.1    53.7    59.3    92.0    99.1    114.7   115.8   109.1
Subtotal Inputs                       484.5  1994.5  1656.0  1567.4   1680.6  1527.1   1420.0  1442.4  1434.7
Subtotal Production Costs             484.5  7112.0  1656.0  1567.4  1680.6  1527.1  1420.0  1442.4  1434.7
Cash Flow bfore Finanting             524.5 -3876.5   133.5   410.9  1051.9  1776.2  2404.3   2416.3  2169.3
Disbursements on L..tLoan                 -  3582.2
Transfer from previous pWid               -  3529.7  1656.0  1567.4  1680.6  1527.1  1420.0  1442.4  1434.7
Less Transfer to next period              _   1656.0  1567.4  1690.6  1527.1  1420.0  1442.4  1434.7  1434.7
Subtotal Sources of Finance               _  5456.0    89.6  -113.2   153.5   107.1   -22.4           7.7      0.0
Loan Repayments:
L.T.Printipal                                  571.2   596.9   639.4   673.5   716.2   759.8   896.5             -
L.T.dnter9st                                   281.4   255.9   213.2   139.1   136.4    93.8    33.9             -
Subtotal Loan Repanents                        952.6   852.6   852.6   952.6   852.6   852.6   952.6   852.6
Met Financing                                 4603.4  -764.0  -965.8  -699.1  -745.5  -802.6  -844.9           0.0
Fars Family Benefits after Financing   524.5   726.9  -bMP.5  -555.0   352.8  1030.7  1601.7  1571.4  2169.3
Inreumntal Fare Benef.After Financin           202.4  -!!!5.0  -1079.5  -171.7   506.2  1077.2  1046.9  1644.8
353.3
0.2
-2.1



- 40 -
.0412"~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~TRE
AEX 10
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVLOPNMT PROJECT
DAIRY CATTLE INPROVENENT112-Cow Model)
Finacial PsrorsmnceiT 0001
Pro ject Years
without          xith
1-15     1.0     2.0      3.0      4.0     5.0      6.0     7.0    8-15
Production/Sales:
milk                                         239.5  3168.0  4041.6  3666.6  5583.9  6021.8  7629.6  7100.8  7180.8
Cull corwindil.                              228.0   295.5
Cull co* -impr.                                  -   285.0   211.1   281.5   494.0   613.2   991.2   700.0   700.0
Young bulls-indig.                           399.0   399.0
Young bulls-iWpr.                                -        -  1126.0  1028.3  1152.3  1518.4  2294.1  1620.0  1620.0
In-af heifer-indig.                          427.5   316.7
In-calf huifert-ijer.                            -       -        _        -   658.5   616.9  1289.6  1000.0  1000.0
Subtotal ProductioniSales                   1294.0  4464.2  5378.7  4976.4  7889.7  9640.3  12203.5  10500.8  10500.9
Produttion Cots:
Investnnt
Darn constr.                                         5609.8
Feed storage                                         1954.7
Siloge pit                                            485.2.
Manure pit                                            386.9
Equipmnt                                             5500.0
Cattle purchase                                      4136.4
Nliscellnano                                         1251.0
Subtotal Invetmnt                                   19323.9
Operating expens
Inputs
Cow concetrates                              337.3  1116.6   703.7   688.1   554.4   913.2   990.4  1112.1  1216.3
Calf concetrates                                 -   569.0   483.1   496.6   478.1   609.1   745.8   043.8   843.8
Forap expenss                                         950.0  1089.0  1124.0  1108.0  1218.0  1286.0  1296.0  1286.0
Veterinary-Al                                  4.8    30.8    36.9    59.4    72.1    89.3    60.0    60.0    60.0
fulenuergy                                    36.0   135.0   120.0   105.0    90.0    87.0    75.0    75.0    75.0
Repairkaintenance                             18.0   270.0   240.0   210.0   180.0   174.0   150.0   150.0   150.0
Niscellaneous                                    _   370.0   323.2   253.4   249.6   251.9   221.0   221.0   221.0
Production tax                                38.8   133.9   161.4   149.3   236.7   209.2   364.1   315.0   315.0
Subtotal Inputs                              434.9  3575.3  3157.3  3075.8  2968.8  3531.7  3894.3  4062.9  4167.1
Subtotal Production Costs                    434.9 22899.2  3157.3  3075.8  2968.8  3531.7  3894.3  4062.9  4167.1
Cash Flom  efore Financing                   859.1 -18435.0  2221.4  1900.6  4919.9  610.6  8309.2  6437.9  6333.7
Sources of Fiuance
Disbursnt on L.t. Loan                           _ 13526.7
Transfer fro previous period                     -  9372.5  3157.3  3075.8  2968.8  3531.7  3094.3  4062.9  4167.1
Less transfer to nest period                     _  3157.3  3075.8  2968.8  3531.7  3894.3  4062.9  4167.1  4167.1
Subtotal Souces of Finance                          19741.9    81.5   107.0  -562.9  -362.6  -168.6  -104.2         0.0
Loan Repayents:
L.T. Principal                                   _  1618.4  1690.9  1911.6  1908.2  2029.0  214.8  2318.9           0.0
L.t. Interest                                    -   797.1   724.6   603.9   50.3   386.5   265.7    96.6          0.0
Subtotal Repaywents                              -  2415.5  2415.5  2415.5  2415.5  2415.5  2415.5  2415.5
Net Financing                                       17326.4  -2334.0  -2308.5  -2978.4 -2779.1  -2504.1  -2519.7    0.0
Farm Family Benefits after Financing         859.1  -1108.6  -112.6  -407.9  1941.5  3330.5  5725.1  3918.2  6333.7
Farm Inremntal 0enefits After Financing          _-1967.7  -971.6  -1267.0  1082.4  2471.4  48.0  3059.2  54?4.6
4717.2



- 41 -
05                                                you"T
lOul LISTOCI Doum  HOnCt                                      AnA 11
.. ............................. .  . .. . **
Dairy cattle IAPrewntSD-Cow  od1)
.... ........................ ................
finsacial Prtoruace(tLiOO)
....... ............ .. ..
Teare
.................................... ................................................ ---I. ... ... ...................... ..............................
vithout                   with     project
1-20              1.0      2.0      3.0      4.0      5.0      6.0      7.0    8-20
Produetiou/Sales:
gilt                                  239.5           15491.5  15104.0  11424.3  13959.8  11054.4  19074.0  17952.0  11952.0
Cull cows-ind.                        228.0             855.0        -
Cull covs-impr.                           -             285.0   211.1   433.0   987.9  1195.6  1734.6  1225.0  1225.0
Young bulls-lad.                      399.0             399.0   2             -        -        -        _        _        _
Young bulls-ipr.                                            - -  2801.0  2706.0  2304.6  3036.8  5098.0  3600.0  3800.0
In-calf keifers-ind.                  142.5             295.5        -
In-calf heifers-lapr.                     _197.5  1150.7  3221.5  2500.0  2500.0
Subtotal Prod./Salea                 1009.0           11326.0  18116.1  14563.3  19227.8  23137.5  29128.1  25217.0  25277.0
Production Costs:
Inv estmeto
Barn coutr.                               _           12609.5
reed storage                              _            8427.7
Silage pit                                _            9025.0
anure pit                                 _            2828.3
qipast                                    _           19800.0
Cattle purchase                           _           10341.0
lincellaneous                                          6602.5
Subtotal Isletaeat                        _           67634.1
Oerating expenses:
Inputs
cow concetrates                       337.3            2782.5  1755.0  1386.0  2028.0  2479.5  2784.0  3045.0  3045.0
Calf concetrates                          _1417.8  1203.8  1221.0  1200.0  1524.8  1712.0  2030.0  2117.5
forage epenses                            -            9025.0  7650.2  6915.1  5017.3  3440.8  3216.0  3106.0  3108.0
Veterinar-I                             6.2             110.7   158.1   178.4   212.4   150.0   150.0   150.0   150.0
Fuellenergy                            16.0             210.0   184.5   135.0    84.8    75.0    75.0    75.0    75.0
Bepairhuint.                           38.0            1330.0   980.0   861.0   630.0   395.5   350.0   350.0   350.0
Misecelaneous                             -        -   144.0   1143.9  1273.0  1347.5   995.5   621.5   550.0   550.0
Production tax                         30.3             519.8   543.5   436.9    516.6   694.1    8t3.8   758.3   758.3
Subtotal Inputs                       487.8           16809.1  13618.9  12406.4  11096.8  9755.2  9782.3  10064.3  10151.8
Subtotal Prod. Costs                     .8           84443.8  134U8.9  12298.0  11098.0  9755.2  9182.3  10064.3  10151.8
Caiflow before finacing               521.2          -67117.8   4677.8  2265.3  8131.8  13382.3  19345.8  15212.7  15125.2
Sources of Yinance:
Disbkrs. on L.t.Loa                       _           41343.9
Tranmf. from previous period                          37099.9  13438.9  12298.0  11096.2  9155.2  9782.3  10064.3  10151.8
Leas truuf. to meut period                _           13438.9  12298.0  11096.0  9755.2  9782.3  10064.3  10151.8  10151.3
Subtotal Soures of  inance                            7 71004.9  1140.9  1202.0  1341.0   -27.1  -282.0   -87.5          0.0
Loan 8epaymnts:
L.t. Principal                            _            566.4  5918.0  6340.7  8678.9  1101.6  7524.3  8116.2
L.t. Interest                                          2789.9  2536.3  2113.6  1775.4  1352.7   930.0   338.1
Subtotal Loan lepayents                                8454.3  8454.3  8454.3  8454.3  8454.3  8454.3  8454.3              -
get linacing_                                         62550.6  -7313.4  -7252.3  -7113.3  -8181.4  -8736.3  -8541.8      0.0
fare faily Bnefits after financing   521.2            -4567.2  -2635.6  -4987.0  1018.5  4900.9  10609.5  6670.9  15125.2
fara  Incremental Benefits after fin.     _           -4046.0  -2635.6  -9554.2  -1617.1   -86.1  11628.0  11571.8  25734.7
139:         0.2
3P?:      7928.8



- 42 -
05                                          TURKIY
FOURTH LIYESTOCI DIEYLOPNENV PROJECT                              ANNEX 12
Beef Cattle Ilprovement(I10-Read Nodel)
Total Inremental BenefitsiTV0O6)
ProJect Years
I        2         3        4         5        6         7     8-20
lnremental Family Farns          174       174      174       174       174      173
Cumulative lncr. F.Farms          174      348       522      696       870     1043      1043     1043
Annual locr. Benefits/bara  -5214.0    899.7          11   3519.6   3069.4   3111.7   2735.4   2765.4
Phasing of Incr. Benefits:
Year             1-907340.
2           -907340
3          156541.8 -907340.
4                    156547.8 -907340.
5                        1914 156647.8 -907340.
6                                  1914 156547.8 -902125.
7                             612410.4      1914 156547.8 156647.8
8                                       612410.4      1914     1914
9                                       534075.6 612410.4 612410.4
10                                                534075.6 534015.6
11                                                538324.1 538324.1
12                                                          156517.8
13-20                                                                   3670942.
Total Cuwlative Benefits  -907340. -750792. -748878. -136488. 397607.4 941146.1 1999819. 3670942.
IRl:     0.213899



- 4 3 -
05                                          TUUEY
lIoin 13
fOO?ti LIVSTOC  DIVILOPI   POJECT-----P                                           -
S188P IUPROVEINTI 50-lie Nodel)
Total Inremental BenefitfTL' 000)
ProJect Years
1        2         3        4         5        6         1        8     9-20
lncremental Fasily farms         363       363      363       364       364      364
Cumulative Incr. F.Faras         363       726      1089     1453      1817     2181      2181     2181      2181
Jn nal Incr. Benefits/Farm  -4315.4   -152.5   1062.6   2365.2   2313.7   1745.3   1027.3   1027.3   2365.2
Phasing of Incr. Benefits:
Year             1 -1566490
2          -1566490
3          -55357.5 -1566490
4                    -55357.5 -1570805
5                    385723.8 -55357.5 -1566490
6                             385723.8 -55357.5 -1566490
7                             860932.8 385723.8 -553'?.5 -55357.5
8                                       860932.8 385723.8 385723.0 385723.8
9                                       842106.8 860932.8 860932.8 860932.8
10                                                842186.8 842186.8 842186.8
11                                                635289.2 635289.2 635289.2
12                                                          372909.9 372909.9
13-15                                                                   372909.9
16-20                                                                             515850'.
total Cumulative Benefits  -1566490 -1621847 -1236123 -379506. 466995.9 1102285.  3041685 3469952.  5158501
IRB:     0.192469
5PY-     -211813.



- 44 -
05                                TURKEY
FOORTI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPUER? PROJKCT                                        AgilN  14
Dairy Cattle leprovesent(5-Cov lodel)
Total Incremental Fars Benefits(TL'OO0
ProJect Years
1        2        3         4         5        6         7        8     9-20
Iaresental lasily Farms           34        34        34       34        34       32
Cumlative Incr. 1.1aros            34       68       102      136       170      202       202      202       202
lAnual Incr. Benefits/laru  -3876.5    133.5    410.3   1051.9  1f76.2   2404.3   2416.3   2169.3   3261.2
Phasing of Iler. Benefits:
Year   1  -131801  -131801
2              4539  -131801
3                        4539  -131801
4                     13950.2     4539  -131801
5                              t3950.2      4539  -131801
e                              35764.6  13950.2      4539      4539
7                                        35764.6  13950.2  13950.2  13950.2
8                                        60390.8  35764.6  35764.6  35764.6
9                                                 60390.8  60390.8  60390.8
10                                                 76937.6  76097.6  76937.6
It                                                           82154.2  82154.2
12-15                                                                    73756.2
16-20                                                                             658762.4
Total Cumulative Benefits   -131801  -127262 -113311. -77547.2 -17156.4  59781.2 273736.4 342953.6 658762.4
IBB-     0.197178



- 45 -
.Q2$
FOURTH LIUSTOK DIVILOPNKNT PROJECT                                UIEI 15
Dairy Cattle IsprovesentI12-Cow Nodel)
Total Inremental Fars Benefits(tL'OO0)
Project Years
1        2        3         4        5         6        7         8     9-20
Increuental family fares                    49       49        49       49        49       47
Cusulative Incr. F.harss                    49       98       147       196      245      292       292      292       212
Annual Incr. Benefits/Fars              -18435   2221.4   1900.6   4919.9   6108.6   8309.2   6437.9   6333.7   8301.2
Phasing of Incr. Benefits:
Year:  1            -903315
2                     -903315
3                    108848.6  -903315
4                             108848.6  -903315
5                              93129.4 108848.6  -903315
6                                        93129.4 108848.6  -866445
7                                       241075.1  93129.4 108848.6 108841.6
8                                                241075.1  93129.4  93121.4  93121.4
9                                                299321.4 241075.1 241075.1 241075.1
1o                                                         291321.4 291321.4 21M321.4
11                                                          390532.4 390532.4 310532.4
12                                                                   315457.1 315457.1
13-15                                                                             310351.3
16-20                                                                                      24262S.
Total Cuiulative Benefits              -903315 -794466.  -701337 -460261. -1609140. 266461.9  1448364 1640866.  24262ff
IEI-     0.120717



- 46 -
FOFpTR LIVISTOIM  DEVELOPNE6T PROJE7                                           UtIEX 16
airr Csttile Isprovemnet.30-Cou Kod-'!
T.tjj Incremental FarE Benefits(T`0Q01
Prt-Ieet Years
1        2         3         4         5         6        7         8      9-20
Inererental faislv Farms                      14       14        14        14        14        10
Cumulative Incr. F.Farms                      14       28        42        56        70        8P        80        8o       80
Atnual Incr. Benefits/Fare             -67117.8   4677.8   2265.3   8131.6  13382.3  19345.8  15212.7  15125.2  29345.8
Phasing of Incr.Benefits:
Year             1           -939649
2                    -939649.
3                      65489.2 -939649.
4                               65489.2 -939649.
5                               31714.2  65489.2 -939649.
6                                         31714.2  65489.2  -671178
7                                        113842.4  31714.2  65489.2  65489.2
8                                                  113842.2  31714.2  31714.2  31714.2
9                                                  187352.2 113842.2 113842.2 113842.2
10                                                            187352.2 187352.2 187352.2
11                                                              193458   193458   193458
13                                                                       1217016 212977.8
14-15                                                                                 1210016
16-20                                                                                           2347664
Total Cumulative Benefits              -939649.  -874160 -842445. -728603.  541251. -79322.2 1808871. 1949360.  2347664
IPF:     0.082525



- 47 -
05                               70107
1001     LITOC DlLPUM   WPOJIC?                                         ---------
........... .................. ............
conomic late of Retran
---------------------------         Project            ears
1. Incremental Benefits:        1.0      2.0      3.0      4.0      S.0      6.0      7.0       8.0      9.0     10.0   Il-lS    16-26
--------------------------------- -----------illiom  Turkish   Lia      -----------------------------------
Cow Bilk                      568.5   779.9  2523.2  5133.4  6039.S  7024.6  616.S   66.8   8   6766.8 666.8  7128.1  76I .6
Sheep Bilk                    156.8    262.1   468.5   653.9    801.3   800.9   702.9   702.9    702.9   702.9    738.0  I73.8
Sheep Wool                     23.7   245.2   396.4   584.8   769.5   667.9   647.7   647.7    617.7   647.7   77.7   115.8
Button/iamb                   402.0   $94.8  1215.3  1856.2  2289.4  2595.4  2519.1  2519.1  2519.1  2519.1  2137.4  I132.1
Cull Dairy Co                 221.3   270.2   244.7    676.7  1193.1  1789.1  1738.7  1738.7   1736.7  173.7   2168.2   223.4
beef Cattle                   228.6   1016.4  1861.9  3172.6   3137.0  1198.6  4075.2  4075.2  4075.2  4075.2  514.3   5325.6
Subtotal Bnefits             1621.1  3228.7  8710.0  12077.6  14929.8  17076.1  16448.1  1644.4  1844.4  16448.4  18110.7  18097.4
B.Ilremental Costs:
Fars  achiaerylquipment       574.5   568.0   566.0   586.0   586.0   5689.4            _ -           -        -        -             -
Farm Bildings                7861.0   7812.0  15214.8  1227.6  1227.6  1227.6           _        _         _        _        _        _
Livpstock Purcbases:
a.0airy Cattle               1477.1  2461.9   2963.4  2981.6  2762.8  2872.2  2466.4  2466.4  2466.4  2466.4  3113.8  3223.2
b.Beef Cattle                 318.4   661.2  1017.9  1259.8  1496.4  1825.3  1721.0  1721.0  1721.0  1721.0   2169.4  2252.1
c.Sheep                       653.4   644.3    677.0   693.3   644.3   732.0   758.8   758.7   758.7   752.7  n724.4   566.
Varm Labor                     25.6    13.2    90.8   153.0   216.7   259.3   259.3   259.3   259.3   259.3   259.3   255.3
On-arn Inpts                  197.4   385.3   554.8   682.3   808.3   886.7    906.7   908.7   90.7J   908.7   90S.7   96.7
Techleal Services UStudies   107.2   156.0   229.3   592.5   517.0   736.0   951.0
Subtotal Incremental Costs  11214.6  12759.8  21313.8  81568.1  8239.1  9130.5  7085.0  6114.1  6114.1  6106.1  7175.6  7210.1
let Incresental Benefits    -9593.5  -9531.1 -14603.6  3921.5  6690.1  7946.2  9383.1  10334.3  10334.3  10340.3  18935.1  11168.3
In:           0.2



- 48 -
|0125                                           TURBRE
---------                                                 ANNEX 18
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DIVILOPEhYI PPOJECT                               ---------
Financial Farigate Prices of Inputs and Outputsfat 1986 prices)
---------------------------------------------                                          Projected
unit          1980     1981      1982      1983     1984      1985      1986  1987-94
Inputs:                      ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cot concetratesf16X)                  TLIkg           53        45        44        48       57        64        70       70
Alfalfa                               TL/kg           11        14        29        33       38        29        20       20
gay                                   TL/kg           18        19        21        20       21        22        22       20
Beef cattle for fattening             TL'OOOtbe       152      140       172       165      171       170       160      160
Dairy cattle                         TSLOOO/he       345       563       684      658       617       644       500      500
Sheep for fattening                   TL'OO/he        18       19        20        18       19        21        23       20
Sheep for breeding                    TL'OOO/be       33        30        32        32       31        30        32       28
Tractor                               TL'OOO/se    1713       1796      1913      1978     2028      2046      2050     2100
Pay baler                             TL'OOO/se      664       855       960      1036     1358      1414      1425     1425
Bilking uachine                       TL'OOO/se      548       661       761       835      856       847       865      865
Tractor trailer                       TL'OOO/se       716      996       994      1580     i423      1062       850      850
Sugarbeet pulp                        fL/kg            11        8         7         6        9         7         5        5
Veterinary expenses                   TL/head        950      1230      2460     2800      2870      2950      3000     3000
in-calf heifer-indig.                TS  000/he      280       285       325      380       350       320      300       300
In-calf heifer-improved               TL'OOO/he      350       580       695      680       630       650      550       550
Ran                                    WMOOO/be       48        47        49        49       48        49        42       36
Breeding bull                         TVOOO/be       295       225       270       300      340       390       360      360
utputs:
Cow milk                              fL/kg           144      112       112       127      152       160       160      160
Sheep milk                            TL/kg          209       220       280       210      241       190       180      180
Cull cou-impr.                         L'0O0O/be     208       211       216       329      341       356       350      350
Cull cow-indig                       TSLOOO/he       200       205       210       280      305       325       300      300
Slaughter bull                        TL'OOO/be      206       202       213       295      302       326       340      340
Cull eve                              SL OO0/be       27        30        31        35       30        32        32       28
Slaughter beef cattle                 TL'OOO/be      225       211       221       265      279       285       300      300
Female lamb                           TWOOO/be        15        17        21        18       20        20        20       20
Kale lamb                             T1000/he         14       15        19        17       18        18        20       20
Wool                                  TL/kg          900       970       968       866     1113      1024       850      850
Cull ran                              head            40        37        39        39       38        39        32       30
Labor:
Family labor                          TL/nd         1650      1800      1900      1950     1950      2000      2000     2000
Unskilled-permanent                   TL/md         1650      1800      1900      1900     1950      2000      2000     2000
Skilled                               TL/sd         1850      2200      2500     2750      2800      2900      3000     3000



SULGARt             , 
wU  AREAS COVERED BY BANK4I        2       *t         ARAB                ey,/ a,,, w ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U.  . R
PROJC15ANDPUBIC IFltSllUCT   IN     -       -                     EP                      75Epg/SINOP/9tt
THE IIVAOCK SUINSECTOR   t;   c YtRyS.;                             O  elsEK*akdlobl=bth97ll      _~R~TVI
O 100 fI ) f C]  K9_obeld                                 SAMSUN
;|; tttt OtSmtlSt ~~~~ 2 Aes #_a 5E;¢ * #t HAG L AnhS _ bs t                     6'      in ZE
_ O Mt t9O t5O tl!(t *w 8 u - I / A * * , h s / /. t,~~~~~tA TFAh-g s
is i     -                                      t  ; ;~~~~~~~~~~~=t_e - ^at           40       _~DUGIR&N



Sea,                                                                           ~~~~~~~TURKEY
,A,",t- \;;  sNR                            APPRAISAL OF FOURTH LIVESTOCK
E :iIZE  '/ 9>77                                                  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
/f) q               4          3jAs\ r.                                                    Project Areas of Second and
(                                                                                    Fourth Livestock Projects
1    <  WKELI  (/> ................................. _4 > ................................PROJECT A EA  OF LIeSTOC  1t
*aN0  T.~o                                                                              PRECT AREA OF LIVESTOCK U (Cred 3IR-Tul
};.            7C.y                              /                       -'  
l~~ThNCEL1    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      A    T~~                            REP. OFbei                      REGIONAL OFFICE
~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~    ~                                    o ~~~~~~~~~~~~COUNTY HEADWJARTERS
*ELAZIG         f    \O.-                                                                        -  COUNTY BOUNDARIES
-,                                                                  -r.-j                                            {^^^                                   t
MALATYA             TIWCR KE BOUJOARS
"'-  0  C~~~~~~~~'-'~~~~~                                 -  A                        *~~~~~~~- INT~~~~ERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
)  ~ ~ ~   ) (IN%~~~~~~KlR~~~~  J        ISIIRT                   *(aZw.m
k~.   -     I IRAO                
URFA                                      .1USSR
0            /                                             ANW.                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AREA O3P 4P
SYRIAN    ARAB    REP.                                                                                   T    U                                           A K
0L ,,                               1                               /       rKILOMETERS
406~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~e~ma                                                    SR~ R ~



