Document of
FI L E COu P Y   The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2332-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 12, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1977 March 1978
Currency Unit                                Lira (TL)       TL
US$1                                         TL 18.00         25.00
TL 1                                         US$0.05          0.04
Note: The Staff Appraisal Report uses an exchange rate of
US$ 1  TL 19.25
FISCAL YEAR
March 1 to February 28
ABBREVIATIONS
CLA     -     Convertible Lira Account
EBK     -     Meat and Fish Organization
EDLD    -     Encouragement and Development Loan
Division of TCZB
FSD     -     Fattening Subproject Division of LDP
GDVS    -     General Directorate of Veterinary Services
IDPS    -     Intensive Dairy Production Division of LDP
LDP     -     Directorate for Livestock Development Projects of
the Agriculture Ministry
MINAG   -     Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock
SEE     -     State Economic Enterprise
SPO     -     State Planning Organization
TCZB    -     Turkiye Cumhuriyeti Ziraat Bankasi
(Agricultural Bank of Turkey)
TSEK    -     Milk Industries Organization
VSD     -     Village Development Subproject Division of LDP



FOR OFFaL  USE ONLY
TURKEY
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Turkey.
Beneficiary:         Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB).
Amount:              US$24,0 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:               Seventeen years, including four years grace, at 7-1/2
percent per annum.
Relending Terms:    The Borrower will on-lend to TCZB in Turkish Lira, the
equivalent of up to $22.0 million for seventeen years,
including six years of grace, at 7-1/2 percent per annum.
These will, in turn, be relent by TCZB to project benefi-
ciaries for on-farm development for terms ranging from
ten to twelve years, inclusive of two to four years of
grace, at an effective cost of not less than 11 percent
per annum.
Project
Description:  (i)  The proposed project is designed to consolidate and expand
on the gains made in eastern Turkey under the village
development subproject of the Second Livestock Project and
to extend the improved dairy production concepts introduced
in western and central Turkey under the First and Third
Livestock Projects. It covers selected counties in eleven
provinces in eastern Turkey, where mean family incomes are
over 30 percent lower than the national average. About 50
percent of the beneficiaries will be small farmers, whose
present incomes are at or below the poverty level estab-
lished for Turkey.
(ii)  Supervised credit will be provided through TCZB, to about
5,200 subborrowers for investment in imported and local
high-quality animals, farm buildings, pasture improvement
and feedstuff production, and, in appropriate cases,
tractors and other farm machinery.
(iii)  The project also provides for an expansion of technical/
extension services to farmers and training of professional
staff and farmers, both in Turkey and abroad.
(iv) To enable credits to be extended to small farmers, TCZB
has liberalized its loan security requirements and has
agreed to bear the full risk of non-payment for sub-loans
made to such small farmers.
This documnt has a rotrictedl distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonmance
of their olficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



- ii -
(v)  At full development, the total value of incremental pro-
duction is estimated at about $23 million; indirect
benefits include institutionalization of medium- and
long-term credits to small farmers and further improve-
ment of the national herd.
(vi)  The project faces no special risks.  However small farmer
participation could be less than expected, particularly
in the early years of the project, in those parts of the
project area where livestock development programs are
being introduced for the first time and where demonstrated
success on larger farms may be needed first to overcome
initial small farmer hesitation.
Estimated Cost:                                   Local      Foreign      Total
--------- (us$M) ----------
A.   Village Development                    23.7          16.1        39.8
B.   Technical Services                     10.1           1.1        11.2
C.   Training and General Studies            0.6           0.3         0.9
D.   Milk Industry Study                      0.0          0.2         0.2
E.   Price Increases                        24.8           6.3        31.1
Total                                  59.2         24.0        83.2
Financing Plan:                                   Local      Foreign      Total
--------- (US$M) ----------
Bank                                      -         24.0        24.0
Government                              17.8          -         17.8
Agricultural Bank                       32.4          -         32.4
Subborrower                              9.0          -          9.0
Total                                   59.2        24.0        83.2
Estimated
Disbursement:      IBRD  FY      1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Annual         0.2    2.0    3.4    4.2    5.5    6.0    2.7
Cumulative    0.2    2.2    5.6    9.8   15.3   21.3   24.0
Rate of Return:      20 percent.
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 1933a-TU, dated May 12, 1978
Regional Projects Department, EMENA.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND IECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY FOR
A FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Turkey for the equivalent of $24.0 million to
finance the foreign exchange cost of a Fourth Livestock Development Project.
The loan would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with
interest at 7-1/2 percent per annum. The equivalent of $22.0 million will
be onlent to the Agriculture Bank of Turkey (TCZB) for a term of 17 years,
including 6 years of grace, at not less than 7-1/2 percent per annum.
Part I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report (No. 1272-TU) entitled "Country Economic Memo-
randum - Turkey" dated October 21, 1976, was circulated to the Executive
Directors on November 2, 1976. Since then, the economic situation dete-
riorated rapidly and culminated in a serious balance-of-payments crisis and
high levels of inflation. This section analyzes the situation in 1977 against
the background of more permanent structural problems; it also outlines the
short-term stabilization package implemented by the new Ecevit Government
shortly after receiving its vote of confidence in mid-January 1978, and
prospects for the short-term.   This package, formed the basis of a Standby
Arrangement with the IMF, which was finalized in late March and approved by
the Board of Executive Directors of the IMF in late April. The determination
and sense of purpose with which the new Government has faced up to the severe
economic problems confronting Turkey, holds the promise that medium-term
economic and debt management policies needed to build on the stabilization
package, will soon be evolved with equal seriousness. The expanded Annex I
attached to this Report provides insights into those developments which
precipitated the present economic crisis, and analyzes them in detail in the
context of trends and the structural problems of the economy. An economic
mission planned in the Fall, will further review these trends and prospects.
3.        In most respects, the record of Turkish economic development over
the last two decades has been good. As the result of a strong commitment
to rapid growth and modernisation, real output has grown, on average, by more
than 6 percent per annum. Great strides have also been made towards meeting
the basic needs of the population in such areas as education, health care,
water supply, and rural roads. However, employment has never been at the
fore of the objectives of successive Governments. Overall, this impressive
economic progress has been punctuated (in 1958, 1970 and 1977) by severe
balance of payments crises, which have been the product partly of extraneous
factors and partly of Turkish development strategy itself, which has paid
insufficient attention to the structural weaknesses of the economy, and has
perhaps exacerbated some of them.
1/   Part I is identical to Part I in the Report and Recommendation of the
-    President on the Northern Forestry Project, dated May 12, 1978.



Structural Problems and the Situation in 1977
4.        The emphasis which successive governments have laid on industrial-
ization has been reflected in a doubling of the share of the industrial
sector in total output between 1955 and 1977. It also resulted in comparative
neglect of agricultural development, which has also been hampered by inappro-
priate subsidy and pricing policies. Moreover, although some parts of Turkish
industry are efficient, and more have the potential to become so, a strong
emphasis on sophisticated capital-intensive technology has resulted in high-
cost production in certain sectors; and unselective protection against com-
petition from imports, has inhibited the development of an industrial
structure well-suited to Turkey's comparative advantages in terms of loca-
tion, natural resources and labor availability. One important consequence
of this, as well as of a foreign trade strategy which has emphasized import-
substitution, has been that Turkey has so far been unable to develop a strong
industrial export base, and has relied instead on its traditional agricultural
exports (supplemented by workers' remittances) to finance the imports of
materials and capital goods needed for its ambitious modernization effort.
This pattern of trade has been a fundamental cause of the difficulty, which
Turkey has periodically experienced, in reconciling rapid growth with a viable
external payments position.
5.        The rate of growth of production in Turkey, unlike almost every
other country, accelerated during the recent world recession. The average
annual real rate of GDP growth in the period 1970-73 was under 7 percent; in
the period 1973-77, it rose to nearly 8 percent. This was made possible by a
rising public sector deficit, which provided a stimulus to aggregate demand
and offset the depressing effect of sluggish exports and the increased
outflow of payments for oil. As a result, the growth of output was con-
strained not by demand, but by supply. Favorable weather and good harvests
caused the average annual rate of growth of agricultural output to increase
from about 2 percent in the period 1970-73 to about 7 percent in the period
1973-77, while industrial output grew at about 10 percent in both periods -
principally as a result of the sustained high level of industrial investment.
The pace of investment in Turkey, moreover, did not slacken during the world
recession; on the contrary, largely as the result of an intensified public
investment drive from 1975 onwards, the share of fixed investment in GDP
increased from under 19 percent in the period of the Second Plan (1968-72)
to over 20 percent in the period of the Third Plan (1973-77).
6.        The favorable performance of Turkish production during the 1970's,
was not matched by that of employment. Unemployment and underemployment were
relatively high (12 percent of the labor force) in 1970, and have since risen
to over 13 percent in 1977. This has been the result of a sharp reduction in
the rate of emigration since 1973, a high rate (2.5 percent per annum) of
population growth, and the adoption of relatively capital-intensive methods of
production in both agriculture and industry.
7.        There was a gradual deterioration in the external trading position
of Turkey since 1973, which culminated in the serious balance of payments



-3-
crisis in 1977. The resource gap increased from $623 million in 1973 or 3
percent of GDP, to about $4.0 billion in 1977 or more than 9 percent of GDP.
Imports of goods and non-factor services increased from $2.3 billion in 1973
to about $6.5 billion in 1977, or by about 30 percent per year, as a result
of: (a) significant increases in import prices since 1973, especially the
price of oil; (b) rapid increase in the demand for imported capital goods
due to high levels of investment and emphasis on industrial development; and
(c) a general liberalization of import restrictions. The remainder of the
deterioration is attributable to a decline in the rate of growth of exports,
both absolutely and in relation to the rate of growth of GDP. In dollar
terms, Turkish exports of goods and non-factor services grew during 1970-73
at an average annual rate of 31 percent; during 1973-77, the average annual
growth rate was only 10 percent. This decline in export performance had its
roots in ineffective administration of agricultural export sales, the world
recession, an uncompetitivre exchange rate, and excess aggregate demand in
the domestic economy.
8.        The widening of the resource gap was amplified in the current
account deficit, which rose from $0.7 billion in 1973 to $3.4 billion in 1977
as the result of a decline in workers' remittances, which was a consequence
of the overvaluation of the lira, as well as of changes in the composition of
the Turkish emigrant popu:Lation, including a decline in the proportion of
relatively recent migrants.
9.        The rapidly rising current account deficit was not matched by an
increased inflow of mediumn and long-term external capital. Turkey has
deliberately kept foreign private investment to a minimum. Borrowing from
long-term official sources has also stagnated since 1970, and recourse to
long-term market sources has been minimal, for lack of a dynamic and coherent
external borrowing policy.  In consequence, the overall balance of payments
moved from a surplus of $0.9 billion in 1973 to a deficit of $2.7 billion in
1977.  The cumulative deficit from 1974 to 1977 amounted to $6.6 billion.  Of
this, $1.3 billion was financed by running down the foreign exchange reserves
which by the end of 1977 stood at $770 million, equivalent to only one and a
half month's imports.  The remainder, amounting to some $5.3 billion, was
financed mainly by various forms of short-term borrowing.
10.       An important source of short-term borrowing was the Convertible
Lira Accounts (CLAs), which provided nearly $2 billion, in 1975 and 1976.
These are deposits placed with Turkish banks by non-residents and commercial
banks, offering a spectrum of interest rates according to maturity, and until
recently were guaranteed against exchange rate risk. Various other types of
short-term loans were also obtained. During 1977, however, foreign lenders
became reluctant to roll over the outstanding stock of short-term debt, and
even more reluctant to make further substantial loans. The Central Bank was
thus driven to delaying payments for imports on a large scale. This action
made it even harder to obtain credit by conventional means. Financing of the
current account deficit iin 1975-77 through recourse to CLAs and other short-
term borrowings is the main cause of the sharp increase in the debt burden.



- 4 -
11.       This deterioration in the balance of payments position can be
viewed partly as a reflection of inadequate efforts at domestic resource
mobilization, especially in the public sector. The public sector deficit
increased from TL 6.2 billion in 1973 to TL 77.0 billion in 1977. This
increased deficit was mainly due to a deterioration in the financial position
of the State Economic Enterprises (SEEs), and in particular of the operational
SEEs, which dominate the transport and energy sectors and account for half the
output of mining and manufacturing. Successive governments, in an effort to
slow inflation, held SEE price increases below the rate at which SEE costs
were rising. In addition, the scale of SEE investment was greatly escalated.
The net effect has been a very rapid widening of the gap between SEE savings
and investment, which has caused the overall public sector deficit to rise
from 2 percent of GDP in 1972-73 to 9 percent of GDP in 1976-77. Most of this
increased deficit has been financed by borrowing from the Central Bank, since
administered ceilings on interest rates made it hard to attract purchasers for
government bonds. As a result, the money supply increased rapidly at an aver-
age annual rate of about 30 percent between 1974 and 1977. This was paralleled
by a high rate of credit expansion to the private sector.
12.       The rate of inflation (as measured by the wholesale price index),
which had declined between 1974 and 1975, rose to about 35 percent in 1977 and
accelerated in early 1978. There are important cost-push influences on the
price level in Turkey, including a powerful labor union movement and a farmer-
oriented agricultural price support policy. But the recent acceleration of
inflation has been the result principally of excess demand. The rise in the
public sector deficit caused an increase in aggregate demand well beyond the
amount needed to offset the damping effect of reduced exports and an increased
import propensity. The consequent upward pressure on the price level was
aggravated in 1977 by ad hoc import restrictions, which reduced the avail-
ability of goods requiring imported inputs, and contributed to the development
of a substantial idle capacity.
13.       The crisis of 1977 was thus a result of a combination of external
and internal forces. The rise in the price of oil and the world recession, by
increasing the cost of imports and reducing exports and workers' remittances,
adversely affected Turkey's trading position which was already structurally
weak. The effect of these elements on the balance of payments deficit was
amplified by the increase in the growth rate after 1973, which was a reflec-
tion of the basic Turkish commitment to rapid growth, manifested in an escala-
tion of public sector investment without a commensurate increase in public
sector savings. In addition, the seriousness of the crisis was aggravated by
inadequate management of agricultural exports, an inappropriate exchange rate
policy, and lack of a coherent policy to develop and tap fresh sources of
medium and long-term external finance.
Recent Stabilization Measures
14.       The previous coalition government had initiated in mid-1977, nego-
tiations with the IMF for a Standby Agreement. In the fall of 1977, it
announced drastic price increases for a number of goods and services of the



-5-
SEEs (ranging from 50 to nearly 300 percent), devalued the Turkish Lira by 10
percent in September with a further adjustment of 5 percent in early December.
In the midst of the IMF negotiations, the new Ecevit Government came into
power, with a slim majority in the National Assembly. It decided to first
prepare its own stabilization package, before resuming negotiations with the
IMF. Within weeks of receiving its vote of confidence, it finalized its
Annual Program for 1978 and the 1978 Budget. As soon as the budget was
approved on February 28, it presented its stabilization package to the IMF.
The main features of the Annual Program for 1978, the 1978 Budget and the
short-term economic stabilization package, which formed the basis of the IMF
Standby Arrangements, included: devaluation of the Turkish Lira by a further
30 percent in March, removal of the exchange rate guarantees for new CLAs in
an effort to minimize new inflows of these short-term deposits, increased
interest rates on deposits of Turkish workers abroad to encourage increased
remittances, increased interest/deposit rates to stimulate better resource
mobilization and allocation within Turkey, introduction of new tax legislation
(including a substantial increase in stamp duties on imports) which will inter
alia increase public revenues by about TL 20 billion per annum (equal to about
2 percent of GDP), substantial adjustments in the prices of key SEEs products
and services (with further increases expected in the near future) in an effort
to improve resource mobilization, plans to limit the growth of consolidated
public sector expenditures (including those of SEEs) within available resources
to thus sharply reduce recourse to Central Bank financing of public sector
deficits, reduction in the level of imports in 1978 to $5 billion from the
peak of $5.8 billion reached in 1977, and a projected reduction in the current
account deficit in 1978 to $1.45 billion. Although much remains to be done,
these steps should help bring some order in the chaotic economic house which
the new government inherited.
15.       The Standby Agreement was finalized on the basis of the above pack-
age and was approved by the IMF Board in late April. It provides for the
withdrawal of about $89 million equivalent in Compensatory Drawings, within
two weeks of the signing of the Agreement. In addition, since the Witteveen
Facility is not in operation, Turkey would be eligible to draw up to 150 per-
cent of its quota, which amounts to about $360 million under the Exceptional
Circumstances Clause. This would entitle Turkey to withdraw about $174
million in the first two tranches as follows: $60 million in May 1978; $48
million in August 1978; $36 million in November 1978 and $30 million in
February 1979. IMF will review economic developments and the progress of the
stabilization measures iLn January 1979. Following that, Turkey will be
entitled to withdraw a further $186 million over a one year period. In other
words, in calendar 1978,, Turkey can withdraw a maximum of $233 million.
16.       With the signing of the Standby Agreement, it is expected that
Turkey would now be in a much better position to cope with its large short-
term debt currently estimated at $5.8 billion (excluding $409 million owed
to IMF), much of it due in 1978. This is its most critical immediate problem.
To tackle this problem, Turkey will immediately need to roll-over about $1.3
billion of CLAs falling due in 1978, but for which no major problem is expected.
It has begun negotiations with leading European and US commercial banks to
restructure the CLAs due in 1978 as well as an additional $1.2 billion of



- 6 -
short-term debt into medium- and long-term debts. These banks, in principle,
have already agreed to present viable proposals shortly. The Government has
also sought the reactivation of the OECD consortium, in order to restructure
trade debt guaranteed by bilateral export financing agencies and public
bilateral debt. The Government is also actively pursuing other available
financial sources of external medium- and long-term capital aid, including the
tapping of possible new ones in the Middle East.
17.       If the current account deficit in 1978 is to be brought down to
$1.45 billion it will be necessary to bring about improvements in performance
of Turkish exports, both agricultural and industrial. This will require the
maintenance of a competitive exchange rate and an increase in the proportion
of investments devoted to export-oriented industries. It will also require
greater emphasis on agricultural development, together with revision of price
support policies and reform of agriculture export procedures. In addition,
other sources of foreign exchange earnings which have been neglected so far,
such as tourism, would need to be tapped in a systematic and effective fashion.
At the same time, the growth of imports will have to be kept down by much
greater care in the selection of investment projects and continued restriction
of nonessential imports. The 1978 Annual Program is considered by the new
government to be an interim one, which will constitute the first year of
Turkey's Fourth Five-Year Plan (1978-82) to be finalized by late 1978. The
new government seems determined to approach the formulation of future planned
targets and some of the key immediate and medium-term economic and debt
management policies, on a sound and realistic basis, and not on that of
ineffectual compromises which plagued the previous coalition governments.
18.       In 1978 and 1979, the measures necessary to recover from the present
crisis will probably cause the annual growth rate of real GDP to fall to 3 or
4 percent, but for the remainder of the Fourth Plan period (1978-82), higher
growth should be possible. To achieve this, it will be indispensable to
increase domestic savings, primarily by raising the rate of growth of budgetary
revenues, and improving the financial equilibrium and low productivity of
State Economic Enterprises. The consequent reduction in the public sector
deficit should help both to maintain external equilibrium and to moderate the
pace of inflation.
19.       A major medium and long-term problem is the high and rising level
of unemployment and underemployment. To alleviate this, will require a high
growth rate to be resumed in the long run, with more emphasis than hitherto
on comDaratively labor-intensive commodities and techniques of production.
Moreover, increased attention to agricultural development, by reducing the
dispar-,Ies of income both between the agricultural and non-agricultural
sectors and between rich and poor farmers, should further improve Turkey's
incom-   stribution.  Similarly, the tax system needs to be restructured in
such L  -  as to make it more progressive (as proposed in the new tax law
which is before Parliament), while the government continues its already rather
successful policy of reducing the inequality of living standards by providing
for basic needs through public expenditure. In the longer run, Turkey will
have to formulate policies which would help curb the population increase which
has, to a large extent, dampened the benefits of growth so far.



- 7 -
20.       The extensive short-term borrowing of the past three years has
greatly increased Turkey's external debt, giving it an unattractive maturity
structure, and causing a sharp rise in debt service payments. At the end of
1977, the country's total external indebtedness amounted to approximately
$10.0 billion, of which about $5.8 billion (excluding $409 million owed to
IMF from both figures) was short-term, most of which is likely to be rerolled
or restructured into mediurn-term borrowings as mentioned in paragraph 16. The
remaining $4.2 billion was mainly public and publicly guaranteed medium and
long-term debt. Of this, about one third was owed to international organi-
zations, mainly the Bank ($0.8 billion, plus $0.6 billion in committed but
undisbursed loans) and the European Investment Bank; and about one half to
foreign governments and government agencies, notably those of the United
States, West Germany, Canada, and the USSR.  In 1977, debt service payments
(including interest on short-term debt) amounted to 15.0 percent of exports of
goods and non-factor services plus workers' remittances.
21.       The first objective of a prudent debt management policy should be
an adequate restructuring of the short term liabilities. A determined medium-
and long-term borrowing effort during the next few years should restore a
satisfactory balance between short and longer-term debt. But despite the
Government's current restructuring efforts, a substantial increase in debt
service payments is inevitable. The debt service ratio can be expected to
rise to about 23 percent in 1978 and peak at anywhere between 30 to 40 percent
in the early eighties, depending on the rerolling and restructuring terms
ultimately agreed to by commercial banks and other bilateral creditors and
export financing agencies. In these circumstances and until the outcome of
the restructuring negotiations as well as the strategy of the Government in
its Fourth (1978-82) Development Plan becomes available, it does not appear
meaningful to venture firm projections on growth, balance of payments or debt
service. However, if as the new Government intends, Turkey pursues sound
medium-term and debt management policies and shows the same seriousness as
it has shown in its short-term policies since assuming office, and as the
financial consequences of the recent crisis are gradually remedied, the debt
service ratio should decline after reaching a peak in the early eighties.
Although a tight balance of payments situation is likely to remain a medium-
term feature of the economy, Turkey would continue to have a substantial
borrowing capacity for medium- and long-term funds provided the present
short-term debt is restructured on adequate terms and future short-term
borrowing is strictly contained. However the situation will need to be
carefully watched and evaluated as soon as a more concrete basis for doing
so becomes available.
PART II -- BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY 1/
22.       The 1970 economic stabilization program and devaluation of the
Turkish lira, which improved the balance of payments, enabled Bank Group
1/   Part II is substantially the same as Part II in the Report and Recom-
mendation of the President on the Northern Forestry project, dated
May 12, 1978.



- 8 -
lending, which had previously been intermittent, to be established on a
Di.Linuing basis at a high level. As of April 30, 1978, the Bank Group had
lent $1,456 million to Turkey through 49 lending operations (or 43 projects,
since both loans and credits were provided for some projects), including 14
IDA credits totalling $178 million. Fourteen of these operations have been
in agriculture and rural development (including multipurpose projects),
eighteen in industry (including DFCs), ten in power, and the rest in urban
development, transportation, education and tourism. Agriculture and rural
development account for 24 percent of the funds lent, industry and DFCs for
about 42 percent and power for about 24 percent. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of April 30,
1978, with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       Implementation of projects has been satisfactory in the private
sector, but much less so in the public sector where significant delays
resulted from political uncertainty, limited coordination among agencies,
staffing problems and related administrative delays. Disbursements have
consequently been slower than expected. To improve this situation, the
Government and the Bank in June 1975 initiated joint reviews to identify
and resolve key bottlenecks impeding satisfactory project implementation.
So far, six such reviews have taken place, the most recent one in March 1978.
The results have been mixed, with improvements having occurred in adminis-
trative areas, e.g training programs and speeding-up of disbursement actions,
but with so far only modest impact on key policy problems, whose resolution
has been considerably delayed or prevented up to now by frequent changes in
coalition governments. Loan disbursements as of December 31, 1977, amounted
to 70 percent of appraisal estimates and 83 percent of revised estimates.
A comprehensive analysis of the main sector policy constraints which lay at
the root of inadequate project implementation was carried out with the new
Government in March 1978, and further discussed during the President's meetings
with the Prime Minister and other key ministers in April 1978. It is antici-
pated that as a follow-up on these discussions, the new coordination mechanism
being established in Turkey, will be able to take effective steps to improve
implementation of on-going projects, and accelerate disbursements further, to
provide a sound basis for expanding the Bank's future contribution to Turkey's
development. The sector policy perspectives outlined by the new Government,
and actions it has already initiated since coming into power, if followed by
sustained efforts on the part of the administration and by Cabinet decisions
to remove bottlenecks, should enable project performance to take a turn for
the better and strengthen the Bank's activities in Turkey.
24.       Bank lending has so far been mainly directed at supporting Turkish
efforts to improve: (a) income distribution and the level of living stand-
ards, through rural development efforts, urban planning, and increased employ-
ment and income opportunities; (b) the long-term capacity to earn or save
foreign exchange, through promotion of industrial and agro-industrial exports
and tourism; (c) lagging public sector saving, through the encouragement of
improved management and financing of the investments and operations of the
SEEs; and (d) institution-building in key public services, through selective
assistance for infrastructure. In light of the new Government's program,



which will be progressively refined and specified as the draft 5-year Plan
for 1978-82 takes shape by the end of this year, it will be necessary for the
Bank to review jointly with the Turkish authorities, how best its lending and
technical assistance can meet the above objectives, without facing the policy
and institutional obstacles encountered in the past. Pending the outcome of
this review, which should be carried out in the coming months, it is proposed
to continue to devote the Bank's development efforts to certain key sectors,
of which agriculture and industry are the most important. In agriculture,
emphasis is being put on rural development, the strengthening of agricultural
credit mechanisms, livestock, forestry, and fruit and vegetables.  Industry
(including DFCs), where promotion of exports and employment, together with the
gradual strengthening of the SEEs are the key tasks, will also receive sig-
nificant support.  This program is supplemented by projects in power, urban
development and transportation.
25.       Two projects, besides the proposed one, are being processed for
presentation to the Executive Directors in the current fiscal year. They are
the Northern Forestry project and the Erdemir Stage II Steel project. Projects
under preparation for FY79 and future fiscal years include: in agriculture,
rural development in Erzurum, a second fruit and vegetable project, seed pro-
duction, grain storage; in industry, a second IGSAS fertilizer project in
Central Anatolia, modernization of public and private sector textile produc-
tion, and a third forest industries project in northern Turkey; in power, a
hydroelectric project; in transportation, port rehabilitation; and in urban
development, a possible sites and services project.
26.       At the end of 1977, the Bank Group's share of Turkey's medium and
long-term external debt (outstanding and disbursed) was 18 percent; its
share of Turkey's estimated total external debt (including short-term obli-
gations) was about 8 percent. The expected conversion of a large part of
this short-term debt into medium and long-term debt will cause the Bank's
share of medium and long-term debt to fall sharply, to around 10 percent by
1980. Thereafter, assuming the currently projected increase in Bank lending,
the share would increase. The Bank's share of service payments on medium and
long-term debt is expected to follow a similar path, dropping from 20 percent
in 1977 to about 8 percent in 1980, but rising thereafter.
27.       IFC has invested in the production of synthetic yarns, pulp and
paper, glass, aluminum, iron and steel products, and tourism, and has an
investment in the largest private development finance company, TSKB. As of
April 30, 1978, gross IFC commitments totalled $157 million, of which $76
million were still held by IFC. The Corporation is currently investigating
additional investment opportunities in the industrial sector, including motor
bicycle engines, piston rings and cylinder liners, and possibly aluminium
products.



- 10 -
PART III - THE LIVESTOCK SUBSECTOR
Livestock Production
28.       Agriculture remains crucial to Turkey's economy, contributing in
1975 about 25 percent of GDP, while employing about 56 percent of the labor
force, and accounting for about 56 percent of export earnings. Livestock
contributes some 30 percent of the gross value of agriculture production and
about 8 percent of GDP. Turkey's livestock population is amongst the highest
in Europe and the Middle East, including an estimated 41 million sheep, 18
million goats, 14 million cattle and buffalo, 2 million horses and donkeys
and 41 million poultry and turkeys. Principal livestock output includes milk,
meat, eggs, wool, mohair, hides, draft power and transport. Manure is an
important fertilizer and fuel. Most livestock output is used domestically,
recorded exports being mainly live sheep and cattle for slaughter and mohair.
These averaged only about $33.5 million per year over the period 1971 to
1975. There are, however, substantial unreported, and not quantifiable,
exports to Iran and Syria.  While Turkey is presently relatively self-
sufficient in livestock products, by 1985, according to Bank projections, it
will need to import over 30 percent of its milk and meat requirements and over
20 percent of its wool and mohair requirements, unless there is a major change
in historical production and consumption trends.
29.       Livestock production throughout Turkey is largely a traditional
undertaking, with modernizing influences limited mainly to innovations intro-
duced under the first three Bank-financed Livestock Projects. (Livestock I,
Credit 236-TU, for $4.5 million, approved in 1971; Livestock II, Credit 330-TU,
for $16 million, approved in 1972; and Livestock III, Loan 1265-TU, for $21.5
million, approved in 1976). Animals subsist mainly as scavengers on residues
from cereal crops, on volunteer growth on fallowed crop lands, and on natural
grazing on the poorer, non-cultivable areas, thus utilizing feed resources
with no alternative use. This low-quality, maintenance diet is generally in-
sufficient to meet animal production needs. Since many farmers lack adequate
access to technical services, credit and other inputs, they are largely unable
to supplement the quality of the feed or manage its supply to match animal
requirements.
30.       As a result, weaning and offtake rates are low.  Consequently, output
levels of beef at only about one ton of carcass per 100 cattle and of sheep and
goat meat at about one ton per 300 animals are, respectively, one-eighth and
one-sixth of the level in countries with advanced meat industries. The output
of milk per cow (the main source) is about one-eighth the level in more ad-
vanced dairy countries. Since growth in dairy cattle numbers and total cow
milk production has increased over the past 15 years at only about one-half
the rate of national population increase, and as incomes have also risen, milk
shortages in the main urban centers are becoming increasingly acute, particu-
larly in winter.



- 11 -
Potential for Livestu,. .i.ovement
31.       The subsector is currently operating at about ten to twenty percent
of its potential. This low productivity is primarily caused by (i) poor genetic
merit of local breeds; and (ii) inadequate overall management, particularly
nutrition and health care. While some benefits can be expected from better
feeding and managing of local animals, the latter have limited possibilities
compared with improved exotic stock. There is a general need to upgrade all
classes of indigenous livestock, with highest priority being given to improv-
ing fertility, milk yield and growth rate in-sheep and cattle. Turkey has for
some years been importing pedigree stock of improved breeds such as Holstein,
Brown Swiss and Jersey cattle and Merino sheep to serve as a nucleus for
upgrading purposes. Under the First Livestock Project, over 3,000 pedigree
heifers and bulls were imported from Western Europe, and over 10,000 more are
to be imported under the Third Livestock Project. With the existing 5,000 or
so pedigree cattle on Government farms, these will meet a small part of the
need for improved genetic material.
32.       Production is also constrained by a wide range of controllable
health and disease problemLs.  However, the present tuberculosis and brucel-
losis control programs are not carried out on an area-wide basis, but are
restricted to government farms and government-sponsored projects, and are
therefore ineffective. Retvised arrangements to handle these health problems
in the project area are provided for under the proposed project (para. 53).
Poor nutrition is an even more limiting constraint, and the feed base needs to
be significantly expanded and improved, principally by increasing feed produc-
tion from natural grass lands and making more efficient use of fallow lands.
Efforts to integrate crop and livestock production on a rotational basis,
through the introduction of forage crops and legume-based pasture for grazing
by livestock in place of the fallow, were initiated satisfactorily under the
first three Livestock Projects, and will constitute a major emphasis of the
proposed project.
Processing and Marketing
33.       Lack of adequate meat and milk processing and marketing facilities,
particularly in eastern Turkey, has been a key constraint on the overall
balanced development of tlhe sub-sector. To overcome this, an ambitious and
generally well-planned program of slaughterhouse and livestock market develop-
ment is being implemented by the Government's Meat and Fish Organization
(EBK), with 16 new slaughterhouse facilities completed or near completion, 28
additional plants to be completed by 1984, and over 30 new live animal markets
expected to be completed by the end of 1978. An equally ambitious, but less
well-designed program to develop milk collection and cooling centers and pro-
cessing plants, is being undertaken by the Turkish Milk Industries Organization
(TSEK). Although the overall objectives of the program are appropriate, the
siting, number, and size of plants have not been consistently determined on
the basis of milk availability studies and financial considerations. As a
consequence, most of the completed plants are overstaffed, operate below



- 12 -
capacity, and suffer losses. To correct these difficulties, establish a sound
basis for carrying out the remainder of TSEK's investment program, and develop
a satisfactory framework for subsequent growth of the dairy industry, the
Government has agreed to include an in-depth study of the TSEK program as part
of the proposed project (para. 44). Since the processing and marketing facili-
ties already available in the Project Area, combined with the existence of
substantial unmet local demand, are more than sufficient to absorb the proposed
project's incremental output, completion of the EBK and TSEK investment pro-
grams is not necessary for satisfactory project implementation. However,
these investments will provide basic infrastructure needed for the subsector's
future development and an important incentive to the wider adoption of the
modern techniques of livestock production being encouraged under the proposed
project.
34.       Competition between public and private marketing channels for milk
and meat has been active, and as a result present price levels are generally
adequate. The base prices paid by TSEK and EBK for milk and meat are adjusted
substantially upwards in real terms, from time to time, to encourage increased
production. Moreover, private sector intermediaries often offer farmers con-
siderably higher prices, depending on the season, quality and locality. Simi-
larly, price incentives are paid by both TSEK and EBK to encourage higher
quality and reduce seasonal fluctuations in production. These incentives have
been generally successful in achieving their objectives. However, farmers
have tended to sell stock for slaughter at immature ages and low weights.
This reduces total national meat production, and the Government is currently
considering appropriate adjustments in its pricing policy to provide incen-
tives to farmers to feed and keep animals longer.
Government Policy and Bank's First Three Livestock Projects
35.       Agricultural and livestock policies in the first three development
plans emphasized increased production to satisfy rising domestic demand and
encourage exports. The Government has also become increasingly concerned with
income inequalities, particularly between urban and rural dwellers and between
the populations of western and eastern Turkey. This has focused attention on
the need to assist livestock producers in the east. Overall, efforts to stimu-
late livestock production have concentrated on: (i) improving production effi-
ciency by the introduction of new technology at the farm level, through the
medium of investment credit linked with technical assistance; (ii) expanding
outlets for incremental production through improved processing and marketing
facilities; and (iii) increasing the profitability and attractiveness of live-
stock production through price incentives.
36.       The two principal implementing agencies for Bank-assisted livestock
projects are: (a) the Directorate of Livestock Development Projects (LDP) of
the Ministry of Food, Agriculture, and Livestock (MINAG) for technical aspects,
and (b) the Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB), through its Encouragement and
Development Loan Division (EDLD), for credit aspects. Support in the field is
provided by the Veterinary Services Directorate (GDVS) of MINAG.



- 13 -
37.       TCZB, which is Turkey's largest bank, and its only agricultural
bank, has some 870 branches located throughout the country. It accounts for
over 90 percent of institutional credit to agriculture. Total volume of TCZB
agricultural lending increased at an average annual rate of 40 percent over
the period 1971-75. But available credit still remains insufficient to meet
farmer needs, with a large proportion of Turkey's farmers having inadequate
access to institutional credit. TCZB's inadequate resources, but more partic-
ularly its strict security requirements such as land title or multiple co-
signers, have severely limited small farmer access to credit. To overcome
this constraint, liberalized loan security requirements, and other arrange-
ments, have been agreed upon to encourage substantially increased lending
to small farmers under the project (para. 49).
38.       The interest rate mechanism in Turkey has traditionally played a
relatively minor role as an instrument of maintaining either monetary sta-
bility or influencing resource mobilization. Rather, its role has been
geared towards medium- and long-term development management, and as a tool
for stimulating and directing investment into those subsectors, for example,
agriculture, which the Government has determined are in need of development
according to the priorities of Turkey's development plans. As a result,
interest rates do not necessarily reflect either market conditions or the
availability of capital in Turkey. The interest rate structure is centrally
controlled in Turkey, and rates for each type of deposit and credit are
established by Cabinet decision.  In administering this policy, the Central
Bank of Turkey uses a combination consisting of adjustments in the rediscount
rates, different reserve requirements, and adjustment of deposit rates. In
this background, although with the decline in the inflation rate in 1975,
some rates moved closer to positive rates of interest, this was not the case
in 1977, when the rate of inflation reached over 35 percent. There is every
expectation that as a result of the stabilization policies which the new
Ecevit Government has initiated, and the medium term policies which one can
reasonably expect it to formulate, the rate of inflation may significantly
decline over the next three to four years. Since February 1978, and as
part of the short term economic stabilization package negotiated and
approved by the IMF, the rate of deposit has been increased to as much as 20
percent, the lending rate for industry and agro-industry exceeds 18 percent
(excluding taxes and fees). However, the maximum rate established as part of
this package, for medium- and long-term credit for general agriculture, and
programs of the type included in the proposed project, is 10.5 percent, which,
with an annual commission of 0.5 percent brings the effective cost to 11
percent per annum.
39.       Since an across-the-board increase in interest rates (excluding
agriculture) was recently implemented with the IMF stabilization package,
and given the centrally regulated nature of the interest rate regime, the
government considers it appropriate to review interest rate policy as part
of the larger question of the financialization of savings in Turkey, con-
cerning which a financial sector study is in progress. This broad study was
initiated about two years ago with Bank assistance. The initial drafts of
the substudies making up the Financial Sector Study are now expected to be



- 14 -
completed in a few months, at which time the Government has indicated it
would wish to have Bank technical assistance in their review. In this
background, and also considering that some 50 percent of the project farmers
are small, with per capita family incomes below the estimated poverty line
for Tuikcy (pa:as. 47 and 48), the 11 percent effective cost of borrowing
applicable for medium- and long-term lending for general agriculture,
including under the project, has been accepted.
40.       The First Livestock Project represented the first major attempt in
Turkey to modernize dairying through the establishment of a nucleus of imported
pedigree Holstein animals, on private farms in and around the four main milk-
consuming centers of Ankara, Istanbul, Izmir and Adana, to provide a source of
breeding stock for genetic upgrading. Completed in February 1978, it was
generally successful in achieving this objective, in meeting production coef-
ficients, and in setting up some 150 demonstrations of modern dairying through
provision to farmers of credit and technical assistance. The number of farms
established, however, fell short of appraisal projections, due mainly to a
slow start-up and steep price increases resulting from inflation. The Third
Livestock Project, aims at consolidating and expanding the progress made under
the first project and extending benefits to other provinces in western and
central Turkey, notably Konya, Kayseri and Malatya. Additional pedigree
Holstein and Brown Swiss heifers and bulls are being imported to expand the
nucleus of improved animals. With the inclusion of a small (5-cow) village
farmer component, efforts are being made to extend credit and technical assis-
tance on a pilot basis to some 300 small village producers. Although the rate
of subloan processing is slower than projected due to delayed effectiveness
and start-up problems, small farmer interest has been greater than anticipated.
Overall, the project is making satisfactory progress.
41.       The Second Livestock Project comprises a fattening subproject (FSD)
and a village development subproject (VSD). It represents the Government's
first attempt to encourage fattening on a wide scale in some 20 provinces and
to initiate village livestock development in three provinces (Erzurum, Kars,
Agri) in eastern Turkey. The FSD subproject is complete, and after initial
delays due largely to difficulties in recruiting LDP field staff for the
remote areas of eastern Turkey, the VSD subproject is scheduled to be com-
pleted about mid-1978. The project has been generally successful in meeting
animal production coefficients and achieving its overall objectives, although
the number of participating farmers fell short of appraisal estimates as a
result of implementation delays and price increases.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Projec    A:ory
42.       The proposed project was prepared by LDP, with the assistance of two
FAO-CP m ssi ns, which visited Turkey in August 1976 and March/April 1977, and



- 15 -
a Bank mission which visited in April 1977.  The preparation report was sub-
mitted to the Bank in September 1977. The project was appraised in October/
November 1977. Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1978. The
Turkish delegation was headed by Mr. Asaf Guven, Chief Economic and Financial
Counselor of the Turkish Embassy, and included representatives of LDP, TCZB,
and the Treasury.
Project Objectives
43.       The main objectives are to:  (i) further improve the genetic merit
of local animals, expand the use of modern management and health techniques,
and provide better forage and feeding, and (ii) raise the incomes of several
thousand small farmers in ithe eastern region, which contains a significant
proportion of Turkey's rural poor.
Project Description
44.       The proposed project will provide medium and long-term credits to an
estimated 5,200 village livestock producers for on-farm development, including
introduction of improved animals, pasture and forage crop production, farm
building construction and in selected cases, purchases of tractors and farm
machinery and equipment. Forage production will be expanded through more
efficient use of natural pasture and fallow lands. Supervised credit will be
provided for: (a) Karaman and Merino sheep improvement on about 2,700 farms;
(b) beef cattle improvement on about 500 farms; and (c) dairy cattle improve-
ment on about 2,000 farms. The project will also include: (i) a technical
services component to provide farm development planning and supervision and
veterinary health services; (ii) a milk industry study component, focusing on
the policies, investment program, organization, management, operations and
marketing activities of TSEK; and (iii) local and overseas training of project
and other government staff concerned with livestock development, and farmers;
and (iv) surveys and field research in forage production and utilization,
animal production and veterinary health care. The proposed project is de-
scribed in detail in the Loan and Project Summary and in the Staff Appraisal
Report entitled "Fourth Livestock Development Project" (No. 1933a-TU) dated
May 12, 1978, being distributed separately to the Exectuve Directors.
45.       The project area comprises the provinces of Kars, Agri, Erzurum,
and Mus, and selected counties in Hakkari, Van, Bitlis, Bingol, Diyarbakir,
Erzincan, and Gumushane, all in eastern Turkey. Mean family income is over
30 percent lower on average than for the country as a whole. The area was
selected on the basis of LDP surveys, taking into account livestock popula-
tion, feed production potential, accessibility, human resource potential and
marketing possibilities. Throughout the project area there is a chronic
deficit of milk and meat supplies, due partly to absolute shortages and partly
to the constant movement of livestock and livestock products out of the area
to the large cities in western Turkey. In view of the above, and since Bank
projections indicate that domestic demand for milk and meat products, both
within and outside the project area, will continue to grow during the project
period and beyond, incremental production from the project will be readily
marketed.



- 16 -
46.       The sheep and beef cattle improvement programs will use selected,
better-quality local animals, available from government farms and private
sources. For the dairy program, some 12,000 purebred heifers and bulls will
be imported to provide high quality dairy stock, which are not available
locally. They will be predominantly Brown Swiss, which are well adapted
to eastern Turkey, although small numbers of Holstein and other breeds for
special areas may also be imported. Imported heifers will be primarily
pregnant two-year stock with some yearling stock for those farmers who are
able to rear young animals.
47.       A basic feature of the proposed project is lending to small live-
stock farmers, whose average per capita family income falls below the 1977
Bank estimate of relative poverty in Turkey, which is $245 equivalent. This
equals only about 22 percent of the Turkish per capita GNP in 1977 of about
$1,100.
48.       For credit purposes, a 'small farmer' is defined as one whose net
annual pre-development family income in December 1977 does not exceed TL
35,000 (about $1,820 equivalent), at least 75 percent of which is obtained
from farm activity. Assuming an average family size of eight, which is the
appraisal estimate for the project area, the per capita income of such a
small farmer family is equivalent to a maximum of $228. Of the 5,200 farmers
expected to participate in the project, some 2,600 or 50 percent would be
small farmers as defined. Of the.$22.0 million of loan funds proposed for
onlending to farmers under the village development component, about $7.5
million (34 percent) is planned for small farmers, of which $5.5 million is
being specifically set aside for such lending. Any portion of this latter
amount remaining unutilized for small farmer lending will not be reallocated
(Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, 5(b)).
49.       Under the new small farmer lending system, loans up to TL 150,000
will be secured by chattel mortgages on livestock and machinery, plus the
guarantee of only one co-signer. Since this co-signer can be a small farmer
from another village other than that of the small farmer sub-borrower and
since the co-signer's financial standing would not be of primary importance
to TCZB, the new procedures will greatly facilitate TCZB's lending to small
farmers. In addition, TCZB has provided assurances that it accepts the full
risk of non-payment for lending to small farmers. For the first time in
Turkey, a Bank project will reach such poor farmers in substantial numbers
as a result of these special TCZB credit arrangements. A joint Government-
TCZB-Bank review of small farmer lending will be undertaken not later than
December 31, 1980, and annually thereafter to evaluate the small farmer
lending component (Project Agreement, Section 2.02(a)). TCZB has also agreed
to direct and adequately train its branch managers to undertake lending to
small farmers (Project Agreement, Section 3.01(b)).
Project Implementation
50.       LDP will have overall management responsibility for the project, as
in the previous livestock projects. EDLD of TCZB will be responsible for the
credit aspects of the project. A protocol acceptable to the Bank, defining



- 17 -
the relationship between LDP and TCZB, and similar to protocols agreed on for
the previous three livestock projects, will be signed as a condition of effec-
tiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(c)).
51.       Implementation of technical aspects of the project will be under-
taken, as in the Second Livestock Project, by VSD staff of LDP, headed by a
project manager located in Ankara and directly responsible to the General
Director of LDP. Three internationally recruited specialists will provide
technical support. The project manager and the three specialists will be
appointed by not later than December 31, 1978 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01
(b)(ii) and (v)). Regional field offices will be located in Erzurum (the
regional center of the Second Project) and Van. Provincial offices will be
located in Erzurum, Kars, Agri and Erzincan, under the Erzurum regional
manager, and in Van, Bitlis, Mus, Bingol and Diyarbakir, under the Van
regional manager. The Van regional office and three of the provincial offices
will be established and staffed with at least 9 agronomists, 12 veterinarians,
and 10 middle level technicians, and headquarters by two staff (including the
project manager) by December 31, 1978, and the other two provincial offices
will be established and staffed by not later than December 31, 1979 (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.01(b)(ii)).
52.       VSD's technical servicing capability, which was considerably devel-
oped under the Second Project, will be increased overall from 22 to 66 profes-
sionals and from 40 to 60 middle level technicians (Loan Agreement, Section
3.01(b)(iii)). These will be sufficient to implement the project. VSD
veterinary staff will be supported in the field by veterinarians of GDVS,
based on a protocol between LDP and GDVS as in the earlier projects. Signing
of an amended protocol, satisfactory to the Bank, is a condition of effec-
tiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(c)). To strengthen project implementa-
tion capacity, LDP will post at least one experienced VSD staff member from
the Second Livestock Project to each of the new provincial offices and at
least 2 senior and experienced Intensive Dairy staff from the Third Livestock
Project to each of the regional offices (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b)(iv)).
53.       The amended LDP and GDVS protocol will also provide that the current
testing for brucellosis and tuberculosis will not be carried out on project
farms unless such testing is undertaken on the basis of a program satisfactory
to the Bank, with a view to developing a more balanced and effective testing
system (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b)(vi)). Under agreed modifications to
the present brucellosis control program, all cattle to be imported under the
project will be vaccinated against brucellosis before shipment, unless already
vaccinated, and project calves born locally will be vaccinated within three to
six months of birth. Further testing of cattle vaccinated for brucellosis is
technically unnecessary and will be discontinued (Loan Agreement, Section
3.01(b)(vi)).
54.       Since recruitment of staff for the remoter areas of eastern Turkey
remains difficult, the project provides for the construction of 15 housing
units in these areas and an inducement. Assurances were received that the
units would be completed by December 31, 1980, and that they will be rented to
staff at nominal rates, iin accordance with normal Government practices. LDP



- 18 -
will also continue to provide special staff incentives, as it has for the
previous three Livestock Projecs,including supplementary per diem payments
to staff on field duty, which will be financed out of the Special Operational
Fund established under Livestock I. This Fund is financed by TCZB, which
will transfer to the Fund 0.5 percent of the interest received from all
subborrowers under the loan (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06; Project Agreement,
Section 4.02).
55.       A milk industry study will be carried out by LDP with the assistance
of an international group of about four specialists, to be recruited by LDP by
May 1, 1979. The study will be carried out according to a work program and
timetable acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Schedule 2). Studies of
livestock management and production will be carried out by LDP and GDVS staff
in collaboration with the agricultural and veterinary faculties in Erzurum and
Elazig. Annual plans for the livestock production studies will be sent to the
Bank for comment in the third quarter of the year prior to their implementa-
tion, with the studies to be initiated during the first half of 1980 (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 2). For studies to be undertaken in collaboration with
the universities, a protocol, satisfactory to the Bank, will be drawn up
between LDP and the faculty concerned. Training will be implemented by LDP,
building on experience gained under the earlier Livestock projects. A draft
of the overall training program will be sent to the Bank for comment by April
30, 1979 (Loan Agreement, Schedule 2).
Project Cost and Financing
56.       The total project cost (including taxes and price contingencies) is
estimated at $83.2 million. Of this, $24.0 million, or about 29 percent,
is in foreign exchange to be financed by the proposed loan. The estimated
foreign expenditure is for imported livestock, vehicles, tractors, machinery,
technical studies, overseas training and technical specialists. TCZB will
finance some $32.4 million equivalent, or 39 percent of total costs, farmer
contributions some $9.0 million equivalent, or 11 percent of total costs,
with the remaining $17.8 million equivalent, or 21 percent, being financed
by the Government.
Sub-Lending Terms and Conditions
57.       All farmers applying for loans, including small farmers, will have
to meet basic eligibility requirements. These include experience in live-
stock production, access to land area sufficient to produce required incre-
mental feedstuffs, and a viable farm development plan prepared by VSD. Farm
development plans will provide only for renovation or extensions of existing
barns, except for some large farm units requiring new structures, in which
cases up to 70 percent of the total cost can be financed under the project.
Credit can also be provided in special cases for purchase of concentrates
and other supplementary feed in the first farm development plan year. Sub-
loans to project farmers will be made at not less than TCZB's current maximum
interest rate for livestock development of 11 percent, which include all
charges and commissions. Maturities will extend from 10 to 12 years, with 2



- 19 -
to 4 years of gr.. t      L. _g on the cash flow generated by the farm plan.
The appropriateness of the effective cost of the sub-loans and conditions
thereof, will be reviewed by the Government, TCZB and the Bank, at any time
any of the parties consider a review to be warranted (Project Agreement,
Section 2.02(b)).
58.       For medium-scalea farmers, individual farmer contributions to invest-
ment plans will be at least 20 percent, with most farmers expected to provide
labor as part of their contribution. TCZB's credit eligibility criteria for
lending to such farmers will be the same as those applied under Livestock III.
Subloans up to TL 150,000 will be secured by chattel mortgages on livestock
and machinery, plus the guarantee of creditworthy co-signers in those cases
where a land title is not available. Sub-loans over TL 150,000 will be
secured by land title, and where such title is not sufficient, additionally
by a chattel mortgage and/or a guarantee of third parties (Project Agreement,
Schedule on lending procedures, paragraph 2.2).
59.       Based on the agreed small farmer definition, small farmer credit
applicants will be eligible for project credit provided they meet the basic
criteria (paragraph 57), are known to LDP extension staff as bona fide farmers
of good character, and can comply with TCZB's liberalized security arrange-
ments for small farmer lending (paragraph 49). In addition, to further
encourage small farmer borrowing, individual small farmer contributions to
investment plans have been reduced to 10 percent in general and to 5 percent
in cases of special need (Project Agreement, Schedule on lending procedures,
paragraphs 2.1, 2.2 and 4.1).
Procurement and Disbursement
60.       Dairy cattle will be procured by LDP in about 20 shipments of 500-
600 head and purchased on the basis of not less than three quotations from at
least two countries, a procedure followed satisfactorily in Livestock I and
III. Suppliers will be responsible for delivery to project farms and for
ensuring that cattle meet all veterinary and other standards. During nego-
tiations agreement was reached on livestock procurement conditions, and on
expediting border entry of animals (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04). Tractors
and other farm machinery will be procured under international competitive bid-
ding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. In bid comparisons, domestic
manufacturers will receive a margin of preference equal to 15 percent or the
actual level of import duty, whichever is less (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4 A
and B). The additional 8I0 vehicles required to support project field staff
will be procured locally with Government funds, except that if, due to local
shortages, the vehicles needed in any one project year cannot be delivered by
the end of the fourth month of the year, the vehicles will be procured by ICB
under standard Bank guidelines, and will be eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the loan. Agreement was also reached that importation formalities,
including the issuance of import licenses, would be expedited for all goods
procured abroad (Loan Agreement Section 3.04(c)).
61.       Local livestock will be purchased by individual farmers at livestock
markets and by private contract, all such livestock being approved by project



- 20 -
technicians before purchase. This is in line with procedures followed satis-
factorily under Livestock II. Purchase of small tools, seed and fertilizer
will be through normal commercial channels. Housing for project staff will be
constructed using local materials and, given its modest cost and phasing, will
be carried out following normal government bidding procedures, which are satis-
factory.
62.       The proposed loan will be disbursed over a six-year period, against
100 percent of foreign expenditures for livestock, technical specialists and
training; 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 100 percent of local expendi-
tures ex-factory for vehicles, tractors, agricultural machinery and related
equipment; and 27 percent of amounts disbursed by TCZB for pasture/forage crop
production and purchase of supplementary feedstuffs.
Benefits and Risks
63.       The economic rate of return is estimated at 20 percent.  Principal
benefits will accrue from incremental production of milk and livestock for
breeding and fattening. The total value of annual incremental production
at full development is estimated at about $23 million, of which about $13
million will result from incremental milk production totalling about 55,000
tons per annum. Incremental output of cattle and sheep is estimated at about
8,700 and 27,000 head respectively. Other benefits are difficult to quantify,
but are perhaps even more significant for the economy over the long term.
These include institutionalization of medium- and long-term credit for small
farmers, genetic improvement of the national herd, introduction of improved
methods of animal husbandry and management, improved land utilization and
animal productivity, further development of institutional infrastructure, and
increased utilization of Government milk plants.
64.       The direct beneficiaries will be some 5,200 farm families (about
41,600 persons) whose farm incomes will increase substantially, and whose
financial rate of return will vary from 23 to 43 percent, with the higher
return going to the smaller farmers. The main indirect beneficiaries will be
some 500,000 additional consumers of milk.
65.       Since basic institutional infrastructure for the project has been
well established under the first three livestock projects, the principal risk
stems from the possibility of reduced small farmer participation. In those
parts of the project area served by Livestock II, where livestock development
benefits have already been clearly demonstrated, small farmer participation
can be expected to be satisfactory but it is less certain in the new project
areas, which will benefit from this demonstration effect for the first time
during the initial years of the project. While the targeted small farmer
participation cannot be totally ensured, the safeguards which have been built
into the project to strengthen the Government's and TCZB's commitment to this
objective are believed to be satisfactory.



- 21 -
PART V- LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and TCZB, and the report of the
Committee provided for in Article II, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agree-
ment, are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Features
of special interest are referred to in appropriate paragraphs of this report
and summarized in Annex III.
67.       A special cond:ition of effectiveness is the submission to the
Bank of acceptable protocols between LDP and GDVS, and LDP and TCZB (Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01(c)).
68.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 12, 1978
Washington D.C.






TABLE 3A                                             ANNEX I
TURKEY              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                           Page lof  21
LAND .-EA (THOU KM2)                 -------------------------------------------------
---------------                                  TURKEY                               REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      780.6                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     55b.4                        1960      1970   ESTIMATE           COLOMBIA        IRAN           ITALY**
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     270.0*    500.0*    990.0*               350.0*      670.0*    1910.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)           27.0       35.6       41.2                20.6        29.0        53.7
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       35.0       46.0       53.0                18.0        18.0       178.0
PER so. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        52.0       65.0       74.0                93.0       107.0      266.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE I/THOU. AV)         44.8       40.6       39.4                44.3/a      45.9        18.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)          16.9       14.4       12.5                11.0        18.5         9.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (I/THOU)      l87.0/a b153.0/a                           70.0/b    140.0        29.6
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       49.3       54 4       56.9                58.5       48.8        71.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.9        2.S/b,c  2.3                   3.2         3.4         1.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 3.0        2.5        2.5                 2.9         3.1         0.8
URBAN                                 s.1/a      4.9/d                          5.5/c       4.8         0.8
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           31.9      38.7       42.6                60.3        41.0        51.5
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       41.3       41.7      41.7                 46.6       46.0/a      24.4
15 TO 64 YEARS                       55.2       54.0      53.9                 50.4       50.07a      65.2
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.5        4.3        4.4                 3.0         4.07W      10.4
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.8       0.9        0.8                 1.0         1.0/a       0.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0        1.1/e     1.2 /a              1.6/d       1.9/a     0-9/a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)            ..        ..         ,                306.9      662.4
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)            5.3        8.2         .                   ..        10.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)       13000 .0 0/  40000.O/fl 6400.0/b            6200.0      8700.0    19600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE 1%)         71.7       63.4       52.5/c              39.0        43.0        19.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)           9.7/d    11.9_/    13.37T                 7.0         2.1         3.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5S OF HOUSEHOLDS            33 . /ef  32.8 A      28.0/e              3i.9 /e    29.7 /b
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            61 o7e-T  60.67oi    56. lTe              60.1 7r     54.4 7        *
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             4:2/e-t   2-97E       335.e 3-5                       4.0 
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSE)JLDS            10.67       9:4 9-   11. 57e                         12.7 7F
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              .       39.0 /|                          *-
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS                     0.7 7T       -
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             3220.0 j  2250.0    1880.0                2110.0     3300.0        550.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        3260.07fh  1770.0ZI 1140.0 /f                 *-     3230.0        470.0/b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            550.0     500.0      470.0               430.0       780.0        90.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)        110.0      112.0      113.0               92.0         90.0       126.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              753        78.0      76.0                 51.0       53.0       100.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            ..      22.0/k   24.7                  29.0/f      14.0/C     42.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             16.o/e    14.7/1        *.                8.4          ..         1.0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       75.0      10B.0      108.0               100.0        83.0       110.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     14.0       28.o       30.0                23.0       26.0        60.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(PIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             11.0       11.0       11.0                11.0        12.0        13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     18.0       14.0       15.0                20.0         3.0       26.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 40.0/i    55.0/r       ..                73.0          ..        97.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER POOM (URBAN)                 2.0        1.9         ..                 ..         2.2/a d
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                      81.0       66.0       52.0                  *-        B7.0/a,e
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 29.0       40.0       57.0                  ..        25.0/a
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                    2.0       18.0         *-                  *-         4.0/a
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          49.0       89.0     107.0               105.0        93.0       218.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            2.0        4.0       8.0                11.0        10.0       190.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           102.0     247.o      400.0               414.0       246.0      2262.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.8        0.7       2.3                 2.7         0.4         5.3
-------------------------------------------------------                            ___________-_- ________________-_- _
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ASNNE It 
Page 2 of   21
NOTES
Unless  tiher ioe noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1969 and 1971, and for Most Recent Estimate betwen.
1973 cc19.
CNP per -apita dota are ba..d on the World Bank Atlee methodology (1974-76 basic).
h o1w lmg-tcr atrotogy of Turkish planning correctly gives the 1970 level of Italy aa its objective.
i;P!EY      0960    Ia  1955-60;    /b  Derived fromt ample survy astifatea  (9,700 hboae.olde)  might be andereetiated;    /c  CivilIan labor force (1965);
Id  1965, inoloding peak asso-n agriooltoral underneploytent;    /n  1963;    /f  Diepoeshle lncome;                  g  1962;    /h  Intlodiog
an-Lnt-ot nurses snd midwinna;    /i  Pereone  io years and over who tell the oeosa  tokoro that they can read sod  rite.
19_0    /   1967;    Lb  E-tlodee 17 e..etrn provinces;    /c  1965-67;    /d  1965-70;    /e  Rltit  of popolation ceder 1l  and 65 acd over
tO total labor force;    /f  Civilian labor force;    /g  Incloding peak season ogricaltorat onderemploymeent;    /h  DiIsposhbl
Ioone (1968);    /i9 )iroltoral land (1973), ignoring landl.ee houseboldo;                 jj  Inoluding  a.s. tact norsee and cidwivee;
/k  1964-66;    /I  1967-68;    /e  Peraono eix yearn and ever who tell the cenoa-  takera  that they can mad  and write.
MOST RECENT EST2eATE:        a  Ratio of popolation snder 15 and 65 sod over to total labcr forco;    /b  Civiliso labor forte (1977);
/c  1977;    /d  Iocluding peak season egricoltorel oneoremployneot (1977);    /.  Disposhble income (1973);
/f  Incloding eaistoent .- see and ridwivoa
ftLAAIBI     1970    'a  Off 'ial saclrcae .aased on regiftration ahon  sv dragn cerdo birth rote for 1960-71 aa 36;    lb  Rate based om bSrial perrits
/t  1964-70;    /d  Retio of population onder 15 and 65 and oer to total labor forcs;    /e  Economically active popolation;
If 1964-66.
IRAN         197)    Ia  1966;    lb  Urban only;    /0  1964-66;    Id  Etoladee roomdic tribes;    /e  loaide only.
IrALY        1970    /a  Rat:c of population under I5 and 65 and over to total lakbr force;    /b  HoapiteL pereonel.
R13, March 21, 1978
DIFINaITIONO OF SOCLAL INDICA7TORS
LAed Ara (choc kl2)                                                                         Poeplaties pe     re mai pDeroon - Popoletion dioided by  n=ber of procnrting
rocal - Tn:el surface area tcepriniog land  rea end inland w-ters                             male sd fsle grad..ate noree, "trained" or "certified" noree, e-d
5011. - Nonc rececces tisoate of agrinoltoral ares need temporerily or pea.-                  auxiliary personnel with tr-ining or enperlene
neoncl for crop, pactorno  mtrhet & kiochen gardene or to lie fellow-                     poolation er boenitel bed - Popolation divided by nouber of hoopitcl bede
availsble in public and prin-te geser.1 and epeoialleed hbspital and
39per ca-pta (LS1) - GNP per capita esibooten stocerere  market pritss,                       rehabilitatimn  se.tern; e.clIdes sortsig bomee and ecs blienes for
calculated by same corners ior tethod a World Basw  Atlss (1973-75 baste);                  coecedia1 asd preventive csr.
19607  1970 and 1975 data.P  estta ne oi P  tf calories 1% of reoremnts) - Cfapotd fron enrgy
a.qoicaero  ne 1te        sope  anetlable in oeoe.try pee ca.pica pet dsy;
ruculation and vital ststia cot                                                               available eupplies co=prias dens.tit  prodoction, inporta Ille.eeprte, and
Poepulaion (mid-yosr nIlltim)   us of duly frst:  if not available, oerage                    changea  in  tock; net eoppliea e-tIade animal feed,  -eedo, qoantities  seed
of two nod-year estimates; l'h0, 1970 and 1975 date                                         in food prese-ing and lolene  Is diatribocion; reqoire.nte .ere estinted
by FAO b.e.d en phy-iological n..da for sormal actitity asd healoh censId-
Poeslstbom decolto - per soo -re km - nod-y-ar popslation per oqoare kiloete.r                ering eavireastal temperstore, body -eighte, age  ad .e.  dittribatiene  of
(109 hectares) of taotl area                                                                pop.latin, and alloning 107. forese  at hooeheld leve.
foeclation donity -ePr ana-re            lom of agt.i land - Cm-poced as above foe          Per oseit, eaeply of Pr (tei , lora-. per day) - Protein centr-s of per c-pita
agricultural Iood only                                                                      set 'opply of food per day; mt eopply of food in defined as sbhe; require-
mere for a11 co.ntries established by USDA Enomic Rsasaroh Serlicee
fltoL otatlatics                                                                              provide for a mini"s' ollosance of 60 grin   of total protein pr day, and
Crude birth rate per boesazaod. avnraoe - fonsarl Iie birre  per thoosand of                  20 gra   of animal aed ple protein, of heich 1D gr     ahould be animl
o,d-sarroruotir..ten-yer arigtiet ic ar-ges ending in 1960 and 1970,                   Prtin; these at-darde aes tone  than eboce of 75 sramPo tta   proti
scd fi_e-yeer average esding In 1975 for meet re-eot estimate                               sod 25 grausa of animal proteti .s an average for the  -Isnld, peepo-ed by Fu-
Crude  death rate pot theaas0 d sd erae -onnual deaths per thoaaend of mid-yer                in the Third World Food Sory.
population; sec-year srithttt averages endig in 1960 end 1970 aed five-                   per capita erseeo ee n lv from animal end pelee - Proteti *opply of -sod
year --eage en.ding in 1975 for noat recent astimato.                                       deriond frge  asiacale and pelane  im gr     per day.
Lntant oaortal cv race ). thoo) - enecal deaths of iefants under one ysar of age            oesth rate (/thou) asee 1-4 - Annual d.atha per Ckocoaed im age group 1-4
per thosand lIe birtha.                                                                    years, to children in this age group; auggeeted ac an indicator of
Itfe eopectancy at kinkh lyre) - Average snuber of yesra of life remaining at                 mlnatrition.
birth;  osally fton-year overagSs endi.g io 1960, 1970 and 1975 for deelop-
ion  toontrio.                                                                            Ed.caciotn
Grossreproduct-oc rate - 4verase nupber of live dacghteraa         son vill bear            Adi1atnd enrollment ratio -                                  frtcarn school - Enrollnent of a11 agas aa per-
-n bet normal  reproduction period if she esperiesees present age-apecific                  centage of primary echool-sgn pOpUltiOn  includes children aged 6-11 yearn
fertiLity rates-; utwily five-year a-ereges ending itn 1960, 1970 and 1975                  bot djoated for differet lengthb  of primary edoceto; for centei    st iot
for dvelopiog coteries-vra  education,. erollment may ese"d 100'% niece ems pupils are be1r
Population crotth rate (7) - total - Compeend annual growth rta.s of mid-peer                 or abo   thb  ffii   a         ag
poplatien fEor 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-5                                                Adloatd  ;rlet ro ti-               r    cb - opto ad            aba ;endary
foclation croveb rote (73) - sates - omC_pnted like growth rate of total                      edacation requiree at least ton  years of appraned primary iatrcctien;
population; different defisitlem   of orb-a  area-  my affeet c_eparebiliry of             provid   geo re1, ro.a rin1 or teacher training tastroctiena for popila
dotA soong  m_ntr iee.                                                                       of 12 to 17 yasra of a. gel nrep=aoe   coreca   genrally e..tlded.
Urban populotion 0% of total) - Ratio of urban to total populamien; different               Yers of eshslmim  Provided  firert and  -send levIes) - Totai years of
defi.itions of orben erean my affect nomperability of data ameg cntris.                     aeheling; at aesendary level, v-catiel instruction may be partially or
ace structure ic-roel - Children (0-14 years), toorhingage (15-64 yeare),                   IoacioMal enrollent (17 of secondary) - Vooati1nai iRetitutien-  inc/ode
-vd retired  (65 years aod pvet) as perceentagn  of mid-year pepelation.                    Cechnicl, indu tril or other pregerea  which operate isdepende-tl1  or ee
soc depeodey ra tic -  eRtio of popultion sender 15 tad 65 and over to ehkee                  depem-ete  of necendary itetitotio
of ages  IS throcgh 64.                                                                   edlt literacv rare  M%) -  tieerstes d1st  (able to reed aed write) as per-
'cu.uecic ~nde deocy ratio - Ratoi of  epo1lation undec 15 eod 65 and 0ver to                 centsge of total adult pcpola-lom  aged 15 years end  ver.
rho labor force ic age eroop of 15-64 yoara.
FanIl    . piacig .- accei torn  (co hal-eive  ahou) - Cfoulatice nunber of acceptrre        busies
of oteth-roentrol devices ondet acornoes of  anatinal family pLaseisg progra.             perPen,  e r ro-m  (nrban) - verage nuaber of per.eoms par roam  it occ-pied
_        -lccelucoptio.                                                                     onnenciemal dIellings in orban areas  deelliegs e-clode  oen-poemareoc
tamilc elareno-c-   s --r  (% of narried coes) - Perceetages of married woman of              atrusnoess and anomspied pare
Thild-/bearieng age (15-44 years) who tee birtb-cencrsl devicee s   all m1arried          Ocoonied doellinee aitboot pip ad vaeer (TI - Iccopied conneotlonal dneliiinge
vtec cc come age group.                                                                     in urbae and rural sens vithouc icaide or ouetide piped wate   scilirite
Emolooyeer                                                                                  uccesa to eiectrictec (73 of alil dwellimng; - feanseetiomal daeellinngn vlth
Tota1 Irbor forte  tbou.aad  - Ecenomically sctive par-ons, iolodisa armed                    ee1ctrioity in living qoartera as percent of netal dtt   iIegi  ien urban and
forcee sod ucnnployed bot eacluding ho.uae.r.e, studPnt, ste.; definitie_                   rural e
in various coontriea are net comparable.                                                  Ruea  dveaiin-s connected to elettricity (2) -   pctsed ae abovs for rora1
ihbor force in agrieoltare  (%)   AgritIltsral labor farce (in fanning, foreatry,             d.ellings oly
hucting and fiehieg) as percectage of total Iabor forte.
Uornnl-yed (7 of labor force) - Unemployed are usually defised se pereenP  who thneonecmon
are able end williog to tabk  a job, act of a Job pp a gives day, remained ont            padie neeivere leer thea pop) - All types of reoni-era foe radio broedcsar
of a job, and seekIng work fore  pecified misimom period set emonading see                  to general public per thbosend of population; esclude  otlicenad rrceivere
seek; Ioa  not he comparable  between c-untries due to dlfferees deficicioma                in ocostries and in yasra ahes regietraetin of r-dio aeca  s  is effrcs;
of  onepIlod and auoree of datr, e.g., employent office etatiettee  aempla                  dat  for rece.t yeaer may not be coepseeble sinc- moat co.ntrtee  boli.hed
aurveys. ce_puleory onrepleynect iosoracr.                                                  liCeraing
Incene dietribktio  - Percetags  of priv-ee incnne (both tn cash  and kind)                   les  Ithn cIgr Iper h on    l   d   mebules   bears   sd militarY
reca-i-d by richoat 57, riohest 20%, poorest 2073, aed pooresi 407 of ho-s-                 v-hftl.
holds.                                                                                    El-ctrinit, (kl h/lr ear ..P) - Aescal cI-nsepties of industrial, corci.I
public and pri-ts e elcnric.ty in kilovats boee per saptts, generally
rts rrcbcetoo of lacd es heraipb-peroeseanes of lad semed by -eathi.se  10%                  be.ed em prods-tien date, aishot etlsennen for Iosea  it grids bot ellen-
and poorect 107 of land  vnere.                                                             ing far Lip-rtc and enperte of  1e-trinity.
enPtrin  iksa/yr Per caP) - Per c-pita anesel comaneption is kilogr_a
/ealth and Notritiom                                                                          estimated fron  dsatis production ploe net impotts of nsprint.
Popclatiot pea ehysictac - Papolstio, divided by esaber of pr-etieteg
oh-sici-na qualified from e ocdic-l scRoh- at univer-cty voel.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 21
ECONOMIC DEVEIOPMENT DATA SHEET 1/
Actual                      Estimated      Growth Rates    Share of GDP
1970      1974       1975       1976         1977            70-77             1976
A.  NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(TL Billion, 1976 Prices)
Gross Domestic Product                 423:5      557.8     607.7      659.0        695.0               7.3           100.0
Gain from Terms of Trade                -2.3        1.5      -0.4         0.0         -0.3
Gross Domestic Income                  421.2      559.3     607.3      659.0         694.7              7.4           100.0
Exports (g + nfs)                       21.8       34.5       29.6      36.1          32.0             5.6              5.5
Imports (g + nfs)                       31.4       71.5       81.2      85.0          96.7            17.4             12.9
Resource Balance                        -9.6      -37.0      -51.6     -48.9         -64.7                              7.4
Investment                              79.5      118.3      145.8     156.0         165.7            11.1             23.7
Consumption                            353.6      476.5      513.5     512.0         593.9              7.7            83.8
Domestic Savings                        67.6       82.8       93.8      107.0        104.6              6.4            16.2
National Savings                        73.8      104.7      114.0      118.0        113.7              6.4             17.9
B.  SECTOR OUTPUT                                       Share of GDP (factor cost)
Agriculture                          .  30.0       27.4       27.9       28.5         25.5             4.4
Industry                                26.9       28.1       27.7      27.1          27.9            10.7
Services                                43.1       44.5      44.4       44.4         46.6              9.0
C.  PRICES (1976 = 100)
Export Prices (in dollars)              44.1       87.6       92.5      100.0        107.4            13.6
Import Prices (in dollars)              51.1       83.3       93.7      100.0        108.3            11.3
Terms of Trade                          86.3      105.2       98.7      100.0         99.1
GDP Deflator                            34.4       73.4       85.4      100.0        125.0            20.2
Av. Eachange Rate ($1.00 = TL)          11.5       13.9       14.4       16.1         18.0
D.  PUBLIC FINANCE                                         As percent of GDP
Central Govt. Revenue                   19.9       17.1       20.3       20.7         22.6
Central Govt. Expenditures              22.5       18.6       21.7       22.4         26.6
Public Sector Deficit 2/                 na         3.7        5.4        5.8          6.6
tot.
E.  SELECTED INDICATORS                                    1970-77                          F.  LABOR FORCE                                     1965    1970    1975    1977
ICOR                                                    3.19                                Civilian Labor Force (million)                  12.9    13.8    15.6    16.4
Import Elasticity                                       2.38                                Unemployment & Underemployment (/. of CLF)   9.7    11.9    13.0    13.3
Average National Saving Rate                            0.18                                Civilian Employment (million)                   12.5    13.1    14.3    14.9
Marginal Notional Saving Rate                           0.16                                  Of which (7.):
Investment/GDP                                          0.22                                        Agriculture                            74.3    67.1    60.8    57.7
Imports/GDP                                             0.11                                        Industry                               11.2    13.7    16.1    17.5
Resource Ralance/GDP                                    0.05                                        Services                                14.5    19.2    23.1    24.8
1/ Totals may not add up because of rounding.
2/ Borro-iog reqoirement of central government plus State Economic Enterprises and other public authorities.
May LI, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 21
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(In Current US$ Millions)
Actual                             Eat.
1970       1972        1974       1975        1976       1977
A.  SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1.  Exports and NFS                                760       1100        2123       2139        2835       2557
2.  Imports and NFS                               1132        1790       4121       5191        5657        6496
3.  Resource Balance                              -372       -681       -1998      -3052       -2822       3939
4.  Net Factor Service Income                      193         643       1253        1152        691         549
a.  Interest (net)                             -47        -62       -102        -124       -217        -317
b.  Workers' Remittances                      273         740       1426        1312         983        982
c.  Profits                                   -33         -35        -71         -36        -75        -116
5.  Transfers (net)                                  8          30         27          20         30
6.  Balance on Current Account                    -171          -8       -718      -1880       -2101      -3391
7.  Private Direct Investment                       58         43          88         153         27          67
8.  Grant and Grantlike Flows 1/                   117          55         58          98        133          76
9.  Public M&LT (gross)                            337         304        269         322        362         310
10.  Amortization on Public M&LT                   -197       -127        -156       -147        -182       -214
11.  Public M&LT (net)                              140         177        113         175        180          96
12.  Short-term Capital (net)                        18         332         60         840       1443        2363
13.  IMF                                             48        -98          -          197        149          -
14.  Capital n.i.e.                                 -24          65        -32          -          55          -
15.  Changes in Reserves(-= increase) 2/           -186       -566         431        417         114         349
B. LOAN COMMITMENTS
Total Public M&LT                             487        453         533         589       1206
a.  IBRD                                        40       177         228         158        237
b.  Other Multilateral                         132        29           -           3          54
c.  Governments                               268        184          149        180        574
d.  Suppliers and Financial Institutions  47              27           28        219        316
e.  Others                                      -         36           68         29         26
C.  M&LT EXTERNAL DEBT                                                                                                  PUBLIC EXTERNAL DEBT          Outstanding
E       (Disbursed Only)             Dec. 31, 1977
1.  Total Debt Outstanding                        1840      2448         3097       3180        3536       4221                                Amount   Percent
(end of the period, DO&D)
2.  Interest                                        42         64          93         104        123         162   IBRD and IDA                   766       18.1
3.  Amortization                                   135       166          141         145        151         188   Other Multilateral            553        13.1
4.  Total Debt Service on M&LT Debt                177        230         234         249        274         350   Governments                   2426       57.5
5.  Debt Service Ratio 3/                                                                                          Financial Institutions         320        7.6
a.  Debt Service/Exports NFS                    23.2      20.7         11.0       11.6         9.71      13.8 Suppliers' Credits             105        2.5
b.  Debt Service/Exports NFS and                                                                               Others                         51        1.2
Workers' Remittances                       17.1       12.4         6.6         7.2        7.2        10.0
TOTAL M&LT DEBT             4221       100.0
6. Terms:
Interest DO&D/Total DO&D                         2.3       2.6          3.0        3.0         3.5        3.8
Debt Service/Total DO&D                          9.3       9.2          6.0        7.8         7.7        8.3
7.  IBRD DO&D/Total DO&D                             2.8        3.7          6.5        9.0       15.7        18.1
IBRD Debt Service/Total DO&D
Debt Service                                  3.2       5.0          9.1       12.4       14.8        20.5
1/ Mostly imports with waivers.
2/ As reported by country sources and is different from IFS (IMF) figures, except for 1977.
3/ Represent debt service obligations only on M&LT DO&D, excluding debt service on short-term obligations.
May 11, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 21
ECONOMIC BACKGROUND, CURRENT SITUATION AND FUTURE PROSPECTS
Introduction
1.        In most respects, the record of Turkish economic development over
the last two decades has beien good. As the result of a strong commitment
to rapid growth and modernisation, real output has grown, on average, by more
than 6 percent per annum. Great strides have also been made towards meeting
the basic needs of the population in such areas as education, health care,
water supply, and rural roads. However, employment has never been at the
fore of the objectives of successive Governments. Overall, this impressive
economic progress has been punctuated (in 1958, 1970 and 1977) by severe
balance of payments crises, which have been the product partly of extraneous
factors and partly of Turkish development strategy itself, which has paid
insufficient attention to the structural weaknesses of the economy, and has
perhaps exacerbated some of them.
Structure and Structural Problems
2.        Since its inception, the Turkish Republic has laid great stress on
industrialization. The rise in the share of the industrial sector in total
output from about 15 percent in 1955 to about 28 percent in 1977 is largely
a reflection of the priority which it has been given in the allocation of
investible resources. Agricultural development has been relatively slow, but
it still contributes about a quarter of total output. However, inappropriate
subsidy and pricing policies also led to misallocation of land use (away from
grazing to crops, and among different crops), and to insufficient improvement
of dryland farming, which is the main type of agricultural activity in the
country. Production has also been constrained by inadequate implementation
of irrigation schemes and ineffective extension services. As a result, and
although the modern subsector of agriculture in irrigated regions and coastal
zones is reasonably efficient, agricultural labor productivity is on average
only about one fifth of thaLt in industry.
3.        Turkish industry, moreover, is itself on average not especially
efficient, much less competitive by international standards. One reason for
this, is that a strong emphasis has been placed in recent years, on large-
scale capital-intensive investment projects. This has been viewed as the best
way to accomplish a rapid transfer of sophisticated technology; but it has
resulted in heavy recurrent import oriented industrialization, with very high
cost of production in certain subsectors, which have had to be heavily pro-
tected from foreign competition by quotas and tariffs.  It has also aggravated
a growing surplus of labor.. Some parts of Turkish industry, by contrast, are
efficient, and many have the potential to become efficient. But the rather
unselective way in which protection has been applied and the buoyancy of the
domestic market, tended to limit the evolution of the sector beyond the infant
industry stage. More generally, it has inhibited the development of an indus-
trial structure well suitecd to Turkey's comparative advantages in terms of
location, natural resources and labor availability.



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 21
4.        Turkey has a mixed economy.  There is a large and flourishing pri-
vate sector, officially encouraged by a variety of investment incentives.
However, a leading role in implementing the heavy industry strategy has been
played by State Economic Enterprises (SEEs), which dominate the transport and
power sectors, and account for half the output of mining and manufacturing.
The SEEs are expected to pursue social as well as economic objectives, espe-
cially in regard to pricing, investment and employment decisions. This has
led to poor financial performance, which in turn has been a major contributor
to large public sector deficits in recent years. The efficiency of the SEEs
has been impaired also by shortages of managerial and technical staff as a
result of uncompetitive remuneration.
5.        It is tentatively envisaged that Turkey will join the European
Economic Community in the 1990s. To date, however, Turkish foreign trade
policy has emphasized self-reliance and import-substitution, first in consumer
goods and more recently in basic industries. One important consequence of
this, as well as of the pattern of industrialization outlined above, has been
that Turkey has failed to develop a large industrial export base. Instead, it
has relied mainly on its traditional agricultural exports (supplemented by
workers' remittances) to finance the imports of machinery and materials neces-
sary to accomplish its industrial transformation. This pattern of trade has
been a major cause of the difficulty which Turkey has experienced in reconcil-
ing rapid growth with a viable external payments position.
The Third Plan: Targets and Performance
6.        The somewhat checkered record of Turkish economic development is
exemplified by the events of the past five years (1973-77), which coincide
with the period of the Third Plan. The Plan envisaged growth of GDP at 8
percent (compared with under 7 percent achieved in the Second Plan period);
the share of investment in GDP was projected to rise from 19 to 23 percent;
the current account balance was expected to improve as a result of faster
growth of exports and increased workers' remittances; and hence there was to
be a reduction in the inflow of foreign capital, which was to be matched by a
rise in domestic savings, especially in the public sector. Unemployment was
expected to increase somewhat; but inflation was to be held to moderate
levels.
7.        As regards growth and investment, the achievements of the Third
Plan period were fairly close to these targets. The average annual increase
in real GDP was over 7 percent; and the average share of fixed investment in
GDP was above 20 percent. But in other respects, Plan targets were not met.
The public sector, instead of saving more, went progressively further into
deficit; the rate of inflation rose to over 30 percent; and the current
account deficit, rather than declining, increased enormously, which pre-
cipitated an acute foreign exchange crisis in 1977.



ANNEX I
Page 7 of 21
8.         In succeeding paragraphs, economic developments in Turkey since 1970
are analyzed in greater detail. An assessment is also attempted of the future
prospects of the economy, with particular regard to, (a) the measures recently
taken by the government, and (b) other measures needed to achieve and sustain
an improvement in performance.
Production, Investment and Employment
9.         A conspicuous feature of the recent growth in Turkey, unlike almost
every other country, is that it accelerated during the world recession. The
average annual real rate of GDP growth in the period 1970-73 was under 7 per-
cent; in the period 1973-77, it rose to nearly 8 percent.
10.       Part of the explanation for this is to be found on the demand side.
Reduced exports and the increased outflow of payments for oil both tended to
dampen demand for domestic output after 1973; but this was more than offset
in Turkey by the expansionary effect of a rising public sector deficit. As a
result, the growth of output was not, as in many countries, constrained by
lack of demand, but was determined by supply side considerations.
11.       Of these, the most important (in terms of explaining the increase
in the growth rate after 1973) was a marked improvement in the performance of
agriculture, as a result of favorable weather and good harvests in 1975 and
1976. Thus agricultural output, which had grown at an average annual rate of
2 percent in real terms during the period 1970-73, grew at an average annual
rate of 7 percent in the period 1973-77, despite zero growth in 1977. Indus-
trial output grew no faster after 1973. But it maintained the average real
growth rate of around 10 percent which it had achieved up to 1973, principally
as a result of the sustained high level of prior industrial investment.
12.       The pace of investment in Turkey, moreover, did not slacken during
the world recession. On the contrary, from 1975 onwards, as may be seen in
the public fixed investment figures in Table 1 below, the government intensi-
fied its investment drivie (although the rate of realization of investment
plans declined).  This increase in public investment was paralleled by
higher investment in the private sector in response to buoyant demand, easy
credit and generous tax incentives.



ANNEX I
Page 8 of 21
Table 1: RESOURCES AND EXPENDITURE
(Percentages of GDP) /1
Est.
1970     1973      1974      1975      1976      1977
GDP                           100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Imports (g + nfs)               7.4       9.8      12.8      13.4      12.9     13.9
Total Resources             107.4    109.8    112.8    113.4    112.9    113.9
Gross Fixed Investment         17.6      18.1      18.5      21.0      22.1     22.6
Public                        9.3       8.9       8.8      10.4     11.4      12.1
Private                       8.3       9.2       9.6      10.6     10.7      10.6
Stock Changes                   1.2       0.8       2.7       3.0       1.5      1.2
Consumption                    83.5      83.7      85.4      84.5     83.8      85.5
Public                       12.0      14.1      13.5      12.7     12.8      14.6
Private                      71.5      69.5      71.9      71.8     70.9      70.8
(Gross Domestic Savings        16.5      16.3      14.6      15.5     16.2      14.5)
Exports (g + nfs)               5.1       7.2       6.2       4.9       5.5      4.6
(Resource Gap                   2.3       2.6       6.6       8.5       7.4      9.3)
/1   Totals may not add up because of rounding.
13.       In 1977 itself, the growth rate of real GDP declined, to about 5
percent. This was in part a reflection of the zero growth rate of agricul-
tural output. In addition, the growth of non-agricultural output was adversely
affected by a decline in the rate of capacity utilization as a result of,
(a) shortages of electricity aggravated by malfunctions in the already over-
stretched generation and transmission system, (b) a prolonged strike in the
metal-working industries, and (c) ad hoc import restrictions imposed by the
previous coalition government in response to the foreign exchange crisis,
which led to shortages of imported inputs.
14.       The favorable performance of Turkish production during the 1970's
was not matched by employment. While Turkish labor statistics are by no
means infallible, it would appear that urban and rural unemployment and
underemployment stood at a relatively high level (12 percent of the civilian
labor force) in 1970, and have since risen somewhat to over 13 percent in
1977. This increase is in part attributable to a drop in the annual rate
of emigration from Turkey from over 100,000 in 1973 to about 14,000 in 1977.
The main causes of the high level of unemployment in Turkey, however, antedate
the world recession. They are:



ANNEX I
Page 9 of 21
(i) A rapidly growing labor force, reflecting a rising participa-
tion rate and a rate of population growth (2.5 percent per
annum) which, while similar to that in other countries with
Turkey's level of per capita income, is high by comparison
with other Southern European countries.
(ii) The adoption of relatively capital-intensive methods of
production both in agricujiure and Ln industry, largely as
a result of government policy, expressed in public sector
investment plans and private sector investment incentives.
External Trade
15.       The most notable feature of the crisis of 1977 was the large
resource gap, which amounted to almost $4 billion. But this did not arise
overnight; Turkey's trading position (as seen in Table 1) had been worsening
for several years. From 1970 to 1973, the resource gap fluctuated around an
average of about 3 percent of GDP. But it rose to over 6 percent in 1974; it
averaged about 8 percent in 1975 and 1976; it was over 9 percent in 1977.
16.       Part of the reason for this deterioration was an increase in the
Turkish economy's propensity to import. The ratio of imports to GDP (as is
shown in Table 1) rose steadily from about 7 percent in 1970 to about 10 per-
cent in 1973. In 1974, it jumped to 13 percent; by 1977, it had reached 14
percent. The sharp rise in 1974 was caused mainly by the increase in the
price of oil, which alone has added between 2 and 3 percentage points to the
import propensity. The remiainder of the rise in the import propensity is
attributable to: (a) the increasing relative importance of the industrial
sector, which relies quite heavily on imported inputs; (b) the investment
drive of recent years, which has increased the share of fixed investment
(much of which involves imports) in total expenditure; and (c) a general
liberalization of import restrictions.
17.       The increased imlport propensity accounts for roughly half the dete-
rioration of the resource balance since 1973. The remainder is attributable
to poor export performance. Up to 1973, the rising propensity to import was
more or less offset by an increase in the ratio of exports (of goods and
non-factor services) to GDP. Subsequently, however, the growth rate of GDP
increased somewhat, while the growth rate of exports declined sharply. In
dollar terms, Turkish exports grew during the period 1970-73 at an average
annual rate of 31 percent; during the period 1973-77, the average annual
growth rate was only 10 percent; in 1977, the absolute value of exports
actually fell.
18.       Year to year movements in Turkish exports are inherently erratic,
given the high share of agricultural products with their climatically depen-
dent supply. But the weak performance of Turkish exports over the whole
period 1973-77, which was manifested in industrial as well as agricultural
products, had other causes:



ANNEX I
Page 10 of 21
(a) One was the inefficiency of the agricultural price support policy,
whereby prices which are announced after the harvest bore little
relation-to world prices, and did not provide rational economic
incentives to farmers. This long-standing problem was compounded
during this period with exceptionally ineffective administration
of agricultural export sales.
(b) Another important factor was the world recession. It not only
affected Turkey's industrial exports, but also depressed Turkish
agricultural exports which consist mainly not of staple foods, but
of luxury foods (nuts and fruits) and industrial raw materials
(cotton and tobacco).
(c) Industrial exports in particular were adversely affected by a more
rapid inflation of production costs in Turkey than in its trading
partners, which was not fully compensated for by exchange rate
adjustments. As a result, Turkish producers were obliged either to
raise their prices in export markets, thus reducing the demand for
their products, or to accept a cut in their profit margins, thus
reducing the attractions of production for export as compared with
domestic sales.
(d)  This tendency for potential exports to be diverted to the domestic
market was probably exacerbated to a significant degree, especially
in 1976 and 1977, by aggregate excess demand in the domestic econ-
omy.
Current Account, Overall Balance, and External Borrowing
19.       The widening resource gap after 1973 was more than fully reflected
in the current account deficit (which rose from $0.7 billion in 1974 to about
$3.4 billion in 1977), as a result of a decline in workers' remittances.



ANNEX I
Page 11 of 21
Table 2: SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(US$ Millions)
Est.
1970      1973     1974      1975      1976      1977
Exports (g + nfs)               7rO      172S      2193      2139     2835      2557
Imports (g + nfs)               132     2348      4121      5191      5657      6496
Resource Balance            -372      -623    -1998    -3052    -2822    -3939
Workers' Remittances            273      1183      1426      1312      983       982
Other FSI and Transfers         -72       -75     -146      -140      -262      -434
Current Account Balance   -171         485      -718    -1880    -2101    -3391
Private Direct Investment        58        27        88       153       27        67
Gross Public M&LT               337       411       269       322      362       310
Amortization on Public M&LT -197        -107      -156      -147      -182      -214
Other (net) /1                  117       102        58      250        133      583
Overall Balance               144      918      -459    -1302    -1761    -2712
Financed by:
Reserve Changes
(- = increase)            -186      -728       431       417       114       349
Convertible Lira Accounts             -237        60       975       787       198
Other Short-term Funds        42        47       -32       -90       860      2165 /2
/1   Includes imports with waivers, program credits, acceptance credits (for
1977) and other M&LT funds.
/2   Includes mainly commercial arrears of $1,507 million and other short-
term liabilities.
20.       About 838,000 Turks (5 percent of the labor force) work abroad.
Between 1970 and 1974, as may be seen in Table 2 above, their remittances
increased in money terms by a factor of five. Subsequently, though, remit-
tances tended to fall significantly; in 1977, they were at only two-thirds of
their 1974 level. One imlportant cause of this decline has been the restric-
tions imposed on immigration by Western European countries in the face of
growing unemployment. But the rate at which foreign earnings are remitted
has also fallen substantially, despite various efforts to increase the attrac-
tiveness of making remittances such as interest rate incentive and import
privileges. This fall is believed to be partly a reflection of hedging
against devaluation of the Turkish Lira, and partly of remittances being
diverted into the black market in response to overvaluation of the lira. It
may also reflect the increasing proportion of migrant workers who have been
allowed to bring their faimilies to join them, and the declining proportion of
relatively recent migrants, a category who might be expected to have a rela-
tively high propensity to remit.



ANNEX I
Page 12 of 21
21.       The decline in workers' remittances was the more significant, be-
cause it occurred in a period of rapid world inflation and at a period when
the Turkish economy was expanding rapidly. In 1973, workers remittances
financed 50 percent of the import bill; by 1977, this figure had dropped to
15 percent.
22.       The rapidly rising current account deficit was not matched by an
increased inflow of medium and long-term external capital. As a result of a
strong desire for economic independence, Turkey has deliberately kept foreign
private investment to a minimum, and official borrowing has been the main
source of medium and long-term external finance. But as may also be seen from
Table 2, the level of official borrowing in gross money terms exhibited little
or no trend during the 1970's, and averaged about $350 million per annum.
This, given the great increases in world prices and in the level of investment
and production in the Turkish economy, has meant a large decline in the rela-
tive contribution of official borrowing to Turkish foreign exchange needs. In
1970, official long-term borrowing financed 30 percent of imports; by 1977
this figure had dropped to a miniscule 5 percent.
23.       Official medium and long-term borrowing stagnated because its
growing need was not fully anticipated, which in turn is attributable to
the Third Plan's rather optimistic forecasts concerning exports and workers'
remittances. But it also reflects, especially in the latter part of the
period (when the need for more external finance was all too apparent), lack
of a dynamic approach towards mobilizing the needed long-term credits. Since
the early 1970's, Turkey has relied heavily only on three official sources of
external capital - Germany, the European Investment Bank, and the Bank. Until
recently, it took little initiative in seeking other official sources of
finance (including the Arab states); its comparative inexperience in the open
market and reluctance to utilize the services of experienced investment firms
as many developing countries did with success, also hampered its limited
efforts to tap commercial sources of medium and long-term funds. Since 1975,
the level of medium and long-term loan commitments, especially from Russia and
Eastern Europe, increased significantly. But most of these commitments have
been tied to specific projects, whose implementation has been slow, and thus
the rate of disbursement from official sources has not risen appreciably.
24.       The upshot of these changes in the relative importance of workers'
remittances and official borrowing, in conjunction with the widening resource
gap, has been a rapid deterioration of the overall balance of payments since
1974. Between 1970 and 1973, the overall balance had been in surplus, and the
reserves had risen very substantially, mainly as a result of the rapid growth
of workers' remittances. In 1974, the overall balance went into deficit, and
by 1977 the deficit had risen to $2.7 billion; and the cumulative deficit from
1974 to 1977 amounted to $6.6 billion. This deficit was financed in part from
the reserves accumulated prior to 1974. Between 1974 and 1977, the reserves
declined by a total of $1.3 billion. At the end of 1977, they stood at a
level of $770 million, equivalent to only one and a half month's imports. The
remainder of the cumulative payments deficit, amounting to some $5.3 billion,
was financed by short-term borrowing of one sort and another.



ANNEX I
Page 13 of 21
25.       The single most important source of short-term credit was the con-
vertible lira accounts (CLAs), which provided a total of nearly $2 billion
during 1975 and 1976. These are deposits with Turkish banks by foreigners
and non-resident Turks, which until recently were guaranteed against exchange
rate risk by the Central Bank, and which offer an interest rate (latterly a
spectrum of interest rates according to maturity) set roughly at Eurodollar
rates. Various other types of short-term loan were also obtained. During
1977 foreign lenders, apprehensive of such extensive short-term financing of
long-term investment, and doubtful of Turkey's ability to meet its foreign
exchange commitments, became reluctant to extend further substantial loans.
The Central Bank was thus driven to delaying payment for imports on a large
scale which of course made it even harder to obtain credit by conventional
means.
Public Finance
26.       The enlargement of the public sector deficit, as noted earlier, was
instrumental in maintaining the rate of growth (and thus widening the resource
gap) in the period after 1973. In assessing the reasons for this, it is not
sufficient to consider the activities of the central government alone. It is
necessary instead, especially since the financial deficits and surpluses of
State Economic Enterprises, are entangled with the consolidated budget of the
central government, to consider the public sector as a whole. The relevant
data are set out in Table 3 below. Since 1972, the excess of public sector
investment over public sector savings has increased in money terms by a factor
of twelve. In relative terms, as the Table shows, the public sector deficit
has risen steadily from about 2 percent of GDP in 1972-73 to about 9 percent
of GDP in 1976-77.
27.       This increase in the public sector deficit is attributable mainly
to a deterioration in the financial position of the SEEs, and in particular
of the operational (as distinct from the financial) SEEs. Successive govern-
ments, in an effort to slow inflation and avoid unpopularity, held SEE price
increases below the rate at which SEE costs were rising. They have also
increased agricultural support prices at such a rate that the Soil Products
Office (the operational SEE mainly concerned with implementing the price
support policy) has been unable to cover its costs. These policies have
caused operational SEEs t:o make heavy losses. In addition, the previous
governments greatly escalated the level of SEE investment. The net effect
has been a very rapid widening of the gap between SEE savings and investment.
As a result, and although the non-SEE-related elements of the consolidated
budget have contributed a modest surplus (partly as the result of a determined
effort to improve the efEiciency of tax collection), the size of the public
sector deficit in relation to GDP has quadrupled in the past five years.



ANNEX I
Page 14 of 21
Table 3: PUBLIC FINANCE
(TL Billions: fiscal years)
Est.
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977
CONSOLIDATED BUDGET
Tax Revenues                   39.9    51.4    65.0    95.0   126.1   172.5
Other Revenue                   7.9     6.9      5.1    11.5    15.1    18.4
Total Revenue                47.8    58.3    70.1   106.5   141.2   190.9
Current Expenditure            24.2    28.7    40.0    59.3    78.6   108.0
Investment Expenditure          8.8    11.6    18.0    22.0    33.6    52.3
Transfer Expenditure /1        19.5    24.6    18.3    31.6    40.7    62.8
Other Expenditure /2            1.0    -0.6      3.2     5.7     5.9    10.7
Total Expenditure            53.5    64.3    79.5   118.6   158.8   233.8
Surplus/Deficit /3             -5.7    -6.0    -9.4   -12.1   -17.6   -42.9
STATE ECONOMIC ENTERPRISES
Gross Profit /4                 4.1     5.2      5.8     4.4    -14.5  -19.8
Fixed Investment               10.7    12.1    15.3    26.2    34.9    40.5
TOTAL PUBLIC SECTOR
Surplus/Deficit /3 /5          -6.2    -6.2   -18.5   -31.7   -53.3   -77.0
(Deficit as % GDPT 76          (2.7)   (2.1)   (4.5)   (6.1)   (8.1)   (9.5)
Financed by:
Foreign Borrowing (net) /5      2.6     3.0      3.4     4.3     7.9      1.3
Central Bank /5                 1.3     0.2      8.8    12.0    32.8    58.2
Other Domestic Borrowing
(net) /5                      2.3     3.0     6.3   -15.4   -12.6    17.5
/1   Current and capital transfers, including transfers to SEEs.
7i   Advance payments minus deferred payments.
/3   Borrowing requirement.
/4   Operating SEEs only.
75   Figures for 1974 and earlier years are staff estimates based on incomplete
data.
/6   GDP for calendar year.
Money and Credit
28.       On average in recent years, Turkish governments financed only a small
part of the public sector deficit by the issue of bonds--one important reason
for this being a ceiling on interest rates, which has made it hard to attract
lenders. Most of the deficit, as may be seen in Table 3, has been financed by



ANNEX I
Page 15 of 21
borrowing from the Central Bank, which raised the money supply both directly
as well as indirectly by increasing the reserves of the banking system. The
decline since 1974 in foreign exchange reserves has had a damping effect on
the money supply. Nonetheless, as may be seen in Table 4 below, the large
public sector deficits have caused the money supply to grow at an average
annual rate of about 30 percent between 1974 and 1977.
Table 4: MONEY AND CREDIT /1
(TL Billions: end-year)
1972   1973   1974   1975   1976    1977
LIABILITIES OF THE BANKING SYSTEM                                          September
Money, of which:                    53.6   71.2   90.5  119.1  152.5   190.0
Currency in circulation           16.0   20.7   26.2   32.9   42.5    63.2
Demand Deposits                   37.6   50.5   64.3   86.2  110.0   126.8
Quasi-Money                         18.3   20.8   25.0   30.4   34.2    37.1
Other Items (net)                   25.5   31.7   36.7   59.3  102.0   125.2
Total Liabilities                   97.4  123.7  152.2  208.8  288.7   352.3
ASSETS OF THE BANKING SYSTEM
Foreign Assets (net)                21.4   31.5   24.8   13.1   15.0         4.2
Domestic Assets, of which:          76.0   92.2  127.4  195.7  273.6   348.1
Credit to Public Sector           20.3   20.0   28.7   56.7   91.1   139.8
Credit to Private Sec_tor         55.7   72.2   98.7  139.0  182.5   208.3
Total Assets                        97.4  123.7  152.2  208.8  288.6   352.3
CENTRAL BANK                                                               December
Credit to Public Sector             19.9   20.1   28.9   55.7   84.3   149.1
/1   Totals may not add up because of rounding.
The rate of credit expansion by the banking system to the private sector has
also been high, but is estimated to have declined from 41 percent in 1975 and
31 percent in 1976 to 20 percent in 1977, which may reflect the decline in the
real rate of growth of output in 1977.
Inflation
29.       Of the several imperfect Turkish price indices, the best is probably
the general index of wholesale prices. This reveals that Turkey, like other
countries, experienced a rising rate of inflation up to 1974, when the index
rose by 30 percent. In 1975, the rate of inflation fell to 10 percent; however
subsequently (and in this respect the experience of Turkey has differed from
that of other countries), it rose steeply to 25 percent in 1976, 35 percent
in 1977 and accelerated in early 1978.



ANNEX I
Page 16 of 21
30.       Excess aggregate demand has been the main cause of the acceleration
of inflation in the last two years. For the rise in the public sector deficit,
in conjunction with the increase in private investment which it stimulated (in
part by expanding the availability of credit), caused an increase in aggregate
demand well beyond the amount needed to offset the damping effect of reduced
exports and an increased import propensity. The consequent upward pressure on
the price level was aggravated in 1977 by import restrictions, which reduced
the output of goods requiring imported inputs, and diverted demand to domesti-
cally produced goods that were already in short supply.
31.       Taking a somewhat longer view of inflation in Turkey, one should not
overlook three important sources of cost-push. One is increases in the legally
prescribed minimum wage. A second is the union movement, which now covers more
than half of all non-agricultural workers and which has aggressively and suc-
cessfully fought for large money wage increases in recent years. The third
is the agricultural price support policy, by which Turkish governments in an
explicit effort to maintain the relative level of farm incomes, have in recent
years decreed very large increases in the prices of agricultural products
(although an effort to check the speed of these increases was made in 1977).
32.       On the other hand, however, inflation in Turkey after 1974 cannot
be attributed to the cost-push influence of import price rises. For the world
rate of inflation has been well below the Turkish rate, and (as mentioned
earlier) the Turkish exchange rate has not fallen by enough to close the gap;
as a result, import prices have risen more slowly than domestic prices and
have thus tended to damp down the rate of inflation in Turkey.
Summary of the Causes of the Present Crisis
33.       One important cause of the crisis of 1977 was the fourfold rise
in the price of oil in 1974, which raised the Turkish propensity to import.
Another external cause was the world recession, which directly reduced the
growth rate of Turkish exports and indirectly reduced the flow of workers'
remittances. But Turkey's trading position was already structurally weak;
and the external pressures on it were compounded by inadequate management
of agricultural export sales and an inappropriate exchange rate policy. In
addition, the crisis was aggravated by inability to develop and tap fresh
sources of medium and long-term external finance.
34.       A major cause of the crisis, however, was that despite the world
recession, the growth rate of the Turkish economy did not fall, and indeed
rose, after 1974. As a result, the increased propensity to import was
reflected in a more than commensurate increase in the absolute level of
imports. In this respect, Turkey behaved in a different fashion from most
other countries, whose governments, faced with the same problems of an
increased import propensity and sluggish exports, caused (or allowed) their
growth rates to fall in order to keep down the level of imports, thus alle-
viating the deterioration of their trade balances. The reasons why the
Turkish economy continued to grow, while others did not, were partly fortui-
tous, in the form of good harvests. But they also reflect the basic Turkish



ANNEX I
Page 17 of 21
commitment to rapid growth. This was most strikingly visible in the increased
scale of public fixed investment from 1975 onwards, which stemmed largely from
a desire to accelerate the pace of economic development. This intensification
of the public investment effort, because of increased gestation lags and a
decline in the rate of capacity utilization, had little direct effect on the
growth of output. But becaLuse it was not matched by an increase in public
savings, it caused a great expansion of aggregate demand.
35.       These adverse but interrelated causes have combined to produce a
very difficult economic situation. The current account deficit in 1977 was
$3.4 billion, and the overall balance of payments deficit was also sizeable.
There is a desperate scarcity of foreign exchange; the reserves in December
1977 were down to $770 million. Prices are rising at more than 30 percent per
annum, while the rate of capacity utilization and the level of employment are
falling.
Short-Term Policy Measures
36.       To alleviate the present foreign exchange shortage without extreme
disruption of the economy, external financial assistance will clearly be
vital. Measures to boost exports and restrict imports will be necessary to
accomplish this; but they will not be sufficient. It will also be necessary
to restrain consumption and/or investment; this will require a reduction of
the public sector deficit, which should also serve to moderate the pace of
inflation.
37.       Certain preliminary steps in the direction of a stabilization policy
were taken by the last coalition government of Mr. Demirel in the course of 1977.
Applications for licenses for non-essential imports were refused and other
applications were delayed. Import deposits were raised by up to 20 percentage
points, depending on the type of import. The lira was devalued by 10 percent
in September, and by a further 5 percent in December. Large increases were
made in September in monopoly prices and in a number of SEE tariffs and
prices, which, it is estimtated, will yield additional revenues of about TL 26
billion annually (equivalent to 3 percent of 1977 GDP). In addition, negotia-
tions were entered into with the IMF, but no agreement had been reached before
this government resigned on December 31.
38.       The new government, formed by Mr. Ecevit in mid-January, proceeded
to formulate its own economic stabilization package prior to resuming negotia-
tions with the IMF on the Standby Agreement, which was subsequently negotiated
and finalized in March wit'h relatively minor changes. As a part of the pack-
age announced after the Parliamentary approval of the annual Program, the lira
was devalued in March by ian additional 30 percent, to a rate of TL 25 per US
dollar (although the effect of this adjustment on exports will be offset to
some degree by a substantial lowering of tax rebates on most exported commodi-
ties). The stamp duty on imports has been increased, which is expected to
discourage imports and to increase public revenues by about TL 20 billion per
annum. Most non-agricultural interest rates have been raised by about 2 per-
centage points; import licenses and travel allowances have been further
restricted, as have imports with waiver and imports financed by acceptance



ANNEX I
Page 18 of 21
credits; the exchange rate guarantee on future (though not existing) CLAs has
been abandoned; and the minimum term of future CLAs has been raised to one
year. Further substantial tax and SEE price increases are expected.
39.       As regards investment and growth, the new government's stated short-
term intention is to cut back on new investment projects, except in the energy
sector, and to concentrate on completion of existing projects, while endeavor-
ing to increase output mainly by fuller use of existing capacity. The Annual
Program for 1978 envisages that real GDP and real investment will both grow by
about 6 percent, while real aggregate consumption will gross by about 2 per-
cent. The consolidated budget for FY1978, approved at the end of February,
envisages government expenditure of TL 265 billion, which is expected to be
about the same in real terms as in FY1977, though about 20 percent higher in
money terms. The Annual Program assumes that imports of goods will be reduced
from $5.8 billion in 1977 to $5.0 billion in 1978; exports of goods are
expected to rise from $1.8 billion to $2.6 billion, partly through sales of
existing stocks of cotton and wheat. It is also assumed that workers' remit-
tances will rise from $1.0 billion to $1.3 billion, and that the 1978 current
account deficit will be reduced to $1.45 billion.
40.       Despite the determination of the new government to tackle the eco-
nomic crisis, it would appear that some of the targets of the 1978 Annual
Program may not be attainable. In particular, it is not clear that the
planned volumes of output, investment and consumption can be achieved, given
the programmed cut of about 20 percent in the volume of imports. And even
this reduced level of imports will be possible only on relatively optimistic
assumptions about the availability of external finance, especially in view of
the very large stock of outstanding short-term external financial liabilities.
Longer-Term Problems and Prospects
41.       Even after the introduction of major policy changes concerning
balance of payments and domestic demand control, the management of the external
payments position in 1978 is likely to prove difficult. The key objectives
should be to reduce the backlog of arrears, to roll over many of the other
short-term obligations as they fall due, and to begin gradually to convert the
bulk of the short-term debt into medium and long-term debt. To accomplish
this restructuring, it will be essential, from 1978 onwards, for Turkey to
pursue actively all available external sources of medium and long-term funds,
and (by improving project implementation) to accelerate the pace at which loan
commitments are translated into disbursements.
42.       The Ecevit government is making a determined effort to raise new
medium and long-term foreign capital. However, if growth is to be achieved
at around the past trend rate, and future external payments crises are to be
avoided, it will be necessary to bring about certain structural changes in
the economy and avoid repetition of certain past patterns of policy. Con-
siderations of this sort, some of which are outlined below, might have some
weight in the forthcoming Fourth Plan, which is now scheduled to be finalized
by end 1978.



ANNEX I
Page 19 of 21
Exports and Imports
43.       It is of the utmLost importance to improve the performance of Turkish
exports, both agricultural and, especially, industrial. A necessary condition
for sustained rapid growth of industrial exports is a competitive exchange
rate, which will require, in addition to the recent devaluation of the lira,
further regular adjustments sufficient to compensate for any significant
excess of the Turkish inflation rate over the rate of inflation in Turkey's
principal trading partners. It might also be necessary to initially tilt
the balance of industrial investment to give somewhat less weight to basic
industries and a greater weight to more export-oriented industries such as
textiles, clothing, food processing, leather products, wood products, and
light engineering. Export-oriented investments by the private sector should
be encouraged by a competitive exchange rate, but they should be further
encouraged through the allocation of import licenses and credit, and by
governmental support of export insurance, promotion and technical assistance
schemes. Industrial exporting, moreover, need not be confined to the private
sector; the government should divert a proportion of public investment into
this type of activity.
44.        Steps will be needed to increase agricultural exports, mainly
through further increases in agricultural productivity. This would require
completion of existing irrigation projects, an increase in the resources
devoted to farmer support services, and better coordination among the public
agencies concerned with agriculture. Agricultural exports, in particular,
could benefit from revision of the price support policy in such a way as to
provide stronger incentives to increase the production of exportable commodi-
ties, and reform of agricultural export sales procedures. On a different
front, greater effort is necessary to increase foreign exchange earnings
through development of the tourist industry which, despite a tremendous
potential, has been given practically no attention to date.
45.       To reconcile reasonably rapid growth with a viable external payments
position through improved export performance will be easier, if the world econ-
omy recovers quickly frorn its recession and the present spread of protectionism
is checked. This reconciliation can partly be assisted by measures to keep
down the economy's propensity to import; but a large reduction cannot be
expected, given that Turkish imports consist overwhelmingly of oil, materials,
and capital goods. A greater recognition of the scarcity of foreign exchange
in the selection of investment projects should have a beneficial effect, as
should maintenance of a competitive exchange rate, continued restrictions on
inessential imports, and increased attention to more efficient methods of
import substitution.
Resource Mobilization and Demand Management
46.       In 1978 and 1979, the measures necessary to recover from the present
crisis will probably cause the annual growth rate of real GDP to fall, on
average, to around 3 or 4 percent; but for the remainder of the Fourth Plan
period, a higher growth should be possible. Exports and investment will need
to grow faster than GDP, while imports must be restrained; thus, consumption



ANNEX I
Page 20 of 21
will have to grow more slowly than GDP, during 1979-83. This will entail a
significant increase in the domestic savings ratio.
47.        It is unlikely that much of this increase can bc brought about by a
rise in private savings, although the allocation and use of private savings
could be improved by increased interest rates and other measures to channel
private savings into the financial system. The remainder of the increase in
the aggregat domestic savings ratio will need to be accomplished by a rise in
the relative level of public savings. Since the social development strategy
of the Turkish government will probably preclude more than a small reduction
in the growth rate of public consumption, increase in public savings will
require an increase in the growth rate of public sector revenues through:
increasing and maintaining the operating profitability of the SEEs; widening
of the coverage of the agricultural income tax; a tightening of business tax
exemptions; the introduction of a value added tax; and an increase in municipal
rates and user charges. Such measures to keep down the public sector deficit
will not only restrain consumption to a level consistent with external equi-
librium; they will also restrain aggregate demand to a level consistent with a
moderate rate of inflation, although to achieve this it will be necessary to
contain the various domestic cost-push pressures noted earlier, possibly by
some form of social contract or incomes policy.
Unemployment and Income Distribution
48.       Apart from the external payments position, another major problem of
Turkish economic development in the medium and long term, is the rising level
of unemployment and underemployment. In the long run, some reduction in
unemployment can be expected from a decline in the population growth rate.
But in the next two decades, since emigration on the scale of the early 1970s
is unlikely to be resumed, the level of unemployment will depend crucially on
the rate at which new jobs are created in Turkey, which makes it desirable to
maintain a high aggregate growth rate. It should also be possible to increase
the level of employment through somewhat greater emphasis on less capital-
intensive commodities and techniques of production. In this regard, the
accelerated development of export-oriented industries, which tend to be com-
paratively labor-intensive, might be beneficial. In addition, it would be
advantageous more generally to modify investment and subsidy policies in
industry and agriculture in such a way as to reduce their bias towards capital-
intensive technology.
49.       While basic needs are largely met, the distribution of income in
Turkey, by comparison with other developing countries, appears rather unequal
(although it seems to have improved somewhat since the late 1960s). One of
the principal causes of this inequality is the large gap, between agricultural
and non-agricultural incomes, which parallels the gap between labor produc-
tivity in the respective sectors. Greater emphasis on agricultural development
should therefore improve income distribution. Political constraints will make
it difficult to bring about greater equality of agricultural land ownership.
But the difference in income between rich and poor farmers, which is the other
principal cause of inequality in Turkey, could be reduced by changes in subsidy
and price support policies, and by increased attention to the development of



ANNEX I
Page 21 of 21
the relatively backward dry-farming sub-sector.  Likewise, the need to increase
public sector revenues in the next few years should not be incompatible with a
restructuring of the tax system in such a way as to make it more progressive,
while the government's policy of providing for basic needs through public
expenditure should continue to reduce the inequality of living standards
relative to the inequality of incomes.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
50.       The extensive short-term borrowing of the past three years has
greatly increased Turkey's external debt, has given it an unattractive maturity
structure, and has caused a sharp rise in debt service payments. At the end
of 1977, the country's total external indebtedness amounted to approximately
$10.0 billion, of which about $5.8 billion was short-term. The remaining $4.2
billion was mainly public and publicly guaranteed medium and long term debt.
Of this, about one third was held by international organizations, mainly the
Bank ($0.8 billion, plus $0.6 billion committed but undisbursed) and the
European Investment Bank; and about one half by foreign governments and gov-
ernment agencies, notably those of the United States, West Germany, Canada
and Russia. In 1977, debt service payments (including interest on short-term
debt) amounted to 15.0 percent of exports of goods and non-factor services
plus workers' remittances.
51.       The first objective of a prudent debt management policy should be
an adequate restructuring cof the short term liabilities. A determined medium
and long-term borrowing effort during the next few years should restore a
satisfactory balance between short and longer-term debt. But despite the
Government's current restructuring efforts, a substantial increase in debt
service payments is inevitable. The debt service ratio can be expected to
rise to about 23 percent in 1978 and peak at anywhere between 30 to 40 percent
in the early eighties, depending on the rerolling and restructuring terms
ultimately agreed to by commercial banks and other bilateral creditors and
export financing agencies. In these circumstances and until the outcome of
the restructuring negotiations as well as the strategy of the Government in
its Fourth (1978-82) Development Plan becomes available, it does not appear
meaningful to venture firm projections on growth, balance of payments or debt
service. However, if as the new Government intends, Turkey pursues sound
medium-term and debt management policies and shows the same seriousness as
it has shown in its short-term policies since assuming office, and as the
financial consequences of tWhe recent crisis are gradually remedied, the debt
service ratio should decline after reaching a peak in the early eighties.
Although a tight balance of payments situation is likely to remain a medium-
term feature of the economy, Turkey would continue to have a substantial
borrowing capacity for medium- and long-term funds provided the present
short-term debt is restructured on adequate terms and future short-term
borrowing is strictly contained. However the situation will need to be
carefully watched and evaluated as soon as a more concrete basis for doing
so becomes available.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of April 30, 1978)
Loan and
Credit                                                        (Less Cancellations US$M)
Number                                                         Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Fifteen loans and nine credits fully disbursed                 255.1    96.8
748-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey    Education                 13.5              4.5
762-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey    Fruit and Vegetable    10.0                 3.4
257-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey    Fruit and Vegetable               15.0      0.2
281-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey    Irrigation Rehab.                 18.0      1.6
817-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey    Steel Mill Expansion   76.0                 5.9
844-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey    Istanbul Water Supply  37.0                13.7
324-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey    Istanbul Urban Dev.                2.3      0.7
845-TUa/ 1972   IGSAS                  Fertilizer Industry    42.0                1.0
330-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey    Livestock II                      16.0      5.6
883-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey    Ceyhan Aslantas           44.0             40.1
360-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey    Ceyhan Aslantas                   30.0      0.5
892-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey    Istanbul Power Dist.   14.0                 4.5
893-TU   1973   Turkish State Railway Railway Project           46.7             13.0
957-TU   1974   Republic of Turkey    Antalya Forestry          40.0              8.2
1023-TU   1974   TEK/TKI                Elbistan Power          148.0             96.2
1024-TU   1974   DYB                     Industry                40.0              8.5
1078-TU   1975   TSKB                   Industry                 65.0            11.8
1130-TU   1975   Republic of Turkey    Rural Development         75.0            62.9
1248-TU   1976   Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)         Agriculture Credit      54.2             45.0
1258-TU   1976   State Pulp and Paper
Industry (SEKA)      Newsprint                70.0            40.6
1L265-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey    Livestock III            21.5            21.1
1194-TU   1976   TEK                     Power Transmission II  56.0             56.0
1310-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey    Tourism                   26.0            25.7
1379-TU   1977   DYB                     Industry                70.0             70.0
1430-TU   1977   TSKB                    Industry                74.0            68.3
Total                                   1278.0  178.1   619.0
of which has been repaid               126.3    3.8
Total now outstanding                   1151.7  174.3
Amount sold                  3.6
of which has been repaid  3.6          -0-      -0-
Total now held by Bank and IDAkb        1151.7  174.3
Total undisbursed                        610.4    8.6   619.0
a/ Includes $18.0 million approved on April 15, 1976
b/ Prior to exchange adjustments



AN'NEX II
Page 2 of 8
STATUS OF BM\NK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TTRxEY
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTIENTS
(As of April 30, 1978)
Fiscal                                           Amount in US$ Million
Year      Obligor        ape of Business         Loan     Equity    Total
1964      TSKB           DFC                      -        0.92      0.92
1966      SIFAS I        Nylon Yarn             0.90       0.47      1.37
1967      TSKB II        DFC                       -       0.34      0.34
1969      TSKB III       DFC                      -        0.41      0.41
1969      SIFAS II       Nylon Yarn             1.50       0.43      1.93
1970      Viking I       Pulp and Paper         2.50       0.62      3.12
1970      ACS            Glass                 10.00       1.58    11.58
1971      NASAS          Aluminum               7.00      -1.37      8.37
1971      SIFAS III      Nylon Yarn             0.75         -       0.75
1971      Viking II      Pulp and Paper           -        0.05      0.05
1972      SIFAS IV       Nylon Yarn                        0.52      0.52
1972      TSKB IV        DEC                       -       0.43      0.43
1973      TSKB V         DFC                   10.00         -      10.00
1973      Akdeniz        Tcurisn                0.33       0.27      0.60
1974      Borusan        Steel Pipes            3.60       0.44      4.04
1974      AKSA           Textiles              10.00         -     10.00
1975      Kartaltepe    Textiles                1.30         -       1.30
1975      Sasa           Nylon Yarn            15.00         -      15.00
1975      Aslan          Cenment               10.60         -     10.60
1975      DOKTAS         Steel                  7.50       1.37      8.87
1975      TSKB           DFC                   25.00       1.22    26.22
1976      NASAS          Aluminum               1.58         -      1.58
1976      TSKB           DFC                   25.00         -     25.00
1976      Asil Celik    Steel                  12.00       2.18    14.18
1977      BORUSAN        Steel Pipes              -        0.16     0.16
Total Gross Comiitments             144.56     12.78   157.34
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
exchange adjustments, repayments  7 8.18       3. 00    81 18
and sales                                    -
Total Commitments now held by IFC  66.38         9. 78   76.16
Total Undisbursed                     1.59       2.34     3.93



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 748 Education Project:  US$13.5 million loan of June 9, 1971.  Effec-
tive Date:  September 29, 1971.  Closing Date:  September 30, 1978.
The project is about two years behind schedule, due mainly to ini-
tial difficulties in providing the project unit with adequate qualified staff
and authority commensurate with its responsibilities. However, implementation
is now proceeding well, with equipment procurement progressing satisfactorily.
Training of teachers for technician schools, adult training centers and
practical trade schools has made considerable progress. The Management
Training Institute has been established on an interim basis pending passage
of legislation formally establishing it, and its instructors are undergoing
training. Sixty-seven local advisory committees for vocational and technical
education have been established, one in each province.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 762/257 Fruit and Vegetable Export Project:  US$10 million
loan and US$15 million credit of June 22, 1971. Effective Date: May 19,
1972. Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The project is nearing completion, with three of its four com-
ponents, including refrigerated trailer and towing units, marketing facili-
ties and a roll-on roll-off ferryship, fully implemented. A fourth component,
comprising credit and technical assistance for citrus development, underwent
initial start-up delays, but is now well established and being implemented
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 281 Irrigation Rehabilitation Project: US$18 million credit of
January 25, 1972. Effective Date: April 27, 1972. Closing Date: December
31, 1978.
Construction of irrigation and drainage channels and on-farm works
at Silifke and Tokat is nearly complete, but on-farm works are still behind
schedule at Koprucay because of the extremely short annual work season.
Arrangements to ensure use of remaining loan funds before the revised closing
date are being finalized by the implementing agencies, and project works not
completed by the closing date would be carried out using Government funds.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 817 Steel Mill Expansion Project: US$76 million loan of April 28,
1972. Effective Date: August 4, 1972. Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The project is expected to be completed in the second half of 1978,
three years behind the original schedule, due to delays in beginning procure-
ment stemming largely from inefficient management. An additional $4.0 million
in foreign exchange is required for project completion, and the Government is
arranging this.
Ln. No. 844 Istanbul Water Supply Project: US$37 million loan of June 30,
1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project construction was delayed about 2-1/2 years due mainly to
problems in the use of ICB procurement procedures and inefficient management.
However, construction moved swiftly in 1977 and the two major water resources
development programs are expected to be completed by mid-1978. Substantial
improvements to the distribution system are required, however, to enable full
utilization to be made of the new water sources. Although a tariff increase
was implemented in March 1978, this was insufficient to enable ISI to generate
sufficient funds for future ongoing investment in the distribution system, and
the Government has been requested to explore ways to resolve the lack of ade-
quate local and foreign currency.
Cr. No. 324 Istanbul Urban Development Project: US$2.3 million credit of
June 30, 1972. Effective ])ate: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
Consultants have completed Phase I of the general urban planning and
urban transport/land use modelling studies as well as studies on wastewater
and bus/traffic engineering and control. Plans for Phase II are currently
underway.
Ln. No. 845 IGSAS (Istanbul Fertilizer Company) Project: US$42 million loan
of June 30, 1972 as amended April 18, 1975. Effective Date: October 6, 1972.
Closing Date: October 31, 1978.
The project has been physically completed at a cost of $146 million,
some $16 million above the original estimate, with the overrun being met by
the Government, the State Investment Bank, and shareholders. Production
commenced in April 1977, but soon thereafter severe technical problems were
encountered, resulting in lengthy shutdowns which have prevented steady
commercial operation at satisfactory levels being achieved up to now despite
repeated efforts. Final performance testing of the plant is, however,
expected to be possible tc, start in mid-1978.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Cr. No. 330 Second Livestock Project: US$16 million credit of September 28,
1972. Effective Date: January 5, 1973. Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The fattening subproject is progressing satisfactorily and all
funds have been committed. The Village Livestock Development (VSD) sub-
project, after a slow start resulting from initial difficulties in recruit-
ment of technicians and technical specialists, which have been overcome
through application of suitable incentives, and after gaining the confidence
of farmers in the program, is now progressing rapidly, with 95 percent of the
funds committed. The project is expected to be completed in late summer 1978.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project: US$44 million
loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973.  Effective Date:  March 20,
1974. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Construction of diversion tunnels has met with difficult rock condi-
tions and several cave-ins, but as a result of revised tunnelling methods, the
diversion is now expected to be completed before the 1978-79 flood season,
which is about one year behind the contract date and two years behind the
appraisal estimate. After some initial delays, progress in construction of
the irrigation works is satisfactory and by the end of 1977 the system was
ready to deliver water to about 36,500 ha or about 65 percent of the appraisal
estimate for 1977. However, on-farm works are behind the appraisal schedule,
with 55 percent and 29 percent of 1977 targets completed respectively for land
levelling and surface drainage. Construction of feeder roads has progressed
faster than initially estimated, with 156 percent of the 1977 target completed
or 59 percent of project total. A permanent director and one of the two
extension consultants have been appointed. Full-time subject matter special-
ists have been hired and recruitment of field staff is continuing.
Ln. No. 892 Istanbul Power Distribution Project: US$14.0 million loan of
May 25, 1973. Effective Date: September 28, 1973. Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
The project has been delayed by about four years mainly by slow pro-
curement action; however, this is now almost completed. Local costs have
increased by nearly 300 percent over appraisal estimates, and foreign costs by
26 percent. Consultant studies of the Istanbul power market and of the pro-
posed reorganization of the company's electricity and transport services have
been completed; a study of its gas operations is under review. IETT's tariffs
were raised following the countrywide tariff adjustments made in September
1977 and additional steps are planned by the Government to help cover the
increased project costs and revitalize the company's finances.
Ln. No. 893 Turkish State Railways: US$47 million loan of May 25, 1973.
Effective Date: August 28, 1973. Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
After initial delays, physical progress, including track renewals,
rolling stock, and locomotive production, the latter financed by the European
Investment Bank, is satisfactory. Nearly 75 percent of the loan has been



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
disbursed and procurement actions have been or are in the process of being
completed for use of the remaining loan funds. Despite two tariff increases
since the loan was made, the Railways have continued to fall short of meetin
the financial targets in the revised Plan of Action agreed with the Bank in
mid-1975. However, it is hoped that the further increases in passenger fares
averaging about 70 percent which became effective in March of this year, and
substantial increases in freight tariffs anticipated in the near future, will
improve the Railways' financial situation. While the dieselization program
is making satisfactory progress, other measures to improve operational effi-
ciency, such as appropriate manpower planning have not been given sufficient
attention.
Ln. No. 957 Antalya/Akdeni,z Forest Utilization Project: US$40 million loan of
January 28, 1974. Effective Date: May 26, 1976. Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
Following the approval by the Executive Directors of needed changes
in the agreements arising from relocation of the site of the pulp and paper
mill, the loan was declared effective. Construction has begun at the new site,
and the project is expected to be completed by the beginning of 1981, 1-1/2
years behind the revised schedule. The cost overruns are being met by the
Government and the State Investment Bank. Some cases of sub-standard civil
works construction have occurred, b-ut a corrective program and strengthened
supervision by SEKA have produced some improvement. The Government has been
unable to authorize the foreign exchange transfers needed to permit continued
procurement for the industrial part of the project, but now expects to make
certain critically needed transfers shortly.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project: US$148 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: June 1, 1976. Closing Date: July 30, 1982.
Engineering and contracting are proceeding, but project implementa-
tion has been delayed as a result of critical problems, including insufficient
staff, inefficient management, inadequate coordination among various agencies
and unsatisfactory performance of civil contractors. After the Bank and the
co-lenders reviewed the situation in January and April 1977 with the Turkish
authorities, the remedial measures initiated by Turkey have had quite encour-
aging results in improving project coordination and in the physical aspects of
project implementation.
Ln. No. 1024 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$40 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: September 30, 1974. Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
The loan was fully committed in February 1977, with eleven sub-
projects approved by the Bank. Project implementation is satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1078 TSKB (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey):  US$65 million
loan of January 22, 1974.  Effective Date:  April 24, 1975.  Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
The loan is fully committed and project implementation is satis-
factory, although disbursements are somewhat behind original appraisal esti-
mates, as a result of the current difficulties in Turkey's investment climate.
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankiri Rural Development: US$75 million loan of June 23,
1975. Effective Date: January 2, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is progressing satisfactorily. The project extension
service and credit operations are operating successfully and consultants are
being engaged. Corum dam is nearing completion and the associated irrigation
works are expected to be completed during the summer of 1978. Kumbaba pumping
station and the associated irrigation networks are nearly completed. Con-
struction of the remaining village centers will be delayed until 1979 while a
plan for the use and maintenance of the centers already built is being drawn
up. Other civil works are well underway.
Ln. No. 1194 Second TEK Power Transmission Project: US$56 million loan of
June 14, 1976. Effective Date: April 21, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Procurement action is somewhat behind schedule, but nearly half the
loan is committed. Some deliveries have also been delayed because of foreign
exchange shortages, but this situation is expected to improve, and overall
project implementation and the rate of disbursement should also improve in the
coming period.
Ln. No. 1248 Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries: US$54.2 million loan of
May 5, 1976. Effective Date: May 11, 1977. Closing Date: September 30,
1981.
Project implementation is generally satisfactory. Under the agro-
industries component, the responsible Project Unit is actively preparing
sub-projects for marketing ana processing facilities. The supervised credit
component, an on-going program of the Agriculture Bank (TCZB), which is being
expanded with Bank assistance, is also proceeding well. The ferryship com-
ponent has been implemented, and the two roll-on and roll-off ships purchased
under this project and the Fruit and Vegetable Export project, are now operat-
ing a regularly scheduled service between ports in Turkey and two ports in
Italy. However, TCZB is behind schedule in preparing a program of improvement
of its operations, financial planning and resources, and in hiring consultants
to assist in evaluating its programs. At the Borrower's request, a cattle-
fattening component of the Project, and $7.7 million of the original loan
amount of $63 million, allocated for this purpose, were cancelled on May 5,
i977. Also, as provided for in the Loan Agreement, $1.04 million for training
was cancelled on December 22, 1977, following approval of UNDP funds for this
purpose.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 1258 Balikesir Newsprint: US$70 million loan of May 21, 1976.
Effective Date: October 15, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation is about six months behind schedule but
quality of work is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1265 Livestock III: US$21.5 million loan of May 26, 1976. Effective
Date: February 25, 1977. Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
After a slower than anticipated start-up, project implementation is
now satisfactory. Project offices have been established and are virtually
fully staffed, with all three consultants on post. Preparation of farm devel-
opment plans has been slower than expected; however, substantial numbers of
sub-loan applications have been approved and are in the process of preparation,
including a higher proportion than expected of small farmers.
Ln. No. 1310 South AntalyaL Tourism Infrastructure: US$26 million loan of
July 9, 1976. Effective Date: March 1, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Implementation of most project components is satisfactory, with
progress being made in preparation of specifications and project design work.
Staffing of the Project Unit is expected to be accelerated now that the
Director has been appointed.
Ln. No. 1379 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$70 million loan of
March 23, 1977. Effective Date: July 21, 1977. Closing Date: March 31,
1981.
Loan commitments and disbursements have not started yet, mainly due
to changes in Government which led to delays in formulating the 1978 Annual
Program. However, DYB has recently discussed with the Bank a pipeline suffi-
cient to fully commit the loan by the terminal date of March 31, 1979 and
submitted the first sub-project. DYB has been experiencing severe staff
constraints, which it has in part overcome by new recruitment on improved
contract terms.
Ln. No. 1430 TSKB XII (In,dustrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$74.0
million loan of June 3, 1977. Effective Date: August 29, 1977. Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
Progress is satisfactory and as of April 30, 1978 about $29 million
had been committed. In 1977, TSKB essentially reached an agreed target by
allocating 38 percent of its resources to projects in less developed regions,
and exceeded another in its assistance to small and medium-scale labor-
intensive enterprises. TSKB has so far been unable to raise resources in
international capital markets as expected because of Turkey's economic diffi-
culties, but the interest. of several financing sources is anticipated once
conditions permit renewed efforts.



ANNEX III
TURKEY
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare             Eighteen months (March 1976-
project:                                     September 1977)
(b)  Agency which prepared project:               Directorate for Livestock
Development Projects (LDP)
of the Ministry of Food,
Agriculture and Livestock
MINAG, with assistance from
two FAO/CP missions and one
Bank mission
(c)  Project first presented to Bank:             September 1977
(d)  First Bank mission to review project:        Not applicable
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:              October 1977
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                  April 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:               September 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Key measures to be taken by the Borrower include:
(a)  appointment of the Project Manager and establishment and
staffing of the Van regional office and three of the provin-
cial offices, by December 31, 1978; and establishment and
staffing of the two other provincial offices by not later
than December 31, 1979, thus increasing total staff of the
Village Development Subproject Division (VSD) of LDP to 66
professionals, 60 middle level technicians and 3 technical
specialists (paragraph 51-52).
(b)  participation in (i) a joint Bank-Government-Agricultural
Bank of Turkey (TCZB) review and evaluation of small farmer
lending not later than December 31, 1980 and annually there-
after (paragraph 49); and (ii) a joint Bank-Government-TCZB
review of the appropriateness, in the light of prevailing
conditions, of the interest rate and other TCZB subloan con-
ditions at such time as any of the parties request (para-
graph 57); and
(c) ensuring that TCZB directs and adequately trains its staff
to undertake small-farmer lending (paragraph 49).



25                                                                                        ;                                           i0                                            45.
BULGARIA  ^,                                                                                                                                                   U. S. S    R
J   .,, rv,                      L A GK                            S__   0c A
'.,                  ozoNPA44A~~~cs          /SINOP
__ ~~~~~~~~~~0ZO19N ,-fw~Tf
~~Seo   Mace                                                                           p--YTRA8ZON~~~~~~~~~~A ML  /
LUKAT-    TB
j     7;~$)- .    _           ,GA ,                                                              5VAS ,tS; 4e
ARA      AOEE   BY                  AAKFYONA :E e,j                                             ( s YG Ro  0   VAN1/. PocAeofvss:lCei3
*                                   RJET AND PULIC  ,"                                 IFAGA 7IN g  0 /                                                     T         sKIklnsOpeeOnacmtoi7 55_
1ALIKcr RsLIL5           /                      *Ar<                                    Y- e             io n 1
O5 71  7EIrER A  TAL EA  N       S""""'                 "  GAZ/ 3 @ IntemationadANeC  T
;to |  3j0'                                        i   I        0. 77t /7 7 .a77StLES  5   /  />~7ytf777~or7 1w7  40 CE
AREAS COVERED BY BANK-FINANCED ~ ~ ~ ~~S R
-ISPeRTA                           m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~( SSKMl leot ecrpee y17
KeLOM~~~~~~~~~~~~TER$~~~ANE
_______________T_U__R__K __E ___Y                                                                                               P,,eeeorer,.eece  M ,.A f LireAo.t- eket toC,dl be6 ecaeTUdby178
tO                                                                                                 roe ecootoerro                             BK   .ee  -rlr        y  1Q8



