Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY             FIlE   tOP'
Report No. 1933a-TU
TURKEY
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 12, 1978
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1             =       Turkish Lira (LT) 19.25
LT 1             =       US$0.0519
LT 1,000,000     =       US$51,948
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)             =       2.20 pounds
1 metric ton                =       1,000 kilograms
1 metric ton                =       0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)                 =       1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)          2 =       0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha) = 10,000 m  =        2.47 acres
1 decare = 0.1 ha      2            0.25 acre
1 square kilometer (km )=
100 ha        =       0.386 square mile
1 liter (1)                 =       0.264 gallon
ABBREVIATIONS
AI     -   Artificial Insemination
DANB   -   Directorate of Artificial and Natural Breeding and
Record Keeping of MINAG
EBK    -   Meat and Fish Organization
EDLD   -   Encouragement and Development Loans Division of TCZB
GDAA   -   General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs of MINAG
GDAR   -   General Directorate of Agricultural Research of MINAG
GDVS   -   General Directorate of Veterinary Services of MINAG
GOT    -   Government of Turkey
IDPD   -   Intensive Dairy Production Division of LDP
LDP    -   Directorate for Livestock Development Projects of MINAG
MINAG  -   Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock
SEE    -   State Economic Enterprise
SOF    -   Special Operational Fund
SPO    -   State Planning Organization
TCZB   -   Agricultural Bank of Turkey
TSEK   -   Milk Industries Organization
VSD    -   Village Development Subproject
FISCAL YEAR (GOT)
March 1 - February 28
FISCAL YEAR (TCZB)
January 1 - December 31
/1 The Turkish Lira was devalued to
US$ = LT 25.00 as of March 1, 1978.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    THE LIVESTOCK SUBSECTOR  ..............................                            1
A.  Background  ......................                                             1
B.    The Subsector  in the Economy   .... ......... .                            2
General        ................................                          2
Livestock Productivity   ..... .......... .                              3
Potential  for Livestock  Improvement                  .........         4
C.    Government  Policy   ...... ............. .                                 5
General        ................................                          5
Milk and Meat Marketing   ..... ...........                              6
Price Incentives   ......         .............                          6
Newer Technology ................-                                       7
II.    THE PROJECT.10
I.    TEPOET ........................................                                   1
A.  Introduction .               ............. I", .........                     10
B.    Brief Description   .............................                          10
C.    Detailed Features   .............................                          11
Project Area   ................................                         11
On-Lending Program   ..........................                         12
On-Farm Development   .........................                         15
Technical  Services  ...........................                        16-
Technical  Studies   ...........................                        18
Training   ....................................                         18
D.    Cost Estimates   ................................                          19
E.    Financing   .....................................                          20
F.    Procurement   ...................................                          21
Livestock   ...................................                         21
Tractors  and Machinery   ......................                        22
Vehicles  .......................                                       22
Constructions,  Tools,  Seed and Fertilizer                             23
G.    Disbursements             .................      ................          23
H.    Environmental  Impact   ..........................                         24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankt authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
III.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION   .............................                   24
A.    Organization and Management   ....            ...............      24
B.    On-Lending Policies and Procedures   ....           ........       26
C.    Technical Services   ............................                  29
D.    Technical Studies   .............................                  29
E.    Training   ......................................                  30
F.    Accounting and Auditing   .......................                  31
G.    Monitoring and Evaluation   .....................                  31
IV.    TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS   .............................                   32
A.    Pasture and Feedstuff Production   ....            ..........      32
B.    Livestock Development Models   ....            ..............      33
V.    MARKETING AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS  ........ .. .........                  33
A.    Production   ....................................                  33
B.   Prices   ........................................                   34
C.    Marketing   .....................................                  34
D.    Producer Income and Financial Rates of Return ..                   35
Subborrowers and Incomes  .....................                 35
VI.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION   .........................                   37
A.    Aggregate Economic Return   .....................                  37
B.    Beneficiaries   .................................                  41
C.    Project Risks   .................................                  42
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   .............                    43
TEXT TABLES
5.1  Producers' Benefits and Financial Rates of Return ........                      36
6.1  Economic Rate of Return ..................................                      40
ANNEXES
1. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
2. Total Project Cost and Phasing
3.  Income Comparisons and Investments Financed by the Project
4. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
CHART
World Bank-18657 Implementation Schedule
MAPS
IBRD 13431R        Areas Covered by Bank-Financed Projects and
Public Infrastructure in the Livestock Subsector
IBRD 13432         Project Areas of Second and Fourth Livestock Projects






TURKEY
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE LIVESTOCK SUBSECTOR
A. Background
1.01      The Government of Turkey has requested a Bank Loan to assist in
financing a six-year repeater project to consolidate and expand the moderni-
zation of village livestock production in eastern Turkey which was initiated
under the Second Livestock Development Project (Credit 330-TU), and to extend
to the east the improved dairy production concepts which were developed in
western and central Turkey under the First and Third Livestock Development
Projects (Credit 236-TU and Loan 1265-TU, respectively). The project is
expected to comprise the main part of Turkey's Fourth Five-Year Plan for devel-
opment of the livestock subsector. It seeks generally to develop Turkey's
extensive livestock resource, which is one of the largest in Europe and the
Middle East, in order to maintain the country's self-sufficiency in livestock
products and to improve incomes among village families in eastern Turkey who
own the bulk of the livestock resource and constitute the majority of that
region's rural poor.
1.02      The Bank and IDA have previously made eight loans and seven credits
to Turkey for agriculture as follows: Grain Storage, Loan 27-TU (US$3.9
million); Seyhan Irrigation, Loan 63-TU (US$25.2 million), Credit 38-TU
(US$20.0 million), Fruit and Vegetable Export, Loan 762-TU (US$10 million),
Credit 257-TU (US$15.0 million); Intensive Dairy Production, Credit 236-TU
(US$4.5 million); Irrigation Rehabilitation Completion, Credit 281-TU
(US$18.0 million); Second Livestock Development, Credit 330-TU (US$16.0
million); Seyhan Irrigation, Stage II, Loan 587-TU (US$12.0 million), Credit
143-TU (US$14.2 million); Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose, Loan 883-TU (US$44.0
million), Credit 360-TU (US$30 million); Corum-Cankiri Rural Development, Loan
1130-TU (US$75.0 million); Agriculture Credit and Agroindustries, Loan 1248-TU
(US$53.4 million); Third Livestock Development Project, Loan 1265-TU (US$21.5
million).
1.03      The preparation of the project was undertaken by the General Direc-
torate of Livestock Development Projects (LDP) of the Ministry of Food, Agri-
culture and Livestock (MINAG) assisted by two FAO-CP missions which visited
Turkey in August 1976 and March/April 1977 and by a Bank mission which visited
the country in April 1977. This report is based on the findings of a mission
which visited Turkey to appraise the project in October/November 1977 com-
prising Messrs. N.A. Worker, F.J. Tellez, W.H. Spall, S.K. Bhatnagar (Bank)
and S. Guss (Consultant).



B. The Subsector in the Economy
General
1.04      Livestock is a key resource in Turkey, contributing about 30% of the
gross value of agricultural production and 8% of GNP. The livestock population
is amongst the highest in Europe and the Middle East. Current estimates indi-
cate the country has about 41.1 million sheep, 18.8 million goats, 14.8 mil-
lion cattle and buffalo, 2.3 million horses and donkeys and 41.7 million
poultry and turkeys. Despite this extensive resource, analysis of published
figures indicates that the number of grazing animals has increased slowly at
only about 0.7% annually since the early 1960's, due mainly to competition
from crop farming and the inability of animal producers to modernize and to
increase their productivity, although this slow increase has been partly
offset by considerable growth in poultry and broiler numbers.
1.05      Principal livestock outputs include milk, meat, eggs, wool, mohair,
hides, draft power and transport. Manure is an important by-product for
fertilizer and fuel. Pig products are insignificant because of religious
objections. The First (1963-67), Second (1968-72) and Third (1973-77) Devel-
opment Plans had targets for growth of livestock products of 5.6, 4.8 and 5%
per annum, respectively. Actual growth over the period 1963-75 was about 2.5%
per annum. This barely matched human population increase and was far below
the current anticipated demand for all commodities except eggs.
1.06      External trade in livestock and livestock products is limited,
virtually all production being used domestically. Imports (mainly pedigree
stock for breed improvement) averaged about US$2.2 million per year over
the years 1971-75 and exports (mainly live sheep and cattle for slaughter,
and mohair) averaged only some US$33.5 million per year over the same period.
The latter figure probably underestimates the true situation due to illegal
exports to Iran and Syria which, although not quantifiable, are considered to
be appreciable. Demand projections for livestock products made during the
Bank's recent Agricultural Sector Survey indicate that Turkey will move from
its present state of relative self-sufficiency to one where in 1985 it is
estimated it would need to import over 30% of its milk and meat and over
20% of its wool and mohair requirements, unless there is a major change in
historical production and consumption trends.
1.07      Apart from its important direct contribution to the value of
agricultural output and to the national food supply, the role of livestock
in village family life in Turkey is paramount. Livestock ownership is
widespread within rural families as most communities have access to common
grazing lands. Livestock products, notably milk and its products, comprise
a main source of food and income for most farm families, particularly the
smaller ones. Livestock is thus not only a significant component of the
agricultural sector but is vital in the lives of the rural poor. Since the
greatest number of livestock is owned by such families, the development
of the livestock subsector represents an important means for raising incomes
of this group and for promoting more equitable income levels generally.



-3-
Livestock Productivity
1.08      Livestock production throughout Turkey is largely traditional.
Modernizing influences are limited mainly to innovations introduced under the
first three Bank-financed Livestock Projects (paras. 1.20-1.23). The prin-
cipal characteristic of the subsector is its low productivity. Animals
subsist mainly on residues from cereal crops, on volunteer growth on fallowed
crop lands, and on natural grazing on the poorer, non-cultivable areas. It
is a rational system which utilizes feed resources with no alternative use.
It is inefficient, however, in that this essentially low-quality, maintenance
diet is insufficient to meet the production needs of animals. Further,
because farmers generally lack access to technical services, credit and other
inputs, they make little attempt to supplement the quality of the feed or to
manipulate its supply to match animal requirements. Technical coefficients
thus tend to be uniformly poor and output exceptionally low.
1.09      Statistics from municipal and Meat and Fish Organization (EBK)
facilities, which account for 100% of official and an estimated 60% of total
slaughter, indicate that the average adult carcass of cattle killed in these
facilities weighs only 80 to 90 kg, with a markedly declining trend over
recent years. Young cattle average only 30 to 35 kg carcass weight and in
recent years have formed a steadily increasing proportion of total cattle
slaughtered, to a point where they now represent almost one half of the total
kill. The average of all cattle slaughtered is currently only some 57 kg
carcass weight. Such low slaughter weights, combined with an 18-month calving
interval and depressed weaning and offtake rates (41 and 18%, respectively),
result in a beef output of only some 135,000 tons annually from the national
herd, or only one ton of carcass per 100 cattle. Sheep and goats enjoy a
small comparative advantage over cattle because they can use low-quality feed
resources somewhat better. Weaning rates of sheep and goats (50 and 56%,
respectively), offtake (27 and 23%, respectively) and carcass weights (16 to
17 kg for mature animals and 8 kg for young) tend, relatively, to be better.
There is still room for improvement, however, as total sheep and goat meat
production, estimated at about 190,000 tons per year from 58 million head,
is only one ton of carcass per 300 animals.
1.10      Dairy productivity is also low.  Even though milk and its products
are traditional in the diet 1/, milk production is non-specialized and tends
to be an incidental by-product of livestock keeping. The principal exceptions
are the intensive dairy units established under the Bank-assisted First Live-
stock Project and the repeater Third Project (paras. 1.21-1.22). Levels of
production are poor for all species. Average output per lactation is only
some 580 kg for cows, 48 kg for sheep and 70 kg for goats. The low product-
ivity of cows is of particular concern to village families who are heavily
dependent on cows, with their longer lactation characteristics, to supplement
1/   Annual per capita consumption of milk and milk products is estimated
by FAO at about 110 liters, considerably less than Ireland's annual
consumption of 218 liters per capita but more than Greece's 56 liters
per capita (FAO "World Dairy Economy in Figures").



- 4 -
milk from sheep and goats which tend to be seasonal breeders and to lactate
for only 3 to 4 months. It is also of concern to Government who, in
attempting to maintain milk supplies to the rapidly expanding urban centers,
is faced with the difficulty that growth in dairy cattle numbers and in
total cow milk production has increased over the past 15 years at a rate
which is only about one-half that of the national population increase,
with the result that milk shortages in the main centers of urban growth are
becoming increasingly acute, particularly in winter.
Potential for Livestock Improvement
1.11      Overall, the livestock subsector is presently operating at only some
10-20% of its potential. The scope for improvement is therefore large. There
are two main reasons for this low productivity:
(i) poor genetic merit of local breeds; and
(ii) inadequate management, particularly veterinary health care
and feeding.
These aspects need addressing and the correct emphasis needs to be accorded
to each if the potential of the industry is to be realised.
1.12      There is a general need for the genetic upgrading of all classes
of indigenous livestock in Turkey but highest priority needs to be given
to improving fertility, milk yield and growth rate in sheep and cattle--
particularly in cattle, where the greater potential exists. Turkey has for
some years been importing pedigree stock of improved breeds such as Holstein,
Brown Swiss and Jersey cattle and Merino sheep to serve as a nucleus for
upgrading purposes. Under the First Livestock Project, over 3,000 pedigree
Holstein heifers and bulls were imported from western Europe and over 10,000
pedigree Holstein and Brown Swiss heifers and bulls are expected to be imported
under the Third Project. These will supplement the existing 5,000 or so
pedigree cattle on Government farms and will form the main source of nucleus
stock for genetic upgrading.
1.13      To manage existing animals better and to cater for an increasing
population of improved animals, the current levels of health care and feeding
need raising, through improved technical services. At present there are
several health and disease problems in the country (e.g. foot and mouth,
anthrax, blackleg, etc.) which are constraining production, and their effects
can be expected to increase as production is intensified. Fortunately, most
health and disease problems are defined and are capable of being controlled
with adequate drugs, vaccines and veterinary staffing.
1.14      Important as veterinary problems are, poor nutrition is currently
an even more limiting constraint and there is a need to expand the feed
base significantly. There is some potential for making better use of crop
residues, although they are relatively fixed in amount and generally effi-
ciently utilized and have only limited possibilities for expansion.  Better



-5-
potential exists for increased feed production from natural grasslands, of
which there are some 26 million ha, through fertilization, oversowing and
better grazing management, but costs are high and returns to farmers appear
marginal because most of the land on which natural pastures are found is of
relatively poor quality.
1.15      By far the best possibilities for expansion of the forage base
lie in making more efficient use of fallow lands, of which there are over
8 million ha available annually. Fallowing is traditional, to conserve
soil moisture and build fertility. There have been few attempts to inte-
grate forages into the crop rotation to replace the fallow, although a suc-
cessful start has been made under the three Bank-assisted Livestock Projects.
The possibilities of this approach are considerable because the areas in
fallow are extensive and the average duration of fallow is about 14 months.
Integrating crop and livestock production on a rotational basis, through the
introduction of forage crops and legume-based pasture for grazing by livestock
in place of the fallow, would provide the additional feed necessary for
livestock production and improve soil fertility. Such a system would result
in livestock and crop production being complementary rather than mainly
competitive as they tend to be now, and would provide the enlarged feed base
needed by livestock and higher crop yields. This is considered the essential
long-term strategy for expanding the feed base for livestock.
C. Government Policy
General
1.16      Government's agricultural and livestock policies in the first three
Five-Year Development Plans have emphasized increased production in order to
satisfy both rising domestic demands and to encourage exports and thereby
increased earnings of scarce foreign exchange. Government has also become
increasingly conscious of income inequities in the country, particularly
between urban and rural dwellers and between the populations of western and
eastern Turkey. This has led to an awareness of the need to provide for
greater development of rural resources, particularly those in eastern Turkey,
which in turn has focused attention on the need to assist livestock producers
in the east who comprise the bulk of the rural population there. In each of
its three succeeding Five-Year Plans, Government has given increasing emphasis
to developing livestock resources. Government's attempts to stimulate live-
stock production have been mainly through a strategy of:
(i) expanding outlets for incremental production through
improved processing/marketing facilities;
(ii) increasing the profitability of livestock production
through price incentives; and



-6-
(iii) improving the efficiency of production by the introduc-
tion of new technology at the farm level through the
medium of investment credit linked with technical
assistance.
Milk and Meat Marketing
1.17      Milk, meat and live animal marketing is currently being developed
by Government in areas lacking such facilities and with potential for develop-
ment. Under an extensive program to expand milk marketing, the Turkish Milk
Industries Organization (TSEK), a State Economic Enterprises (SEE) is cur-
rently establishing a national milk grid at a cost in excess of LT one bil-
lion. Under the program, which is financed almost wholly from local sources,
TSEK is building about 150 collection/cooling centers and some 40 new pro-
cessing plants (Map IBRD 13431R). The plan is well intentioned but has
serious shortcomings, the most important of which is the lack of feasibility
studies supporting it. Decisions on the siting, number and size of plants
have sometimes not been based on technical and financial considerations, but
on non-technical grounds. Most plants are operating at a small fraction of
capacity (many are offering only a five-day service to farmers), and they are
overstaffed, with the result that they are making large losses. Government
feels the losses will be of short duration as the potential of the industry
is large. However, it is considered that, before more of its program is
implemented, an in-depth review of the entire TSEK program is essential,
and hence the review of TSEK and the milk industry sector included as a
component in the proposed project (para 2.17).
1.18      A similar ambitious program to develop meat marketing is being under-
taken by the Meat and Fish Organization (EBK), another SEE. Under the program,
16 new slaughter facilities were completed or were near completion at the end
of 1977. A further 28 plants are scheduled for completion by 1984 (Map IBRD
13431R). Parallel with plant development, livestock markets are also being
developed. Some 19 such markets have already been constructed and 10 to 12
more are under construction for completion in late 1978. A feature of EBK's
activities, which constrasts with those of TSEK, is that its operations appear
technically sounder and better organized to serve the interests of farmers
than those of TSEK.
Price Incentives
1.19      Price increases in real terms for milk and meat in excess of 25%
since the early 1970's have aimed at making dairying and fattening attractive.
MINAG policy has been directed to stimulating financial returns to dairy
producers and fatteners to ensure increases in milk and meat output and to
provide encouragement to breeders to make needed long-term investments in
their herds and flocks. Floor prices paid by TSEK for milk and by EBK for
meat determine to some extent minimum price levels for these products. Keen
competition exists between the public and private sectors for most milk and
meat produced and intermediaries frequently pay considerably above the minimum
prices depending on season, quality and locality. TSEK pays price incentives



- 7 -
for fat content and bulk milk pickups from cooperatives and extends feedstuff
advances for winter milk production. Through such incentives, Government
seeks not only to expand output but to encourage farmers to specialize in
dairying, to supply better quality milk and to provide a more even seasonal
spread of production. Similarly, incentive pricing for meat by EBK has aimed
at lessening se-sonal swings in meat supplies and providing encouragement to
farmers to undertake long-term improvement in their fattening capacity. EBK
pays premiums for better-finished animals, by which means Government hopes
to gradually improve carcass quality. EBK also makes advances to fatteners.
Government is currently considering the payment of premiums for heavier car-
casses to encourage farmers to feed animals longer and to slaughter them at
heavier weights. Low slaughter weights, and the high and increasing propor-
tion of immature stock slaughtered, represent an area of major inefficiency in
meat production at the national level (para. 1.09). Government is currently
considering adjusting its pricing policy to reverse both of these situations.
Newer Technology
1.20      Government's main efforts to modernize livestock production have
been through the medium of the first three Bank-assisted projects (Livestock
I, Credit 236-TU, for US$4.5 million; Livestock II, Credit 330-TU, for US$16
million; and Livestock III, Loan 1265-TU, for US$21.5 million). These super-
vised credit projects were the first large-scale livestock development proj-
ects launched in the country. An essential feature of all three was the
provision of credit to farmers for on-farm development (including improved
livestock, farm constructions, tractors, machinery, forage production, etc.),
along with the necessary technical assistance and veterinary health services
to ensure successful project implementation. This was achieved by close
and continuous cooperation between the two principal implementing agencies,
LDP of MINAG, which was established by Government Decree in 1970 expressly for
implementing the technical aspects of Bank-assisted livestock projects, and
the Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB) 1/, which undertook responsibility for
the credit aspects of such projects. LDP's efforts were also partly supported
in the field in the area of veterinary health by staff of the Veterinary
Services Directorate (GDVS) of MINAG.
1.21      The First Livestock Project 2/, which became effective in 1971 dur-
ing Turkey's Second Plan, represented the first major attempt by Government
to modernize dairying. The strategy was to establish a nucleus of over
3,000 imported pedigree Holstein animals on private farms in and around the
four main milk consuming centers in western Turkey (Ankara, Istanbul, Izmir
and Adana), in order to provide a source of breeding stock for genetic
1/   TCZB has acted as the credit channel in several Bank-financed projects.
Full details of TCZB appear in Appraisal Report 987-TU, Turkey: Appraisal
of an Agricultural and Agroindustries Project (April 12, 1976).
2/   Appraisal Report PA-36a, January 26,1971.



- 8 -
upgrading of indigenous herds. The project, which was completed in February
1978 1/, was successful in achieving this objective and also in setting up
some 150 demonstrations of modern dairying, in promoting modern dairying
through provision to farmers of credit and technical assistance, and in
building LDP, TCZB and GDVS infrastructure. The 150 farms established under
the project fell short of the 250-300 projected at appraisal due to a slow
start-up, a longer than anticipated project implementation period, and the
inevitable steep price increases which accompany such delays in an infla-
tionary economy such as that of Turkey. Again, because the project was
innovative, involving the importation of improved dairy stock and the intro-
duction of new technology, it was more acceptable to bigger farmers better
able to stand the risk, and consequently subloans were on average bigger than
anticipated. Cattle imported under the project from western Europe adapted
extremely well to Turkish conditions. Calving rates and milk production, on
average, exceeded appraisal estimates by a considerable margin. Animal
diseases on individual farms were well controlled and health problems were
minor, except in a few cases where farmers failed to follow recommendations.
The GDVS tuberculosis and brucellosis control scheme, under which imported
dairy animals on Government farms and in Government-related projects were
tested and compulsorily slaughtered (with compensation), caused problems for
project farmers and was heavily resisted. They considered the scheme dis-
criminatory and ineffective because native cattle were not tested unless the
owners requested it, which they seldom did. Consequently, the testing program
did little to control these diseases regionally or nationally and it proved a
disincentive to many project participants. Calf mortality was higher than
expected in the early stages of the project, but later improved to a level
in line with appraisal estimates. The project has not yet reached full
development but already some 500 surplus Holstein bulls are being distributed
each year to local farmers for herd improvement. This number is expected to
increase at the rate of some 12-15% per year in the future. Also, within a
year or two, when project herds reach full development, significant numbers
of high-quality heifers should also become available to the industry.
1.22      The Third Livestock Project 2/, which became effective in early
1977 during the Third Plan as a repeater to the First Project, aimed at
consolidating and expanding the progress made under that project and at
extending benefits to other areas of the country, notably Konya, Kayseri
and Malatya. Over 10,000 pedigree Holstein and Brown Swiss heifers and
bulls will be imported under the project in order to expand the nucleus of
improved animals for upgrading purposes. Infrastructural development within
LDP, TCZB and GDVS, which was initiated under the First Project, will be
continued. A particular feature of this project is the small (5-cow)
village farmer component in which an attempt is being made for the first time
in Turkey to extend, on a pilot basis, credit and technical assistance to some
300 small village producers. It is the intention that this pilot component
1/   Full details of project implementation are presented in Completion
Report, Turkey: First Livestock Development Project (August 9, 1977).
2/   Appraisal Report 1027-TU, May 10, 1976.



- 9 -
will serve as a first step to expanded participation of small farmers in
future Bank-assisted livestock projects in the country. The project is making
satisfactory progress overall, although the rate of subloan processing is
slower than projected due to a delay by Government in meeting effectiveness
conditions; also to start-up problems occasioned mainly by TCZB headquarters'
delay in adequately briefing its branch offices. Counter-balancing this,
however, is the fact that small-farmer interest in the project is greater than
anticipated and a higher proportion than expected of early subloans has been
made to small producers. The project is expected to develop from now on
without further slippage and to close on schedule in June 1981.
1.23      The Second Livestock Project 1/, which became effective in 1972
towards the end of the Second Plan period, comprises two subprojects, a
fattening subproject (FSD) and a village development subproject (VSD). It
represents Government's first attempt to encourage fattening on a wide scale
in some 20 provinces throughout Turkey and to initiate village livestock
development in three provinces (Erzurum, Kars, Agri) in eastern Turkey,
through provision of credit and technical assistance to farmers. The FSD
subproject is completed and the VSD subproject is scheduled to be completed
in mid-1978 and the project is expected to close in December 1978. In general,
technical coefficients projected at appraisal are being met on most farms and
exceeded in some cases. Health problems have been well contained but some
serious disease outbreaks (e.g. foot and mouth, anthrax and blackleg) were
experienced on a few individual properties, either because the health program
was not followed or because drugs and vaccines of poor quality were used.
There is the possibility also that, because of veterinary staffing constraints,
treatment in some cases was late or not provided. A disappointing aspect of
the project has been the difficulty of developing the group action concept.
It was envisaged at appraisal that some 430 farmer groups--tractor/machinery,
irrigation, pasture improvement and bull groups--would be formed, but the
concept has not so far been widely accepted by farmers and only some 20
tractor/machinery groups have been financed. Conceptually, the group action
approach is considered to be sound and also relevant to the situation in
eastern Turkey, but it will require more time and promotion in order to gain
general acceptance by farmers of the area who are conservative. In common
with the First and Third Projects, the Second Project also experienced delays
in the early stages. Because it was located in eastern Turkey where recruit-
ment problems were greater, delays in recruitment of qualified and experienced
staff caused worse slippage than in the other two projects. Over two years
were lost before staff numbers reached a level permitting the project to be
implemented. Even now, staff could be further strengthened, particularly
veterinary staff, to ensure increased technical servicing of project farms.
Despite these shortfalls, both subprojects are generally attaining their
overall technical objectives. They are also successfully building infra-
structure, providing experience in farm development and building a livestock
production information base to support future developments in the general area
of livestock improvement in Turkey.
1/   Appraisal Report PA-122a, March 15, 1972.



- 10 -
1.24      TCZB 's contribution has been important in the success of the
above projects. Branch office management is generally highly competent,
although its effectiveness is sometimes reduced by lack of transport and
shortage of middle-level technical support staff. Under these circumstances
credit processing times can be protracted. Also, lending by TCZB to small
farmers, the dominant farmer group numerically, has been negligible because
collateral requirements have largely excluded such farmers, but TCZB has
recently revised its eligibility requirements in order to cater more specifi-
cally for small farmer lending. The revision provides for funds to be chan-
nelled to selected small farmers 1/ known to LDP technicians to be reliable
and receptive to change and for whom financially viable farm development
plans can be made. These are considerations which have previously been given
little weight by TCZB and their wider application represents a breakthrough
in small farmer credit. This initiative on the part of TCZB indicates Govern-
ment's interest in and commitment to ensuring that investment credit would
henceforth be available to small farmers who have not previously had access
to it. It is the first time in Turkey that supervised investment credits of
any magnitude would be available to small farmers, and it is in this important
respect that the project is expected to make its major impact.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
2.01      The Turkish Government has requested a Bank Loan to assist in finan-
cing a six-year repeater livestock development project in eastern Turkey in
order to consolidate and expand gains made under the VSD subproject of the
Second Livestock Project and also to extend the improved dairy production
concepts developed under the First and Third Livestock Projects. The feasi-
bility studies for the project were undertaken by LDP assisted by two FAO-CP
missions and a Bank mission which visited Turkey between August 1976 and April
1977. The preparation report was finalized by LDP and submitted to the Bank
by the Treasury in September 1977. It was appraised in October/November
1977.
B. Brief Description
2.02      The project, which is expected to comprise a part of the country's
Fourth Five-Year Plan, seeks generally to encourage the development of Turkey's
substantial livestock resource, through the provision of investment credit to
producers for on-farm improvements and through the financing of associated
technical services. Specifically, the project will:
1/   A small farmer is defined in para. 3.08.



- 11 --
(a) channel medium- and long-term supervised credits to vil-
lage producers for on-farm development (including farm
constructions, pasture and forage crop production,
improved livestock, animal health care, and tractor,
machinery and tool purchases);
(b) develop lending to small farmers;
(c) import improved dairy stock to increase the nucleus of
genetically superior animals for upgrading indigenous
herds;
(d) strengthen agricultural extension and veterinary health
services to participating farms and provide training
facilities for technical staff and farmers in modern
livestock management and veterinary health care;
(e) continue the services of internationally-recruited tech-
nical specialists in livestock production; and
(f) finance an in-depth review of the milk industry with
emphasis on TSEK, and also more general studies in the
field of livestock management and production.
C. Detailed Features
Project Area
2.03      The project area will include the whole of the provinces of Erzurum,
Kars, Agri and Mus and selected counties in Hakkari, Van, Bitlis, Bingol,
Diyarbakir, Erzincan and Gumushane (Map IBRD 13432). Selection of provinces
and counties was made on the basis of surveys of livestock numbers and forage
production potential by LDP staff; also on the local knowledge and recommenda-
tions of GDVS veterinarians, MINAG extension agents and TCZB staff concerning
general area development potential, accessibility for technical servicing,
availability of markets and human resource potential. There is a significant
deficit of milk and meat in market channels in the area, caused partly by an
absolute shortage of livestock products and partly by the constant movement of
livestock and livestock products out of the area to the large consumption
centers in western Turkey. Selection of provinces was based partly also on
poverty grounds. The 11 provinces included are part of a group of 17 eastern
provinces classified by the State Planning Organization (SPO) as having the
lowest average family income in the country, which is 30% below the national
average of the 67 provinces (Annex 4, C6). The 11 selected provinces are
considered to be broadly representative of the 17 in terms of relative stage
of development and poverty level.



- 12 -
2.04      To facilitate project implementation, one combined regional/provincial
office will be established in Van along with five provincial offices in Bitlis,
Mus, Bingol, Diyarbakir and Erzincan. The latter offices will be supported by
four project technical groups 1/ located in Yusekova (Hakkari), Bayburt
(Gumushane), Malazgirt (Mus) and Tatvan (Bitlis). These ten centers along
with those already established in Erzurum 2/, Kars and Agri, are considered
adequate to implement the project. The regional/provincial office in Van and
three of the five provincial offices will be established and adequately staffed
(paras. 2.14, 3.01) on or before December 31, 1978. The other two provincial
offices and the four project technical groups will be established and staffed
(para. 2.14) as soon as possible thereafter and, in any event, not later than
December 31, 1979. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
On-Lending Program
2.05      Credit will be made available by TCZB to creditworthy subborrowers
(paras. 3.07-3.12) for on-farm development. About 50% of total subborrowers
under the project are expected to qualify as small farmers, and some 34% of
Bank funds for on-lending 3/ are expected to be channelled to them (para.
3.11). Five models are presented in Annex 4, C2, which are considered typical
of the various types of farmers expected to participate in the project. The
models provide the basis for the financial and economic analysis of the proj-
ect detailed in Chapters V and VI and summarized in Table 5.1 and para. 6.04.
The different models will phase into the project at the rate of some 5% in
the first year 4/, 15% in the second year and 20% in each of the succeeding
four years.  The rate of processing of farm plans, particularly those of small
farmers, is expected to be relatively greater initially in Erzurum, Kars and
Agri where VSD has already made an impact in over 300 villages. From past
experience, overall start-up in the new areas can be expected to be relatively
slow, although steps have been taken to minimize this (para. 3.01).
2.06      The on-lending program will provide supervised credit for:
1/   The "project technical group" concept was successfully introduced in the
Second Project. It involved locating a technical group (basically, one
veterinarian, one agronomist and two middle-level assistants, with sup-
porting transport) in a county seat or principal local secondary town
considered to be of high development potential. It was instrumental in
bringing farmers and technicians in closer contact and in increasing
project effectiveness significantly.
2/   Erzurum was the regional center of the Second Project.  It will continue
to serve as the regional office for the northeastern area under the
Fourth Project.
3/   Or 31% of the total Bank Loan.
4/   Commencing in the first quarter, 1979 (para. 2.19).



- 13 -
(a) Karaman and Merino sheep improvement, involving the
establishment of 50-ewe units on about 2,700 farms;
(b) beef cattle improvement, involving the establishment
of 10-cow units on about 500 farms; and
(c) dairy cattle improvement on about 2,000 farms,
involving the establishment of:
- 5-cow units on about 1,500 farms
- 12-cow units on about 400 farms
- 30-cow units on about 100 farms.
2.07      Karaman and Merino Sheep Improvement.  Considerable improvement is
possible in the project area in Karaman and Merino flocks by culling unpro-
ductive sheep and use of better sires, of which an increasing supply is
becoming available each year from government farms and private sources. By
better feeding, management and health care of the more productive stock, sheep
productivity can be expected to increase significantly. Higher productivity
is expected to result from a combination of a 25% increase in individual flock
size and better technical performance (i.e. higher fertility, lower mortality,
improved wool and milk production, better growth rates and higher slaughter or
sale weights). These improvements will be effected by provision of suitably-
termed investment credits and technical assistance for participating farmers.
Particular emphasis will be directed to expansion of forage production and
improved forage utilization. While it is not envisaged that project farmers
will generally be able to fatten their own sheep and lambs, the project will
provide farmers with the opportunity to winter a higher number of male animals
and to sell them at heavier weights the following spring when prices offered
by fatteners for surplus animals are generally at a seasonal peak. The sheep
improvement component of the proposed project will focus particularly on the
traditional village sheep producer with a flock of some 50 breeding ewes,
which is common throughout the project area. Projections for a 50-ewe model
are in Annex 4, C2. Projected productivity increases are based on average
increases achieved in the Second Project. Of the approximately 2,700 units
planned in the project, about 2,400 will be Karaman flocks and about 300 will
be Merino. Of the total, about 65% are expected to be flocks owned by small
farmers as defined.
2.08      Beef Cattle Improvement.  Supervised credit will be provided for
improvement of some 500 beef breeding herds. The herds will be culled, non-
productive animals will be slaughtered, and forage resources will be used to
feed selected animals better. The use of better quality sires, which are
becoming available in larger numbers from state farms and private sources,
will be encouraged. Productivity increases are expected principally through
a combination of an increase of about 25% in individual herd size and better
technical performance (i.e. higher fertility, lower mortality, higher milk
production, better growth rates and higher slaughter or sale weights). As
in the case of sheep producers, expansion of forage production and improved
utilization will receive special emphasis. Breeders are not expected generally



- 14 -
to fatten their cattle, but the project will provide the means for them to
winter more animals, particulary male stock, and sell them at higher weights
in the following spring when prices for finishing cattle are generally at
seasonal peaks. This will not only be financially attractive to the indi-
vidual farmers concerned, but will also help offset the national tendencies
to kill a high (and increasing) proportion of immature cattle and to kill
mature cattle at less than optimum weights. Projections for a 10-cow breeding
unit, which is considered representative of a typical village cattle producer
in the project area, are detailed in Annex 4, C2. Projected increases in
productivity are based on mean increases achieved under the Second Project.
Because specialized beef cattle breeding is not undertaken to any significant
extent by small farmers, the number of such producers expected to benefit
under this component is negligible.
2.09      Dairy Cattle Improvement.  Three dairy models--a 5-cow unit, a 12-
cow unit and a 30-cow unit at full development--are presented in Annex 4, C2.
These are essentially similar to the three models in current use in the
First and Third Livestock Projects in western Turkey, where they have proved
satisfactory. The first model, of which there are expected to be some 1,500
units, represents a small producer with an initial herd of three native cows
changing in year one to a herd of five Brown Swiss cows. The second model,
of which it is expected there would be about 400 units, represents a producer
with 10 indigenous cows initially, converting to 12 Brown Swiss cows in proj-
ect year two. The third model, of which there would be some 100 units, is
that of a farmer developing from an initial herd of 20 indigenous cows to 30
Brown Swiss cows in the second project year. The latter model could also
represent a group of small farmers with a communal herd under joint management
within a village. This latter group-dairying concept is one considered to
have possibilities in certain areas where cooperation between village families
is more customary and it is an innovative concept which will be introduced
under the project. Of the 5-cow units, about 55% are expected to be small
farmers as defined. Of the 12- or 30-cow unit farmers, none is expected to
qualify in this category, except in the case of the owners of communal herds
under joint management, which are expected to number about 20 groups, or about
100 owners in total (para. 2.13). Productivity increases are expected to
result from an expansion of herd size, a marked improvement in genetic
quality (through use of imported Brown Swiss dairy cattle), and improved
technical performance, particulary milk production.
2.10      Under the dairy cattle improvement program about 12,000 improved
cattle will be imported, as stock of high dairy merit are not available
locally. Imported heifers and bulls will be predominantly Brown Swiss 1/
which are known to be well adapted to conditions in eastern Turkey.  The bulls
will be registered pedigree animals from about 12 months to about 24 months
of age at the time of importation. They will be sons of proven sires of
1/   The possibility of importing small numbers of Holstein or other breeds
is not ruled out for certain parts of the project area where, in the
judgement of VSD staff, they could be better suited than Brown Swiss.



- 15 -
the same breed whose progeny have a positive rating (above average) in the
milk production testing program of the country of origin, and will be out of
dams with a certified lifetime average milk production of not less than 5,000
kg per year. Imported females will be pedigree, pregnant two-year heifers or
pedigree, yearling heifers. Pedigree heifer selections will be made from
registered pedigree dams with a certified lifetime milk production averaging
not less than 4,000 kg per year. All pedigree, pregnant heifers will be
certified as in-calf to pedigree proven sires or sons of proven sires of the
same breed whose progeny have a positive rating (above average) in the milk
production testing program of the country of origin. At the time of selec-
tion, all cattle will be certified in general good health and free from
tuberculosis, brucellosis, leptospirosis, trichomoniasis and vibriosis.
Before export, all cattle will be vaccinated against foot and mouth disease
(Types A and C) and brucellosis. During negotiations assurances were obtained
that only animals meeting the above conditions will be imported.
On-Farm Development
2.11      Farm buildings will be of simple and inexpensive construction.
Whenever possible, existing buildings will be renovated; new buildings will
not be financed under the project unless essential. Experience in the three
earlier Livestock Projects indicated that farmers had a tendency to over-
capitalize--they often failed to make use of existing structures which, with
renovation, could be made serviceable; also, when new buildings were necessary,
they often built structures which were too elaborate. These situations will
be carefully monitored in the project. It is considered that small farmers
will generally not need additional barn space as most already have it avail-
able and their investment in buildings will be restricted to renovations
or extensions to existing structures built at minimum cost by the farmer with
family labor. The need for new constructions on bigger farm units will be
considered on an individual basis, but it is expected that in all cases exist-
ing structures will be utilized to the maximum extent possible, and new struc-
tures will be financed under the project only after careful consideration of
cheaper alternatives. On larger units, where new structures are recommended
for financing by VSD staff, care will be taken to ensure that such structures
are simple and practical, and built using a maximum of family labor.
2.12      Credit and technical assistance to encourage on-farm production of
feedstuffs will be a central feature of the project, as it was in the three
earlier Livestock Projects. Emphasis will be given to efforts to increase
yields from natural grasslands and, in particular, to promote introduction of
appropriate forage crops and pastures in place of fallow in the normal crop
rotation. The technology for these developments has already been perfected
under extensive conditions similar to those of eastern Anatolia in South and
Western Australia, and a first attempt to apply the technology was made under
the Second Project, with generally satisfactory results. Extended local
application requires further testing and demonstration, which will be done
under the general studies component of the project (para. 2.17). Sainfoin
and alfalfa appear the most suitable forage crops to integrate into the
rotation. Seed of both is generally available and VSD staff has some



- 16 -
familiarity with them, as do also farmers. Preliminary yield data from trials
undertaken at the Ataturk University in Erzurum indicate dry matter yields of
sainfoin and alfalfa to be in the range of 2,000-5,000 and 5,000-10,000 kg per
ha per year, respectively, which is satisfactory. Similar yields have also
been obtained by better farmers in the project area. Some purchased concen-
trates 1/ and other supplementary feeds will be financed for subborrowers in
the first project year as an investment cost, where in the opinion of the
technical officer preparing the plan and the project manager it is considered
necessary, but the approach of the project generally will be to keep purchases
of concentrates and other supplementary feeds to a minimum. Use of land for
forage crops can reduce the production of other crops such as wheat or sugar-
beet, but this need not be serious if fallow land is used for pasture or
forage crop production, which the project will encourage. In each model an
allowance has been made for possible loss in cash crop income foregone in
producing forage.
2.13      Tractors and machinery are comparatively scarce in the project area
and this greatly limits farmers' abilities to expand crop and forage produc-
tion because of the short growing season, which in many areas does not exceed
five months. Tractors and machinery will be financed for larger individual
farmers where technically and financially justified. It is anticipated about
100 farm tractors will be financed by the project. Tractor and machinery
groups of smaller farmers will also be encouraged, as in the Second Project.
Even though the group action concept in that project did not develop to the
extent anticipated, the approach is innovative and is considered to have
potential and it should continue to be encouraged. The project will make
special efforts to expand group action along the lines of the Second Project,
and also to promote the development of group dairying. It is hoped that a
total of some 100 or more groups will be formed under the project.
Technical Services
2.14      Staffing of VSD as of November 1977 numbered 12 agronomists, 7 vet-
erinarians and 40 middle-level technical staff plus 3 supporting headquarters
staff and 2 technical specialists 2/.  This staff will be strengthened with
an additional full-time staff of 18 agronomists, 23 veterinarians, 20 middle-
level technicians and 3 headquarters staff to provide a total full-time local
staff of not less than 66 professionals and 60 middle-level technicians; also
the 3 technical specialists posts will be continued. About half of this addi-
tional local staff (i.e. 9 agronomists, 12 veterinarians, 10 middle-level tech-
nicians and 2 headquarters staff) will be appointed not later than December 31,
1978 in order to staff and service the Van regional/provincial office and
1/   Concentrates are freely available throughout most of the project area
although their quality is variable, since they are compounded mainly
from by-products of cereal, cotton and sugarbeet processing, of which
a considerable tonnage is available.
2/   Of three established posts, only two were filled as of November 1977.



- 17 -
three of the five new provincial offices. Included amongst the local staff
appointed by December 31, 1978 will be the project manager. It is expected
that the project manager of the Second Project, who has discharged his duties
satisfactorily, will continue in post as project manager. The other half of
the local staff (i.e. 9 agronomists, 11 veterinarians, 10 middle-level techni-
cians and one headquarters staff) will be recruited as soon as possible there-
after and, in any event, not later than December 31, 1979, in order to staff
the remaining two provincial offices and the four project technical groups.
Furthermore, general veterinary assistance will be provided by veterinarians
of GDVS as in the Second Project. Assurances on general staffing and support
arrangements were obtained at negotiations. Specific assurances were obtained
that:
(a) LDP will employ, or continue to employ, on a full-time basis
for the duration of the project a qualified and experienced
project manager (para. 3.01); and
(b) LDP will employ for the duration of the project three full-
time internationally-recruited technical specialists (para.
3.05) approved by the Bank and under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank; and that if the contracts of technical
specialists employed under the Second Project were extended,
such extension will be undertaken in consultation with the Bank.
2.15      Recruitment of qualified and experienced staff constrained the
development of the Second Project for its first two years (para. 1.23).
The situation improved in the early part of 1976 and, in the intervening
period the project has made satisfactory progress, particulary over the
last 18 months. However, there is still a need for strengthening technical
staffing, particularly veterinary staffing, in order to provide a better
level of extension and veterinary services to participating farmers. One
problem has been MINAG's inability to offer adequate incentives to attract
easily the caliber of staff it needs. The present project will seek to over-
come this problem by including additional incentives as part of the staff
compensation package. The principal additional incentive will be housing
for technical staff provided at nominal rental by the project (para. 3.03).
Supplemental per diem payments provided to staff while on duty in the field
will be continued as in the earlier projects (para. 3.04). Such payments will
be financed from the Special Operational Fund--SOF (para. 3.13).
2.16      Lack of transport for VSD technical staff and TCZB branch managers
was a problem contributing to delayed implementation of the first three Live-
stock Projects. The transport problem is currently widespread in all Govern-
ment agencies and is not specific to LDP or TCZB. The main difficulty is
that there is a shortage of vehicles generally in the country. To ensure
adequate transport for all staff involved in the execution of the project,
about 80 vehicles will be provided over the first 36 months following
effectiveness. About half of the vehicles will be assigned to VSD and half
to TCZB. Of the total vehicles, some 60 will be four-wheel drive crew-cab
pickups and some 20 will be compact four-seater station wagons. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that Government will approve the purchase



- 18 -
of these vehicles for project use and will also expedite all importation
formalities into Turkey, including the issue of import licences, in the event
contracts to supply the vehicles are awarded to foreign bidders under ICB
(para. 2.25).
Technical Studies
2.17      The technical studies component will comprise two main areas of
study. The first involves an in-depth review of the milk industry, including
the procurement, processing, distribution and wholesale/retail marketing of
milk in both the private and public sectors, with particular emphasis on the
present strategy and policies of TSEK, its organization and management and the
financial viability of its main components. This will complement the study
planned under the Third Project and will be an essential prerequisite to
possible future Bank-assisted improvements of the national milk-marketing
complex. The study will be undertaken by an international group of at least
four specialists who will produce a report of sufficient depth and detail to
serve as a preparation report for possible subsequent Bank appraisal (para.
3.15). The second general study component of the project will comprise a
series of investigations in the broad area of livestock management and pro-
duction to complement those programmed under the Second Project. The latter
work is now progressing, after initial delays due to staff constraints. There
continues to be a need, however, for additional management- and production-
oriented studies and for surveys, practical field research and demonstrations,
particularly in forage production and utilization, animal production and
veterinary health care. Some of this work will be planned and implemented
by LDP and GDVS staff as staff numbers are strengthened and some will be
undertaken in collaboration with the agricultural and veterinary faculties at
Erzurum and Elazig which have expressed an interest in becoming involved and
which have the capability in certain fields of making significant contribu-
tions, particularly in the areas of animal breeding, animal nutrition, forage
production and disease control (para. 3.16).
Training
2.18      Training under the project will be more fully developed than under
the Second Project (paras. 3.17, 3.18). While in-service training was gener-
ally satisfactory in that project, training abroad of project technical staff
and project-related staff was not developed as anticipated, due mainly to
staff constraints, although this position improved in the latter half of the
project as staffing was strengthened. Foreign language facility also limited
several staff from participating, a problem which the present project will
make special efforts to resolve through in-service language classes and care-
fully programmed study tours of groups accompanied by interpreters. Two
successful tours were organized under the First Livestock Project to Spain
and to India which proved the value of this approach. In-service technical
training of staff during project implementation will also be given emphasis
and in this context the contributions of the technical specialists will be
crucial, as in the three earlier Livestock Projects. Along with project
staff training, farmer training will be emphasized through local study tours,



- 19 -
field demonstrations and extension activities. In general, farmer training
was handled highly satisfactorily in the three previous projects. The possi-
bilities of study tours abroad for selected individual leader farmers will
also be encouraged. Government so far has not been enthusiastic of such an
approach but it is felt to be one which should be explored, at least on a
pilot basis, in the project.
D. Cost Estimates
2.19      The total cost of the project, including taxes and price increases,
is estimated as of December, 1977, at some US$83.2 million equivalent, of
which some US$24.0 million (about 29%) is foreign exchange. The estimated
foreign expenditure will be largely for imported livestock, vehicles, tractors,
machinery, technical studies, overseas training and technical specialists.
Price increases of US$31.6 million were allowed over the six-year life of the
project. They provide for increases of foreign costs of 7.5% per year in 1978
and 1979 and 7.0% each year from 1980 to 1984, and increases of local costs of
20% in 1978, 15% in 1979 and 10% each year from 1980 to 1984. The latter are
based on expected general price increases of 25% for 1978, 20% for 1979, 16%
for 1980, and 12% for 1981-84 adjusted for lower rates of increase expected
for major cost items including government salaries and expenditures, seeds,
hired labor and other minor farm inputs. It is assumed that disbursements
will commence in the first quarter of calendar year 1979. Total project costs
are summarized in the following table; a more detailed breakdown is in Annex
2, and Annex 4, C3:



- 20 -
Total Project Costs /1
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
--   LT million-----  -----US million------        %
Village Development
Livestock               135.5   221.5   357.0    7.0    11.5    18.5        62
Tractors and
Machinery              15.1    33.0    48.1    0.8       1.7      2.5     68
Farm Constructions      152.0    29.6   181.6    7.9       1.5      9.4     15
Forage Crops and Feeds 154.4    18.0   172.4    8.0        0.9      8.9     10
Subtotal              457.0   302.1   759.1   23.7    15.6    39.3        40
Technical Services
Extension Services,
Administration,
Training and Studies 206.5    30.0   236.5   10.7        1.5,   12.3      13
Total Baseline Costs   663.5   332.1   995.6   34.4    17.1    51.6         33
Price Increases
(61.2%)               477.3   132.1   609.4   24.8       6.7    31.6      -
Total Project Cost      1,140.8   464.2 1,605.0   59.2    24.0    83.2        29
/1   Discrepancies due to rounding.
E. Financing
2.20      The Bank Loan of US$24.0 million will finance the foreign exchange
cost, estimated at 29% of overall cost. TCZB will finance some US$32.4
million, or 39% of total cost, and farmer contributions would amount to
about US$9.0 million, or 11% of total cost. Government will contribute the
remaining US$17.8 million, or 21% of total cost. Financing of investment
and technical assistance costs will be shared as follows:



- 21 -
/1  Subborrower  TCZB        Government   IBRD        Total
Project Component    Amount   %   Amount  %  Amount  %   Amount  %  Amount %
___-------------------US$ million----------------------
On-Farm Investments    9.0   14    32.4  51        -    -    22.0  35   63.4  100
Technical Services       -      -      -    -   16.8   92    1.4   8   18.2  100
Training and Studies    -       -      -    -    1.0   71    0.4  29    1.4  100
Milk Industry Study      -             -    -    0.02  10    0.2  90    0.2  100
Total Project Cost   9.0   11    32.4  39   17.8   21   24.0  29   83.2  100
/1   (i) Price increase added to each component; and (ii) discrepancies due to
rounding.
2.21      As in the three previous Livestock Projects, the Bank Loan of
US$24.0 million will be made to the Government of Turkey, which will assume
the foreign exchange risk. The Loan will be for 17 years, including a 4-year
grace period, at an interest rate of 7.5%. Government will on-lend to TCZB in
local currency the equivalent of US$22.0 million at not less than the latter
lending rate which, together with a further LT 624 million from TCZB's own
resources (equivalent to US$32.4 million), will comprise the LT 1,047 million
for on-farm lending (equivalent to about US$54.4 million). The project cash
flow (Annex 4, C5) indicates that, allowing for contingent delays, a repayment
period to Government by TCZB in 17 years with a grace of 6 years is appro-
priate. Assurances were received during negotiations concerning the accept-
ability of these terms and also that TCZB will provide the LT 624 million
complementary funds necessary to finance 51% of the on-lending program to
farmers. Government will make the remainder of the Loan monies (equivalent
to US$2.0 million) available to LDP for technical services (including the cost
of technical specialists), technical studies and training. Assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiations.
F. Procurement
Livestock
2.22      Imported dairy cattle will be procured in about 20 shipments of 500-
600 head. Orders for cattle for individual subborrowers will be determined
by local VSD technicians and sent through the regional or provincial managers
to the project manager who will be responsible for organizing bulk procurement
from foreign sources. Each shipment will comprise selected groups of animals
from numerous breeders in the country of origin. Because of the nature of the
selection and assembly procedures, ICB is impracticable. Individual shipments
will be procured on the basis of not less than three quotations from at least
two countries. Details of cattle procurements will be advertised in the local
press and also circulated to accredited representatives of those Bank member
countries able to supply them, and Switzerland. A similar procurement proce-
dure was followed in the First and Third Projects satisfactorily. Suppliers
will offer for selection only cattle equalling or exceeding the minimum



- 22 -
performaiice and health specifications detailed in para. 2.10. Suitable
documentation will be required to verify such specifications. Individual
selection will be undertaken in the supplier country by the project manager,
one project technical specialist and a veterinarian of GDVS. They will be
assisted by one technical specialist and not less than two VSD technicians;
the latter will be included in the procurement mission not only to assist
the mission but also to obtain further training and experience (para. 3.17).
Purchase contracts will require the supplier to make satisfactory arrangements
for delivery, and to assume responsibility for the cattle until delivered to
project farms. Contracts will also require suppliers to assume responsibility
for ensuring that cattle meet all veterinary and other standards of the
exporting and importing countries and of countries through which the cattle
traveled while in transit. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that:
(a) bidding documents and purchase contracts will be sent to the
Bank for comment prior to their award;
(b) support will be provided by GDVS at all stages during procure-
ment to assist with veterinary clearances; and
(c) Turkish border entry will be expedited.
2.23      Locally procured livestock will be purchased by individual farmers
at livestock markets and by private treaty. All livestock will be inspected
and approved prior to purchase by project technicians responsible for super-
vising individual farm plans. These procedures were followed in the Second
Project and were satisfactory.
Tractors and Machinery
2.24      Tractors, machinery and related agricultural equipment will be
procured through ICB according to standard Bank guidelines and assurances
to this effect were obtained during negotiations. Tractor and machinery/
equipment orders for individual subborrowers will be grouped by local VSD
staff and sent through regional and provincial offices to the project manager
who will organize bulk procurement as in the earlier three projects, where
this arrangement worked satisfactorily. Bidding documents will state that
suppliers will guarantee adequate servicing and spare parts for tractors,
machinery and equipment in the main project centers. Up to 15% domestic
preference, or the level of import duties, whichever is the lower, will be
allowed local manufacturers bidding on tractors, machinery and equipment.
Vehicles
2.25      Difficulties were experienced in the earlier Livestock Projects in
procuring through ICB vehicles of the type assembled in Turkey; consequently
vehicles used by the Projects were procured locally with local funds by LDP
and TCZB. However, the number of vehicles procured was not adequate because
local supplies were limited. Generally, Government continues to prefer to
procure vehicles locally but, in order to avoid a recurrence of the earlier



- 23 -
shortages of vehicles for project use, Government has agreed to procure them
through ICB if they are not available to purchase locally when needed. Provi-
sion has been made in the Loan for sufficient foreign exchange to enable
vehicles to be procured through ICB in this event. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that if the vehicles needed in any project year could not be
made available from local sources in the first four months of that year,
they will be procured through ICB under standard Bank guidelines.
Constructions, Tools, Seed and Fertilizer
2.26      Because farm constructions are small-scale and dispersed and
utilize a maximum of family labor, they are unsuitable for ICB. Purchase of
the few materials required for such constructions will be by local shopping.
Sufficient competition exists to ensure fair pricing. Similarly, the 15
houses for project staff will be scattered over several provinces; they will
be constructed of local materials with local labor and their modest cost
(about US$400,000 total) and phasing do not warrant ICB. Bidding for their
construction will be through standard Government procedures, which are satis-
factory. Purchases of small tools, seed and fertilizer will be through normal
commercial channels. Supplies are generally freely available and adequate
competition exists for all items.
G. Disbursements
2.27      The Bank Loan of US$24.0 million will be disbursed over a six-year
period as follows:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures on livestock, technical
specialists, technical studies and training;
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures, or 100% of local expenditures
ex-factory (less taxes and duties) on vehicles, tractors,
agricultural machinery and related equipment;
(c)  27% of amounts disbursed by TCZB for pasture, forage crop
and feedstuff production and purchase of supplementary
feedstuffs.
2.28      Disbursements will be made against normal documentation as in the
three earlier projects. The anticipated phasing of commitments under the
project is detailed in Annex 4, C5. Assuming project start-up by December 31,
1978, the estimated annual disbursements of the Bank Loan are as follows:



- 24 -
Estimated Disbursements /I
Bank FY:  1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
-------------------- US$ million -------------------
Annual                     0.2     2.0      3.4      4.2     5.5      6.0      2.7
Cumulative                0.2      2.2      5.6     9.8    15.3    21.3    24.0
/1   A quarterly schedule is shown in Annex 1.
H. Environmental Impact
2.29      Chemical fertilizers, pesticides and herbicides to be used under
the project are not anticipated to have any appreciable adverse effect on
local ecology. They will be utilized under the supervision of project tech-
nicians at the normally recommended dosage levels in a small proportion of
total farms in the project area, which represent only a fraction of the
total land of the area. Effluent from project barns and dairies, which will
be small in size by standards in many other parts of the world and also
scattered, is not expected to have any negative environmental effect. Most
solid residues from livestock operations will be spread back on the land as
manure, which will be beneficial.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
3.01      Basic project administration will be similar to the three earlier
projects, which was satisfactory. Overall management will be the responsi-
bility of LDP. Detailed implementation of technical and financial aspects
will be undertaken, as in the Second Project, by VSD of LDP, which will be
headed by a project manager who will be located in Ankara and be responsible
to the General Director of LDP. Regional control will be through offices
in Erzurum and Van, each of which will be under the control of a regional
manager responsible to the project manager. Provincial offices in Erzurum,
Kars, Agri and Erzincan, each with a provincial manager, will be coordinated
through the Erzurum regional manager; provincial offices in Van, Bitlis, Mus,
Bingol and Diyarbakir, each with a provincial manager, will be coordinated
through the Van regional manager. Project technical groups formed under the
Second Project in the provinces of Erzurum, Kars and Agri will be coordinated
through their appropriate provincial office. The project technical group to
be formed in Bayburt (Gumushane) will be coordinated through the Erzincan
provincial office and those in Malazgirt and Tatvan through their respective
provincial office. The project technical group to be formed in Yuksekova
(Hakkari) will be coordinated through the Van provincial office. Posting



- 25 -
of staff will be the responsibility of the General Director of LDP, acting on
the recommendations of the project manager. One or two experienced VSD staff
from the Second Project will be posted to each of the new provincial offices
and at least two senior and experienced staff from the Third Project will be
posted to each of the VSD regional offices in Erzurum and Van to ealsure a
rapid spread of improved livestock production concepts within the project.
Assurances on the latter arrangement were obtained at negotiations.
3.02      The duties of VSD staff will include:
(a) promoting the project to farmers and providing an initial
screening of those farmers interested in participating;
(b) preparing farm development plans for farmers approved as
creditworthy by TCZB;
(c) supervising plan implementation on individual farms and
providing extension assistance to farmers;
(d) providing veterinary and animal health services to par-
ticipating farms (which will be further supported by
technical staff of GDVS); and
(e) keeping records of overall project progress and encouraging
farmers to keep records of performance on individual farms.
3.03      The General Director of LDP, acting on the advice of the project
manager, will organize the construction of the 15 housing units to be rented
to staff at nominal Government rates. Siting of the houses will be arranged
to ensure staffing in areas where there is high potential but to which staff
is difficult to attract. Administration and maintenance of the units after
construction will be the responsibility of the General Director of LDP. The
siting of the housing units, their construction schedule and the level of
the nominal rental rates to be charged to project staff occupying them were
discussed at negotiations and assurances that construction of the 15 units
will be expedited to ensure their completion not later than December 31,
1980, were obtained.
3.04      Per diem payments to VSD staff on field duty will be paid in part
from the SOF. Payments will be administered by the General Director of LDP.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that not less than 80% of SOF
resources will be used for expenditures on per diems, staff incentives and
side benefits.
3.05      Three internationally recruited technical specialists will be
retained for the six-year duration of the project (equivalent to 18 man years)
to provide technical support for VSD, TCZB and DGVS staff. Their appointment
will be finalized not later than December 31, 1978. They will be responsible
to the project manager. It is anticipated that one specialist will be located
in each of the Ankara, Erzurum and Van offices. They will provide technical



- 26 -
advice to regional and provincial managers, particularly in farm plan prepara-
tion and implementation. In collaboration with the project manager, they will
also play a leading role in the planning, implementation and supervision of
general studies in-livestock management and production and of the training
aspects of the project. Terms of reference for the technical specialists are
in Annex 4, Cl. The cost of the specialists is estimated at US$67,000 per man
year, of which US$36,000 is for basic salary and US$31,000 is for allowances
and expenses.
3.06      The Encouragement and Development Loans Division (EDLD) of TCZB
will be responsible for the credit aspects of the proposed project. EDLD's
role will involve establishing the creditworthiness of prospective sub-
borrowers, setting credit limits, providing subloans, and supervising subloan
disbursements and repayments. A close and cooperative working relationship
developed between staff of LDP and TCZB in the first three Livestock Projects
which was based on a protocol between LDP and TCZB which was negotiated be-
tween them and agreed to by the Bank. The existing protocol will be appro-
priately amended with respect to dates, areas of implementation, etc. of
the project. The signing of an amended protocol acceptable to the Bank is
a condition of effectiveness.
B. On-Lending Policies and Procedures
3.07      Total lending to farmers by TCZB will be around LT 1,047 million,
equivalent to US$54.4 million, derived from US$22.0 million equivalent of
the Bank Loan on-lent to TCZB by Government and US$32.4 million equivalent
from TCZB's own resources (paras. 2.19-2.21).
3.08      Any farmer owning livestock with experience in livestock production
and with a sound development plan for livestock improvement (except the pur-
chase of livestock for fattening), and who could meet the creditworthiness
criteria of TCZB (para. 3.11), is eligible for a loan. Potential subborrowers
should occupy, or have access to, an area of tillable land which, in the opi-
nion of the VSD technician preparing the farm plan, is adequate to produce the
incremental feedstuffs necessary to implement the plan. For the purposes of
the project, a small farmer is defined as one whose net annual pre-development
family income at December 1977 prices does not exceed LT 35,000 (US$1,820), at
least 75% of which is derived from farm activity. In addition to the above
criteria, to be eligible for a subloan, small farmers must be known to VSD
staff as bona fide farmers of good character, for whom viable farm development
plans can be prepared by such staff. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that only farmers meeting the above criteria will qualify for loans.
3.09      Farmers will apply for a loan to the nearest office of TCZB or
VSD. After determination of the farmer's creditworthiness and credit limit
by TCZB, an appropriate development plan will be prepared by a VSD techni-
cian who will subsequently submit the plan to the regional manager and
technical specialist for review. In accord with TCZB's existing delegation



- 27 -
of authority, plans for less than LT 150,000 credit will be reviewed by
the regional technical specialist, approved on the authority of the VSD
regional manager and sent to the local TCZB manager for credit approval
and funding, with copies to VSD and TCZB head offices. Plans for credit
in excess of LT 150,000, after review by the regional technical specialist
and regional manager, will be forwarded by the latter to VSD headquarters
and approved by the project manager. Applications will then be submitted
through EDLD to the board of TCZB for credit approval. This procedure was
followed in the three earlier projects and was satisfactory.
3.10      Of total on-farm investments, farmers will contribute, in aggregate,
up to 14%. Individual farmer contributions to investment plans will be at
least 20% in the case of medium-size to larger farmers and at least 10% in
the case of small farmers except, in special cases, where in the written
opinion of the technician preparing the plan and the project manager it is
justified, the small farmer's contribution may be reduced to 5%. Under the
Third Project, farmers were generally expected to finance at least 75% of the
cost of dairy buildings and associated structures as their contribution;
credit in excess of 25% for buildings was limited to special cases. In the
present project, most farm development plans will provide for only renova-
tions and/or extension of existing structures, financing of new structures
being limited to the larger units which will be built at minimum cost by the
farmer using a maximum of family labor. Cost of renovations and/or extensions
will be financed at the percentage applicable to other on-farm improvements.
However, financing for new structures will be limited to 70% of the total cost
of the structure, except in cases where small farmers are grouped in a com-
munal project (para. 2.09), in which case the higher 90 to 95% loan applicable
generally to small farmers will apply. Most farmers will be expected to pro-
vide family labor (possibly supplemented by hired labor in the case of the
larger farmers) as part of their contribution. Incremental labor costs asso-
ciated with expanding livestock numbers are expected to be minor, as utiliza-
tion of labor for livestock breeding and dairying is now relatively ineffi-
cient. With technical assistance and improved planning, it is considered
that the productivity of labor could be considerably increased at negligible
additional cost. Credit will be provided for incremental costs of labor and
forage cropping only in special cases where, in the written opinion of the
technician preparing the plan and the project manager, it is considered
necessary. Credit will similarly be provided, in special cases, for the
purchase of concentrates and other supplementary feed in the first project
year as an investment cost. Assurances were obtained during negotiations on
the acceptability of these conditions.
3.11      TCZB's stringent collateral requirements have been a problem and
have generally constrained investment credits of any magnitude from reaching
small farmers. TCZB prefers a land title to secure its loans, but titles
are not always available. In the Third Project, TCZB agreed to secure loans
up to LT 100,000 (this limit was raised to LT 150,000, effective February 6,
1978) with chattel mortgages on livestock and machinery plus the guarantee
of a creditworthy cosigner; loans over LT 100,000 (now LT 150,000) could be
secured partially by land title, and partially by a chattel mortgage on live-
stock and machinery, and/or a guarantee of a cosigner. However, lending



- 28 -
with only cosigners as security has in fact been minimal, mainly because TCZB
regulations required two creditworthy cosigners which most small farmers have
been unable to provide, and also because such lending has been discouraged by
some TCZB branch managers. Special arrangements have now been formulated
with TCZB under the project to expand lending to qualified small farmers
through liberalized loan collateral requirements. Under these arrangements
TCZB will (a) apply to the medium-size to larger farmers the loan security
requirements currently applicable in the Third Project, and (b) for the small
farmers, as defined (para. 3.08), provide loans up to LT 150,000 which will
be secured by chattel mortgages on livestock and machinery plus the guarantee
of one cosigner, and such cosigner could also be a small farmer who could be
from another village than that of the borrower and whose financial standing
will not be of primary importance. TCZB will direct and adequately train its
branch managers to undertake such lending to small farmers. Funds for such
lending from Bank sources will amount to some US$7.5 million, or about 34% of
total funds from Bank sources for on-lending to all farmers. As this will
be a first attempt to channel funds of any magnitude to small farmers, there
could be a shortfall in the number of small farmer applicants. To ensure
that every effort will be made by TCZB to encourage smaller farmers into the
project and to provide subloans to them, some US$5.5 million, or 25% of total
funds from Bank sources for on-lending under the project, will be earmarked
for small farmers and will be non-reallocatable and any amount not used
for small farmer loans will be cancelled. Additional encouragement to TCZB
to develop small farmer lending under relaxed security conditions has also
recently been provided by the Central Bank of Turkey which has undertaken to
refund to TCZB the equivalent of 3% on all general agricultural lending to
enable it to meet the additional expenses involved in such lending and to
create reserves against bad debts. An initial joint Bank-Government-TCZB
review of the small farmer lending program under the project will be under-
taken not later than December 31, 1980 and similar reviews will be made
annually thereafter. Assurances on these conditions were obtained at
negotiations.
3.12       Subloans to project farmers will be made at not less than 11%
interest per annum for 10 to 12 years with 2 to 4 years of grace depending
on plan size. 1/ This rate is negative but it falls within the framework
of interest rate revisions which were recently implemented with the IMF
stabilization package. Also, taking into account that some 50% of project
beneficiaries will be small farmers with per capita family incomes at or below
the estimated relative poverty level for Turkey (Annex 3), the 11% effective
cost of medium- and long-term borrowing under the project is considered
acceptable, pending the outcome of a further wider interest rate policy
review which is being undertaken by the Government. Debt service of sub-
borrowers will be in equal installments. Grace periods for small farmers
will be generally more favorable than for larger farmers, but each case
will be evaluated individually by project technicians, depending on
1/   Subloans under the  First Project were made at 9% per annum for 12 years
with 4 years grace; under the Second Project at 9% per annum for 7 to 12
years with 1 to 4 years grace; and under the Third Project at 11% per
annum for 10 to 12 years with 2 to 4 years grace.



- 29 -
net income generated in the investment plan. No subloans to project farmers
in excess of US$80,000 will be made without the prior approval of the Bank.
The appropriateness of the interest rate charged by TCZB for project subloans
and other terms and conditions will be reviewed in the light of changing
conditions by TCZB, the Borrower and the Bank at such time as TCZB, the
Borrower or the Bank may request. Assurances on these terms and conditions
were obtained at negotiations.
3.13      As in the First and Third projects, TCZB will place 0.5% of the
interest received from farmers on all funds on-lent under the project in the
SOF, to be made available to LDP for partial payment of miscellaneous expenses
incurred in project execution. Expenditures from this fund will be authorized
by the General Director of LDP or any other person duly designated by him for
such purpose. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
Terms of Reference for the SOF are in Annex 4, Cl.
C. Technical Services
3.14      Technical assistance to farmers participating in the project will be
provided by VSD staff with support from GDVS veterinarians. VSD staff will be
grouped to work from the nine provincial offices under the direction of the
provincial managers who will be responsible to the two regional managers, who
will in turn be responsible to the project manager (para. 3.01). This type
of organization is essentially similar to that of the three earlier projects
where it worked satisfactorily.  The GDVS supporting service will be based on
a protocol between LDP and GDVS along the lines of that in the three earlier
projects. The existing protocol will be amended with respect to dates, area
of implementation, etc. and will include a clause that testing for brucellosis
and tuberculosis will be carried out on project farms only on the basis of a
program to be drawn up by LDP/GDVS which is satisfactory to the Bank. Signing
of an amended protocol by LDP and GDVS satisfactory to the Bank is a condition
of effectiveness. Such a protocol will include provision for vaccination
against brucellosis within three to six months of birth of all calves born on
the farms of subborrowers and will specifically exclude testing on project
farms of cattle previously vaccinated against brucellosis.
D. Technical Studies
3.15      Organization of the milk industry study will be the responsibility
of the General Director of LDP who will recruit the specialists, finalize
details of their work program including field visits and report writing, and
will make available all necessary local facilities needed by the group during
the period of its work in the country. The group will commence work not later
than May 1, 1979 according to a work program and timetable acceptable to the
Bank. Individual specialists, who will be acceptable to the Bank, will be
recruited under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. Assurances on
this and on general arrangements for the organization and implementation of



- 30 -
the milk industry study were obtained at negotiations. Terms of reference
for the proposed study are in Annex 4, Cl.
3.16      The technical studies component in the broad area of livestock
management and production will be organized by the project manager, with
whom the three technical specialists will collaborate closely in the planning,
implementation and supervision. Staff of LDP and GDVS will also be involved
in the planning and implementation of the studies. Studies will commence
within the first half of calendar year 1980. Prior to their implementation,
annual plans of such studies will be sent to the Bank for comment. The first
and subsequent plans will be submitted in the third quarter of the year prior
to implementation. Studies executed in collaboration with the universities
will be undertaken on the basis of a protocol to be drawn up prior to the
commencement of the work which will be satisfactory to LDP, the university
concerned and the Bank. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotia-.
tions. Progress and results of the general studies component will be reported
in the semi-annual reports prepared by the project manager (para. 3.22). It
is expected that, under this component, a preparation report for a possible
future Bank-assisted livestock project will be developed. Terms of reference
for the livestock production studies component are in Annex 4, Cl.
E. Training
3.17      The training component will consist of:
(a) in-service training of LDP, GDVS, TCZB and other project-
related staff at all levels;
(b) local training of farmers through study tours, field demon-
strations and extension activities;
(c) group study tours abroad for LDP, GDVS, TCZB and other project-
related staff working in the public sector, and leader farmers;
such trips, of which there will be not less than six, will be
coordinated as far as possible with missions travelling abroad
on cattle procurement; and
(d) study leave for individual staff of LDP, GDVS, TCZB and other
project-related Government staff to undertake advanced training
in livestock production, forage production, animal health,
animal breeding, agricultural credit, agroindustries and
related fields.
3.18      The project manager will be responsible for organizing the training
program and in ensuring its timely execution.  He will be assisted in this
respect by the technical specialists who will play a key role in the planning,
implementation and supervision of training, in recommending suitable staff for
training and in identifying suitable programs and centers of study. Selection
of trainees and study programs will be the responsibility of the General



- 31-
Director of LDP. The training program will become fully operational by the
beginning of the second year of the proposed project and operate through the
sixth year. A draft of the overall training program for the duration of the
project will be drawn up by the project manager and sent to the Bank for
comment by April 30, 1979. Assurances on this were obtained during negotia-
tions. Terms of reference for training are in Annex 4, Cl.
F. Accounting and Auditing
3.19      EDLD will open a separate account for the project, as it did for
the previous three projects. Each six months, a summary of the account
will be included in the semi-annual project report prepared by the project
manager and submitted to the Bank through TCZB (para. 3.22). The account will
be audited annually by the Sworn Bank Controllers of the Ministry of Finance,
which procedure is satisfactory. Copies of the certified accounts and audit
report in English will be sent to the Bank within seven months of the end of
TCZB's financial year. Assurances on these matters were obtained during
negotiations.
3.20      The project manager will maintain accounts of VSD expenditures
on technical services, studies and training, as in the Second Project, and
details will be included in the reports prepared by him to the Bank (para.
3.22).  This arrangement worked satisfactorily in the three earlier projects.
The accounts will be subject to annual audit by the Financial Inspectors of
the Ministry of Finance, which is satisfactory, and copies of the certified
accounts and audit report in English will be sent to the Bank within seven
months of the end of LDP's financial year. Assurances on these procedures
were obtained during negotiations.
3.21      The accounts of the SOF will be maintained by the General Director,
LDP. He will be responsible for providing the Bank with a detailed accounting
of expenditures from the Fund by March 31 of each project year. Assurances to
this effect were obtained at negotiations.
G. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.22      Routine records will be kept on all farm plans, as in the earlier
projects. In addition, VSD staff will monitor the progress of not less than
20% of farm plans intensively in the course of implementation. Staff will
collect and analyze sufficient technical and financial data to evaluate the
effects of the project and to follow its progress against the project imple-
mentation schedule (Chart 18657). The project manager will submit six-monthly
progress reports to the Bank through TCZB who will include a summary of the
project account (para. 3.19) and forward the report to the Bank within two
months from the end of each six-month period. Quarterly reports were prepared



- 32 -
in the earlier projects but for eastern Turkey, with its long winters during
which farm development activity stops, semi-annual reports are considered
adequate. In addition to the latter reports, the project manager will prepare
a draft completion report for submission to the Bank within three months of
the Closing Date of the project. LDP is already familiar with completion
report requirements as its Intensive Dairy Production Division (IDPD) satis-
factorily assumed major responsibility for the completion report of the First
Project. Assurances were obtained during negotiations on the acceptability
of the monitoring, evaluation and reporting procedures.
IV. TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS
4.01      Farms to be developed under the project are represented by five
basic models (para 2.06 and Annex 4, C2). All farms will have in common:
some dairy, cattle or sheep activity at the preproject stage; adequate rain-
fed land or access to irrigated land to provide for near self-sufficiency
in forage; and improved management through technical servicing.
A. Pasture and Feedstuff Production
4.02      In the project, emphasis will be given to increased alfalfa or
sainfoin production, for both green feed and hay. These forages will supple-
ment straw and native pasture and, in combination with them, are expected
to provide the principal production requirements. Concentrates will be used
sparingly to complement these feeds, usually only during the winter months.
Forage crops have been fully costed and imputed to the project. Increases in
pasture, forage crop and feedgrain production will be achieved mainly by more
effective use of fallow lands, but some reduction in output of cash crops such
as sugarbeet will be inevitable and this has been allowed for in the analysis.
Wheat production is continued, with modest increases in yields through fertili-
zation. It will be largely utilized on the farm as a food staple. Some
meadow lands, which are extensive in eastern Anatolia, will be reseeded and
fertilized for pasture, making the farm model largely self-sufficient for
roughage. Assumed crop yields are as follows:
Yield (t/ha)-
Without Project          With
Crop                         Years 0-20             Project
Sugarbeet                               30.0                   -
Wheat:  non-irrigated                    1.0                  1.5
Wheat:  irrigated                        1.5                   -
Meadow (hay)                               -                  0.5
Alfalfa (hay)                                                 7.5
Sainfoin (hay)                                                3.5
/1   Based on mean yields currently being achieved by upper quartile of
farmers in the project area.



- 33 -
B. Livestock Development Models
4.03      Production and other technical coefficients are based mainly on
the performance of the beneficiaries under previous and on-going projects.
Net sales of cow milk is expected to increase from 600 to some 3,500 kg per
cow annually at full development, while net sales of sheep milk is expected
to increase from 35 to 50 kg annually per ewe reflecting mainly the smaller
genetic improvement which is expected in sheep. Output prices of livestock
increase slightly at full development to account for the improved stock. The
incremental herd values are credited to the last year in the financial and
economic analyses. Selected coefficients for cattle, the main livestock
component, are as follows (details are shown in Annex 4, C2).
Without
Project          ---------------Year-------------
Coefficient                   Years 0-20        1        2       3      4       5
Cattle weaning rate (%)           65           80        85      90     90      90
Calf mortality (%)                20           15        15      10     10      10
Cow mortality (%)                 10            5         5       5      5       5
Dairy Improvement
Lactation yield (kg/cow)         700           3,000  3,200  3,500  3,800  3,800
Net milk sales (kg/cow/yr)       600           2,700  2,900  3,200  3,500  3,500
Beef Cattle Improvement
Lactation yield (kg/cow)         700           1,500  2,000  2,000  2,000  2,000
Net milk sales (kg/cow/yr)       600           1,000  1,000  1,100  1,200  1,400
V. MARKETING AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Production
5.01      Considerable production increases are expected in liquid milk, cattle
and sheep for breeding, wool and forage crops. The increases will result from
improved livestock, better animal husbandry and general farm management through
the application of suitably-termed credit and technical assistance, as in the
Second Project. The key to livestock production increases is the expanded
forage base, principally through the better utilization of fallow lands, which
currently produce very little useful livestock feed between successive cereal
crops. This more efficient land use and the resulting additional forage
should allow farmers to increase their overall feeding and to become less
dependent on purchased feeds, particularly concentrates. Five models -- a
sheep improvement, a beef improvement and three dairy improvement models --
have been used to illustrate project impact. Each has its own individual mix
of cropping, livestock and physical inputs (Annex 4, C2). At full development
(year 12) incremental production from the project is estimated to be:



- 34-
Without        At Full         %
Product                Unit                Project      Development   Increase
Cow Milk            Million 1                8.7           61.1          602
Sheep Milk          Million 1                3.5            6.2           77
Dairy Cattle        Thousand Head            4.1           11.3          275
Breeding Cattle    Thousand Head             1.5            3.0           100
Sheep               Thousand Head           70.2           97.2           38
Wool                Tons                   226.0          604.0           167
5.02      The total value of annual incremental production at full develop-
ment, using December 1977 farmgate prices, is estimated at US$23 million, of
which US$13 million will be from milk.
B. Prices
5.03      Project input and output prices are based on local and farmgate
prices as of December 1977 gathered in the project area from producers, tech-
nicians working in the Second Project, commercial houses and foreign bidders.
For economic analysis, financial prices of tradeables were adjusted on the
basis of projections in real terms provided in the list of the Bank's Economic
Analysis and Projections Department and, for non-tradeables, allowances were
made for transfer payments.
C. Marketing
5.04      The project is expected to stimulate milk supplies in the project
area where there is currently a chronic shortage of milk for processing of
some 100,000 tons per annum 1/ which cannot be supplied from adjacent areas
where there is also a shortage. Demand projections indicate, furthermore,
that due to current increases in the demand for milk of 5.4% annually, defi-
cits in milk are expected to amount to 2.6 and 4.9 million tons nationally in
1985 and 1990, respectively 2/. Incremental milk production from the project,
totalling some 55,000 tons per annum at full development should be readily
absorbed, as buyers for both public and private sector plants and private
dealers are active throughout the area. Most of the milk currently produced
in the project area is consumed as milk products such as cheese, butter,
1/   Mission estimates based on excess capacity of existing processing plants
in the project area as of December 1977, and FAO/CP study 36/77 TUR 22,
August 1977 (Annex 4, B3).
2/   Turkey Agricultural Sector Survey (1976) estimates.  FAQ, through the
International Schemes for Meat and Dairy Development (1976), indicate a
somewhat lower increase in demand annually (4%) -- Annex 4, B2.



- 35 -
yoghurt and ayran; very little is consumed as liquid milk. Most of the milk
produced in the eastern villages is either processed in the home or in the
nearby village by private milk traders. Only 1% of total milk produced
currently in the project area reaches milk processing plants (with the
exception of Kars, which is 3%). As there is a large unsatisfied local
demand for wool and breeding and fattening stock, no difficulties are
envisaged in marketing the incremental outputs of these.
D. Producer Income and Financial Rates of Return
Subborrowers and Incomes
5.05      Increases in income for the various subborrowers participating
are estimated to be as follows:
Per Capita Annual
/1                           Income /2
Farm Size          Number of    Without    With
Type of Farm         (Head)   (Decares)    Subborrowers  Project   Project
-------US$-
Sheep Improvement    50 Ewes         90        2,700          244        326
Beef Improvement      10 cows        130         500          308        607
Dairy Improvement      5 cows        140       1,500          260        636
Dairy Improvement    12 cows        290          400          573      1,347
Dairy Improvement    30 cows        660          100          816      2,927
5,200
/1   At full development.
T2   From all farming activities; from livestock activities alone these income
levels will be slightly lower in the with-project situation, much lower
in the without-project situation, as there is a shift away from cropping
income towards livestock-related activities. Official statistics give
the range of family size as 5.5 to 6.0; mission estimates show family
size in rural eastern Anatolia ranges up to over 20 and an average of
8.0 was considered appropriate for calculation purposes (Annex 4, C6).
5.06      Producers' benefits, classified for each farm category, and the finan-
cial rates of return derived from the models are summarized in Table 5.1. All
incomes are expected to at least double, with the exception of the ewe breeding
activities which will increase by 34% which is relatively modest but typically
reflects sheep-related activities in eastern Anatolia. All financial rates of
return indicate that it should be financially rewarding for farmers to undertake
the investments and to introduce the supporting technology. Sensitivity tests
are in general satisfactory. The analysis indicates that in the worst general



Producers' Benefits and Financial Rates of Return
Estimated Net Operating                       Estimated Net Operating
Income from Livestock                        Income from all Farming
Activities                                    Activities
Unit Size          Without Project           With Project          Without Proiect         With Project
at Full           Before    After /2    Before    After 2         Before    After  2 Before    After /2          Financial Rie                         A
Development         Taxes      Taxes -      Taxes      Taxes         Taxes      Taxes    Taxes      Taxes           of Return          snitivity Tet
----___________----------------------    -- US$ ---------    ---------------------w
30-Cow Dairy        2,213      2,213        21,517   18,182          6,530      5,518    23,413   19,784                 23              20-19-15-15
12-Cow Dairy        2,068      2,068         8,540    7,597         4,582      4,076    10,779    9,589                  42              36-38-28-24
5-Cow Dairy           566         566         4,810    4,449         2,078      2,078      5,091    4,709                43              37-38-29-24
10-Cow Beef         1,901      1,901         4,286    3,965          2,462      2,462     4,857    4,493                 36              33-33-24-24
50-Ewe Sheep        1,673      1,673          2,364    2,364         1,953      1,953      2,608    2,608                 24             21-19-8-14
/1  Full development reached in year 4 for the 5-cow unit, year 7 for
the 10-cow beef improvement and year 6 for all others.
/2  Income tax calculated on the basis of sliding scale according to
law for incomes other than from personal earnings. Farm incomes
under LT60,000 are exempted from tax.
/3  Calculated on income from all farming activities before taxes.
/4  Financial rate of return as investment costs increase 10%, operating
expenditures increase 10%, gross returns decrease 10% or there exists
one year lag in start-up, respectively.                                                                                                                        U,
January 30, 1978



- 37 -
situation (a one year lag in all revenue-producing activities under the with-
project situation and all on-farm investments completed), no financial rate of
return will fall below 14%. In the case of the 50-ewe model only, the worst
situation (a 10% reduction in gross returns) will result in a financial rate
of return of 8%. The trends in prices paid to farmers and in the technical
coefficients indicate that the best estimate of the basic rate of return is
more likely to be the case than the lower values indicated by the sensitivity
tests.
5.07      The breakdown of the number of subborrowers and their income levels
with comparisons to the poverty level is shown in Annex 3. It is estimated
that 50% of the subborrowers are expected to be at or below the relative
poverty level in December 1976 terms. Of the total funds on-lent under the
project for on-farm investments amounting to about US$54.4 million, some
US$18.8 million, or about 35%, will be utilized for subloans to small farmers
as previously defined. Funds for such lending from Bank sources will amount
to some US$7.5 million, or about 34% of total funds from Bank sources for
on-lending to all farmers.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Aggregate Economic Return
6.01      The project is expected to generate the following annual production
outputs 1/:
With Project
at Full Development         Percent
Without Project            Year 12              Increase
------------US$ million--------------           ---%----
Cow milk                        1.6                   11.6                   625
Sheep milk                     0.8                     1.5                    80
Wool                            0.6                    1.6                   167
Livestock                       3.5                   10.7                   204
Wheat                           3.8                    4.0                     5
Sugarbeet                      3.2                      0                  -100
6.02      The bulk of the benefits derive from the incremental production of
cow milk and from the production of livestock for breeding or finishing by
other producers. The irrigated areas allocated to sugarbeet production are
shifted to the production of forage crops while the production of wheat
increases slightly through modest increases in fertilization to compensate for
areas dedicated to forage crops.
1/   More detailed data are in Annex 4, C7.



- 38 -
6.03      The rate of return to the economy has been calculated on the basis
of five farm models assumed to be representative of the different participating
subborrowers. The following assumptions underly the rate of return calculations:
(a) domestic prices of non-traded goods and labor were adjusted
by the standard conversion factor (0.82) to translate them
to border prices; 1/
(b) all on-farm project components and their costs have been phased
in at the rate at which the individual category of farms enters
the project, i.e., year 1, 5%; year 2, 15%, years 3-6, 20%.
Annex 4, C5 shows the expected number of farmers being phased
in, classified by farm categories. Other project components
were phased in as follows: costs of training and studies were
charged over the six years of the project; costs of the new
field offices were phased into the project over the first year
of implementation; cost of vehicles and housing for field staff
were spread over the first three years of the project; and the
milk industry study was assumed to be implemented in the first
two project years;
(c) investment and operating costs were calculated using December
1977 prices, adjusted to represent costs at the farm level.
Relative costs and prices were assumed to remain unchanged
so that any changes resulting from increases in the general
price level in the economy would be self-compensating;
(d) current yields and farm gate prices have been applied in
calculating the returns, adjusted on the basis of Bank pro-
jections. The same technical coefficients have been applied
to all farm models within the same farm category, with the
exception of the mortality and calving coefficients, and con-
centrate requirements;
(e) benefits and costs were adjusted for all apparent transfer
payments such as taxes, duties, tariffs and the social benefit
payments to labor;
(f) family labor was costed at the same value as that of its
nearest alternative which is LT 25,000 annually for a skilled
livestock farmhand in rural areas, equivalent to employment
of 280 days at LT 90/day (or US$4.68/day); and
(g) a project life of 20 years was assumed in the analysis of
all project components. Incremental herd values were credited
to the benefit stream of the farm models at the end of the
project life.
1/   This is equivalent to using a shadow exchange rate of LT 23.5 per US$1.0.



- 39 -
6.04       Based on these criteria and on the data of Table 6.1, the economic
rate of return of the project is estimated to be 20%, with the following
ranges for the sensitivity tests:
On-Farm        Project
On-Farm        Operating       Operating    Cattle   Sheep   Livestock  Rate of
Investments   Expenditures  Expenditures    Milk          Milk    Output    Return
+ 5%                                -          -         -         -        19.7
+10%               -                -          -         -         -        18.8
-              + 5%               -          -         -         -        19.7
+10%              -          -         -         -        18.7
-             + 5%         -         -         -        20.4
-             +10%         -         -         -        20.0
-              +10%             +10%         -         -         -        17.9
-       - 5%         -         -        19.2
-  -   -  -10%       -         -        17.7
-  -  -  -10%     -10%         -       17.4
-  -   -   -         -      - 5%       19.7
-                -                -          -         -       -10%       18.6
+10%            +10%               -          -         -         -        16.8
6.05       The sensitivity tests show a relatively small variation in the eco-
nomic rate of return as a result of 10% variations in costs or returns. An
increase in real terms of 10% in either on-farm investments or operating
expenditures reduces the economic rate of return to about 18%. Decreases
in real terms in milk output affect negatively the rate of return somewhat
more than return from livestock (17% as compared with 19% for a 10% decrease
in milk and livestock returns, respectively). An increase of 10% in real
terms in the operating expenditures of the project unit has no significant
effect on the rate of return.
6.06       A concurrent increase of 10% in both on-farm investments and operat-
ing expenditures decreases the rate of return to about 17%. Cow milk prices
would need to decrease to LT 4.00/1 and sheep milk to LT 4.95/1, or overall
net milk yields at full development decrease from 3,500 to 3,150 1/cow/year
and from 50 to 45 1/ewe/year, before the economic rate of return would fall to
17%. The probability of milk prices decreasing appreciably is very unlikely
given the overall milk shortage. Also, production data from the First and
Second Projects indicate a much higher likelihood of the higher output
being obtained rather than the lower.



Economic Rate of Return
(LT Million)
----------------------------------------------------------------__               -----------__   ------------------     YYe        -------------------____________________________-____________----------------------------------------
it-                       1            2           3           4            5           6           7            8           9           10            11           12            13            14            15           16            17           18            19           20
Icrennnea&l Econonic BeneOfits
1.  Cnttle milk                         6.50       24.0        54.9        89         159 6        163.8       178.6       187.6        191. 2        192 9        193. 4       193 4         193.4         193 4        193.4         193.4         193.4        1932.4        193.4        193.4
2.  Sheep   Ilk                         0.5         2.9         4.3        86. 8         9.3        11.6        12.2        112.2       112.2          12.2         12. 2         12.2         12.2          12.2          12. 2         12. 2        12.2          12. 2        12. 2         12. 2
3.  Livestock                           7.5        23.0        39.8        60.1         85.7       110.0       113.2        132.1       136.6         137.9        138.3         139.8        139.8         139.8         139.8         139.8        139.8         139.8        139.8        503.6
4.  Wool                                0.8          3.2         6.6        10.3        14.         17. 8        18.5        188         18.9          199          18. 9         18. 9         18 9         18.9          18.9          18 9         18 9          18           18 9          18 9
5.  W'heat                              0.2         0.8          16          2.5         3.3         4.1         14.          4.1         4.1           4.1)         4,1           4.1)         4..1           4.1           41           4.1          41.                        4.1           4.1
6.  Slgarbeet                          (2.7)      (12.0)      (21.0)      (31.4)       (42.0)      (42.0)       (42.0)      (42.0)      (42.0)        (42.0)       (42.0)        (42.0)       (42.0)        (42.0)        (42.0)        (42.0)       (42.0)        (42.0)       (42.0)        (42.0
Total             12.3        41.0         86.2       137.8       229.9       265.3       284.6        312.8       321.0         324.0        324.9         326.4        326.4         326.4         326.4         326.4        326.4         326.4        326.4         690.2
On-Farmn InveatmRnt8
1.  Livestork                         16.7         49.8        66.5        66.5         66.5        66.5           -           -            -            -             -            -             -             -
2.  Machinery                           1.8         5.4          7.2         7.2         7.2         7.2           -           _            _            _           1.8           5.4           7.2           7.2          7.2           7.2
3   Farm Bnildi.g.                      7 7        23.2        30.8        30.8         30.8        30.8                                                               -                          -
4.  mi.cella.eoe                        7.2        21.6        28.9         28.9        28.9        28.9                                                                             -                          -
Total             33.4       100.0       133.4        133.4       13.4        133.4           -            -           -             -           1.8          5.4           7.2           7.2           7.2          7.2            -             -            -             -
Incremental operating Coate
1.  On farme                           0.4          7.5        27.1        53.5         82.2       112.5       140.1        143.1       145.5        147.8         145.2         145.8        147.3         149.3         146.2        145.1         145.5         147.1        142.1         145.4            8
2.  Technical  Rervice.               20.7         30.5        30.5         27.3        27.3        27.3         25.2        25 2        25.2          25.2         25.2          25.2         25.2          25.2          25.2          25.2         25,2          25.2          25.2         25.2
3.  Training ann  etodine               2.6         2.6          2.6         2.6         2.6         2.6           -                        -                          -
4.  Milk markating   tndy               1.5         1.5
Total             25.2        42.1        60.2         83.4       112.1       142.4        165.3       168.3       170.7         173.0         170.4        171.0         172.5         174.5        171.4         170.3         170.7        172.3         170.3        170.6
Economic Rota of Ratorn: 20.4
Senaicivity Tact.
Inveet ..cL ...t  ploe 107.:  18.7
Operating ...te Ploe 507,:  17.9
Project ben. fite  - milk niece  10%:  17.4
- liveetock mince 107.: 18.6
Standard convereion factor = 1.0: 23.7
April 18, 1978



- 41 -
B. Beneficiaries
6.07      The direct beneficiaries of the project are the approximately
5,200 farm families (about 41,600 persons) who increase their farm income,
mostly from livestock sources. They will have not only a higher income
but a more even annual distribution of income. Employment in livestock
activities will be provided for 5,200 farm families plus about 100 families
providing labor, benefiting a population of some 42,400 persons. Better
utilization will be made of the labor of the farm families directly involved.
6.08      Indirect beneficiaries include the suppliers of goods and services
widely scattered throughout the project area, especially those dealing with
farm building construction, machinery services and feedstuff supplies.
6.09      The incremental milk production of over 55,000 tons annually at
full development will provide milk for an additional 500,000 indirect benefi-
ciaries at the present level of per capita national consumption (110 liters
annually). This contribution is considered particularly important since
the major part of this production is expected to be marketed in small urban
clusters within rural areas where milk is scarce.
6.10      The annual incremental output of livestock (7,200 head of dairy
cattle, 1,500 head of breeding cattle and 27,000 head of breeding ewes) at
full development will assist to meet the scarcity of high quality stock in
Turkey needed for herd and flock buildups. Annual incremental output of the
project represents in the case of cattle about 1% of the region's output,
and in the case of sheep, 0.5% (Annex 4, C8).
6.11      Other non-quantifiable benefits and beneficiaries include the
following:
(a) genetic improvement of the national herd through upgrading
of indigenous livestock with improved exotic breeds--the
2,900 breeding bulls produced annually by the project at
full development, for example, will provide for mating of
a potential 87,000 local cows per year 1/;
(b) introduction of newer methods of husbandry and management
resulting in better land utilization and overall higher
animal productivity;
(c) establishment of infrastructure at the national level,
providing trained manpower, technical studies and services
directed to development of eastern Turkey;
1/   Assuming a 4-5 year working life for each bull, the potential could be
as high as 348,000-435,000 cows over the working life of 2,900 bulls.



- 42 -
(d)  increased supplies of milk for processing by Government
plants which are currently operating under capacity,
thereby increasing their efficiency of operation; and
(e)  institutionalization of credit facilities in Turkey's poorest
areas, especially by giving small farmers access to medium-
and long-term investment credits which are currently not
available to them.
C. Project Risks
6.12      A risk which could affect project viability concerns possible
delays in the implementation of the package of investments and on-farm activi-
ties on each individual farm. There are examples in the earlier Livestock
Projects in which occasionally a farm plan was started and commitments were
made by the subborrower and a key input (foreign shipments of livestock or
machinery) was delayed.  Fortunately, such examples were few but, for reasons
often beyond the control of the project implementing agency, this situation
could still occur and it could have serious consequences in individual cases.
The financial analysis (para. 5.06 and Table 5.1) has taken into account,
under the sensitivity tests, the conservative alternative of a one-year lag
in the implementation of the package, with satisfactory financial viability.
With the accumulated experiences of LDP in purchases of foreign livestock,
tractors and machinery in the three earlier projects, delays in arrivals of
foreign shipments are expected to be minor.
6.13      The risk of reduced small-farmer participation could also be important.
The success of the small-farmer component will depend upon the willingness of
small farmers to enter the project and upon the commitment of TCZB to the con-
cept of small-farmer lending. Small farmers, particularly in the new project
areas, can be expected to be somewhat hesitant to enter the project until
there is a demonstration of project concepts on the farms of larger subbor-
rowers. This was the experience in the three earlier Livestock Projects in
which leader farmers, who were usually the best established financially, were
invariably the ones to show the greatest initial interest in participating in
the project. What is considered to be a reasonable allowance for this has
been made in the phasing of the farm development component.  Again, unless
TCZB fully commits itself to the undertaking and it instructs its branch
managers accordingly, there is a danger that small-farmer lending will not
develop as envisaged. For this reason it was considered essential to earmark
a non-reallocatable sum for small farmer subloans and to ensure that any funds
not so used will be cancelled.



- 43 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Agreement having been reached on the principal issues referred to
in Chapters II and III, and subject to the conditions of effectiveness in
paras. 3.06 and 3.14, the project is suitable for a Bank Loan of the equivalent
of US$24.0 million to the Government of Turkey for a term of 17 years at 7.5%
interest per annum with a grace period of four years.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
TURKEY
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year             Disbursed During Quarter   Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                --------------------US$'000----------------------
1979
March 31                                100                         100
June 30                                 100                         200
1980
September 30                           200                          400
December 31                            600                        1,000
March 31                                400                       1,400
June 30                                800                        2,200
1981
September 30                           800                        3,000
December 31                          1,200                        4,200
March 31                                600                       4,800
June 30                                800                        5,600
1982
September 30                         1,000                        6,600
December 31                          1,400                        8,000
March 31                               800                        8,800
June 30                              1,000                        9,800
1983
September 30                         1,500                       11,300
December 31                          1,800                       13,100
March 31                             1,000                       14,100
June 30                              1,200                       15,300
1984
September 30                         1,800                       17,100
December 31                          2,000                       19,100
March 31                              1,000                      20,100
June 30                               1,200                      21,300
1985
September 30                         1,200                       22,500
December 31                           1,500                      24,000



-,43-                                                       AMEX 2
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMECT PROJECT
Total Project Cost and Phasing
(LT million)
-----~--------------------------------------- Year- --------_---______________________________
1               2               3                4                5                6                   Total
Item                L        F       L           F       L    .        L       F       L        F       L        F       Local         Foreign
I. VILLAGE DEVELOPMENT
I.1.  Cattle and Sheep
Base cost            6.8    11.1    20.3    33.2    27.1    44.3    27.1    44.3    27.1    44.3    27.1    44.3         135.5           221.5
price increases      1.6     1.3     9.1      6.6    15.9    12.4    20.3    16.4    25.2    20.4    30.3    25.2        102.4            82.3
Subtotal         8.4    12.4    29.4    39.8    43.0    56.7    47.4    60.7    52.3    64.7    57.4    69.5          237.9           303.8
1.2. Machinery
Base cost            0.8     1.6     2.3      5.0     3.0     6.6      3.0     6.6      3.0     6.6     3.0      6.6      15.1            33.0
Price increases      0.1     0.2     0.4      1.0     0.9      1.9     1.1     2.5      1.4     3.1     1.7      3.8       5.6            12.5
Subtotal         0.9      1.8     2.7     6.0      3.9     8.5     4.1      9.1     4.4      9.7     4.7    10.4       20.7            45.5
I.3. Buildings
Base cost            7.6     1.5    22.8      4.5    30.4     5.9    30.4      5.9    30.4      5.9    30.4      5.9     152.0            29.6
Price increases      1.8     0.2    10.2      0.9    17.9      1.7    22.7     2.2    28.2      2.7    34.0      3.4     114.8            11.1
Subtotal         9.4      1.7    33.0     5.4    48.3      7.6    53.1      8.1    58.6      8.7    64.4      9.3     266.8            40.8
I.4. Miscellaneous
Base cost             7.7     0.9    23.1      2.7    30.9     3.6    30.9      3.6    30.9      3.6    30.9      3.6     154.4            18.0
Price increases       1.8     0.1    10 4      0.5    18.2     1.0    23.1      1.3    28.7      1.6    34.5      2.0     116.7             6.5
Subtotal         9.5      1.0    33.5     3.2    49.1      4.6    54.0      4.9    59.6      5.2    65.5      5.6     271.2            24.5
II. TECHNICAL SERVICES
Base cost            24.3     6.1    35.6      4.4    35.6     4.4    32.9      2.1    32.9      2.1    32.9      2.1     194.2            21.2
Price increases       5.0     0.7    15.0      0.9    19.8      1.2    23.8     0.8    29.6      1.0    35.6      1.2     128.8             5.8
Subtotal        29.3      6.8    50.6     5.3    55.4      5.6    56.7      2.9    62.5      3.1    68.5      3.3     323.0            27.0
III.  TRAINING AND STUDIES
Base costs            2.0     1.0     2.0      1.0     2.0     1.0      2.0     1.0      2.0     1.0     2.0      1.0      12.0             6.0
Frice increases       0.5     0.1     0.9      0.1     1.2     0.3      1.5     0.3      1.8     0.4      2.2     0.5       8.1             1 7
Subtotal         2.5      1.1     2.9      1.1     3.2     1.3      3.5     1.3     3.8      1.4     4.2      1.5      20.1             7.7
IV.  MILK INDUSTRY STUDY
Base costs            0.1     1.4     0.1      1.4                                                                          0.3              2.8
Price increases        -      0.2      -       0.3                                                                           0.1            0.5
Subtotal         0.2      1.6     0.2      1.7                                                                          0.4             3.3
Total - Base cost            49.3    23.7   106.2    52.1   128.9    65.8   126 2    63.5   126.2    63.5   126.2    63.5          663.5           332.1
Total - Price increases      10.9     3.1    46.3    11.4    73.9    20.2    92.7    25.8   115.0    32.0   138.5    39.7         477.3           132.1
Grand Total                  60.2    26.8   152.5    63.5   202.8    86.0   218.9    89.3   241.2    95.5   264.7   103.2   1,140.8               464.2
Notes:  Individual items may not total to these figures due to rounding.  All figures
have been rounded to nearest LT 0.1 million, and items of less than LT 50,000
are indicated by " - " in the table.  A blank cell indicates that the item  is
May 12, 1978



TURKEY
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Income Comparisons and Investments Financed by the Project
Percent of
Without Project         Expected Number          On-Farm          Investments             Investments
Unit Size                          Family Income          of Subborrowers        Investments       to Small Farmers    to Small Farmers
at Full          Number of          from all            Below the Relative        for Farm /2       Financed by 13         Financed by /3
Development       Subborrowers   Farming Activities          Poverty Level 1        Category -        the Project -          the Project -
---US$-------- LT Million ---LT Million---
50-Ewe Model         2,700               1,953                   1,755               268.0               156.8                     65
10-Cow Beef Model      500               2,462                       0                79.3                                          -  
5-Cow Model          1,500               2,078                     825              414.0                204.9                     55                 0"
12-Cow Model           400               4,582                       0              246.8
30-Cow Model            100              6,530                       0               203.8
5,200                                      2,580             1,211.9                361.7                    35
/1 The small farmer definition agreed with Government for credit
purposes is LT 35,000 of annual family income in December 1977
terms (equivalent to LT 28,000 in 1976 terms). The 1976 rela-
tive poverty level for a rural family amounts to US$218 per
capita in 1976 terms, equivalent to LT 27,992 per family (Annex 4,
C6). Thus, all small farmers as defined would have incomes at
or below the relative poverty level for Turkey.
/2 Including price increases, and estimated phasing-in of the sub-
borrowers (Annex 4, C5)
/3 Including price increases, estimated phasing-in and adjusted
by the corresponding farmer contributions (Annex 4, C5).
May 12, 1978



-47-                         ANNEX 4
Page 1
TURKEY
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available
in the Project File
A.    Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector or the Subsector
Al.   IBRD, Turkey, Agricultural Sector Survey
Report 1684-TU, draft green cover, dated September 13, 1977.
A2.   IBRD, Turkey, Country Economic Memorandum
Report 1272-TU, October 21, 1976.
B.    Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Bl.   CP FAO/IBRD, Back to Office Report on Dairy Industry Component,
A. Olkinoura, July 28, 1977.
B2.   CP FAO/IBRD, Concept Definition Report, Report 19/77 TUR 20,
May 25, 1977.
B3.   CP FAO/IBRD, Technical Note on the Dairy Industry Component,
Report 36/77 TUR 22, August 26, 1977.
B4.   IBRD, Appraisal of Second Livestock Development Project,
Report PA-122a, March 15, 1972.
B5.   IBRD Appraisal of the Third Livestock Development Project,
Report 1027-TU, May 10, 1976.
B6.   General Directorate of Livestock Development Projects, MINAG,
Preparation Report of Fourth Livestock Project, Ankara,
November, 1977.
B7.   IBRD, Appraisal of an Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries
Project, Report 987-TU, April 12, 1976.
C.    Selected Working Papers
Cl.   Terms of Reference.
C2.   Farm Budget Data.
C3.   Cost Estimates, Phasing and Price Increases.
C4.   Tax Rates.



-48-                       ANNEX 4
Page 2
C5.   On-Farm Credits, Repayment Streams and Sensitivity Analysis
to Interest Rates.
C6.   Relative Poverty Levels and Income Distribution.
C7.   Economic Benefits by Farm Size and Rate of Return.
C8.   Livestock Numbers and Output.



TURKEY
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
IBRD FISCAL YEAR                         1979               1 980              1981               1982                1983       |        984               1985
CALENDAR YEAR                                     1979               1980               1981               1982                1983               1984               1985
I Implem.entation of Farm Development Plans i
by Subborrows:                                                               1                                   I       _T _                                                   F_
Cattle and Sheep                                    _      1211               (69)               (100)              (108)              (1117)             (121 l_    (LT MILLION
Mach,mery                                                    I             r                  I   I                n m                                        ipm       L    ILIONI
(3)                (9)               (12)                (13)    _           14)               (151   _    L        L
Farm Constructons                                     M M"             I(I I1 )    _                                                                                  I( _  (  LT M I L L O N)
111                (3)5 6)                                (6 1)             167)I               (74)            1       I
MI,sceflaneo.s                                         (ii                  i                                      n m                 nm            -m                 LT MILLIO7N)
(11)              (37)                (54)                659)               (67)               (71)
11 Technical Services:
Technical Specialhst:
Candidates Proposed ior IBRO Approval
Contracts Formalized
Specia'lists..n Post-                                           -         m-                 -  --                        m-            umm--mm
Local Staffing:                                    a/
Purchae at Vehicles                           (33( 31)
Station Wagons                                           (0
Crew Cabs                                                       _t(20)      (20)    _           20)
Hoas,ng-                                                                  - -
III Technical TrainingandStudiesProposals
Submitted tr IBRD for Co  mnenrant__lglil :
Study Tours/Study Leaw Implemented                                                         m   - _  _    _         _    -  -    -          -
Milk Marketing Stcdy                                     - - - m                 -m
IV   Reporting:
Semiann-aa Reports by Project Manager                         - r        _                               _   _       _       _   _ m
Accounts and Audit Reports
TCZ8 )EDJLIJ
LDP (Technical Services, Studies and
Training Accocnts)
aJ To brinq total staff to 95         b/ To bring total staff to 126                                               World Bank -18657






25.                              R                          w                                                            v4                                                                                                                      45-
SUL GARtIA _m. 
rS   '5  (tR E U                                                           an,                                                                                 }           U.  S.   S.   R.
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  AR COVRDB BAKIN  /,a PrjcAreo yltci Ce
(__  0                                            ER
THE    0IVESTOCK   SllB O R                                            ( c Y P RX                           I                                                        .     E3K Slaught6rhouss completed or near completionZ1977
0  <~~~~~~~~~~~~<Y  ~   ~        ~         ~        ~        ~       ~            MASYA2,  '~~~/ tetohswehe                                     MNA  ivAnma  aret tb'tbl bdy 97 
'Z~~~~~    ,~~~~~/  A                                                                  --       ).      *~~~~~~~~~1-1  TRABRA
'A4
-el             o4ow0s                                         0          lE'         1N 5                                                 oe4_,''~__                                             ryxaBudn
USA  / WAFYO                                                                     A         IGTAia                                                                                           ane AS
A 3 j 0                                              j f f *   t       t y w e  't o r o   o   5                        4 0 *                                                              _
-'o-' ANTALA 
A                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P,ojec A-e of Uyont.1, IV
TURKEY                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P,oj-o Are of Lioetfok I (Credit 236-TU)
AREAS COVERED BY BANK-FINANCED                                                                                                                                            ///Pnoect Ar- of Liy.- 11 C,.i 3kU
3  DRAIICT~~~~~~~~ AND   IMEDA~~~~~~~~TRIIrTItD~~~~~~~~                                              S Y  R  I A                                              Projeor Are of Liyeatok III (Lo- 1265-lU)
M JE   S    NDPUBLIC   IN R SRU T R    IN                                                                                                                                          TSEK Milk I-nto conplefed on.. nIo -opetion 1977          5
THE LIVESTOCK SUBSECTOR          YPR ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 TSEK Milk pi...s to foe nonopIet by 1978
THE  LIVESTOCK  SUBSECTOR    ~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~ R                                                                             U    EBK Slaogfoferfrooooo oonrpleoed Or neBKon cghorepletipo-e 1977... p.ti. 197
0             100           200            S00                                                                                                                           Cl   EBK Sl.ughtenlrooso 00 be cerPletfdrb 1984
ma roe oaa o.arooeO.r.OorO.A               MINAG L-o A.irno Mark-f tseblibedl by 1977                   C
KILONMETEISWo.oarneroeyo 
O..fO.r..rar                      L5   ~~~~~~~~MINAG Lion Aoioeol Mok!,e no be esrbli.lned by 1978     C
so         too         ISO        200
1111ILES                                                                                                                                              4(d.7eo.r.o  e  reairrlBudre 






,              ARTVIN - o        -XAPPRAISAL OF FOURTH LIVESTOCK
'-   ZE A                                                                          DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GIR<SUN    1  TRABZON   t     I s6 p>u    U s S R.                                                                Project Areas of Second and
>         g   GUL''                                                  ; aan                                                Fourth  Livestock  Prcrjects
\ / 0        $                             2                                \-\ /////Z:  RO. E c A R F AO F , V  NTOC K  E tC,d nn T...............PROJECT AREA OF LIVESTOCK IV
i a                        T0 t.           /~\ /0t                                                                               / PROJECT AROAA OF LIVESTOCK IV (Crdit 330-Te
Ef~~~Z1N~~~AN \IRA
X,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OA                                                                      REGIONAL OFFICES
AD  _, t_PROVINCIAL OFFICES
/  OZaIP                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCIAL HEADQUARTERS
VA  i               *'~~~~~~~~loM1J5  Van Go/u                                          o~~~~~~~~~~~~~    COUNTY HEADQUJARTERS
r  EIAZIG     '    !'s. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A ~~~           /                               - ~~~   COUNTY BOUNDARIES
MALATYA  F.    4                           /            /                                   -         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
/jA.LAaa2x S/ A                                                              - X   X  s I R T   -    _            -----  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
*  ~                                  r2\,..               )            ~HKADIYMN Onet,. .  2, '--*rTmap hasbeen pretpared bythe World Ranks staff eoclss,vly for the osnvenFonoe
a~~ADIYAMAN t~*                                                      eo 
The. edr  ofp h o,b-     rpaot to eoh,WO l Ft'skattache    The  anoinaion  ssed and the-
t   >   v -  r   1   v   I   R   A   Q                ho sdar as oho e er t O,s    m ap     do  not   m pl h on  - r f  h   W ld   g n  and - F-
v _ _ j \, MARDIN                                                                    o.       f w   a-eh bo-ndarfe-
LIRFA                                                                                                            e 30  M   d  t  a n. USSaS R
m                                                                             t                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T Ut R  K   E   Y    VaoGodut 
wr                S Y R I A                                                                                   jL                                                                      Cvtin e w
Ca  O    0    p    51S   Y   R   I   A    _r
c
0               100             200 
KILOMETERS                          <                    ~)p~_______
~~~  Black ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eIRa 



