Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16107
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Cr. 2298-BO)
November 12, 1996
Country Operations Division I
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit: Boliviano (Bs)
Exchange Rate: December 1995
BS1.00 = US$ 0.20
US$ 1.00 = Bs 4.92
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BAB         Banco Agricola de Bolivia (Bolivian Agricultural Bank)
BAMIN       Banco Minero (Mining Bank)
BANEST      Banco del Estado (State Bank)
CHF         Swiss Francs
CNV         Comisi6n Nacional de Valores (Stock Exchange Commission)
COMIBOL   Corporacion Minera de Bolivia (Bolivian Mining Corporation)
CPAC        Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit
ELFEC       Empresa de Luz y Fuerza Electrica Cochabamba (Cochabamba Electricity Company)
EMV         Empresa Metalurgica Vinto (Bolivian Smelting Company)
ENDE        Empresa Nacional de Electricidad (National Electricity Company)
ENFE        Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles (National Railways Corporation)
ENTEL       Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (National Telecommunications Company)
ESAF        Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FIS          Fondo Social de Inversion (Social Investment Fund)
FONDESIF   Fondo de Desarrollo del Sistema Financiero y de Apoyo al Sector Productivo (Fund for Development
of the Financial System and Productive Sector)
FONEM       Fondo Nacional de Exploraci6n Minera (National Fund for Mining Exploration)
FSAC        Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GSF         Gerencia de Sistema Financiero (Financial System Unit)
GTZ         German Aid Agency
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Devlelopment
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
ICI         Institution Eligible to Intermediate Development Credit
IDA         International Development Agency
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
IMF         International Monetary Fund
LAB         LLoyd Aereo Boliviano (Bolivian Airline)
LDP         Letter of Development Policy
MSA         Management Service Agreement
NAFIBO      Nacional Financiera de Bolivia (Bolivian Financial Institution)
NLG         Netherlands Guilders
PC          Performance Contract
PCU         Program Coordinating Unit
PFP         Policy Framework Paper
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
PSIP         Public Sector Investment Progam
RDC         Regional Development Corporation
SAC         Structural Adjustment Credit
SAP         Structural Adjustment Program
SBEF        Superintendencia de Bancos y Entidades Financieras (Superintendency of Banks & Financial Entities)
SDR         Special Drawing Right
SNSR        Superintendencia Nacional de Seguros y Reaseguros (National Superintendency of Insurance)
UNDP/OPS   United Nations Development Program--Office for Project Services
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
YPFB         Yacimientos Petrolfferos Fiscales Bolivianos (Bolivian Petroleum Corporation)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface.i........................................
Evaluation Summary.                                                                    iii
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment .
Introduction .1
Program Objectives .1
Achievement of Objectives, Implementation and Factors Affecting the Program ..2
Credit Disbursements and Cofinancing .1
Performance of the Association .12
Performance of the Borrower .13
Program Sustainability .13
Current and Future Operations .14
Key Lessons Learned .14
Part II. Statistical Annexes
Table 1. Summary of Assessments .16
Table 2. Related Bank Credits                         .18
Table 3. Program Timetable                           .19
Table 4. Staff Resources by Fiscal Year .20
Table 5. Credit Amounts .21
Table 6. Credit Disbursements by Fiscal Year .22
Appendix
A. Policy Matrix
B. Second Tranche Release Memo
C. Third Tranche Release Memo
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not othermisc be disclosed wi,hout World Bank authorization.



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM (CREDIT 2298 -BO)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Structural Adjustment Credit in
Bolivia, for which Credit 2298-BO in original amount of SDR 30 million (US$40 million
equivalent) was approved on September 17, 1991 and declared effective on December 6, 1991. The
Credit included a technical assistance component of SDR 2.7 million (US$3.6 million equivalent).
Four subsequent amendments, incorporating annual IDA reflows, augmented the amount of the
Credit by a total of SDR 28.77 million (US$39.49 million equivalent). The Credit was disbursed in
three tranches and the technical assistance component was disbursed throughout the life of the
Credit. The original closing date of July 1, 1994 was extended twice. The first extension (to July 1,
1995) was granted primarily because of fiscal slippages that led to a 13-month delay in the release
of the second tranche (originally envisioned for February 1993). To finalize the implementation of
the technical assistance program, the Credit was extended for another six months and closed on
December 31, 1995. The Credit amount was fully disbursed with the exception of SDR 0.113
million (about US$0.15 million equivalent at current exchange rate) of the technical assistance
component that was subsequently canceled. Co-financing for the project was provided by the Dutch
and Swiss Governments. The Dutch Grant of 19.1 million Dutch guilders was signed in April 1992
and was fully disbursed. The Swiss Grant of 10 million Swiss francs was signed in February 1992
and was also fully disbursed.
This ICR was prepared by the Country Operations Division I, Department III of the Latin
America and the Caribbean Regional Office. Preparation began in January 1996 and is based, inter
alia, on the President's Report, the Development Credit Agreements (including the Amendments),
supervision reports, correspondence between the International Development Agency (IDA) and the
Government of Bolivia, and internal IDA memoranda. While there was no special mission, the
draft ICR was discussed with the Borrower, and their comments reflected in correspondence dated
September 27, 1996, have been largely incorporated into the final ICR.
Acting Vice President      Mr. Gobind Nankani
Director                   Mr. Paul Isenman
Division Chief             Mr. Dan Morrow
Sr. Country Economist      Mr. Vicente Fretes-Cibils



I



-iii-
Implementation Completion Report            Bolivia: Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2298-BO)
BOLIVIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM (CREDIT 2298 -BO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Program Objectives
i.    The primary objective of the Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) was to serve as a bridge
from stabilization to sustained growth. In addition to consolidating stabilization, the program was
designed to provide the foundation for higher economic growth and improve the allocation of public
sector resources. To achieve these objectives, the Credit supported maintaining a sound
macroeconomic framework, and a key set of reforms that included: (i) increasing the efficiency of
the financial sector; (ii) improving the operations of the major public enterprises; (iii) privatizing
small and medium-sized commercial public enterprises; (iv) streamlining trade and registration
procedures; (v) improving public sector investment project selection; and (vi) increasing the share
of current expenditure devoted to primary education and basic health care.
Implementation Results
ii.   The overall outcome of the program is satisfactory. The program helped to: (i) consolidate
macroeconomic stability; (ii) partly restructure the economy to sustain economic growth; and (iii)
improve the allocation of public resources. Despite some delays, all conditions associated with the
implementation of the program were met. With regard to key economic indicators, inflation
(period average) fell from 17 percent in 1990 to about 8 percent in 1994, but increased slightly to
about 10 percent in 1995. The pace of economic growth improved-real GDP growth averaged 4
percent in the period 1990-1995, an increase from the average of the previous five years and about
the level projected at the time of program design. However, during the program period, public
sector investment continued to play the dominant role in generating economic growth and such
growth has not been sufficient to allow for significant reductions in poverty. Nevertheless, the
dramatic increases in poverty of the 1980s were reversed. At the same time, there was an
improvement in the allocation of public resources with a larger share of public investment devoted
towards basic infrastructure and social services by the end of the program period.
iii.   To accelerate the recovery through removing restrictions and subsidies in the financial
sector, the SAP successfully supported the elimination of the role of the state as a financial
intermediary through the closure of Banco Agricola de Bolivia (BAB), Banco Minero (BAMIN),
Fondo Nacional de Exploraci6n Minera (FONEM) and Banco del Estado (BANEST). To establish
minimum provisions for an efficient and modem banking system, the SAP also supported the
drafting, approval and implementation of a new Banking Law. While the progress to reform capital
markets was limited, there were substantial advances in designing a comprehensive pension reform.
Nevertheless, the actions taken under the program resulted in the: (i) elimination of all Treasury
transfers to public enterprises; and (ii) clearance of arrears of debt among all public enterprises.



-iv-
Implementation Completion Report            Bolivia: Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2298-BO)
iv.   The program also supported measures aimed at raising the efficiency of essential public
enterprises through imp roved management and better use of public investment resources. The
results, however, in this area were less than fully successful. A major reason was the use of
management performance contracts that failed to systematically address the structural problems of
the enterprises. However, the program did successfully support the restructuring of the state mining
company (COMIBOL) and the disposal of all its unprofitable mines and mining operations through
the use of leases, joint ventures and closures. With regard to the reform of the small and medium-
sized commercial public enterprises, more than 50 (out-of a total of about 100) were privatized or
liquidated during the program period. More importantly, although not part of the original program,
by the end of 1995, management of four of the six major public enterprises was awarded to private
investors through the capitalization program. In addition, during the program period, export
procedures were simplified with the introduction of a single office system-the ventanilla unica-
and there was some progress toward simplifying firm registration and control procedures. Finally,
the effect of the program's measures to protect the vulnerable poor from the impacts of the
adjustment were limited.
Program Sustainability
v.    Despite the successes, the fiscal balance and balance of payments remain fragile. As such,
sound fiscal, monetary and exchange rate policies must be maintained in order to ensure price
stability. It is unlikely that the structural reforms supported by the program will be reversed. There
has been a reduction in the role of the state as a direct supplier of financial services in the economy,
and the closure of the state banks has opened up the possibilities for expansion of financial
intermediation by the private sector. At the same time, the role of the state as regulator and
supervisor of the banking sector has been strengthened. Despite the progress achieved during the
program period, further efforts, and more importantly, a commitment to enforce the developed
regulations and legislation are required. The privatization of the small and medium-sized
commercial public enterprises is also unlikely to be reversed. However, with regard to increasing
private investment in the hydrocarbons sector, the future structure of the sector will only be
determined after the capitalization of the state hydrocarbons company (YPFB) is completed. While
private investment in the mining sector has increased, to consolidate the structure of the sector and
ensure that COMIBOL retains its status as a holding company, passage of the revised Mining Law
is required.
Lessons Learned
vi.   The key lessons leamed are that:
*  Ownership and commitment of the Government are essential elements for good
design and successful implementation of a structural reform program. In this
particular case, the design of the program and the selection of the instruments were
constrained by the lack of commitment of the Government in 1991 to privatization of
the large public enterprises. However, the SAC and Bank sector reports helped to
keep this issue on the agenda. By 1994, the subsequent administration- recognizing



Implementation Completion Report               Bolivia: Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2298-BO)
the continuing problems in the sectors dominated by the large public enterprises-
launched a "capitalization" program to bring private capital and management to these
sectors.
*   Social sector and direct poverty related issues should be dealt with directly-i.e.,
either through a carefully designed sub-program or through separate sectoral
operations-and not included as marginal elements in a structural adjustment
program. Minor actions do not contribute to resolve the structural problems of the
social sectors and detract the focus on the other key sectors included in the program.
*  To avoid delays in the implementation and allow for greater focus, technical
assistance supporting a structural adjustment program should be handled through a
separate operation that is prepared in advance and implemented in parallel. --
Furthermore, sufficient institutional capacity needs to be developed through such
technical assistance to implement the program in a timely manner.
3   Strong up-front supervision is recommended in order to ensure that the program is
properly launched and implementation is on track. This up-front "investment" will
be paid off through reduced supervision costs in the outer years.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM (CREDIT 2298 -BO)
PART I. PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.   In mid-1985, faced with a severe economic crisis, the Govermment launched its New
Economic Plan, a comprehensive economic program aimed primarily at restoring price stability.
Key measures incorporated in the program included: (i) exchange rate unification and
liberalization of capital flows; (ii) strict budgetary controls and other public sector reforms; (iii)
elimination of price controls; and (iv) tax reforms. To mitigate the negative impact of the
stabilization program on the poor, the Government (with support from the international donors)
established the Emergency Social Fund in early-1987. As financial disinternediation was one
of the negative impacts of the crisis, to reverse these trends and complement the original
stabilization program, IDA provided support through the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
(FSAC approved in late-1987). The Government's program was also supported by the IMF
under a three-year Extended Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) approved in 1988. Although
the stabilization program was successful-inflation decreased from an annual rate of about
24,000 percent in mid-1985 to 21.5 percent in 1988-GDP per capita remained stagnant in real
terms. As a result, in 1989 the Government and IDA began discussing a Structural Adjustment
Program (SAP) to serve as a bridge from stabilization to sustained growth.
Program Objectives
2.   In addition to consolidating stabilization, the primary objectives of the SAP were to
accelerate the recovery, provide the foundation for higher economic growth and improve the
allocation of public sector resources. To achieve these objectives, the Credit supported
maintaining a sound macroeconomic framework, and a key set of reforms that included: (i)
increasing the efficiency of the financial sector; (ii) improving the operations of the major state
enterprises; (iii) privatizing small and medium-sized public commercial enterprises; (iv)
streamlining trade and registration procedures; (v) improving public sector investment project
selection; and (vi) increasing the share of current expenditure devoted to primary education and
basic health care.
3.    Maintaining a sound macroeconomic framework implied, among other things, ensuring
domestic and foreign sector stability. This was to be achieved primarily through the
implementation of prudent fiscal, monetary and exchange rate policies developed through tri-
partite agreements among the Government, IDA and the IMF. Monitoring was achieved through
annual discussions reflected in a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) that incorporated specific



-2-
Implementation Completion Report           Bolivia: Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2298-BO)
macroeconomic targets and provided the basis for the annual financial arrangement under the
ESAF. The IMF and the Bank cooperated very closely on the Bolivian program, and the third
year annual arrangement under the ESAF was approved by the IMF Board on July 3, 1991.
4.    As part of the structural program, reforming the financial sector was intended to remove
constraints and improve the allocation of savings by establishing a financial sector with greater
private sector participation. Specific reforms in the financial sector included: (i) closing public
banks that had incurred substantial losses; (ii) improving the allocation of development credit
financed by external donors; (iii) strengthening the banking system, including improving
supervision of banks and other financial intermediaries; and (iv) removing various impediments
to capital market development. With regard to improving the operations of the major public
enterprises, the Credit supported: (i) strengthening the major public enterprises; (ii) increasing
private sector investment in mining and hydrocarbons; and (iii) privatizing the small and
medium-sized public commercial enterprises. With respect to streamlining trade and registration
procedures, the Credit supported measures to reduce trade transactions costs. With regard to
increasing efficiency in the allocation of public resources, the Credit provided assistance to
improve public investment project selection. Finally, to support long-term growth and to ensure
that essential services to the poor were not curtailed as part of the adjustment efforts, the Credit
supported increasing allocations for current expenditures in primary education and basic health
care.
Achievement of Objectives, Implementation and Factors Affecting the Program
Overall Objectives
5.    As indicated by Table 1 in the Statistical Annex, the overall outcome of the program
supported by this Credit was rated satisfactory in every major area. The program helped to: (i)
consolidate macroeconomic stability; (ii) partly restructure the economy to sustain economic
growth; and (iii) improve the allocation of public resources. Despite some delays, all conditions
associated with the implementation of the program were met. With regard to key economic
indicators, inflation fell from 17 percent in 1990 to about 8 percent in 1994, but increased
slightly to about 10 percent in 1995. The pace of economic growth improved-real GDP growth
averaged 4 percent in the period 1990-1995, an increase from the average of 1.5 percent of the
previous five years and about the level projected at the time of program design. However, during
the program period, public sector investment continued to play the dominant role in generating
economic growth and such growth has not been sufficient to allow for significant reductions in
poverty. Nevertheless, the dramatic increases in poverty of the 1 980s were reversed. At the
same time, there was an improvement in the allocation of public resources with a larger share of
public investment devoted towards basic infrastructure and social services by the end of the
program period.
Consolidation of Macroeconomic Stability
6.    Fiscal Performance: From 1990 to 1992, the overall deficit of the combined public
sector remained at about 4.7 percent of GDP. It, however, widened significantly to 6.5 percent of



-3-
Implementation Completion Report              Bolivia: Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2298-BO)
GDP in 1993, primarily due to increased expenditures-both capital and current-during the
period preceding the Congressional/Presidential election in June 1993. The new Government
(that assumed office in August 1993) took decisive measures to correct the fiscal imbalances and
restore fiscal discipline. As a result, the overall deficit declined to 3.2 percent of GDP in 1994
and about 2 percent of GDP in 1995.
7.    External Sector Performance: Bolivia's balance of payments position remains weak as
a result of persistent trade deficits in the past. As a consequence of the trade performance, the
current account deficit (after official transfers) increased from about 5 percent of GDP in 1990 to
about 9 percent of GDP in 1993, but after decreasing to about 5 percent of GDP in 1994
amounted to about 6 percent of GDP in 1995. The deficit was largely financed by an accelerated
rate of concessional loan disbursements from multilateral organizations and bilateral creditors
and by larger than anticipated inflows of private capital. In addition, Bolivia has maintained a
unified exchange system in which the exchange rate is determined in daily auctions. This system
has proven flexible in the face of external shocks to maintain external competitiveness.
Following an appreciation of the real exchange rate in 1990, the real exchange rate depreciated
continuously throughout the remainder of the program period.
8.    A key element contributing to foreign sector stability has been Bolivia's continuous
efforts toward reducing its external debt burden. Following two previous Paris Club
Agreements, in 1990 Bolivia successfully rescheduled additional bilateral debt on the most
favorable terms available at that time (i.e., "Toronto" terms). Further reductions were granted
under successively more favorable terms-in 1992 under "enhanced Toronto" terms, in early-
1995 under "Naples" terms, and in late-1995 there was a stock of debt reduction operation. Bi-
lateral debt reduction agreements were also reached with several Latin American countries, the
United States, Switzerland and Denmark. Also in 1993, Bolivia successfully retired virtually all
of its commercial debt obligations. This was substantially financed by a grant from the IDA
Debt Reduction Facility. Through these efforts, Bolivia's stock of external debt declined from
about 92 percent of GDP in 1990 to about 80 percent of GDP in 1995.' Furthermore, the debt
service ratio (in terms of exports of goods and services) declined from 47 percent in 1990 to
about 40 percent in 1995. However, as a consequence of the actions in 1995, this ratio is
projected to decrease to about 25 percent in 1996.
9.    Monetary and Financial Performance: Parallel to the decline in inflation, a
remonetization took place, mostly due to the important capital inflows that followed economic
stabilization. This was combined with a high degree of dollarization, that limited the
effectiveness of active monetary policy and resulted from less than full confidence in both the
domestic currency and the general economic stability. At the end of 1995, US-dollar
denominated deposits at commercial banks accounted for more than 90 percent of total deposits.
The process of financial reintermediation also was reflected in strong demand for credit by the
private sector. After 1993 there was a slowdown in the growth of credit to the private sector, due
primarily to deceleration in the growth of bank liabilities and declines in demand for
These figures are from the World Bank Debt Reporting System and may differ slightly from other sources due
to discrepancies in recording.



-4-
Implementation Completion Report           Bolivia: Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2298-BO)
development credit. However, to ensure liquidity, in late- 1994 there was a marked expansion in
Central Bank credit to the banking system when the Superintendency of Banks and Financial
Entities (SBEF) closed two illiquid and insolvent banks. While the authorities gradually adjusted
policies to the credit expansion and the impact of the Mexican crisis, additional measures,
including higher savings from external financing, were necessary in 1995 to ensure higher
accumulation of international reserves. Against this background, real interest rates on deposits
and loans in both domestic and foreign currency have been market determined and remained high
during the program period.
10.   Macroeconomic instability, primarily related to the fiscal imbalances that emerged during
1993, was in part responsible for the delay in the release of the second tranche, originally
envisioned for February 1993. These concerns also delayed the completion of the review of a
fourth year arrangement under the IMF ESAF. With the corrective measures undertaken by the
new administration in the second half of 1993 and first three months of 1994, it was recognized
that the macroeconomic program was back on track. This provided a solid base for the
successful implementation of the adjustment program supported by the Credit and resulted in the
completion of the IMF review in April 1994. After release of the second tranche in March 1994,
macroeconomic stability was maintained for the rest of the year and through 1995. A new three
year ESAF agreement with the IMF was approved by the Board in December 1994, together with
the first annual arrangement thereunder. The mid-term review of the first year arrangement was
completed in November 1995.
Financial Sector
11.   Public Banks and Funds: To improve the efficiency in the financial sector, the SAP
supported reducing the role of the state as a director supplier of financial services. To achieve
this, in the second half of 1991 the Government closed Banco Agricola de Bolivia (BAB), Banco
Minero (BAMIN) and Fondo Nacional de Exploraci6n Minera (FONEM). At that time,
Treasury subsidies stopped and the Superintendency of Banks and Financial Entities (SBEF) was
named as Interventor to implement the program to carry out the process of recovering, selling,
transferring or liquidating the fixed and financial assets of these public banks. The valuation of
all assets was completed by 1992, and by end-1993, most real assets were liquidated primarily
through public auctions. With regard to the liabilities of these banks to the Central Bank, the
reconciliations were completed in early- 1994. During 1995, final audits were conducted and the
Treasury assumed all remaining assets and liabilities, thereby completing the liquidation process.
In addition, the Government closed Banco del Estado (BANEST) in the second half of 1992 and
most of its financial, fiscal and central banking services were transferred to the private sector
through public biddings. In 1993, assets and liabilities were evaluated and accounts reconciled,
and in February 1994 the Government issued a Supreme Decree that initiated the disposition of
all financial assets and liabilities. By end-1994, all remaining assets and liabilities of BANEST
had been transferred to the Treasury, thereby completing the liquidation process.
12.  Improving the Allocation of Development Credits: To achieve this, the SAP supported
the implementation of eligibility criteria and sound supervision of financial institutions
intermediating development credit (ICIs). In 1991, a Central Bank resolution established



-5-
Implementation Completion Report            Bolivia: Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2298-BO)
eligibility criteria for ICIs' access to development credits and placed a limit on the share of non-
performing loans on development credits. Furthermore, in order to ensure financial discipline
and full bearing of the credit risks, the Central Bank issued another resolution in mid-1991
restricting the rescheduling of development credit. To allocate credit to the ICIs, market-
determined interest rates were maintained through an auction system with a floor rate no less
than the average borrowing rate of the banking system. These measures contributed to improve
the functioning of the allocation of development credits, minimizing the possibility for adverse
selection.
13.   Strengthening the Banking System: To achieve this, the SAP supported the drafting,
approval and implementation of a new Banking Law that established minimum provisions for a
modem banking system. The new law was approved by the Congress in April 1993 and was put
into effect by successive regulations issued by the SBEF and the Central Bank. The Government
also implemented an agreed action plan to improve supervision and regulation of the financial
system through, among other things, issuing Circulars. These Circulars established criteria for:
(i) portfolio reclassification and provisioning; (ii) minimum contents of credit folders for loan
classifications; (iii) investment classification and provisioning; (iv) truth in lending requirements;
and (v) public information on deposit rates and financial service commissions. In addition, the
Government developed internal operating guidelines, including monthly published information
on loans according to classifications and associated provisions. Included in the quarterly
Circulars issued during 1994 and 1995, all commercial banks in Bolivia were making the
required provisions in amounts equivalent to about 10 percent of their Class 3 loans.
14.   With these instruments, the Government also developed a program for the management
of bank crises that contained the following elements: (i) a preventive surveillance system for
banks that violate certain objective criteria; (ii) intervention of banks that do not comply with an
agreed rehabilitation plan after being subject to preventive surveillance, which have lost more
than 50 percent of their capital or which have cormmitted egregious violations of prudential
regulations; and (iii) rules for the provision of short-term liquidity support by the Central Bank.
15.   With regard to the restructuring of the Central Bank, there was little progress during the
program period. After a long delay, however, a new Central Bank Law was approved by the
Congress in October 1995. This law increases the independence of the Bank, makes the pursuit
of low inflation the Bank's main objective, and facilitates the completion of the restructuring.
This will include the establishment of a new nonbank financial intermediary (NAFIBO), a joint
venture between the Government and private investors, that will take over from the Central Bank
the on-lending of development funds to commercial banks starting in mid-1 996.
16.   Removing Impediments to Capital Market Development: The program's support to
strengthening capital markets included: (i) carrying out a study of the contractual savings system;
(ii) undertaking specific legal and regulatory changes to implement the recommendations from
this study; (iii) designing and implementing reforms in pension and insurance; and (iv)
improving the supervision of capital market institutions. While the comprehensive study on
contractual savings was not carried out, certain key sub-components specifically related to the
pension system were analyzed. Complete audits of the insurance companies and of the basic and



-6-
Implementation Completion Report            Bolivia: Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2298-BO)
complementary pension funds were completed. Furthermore, substantial progress was made in
developing the pension reform. This reform involves overhauling and eventually replacing the
existing pay-as-you-go system by establishing a system of fully-funded individual capitalized
pension accounts. Important features of the new system are private sector management of the
pension fund accounts together with creation of a new pension supervisory institution. After
delays and several attempts, a draft pension law was finalized in 1995. Some of the delays
resulted from the new Government's strategy (mid-1993) to link the pension reform with the
distribution of shares of the capitalization program and the need to thoroughly estimate the fiscal
impact of the reform.
17.   During the program period, there was little progress in the reform of the insurance
industry. While a new Insurance Law was drafted and submitted to Congress in 1992, it has
never been considered. With the new Government's ambitious reform program, it was decided
that the insurance reform would proceed after the implementation of the "core programs" (e.g.,
Capitalization, Education Reform, Popular Participation/Decentralization, Pension Reform). The
situation was similar with the proposed reform of the Securities Market-a new law was initially
drafted in 1991, revised a number of times, and eventually submitted for Congressional review in
1995. The program also supported efforts to harmonize the different financial legislation to
avoid contradictory provisions and/or omissions. However, the success of this to date has been
partial in that only the new Banking and Central Bank Laws have been passed.
18.   As a consequence of the implementation of the program, the Bolivian financial system
has been strengthened. However, the system remains small and is dominated by the banking
system. Partly as a result of the improved supervisory capability, a number of problem banks
were identified in mid-1994, leading to the intervention and liquidation of two banks. In
addition, during 1995, it was determined that several banks were experiencing liquidity
problems, including some that were assessed as insolvent. To resolve these, the Government
established individual action programs to restructure, liquidate and/or capitalize each bank, under
the umbrella of a fund (FONDESIF) created in September 1995. Given the remaining agenda,
including the need to accelerate the reforms of the pension system, insurance system and capital
markets, IDA is providing follow-up support in the form of the Financial Markets and Pension
Reform Technical Assistance Project (approved FY96).
Public Enterprise Reforms
19.   Strengthening of Major Public Enterprises: The SAP supported measures to raise the
efficiency of essential public enterprises through improved management and better use of public
investment resources. Starting in 1990, management performance contracts (PCs) were adopted
as the primary instrument for achieving this in some public enterprises-i.e., ENFE (railways),
ENTEL (telecommunications), YPFB (hydrocarbons), and ENDE (electricity). The PCs
established targets to increase efficiency, managerial autonomy and accountability of the
enterprises. However, the PCs failed to provide the desired results and their use was
discontinued in 1992, with the exception of ENDE which had signed a 5-year PC. The major
flaw was that these instruments did not systematically address the structural problems of the
entities. Moreover, the targets were subjective and as such it was difficult to independently



-7-
Implementation Completion Report            Bolivia: Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2298-BO)
measure performance improvements. As a result, the weakly defined efficiency criteria used in
PCs gave rise to perverse incentives that resulted in larger than programmed increases in salaries.
With the exception of ENFE, the other major public enterprises (although inefficient) continued
to provide positive transfers to the Treasury. In addition, by the end of 1995 the Government had
eliminated: (i) all transfers to all public enterprises; and (ii) the arrears of debt among all public
enterprises.
20.  Increasing Private Sector Investment in Hydrocarbons and Mining: In 1990, a revised
Hydrocarbons Law was passed that allowed for joint ventures between YPFB and private
investors for exploration and development. As a result, by 1994 about 12 joint ventures had been
signed. However, further private investments in hydrocarbons and the structure of the sector will
only be determined after the capitalization of YPFB is completed. In the mining sector, a new
law (approved in 1991) also enabled joint venture operations, simplified licensing procedures
and introduced improved tax systems. The changes allowed a significant expansion of private
investment in the mining sector. Also as part of the program, on the basis of a comprehensive
diagnostic study completed in the second half of 1993, a detailed action plan for restructuring the
mining sector, including the reorganization and transformation of the state mining company
(COMIBOL) into a holding company was developed and subsequently implemented. The
Government made significant progress toward disposing COMIBOL mines and mining
operations through the use of leases, joint ventures and closures-by early-1994, out of a total of
twelve mines assessed as unprofitable, eleven were closed or ceased operating. The one
exception was judged to be profitable after a rationalization of personnel and was transferred to
the private sector by mid-1994. By this time, the Government also closed or ceased operations in
five out of the total six metallurgical operations that were assessed to be unprofitable. Moreover,
later in the year the remaining plant was also closed. By the end of the program, the COMIBOL
restructuring was nearly completed, and its role was reduced to the management of state
properties and or lease contracts with private operators. However, to ensure that COMIBOL is
maintained in this new structure, a revised Mining Law-currently under legislative
consideration-is required. Also, the Government has included in the capitalization program the
state smelting company (EMV), along with some of COMIBOL's properties, including
remaining mines.
21.   Privatization of SmaUl and Medium-sized Commercial Public Enterprises: In addition
to the major public enterprises, at the time of program design, there were roughly 100
commercial public enterprises mostly under the control of the Regional Development
Corporations (RDCs) and the Ministry of Defense. It was agreed that the initial phase of the
privatization program would include the national airline (Lloyd Aereo Boliviano-LAB) and the
enterprises controlled by the RDCs. Following the passage of the Privatization Law in mid-
1992, the Government carried out asset evaluations and sales documentation for more than 40 of
these commercial public enterprises. Of these enterprises, about 80 percent were classified as
small (i.e., with a value of fixed assets between US$1 million and US$9 million) and the rest
were classified as large (i.e., with a value of fixed assets greater than US$9 million). LAB was
offered for sale in 1992, but no acceptable bids were received. During 1993, at least two large
and three small enterprises were sold and during 1995 more than 30 additional enterprises were
offered for sale, including an electricity distribution company (ELFEC).



-8-
Implementation Completion Report                Bolivia: Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2298-BO)
22.   A cornerstone of the new administration's program was the capitalization of the major
2
public enterprises. As such, the privatization program as originally envisioned was modified in
1993, with greater emphasis placed on capitalization. As the original program did not include
any actions towards privatizing the major public enterprises, this new strategy was fully accepted
by IDA. In early- 1994, the Ministry of Capitalization was established to manage and coordinate
all privatization efforts. Beginning in mid-1995, considerable progress was made in
implementing the program. By the end of 1995, management of four of the six major public
enterprises was awarded to private investors-ENDE in June, ENTEL in September, LAB in
October and ENFE in December. The proceeds from these operations will result in private direct
investment in these key sectors of about US$840 million over the period 1995-2002.
Trade and Registration Procedures
23.   With regard to streamlining trade and registration procedures, the program included
measures to expand trade transactions and reduce costs. In the area of trade, the removal of the
sugar import licensing requirement (late- 1992) resulted in the elimination of all quantitative
restrictions on imports, except those maintained for public health and national safety reasons. In
early- 1993, the Congress approved an Export Bill that eliminated taxes on almost all exports of
goods and services and allowed exporters to reclaim value added taxes. There was also progress
toward reforming the customs administration and the private sector now operates more than six
customs houses that handle approximately 90 percent of registered trade. In early-1993, Bolivia
adhered to the GATT Customs Valuation Agreement, that resulted in the simplification of
customs valuation procedures. Export procedures were also simplified with the introduction of a
single office system-the ventanilla zunica. The system was implemented in La Paz in early-
1992 and extended to Santa Cruz and Cochabamba in late-1992. Finally, there was some
progress toward simplifying firm registration and control procedures. More specifically, firms
are now required to register with fewer public sector agencies and tax reporting requirements
have been simplified.
Increasing Efficiency in the Allocation of Public Resources
24.   The program supported efforts to improve the quality of public sector investment through
a more rigorous selection of public investment projects. Actions taken to achieve this included:
(i) the introduction of a system for the collection and organization of public sector investment
data; (ii) the implementation of a system to formulate, select and monitor public investments; and
(iii) agreement to undertake a gradual shift in public investments from productive activities to
social projects.3 During the program period, public investment declined slightly from about 9
percent of GDP in 1990 to about 8 percent in 1995. While the systems developed to monitor
2 The capitalization process was defined by a March 1994 law that: (i) provided for the transfer of management
control and up to 50 percent ownership to strategic investors; (ii) required investors to provide equity for
capital investment; and (iii) transferred the Government shares to adult Bolivians to be managed by private
pension funds in individual accounts.
3   The development of these systems was supported by another IDA project, the Economic Management
Strengthening Operation (EMSO), Cr. 1977-BO.



-9-
Implementation Completion Report             Bolivia: Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2298-BO)
public investment did not capture efficiency improvements, they have clearly captured a
significant change in the composition of the public investment. In 1990, 45 percent of public
investment was allocated to productive sectors (dominated by YPFB), about 35 percent was
allocated to infrastructure (dominated by transportation) and about 20 percent to social sectors.
In 1995, only about 22 percent of public investment was allocated to productive sectors, whereas
about 42 percent was allocated to infrastructure and about 35 percent to social sectors. While
there was a clear trend toward reducing public investment in productive sectors (particularly in
hydrocarbons) and allocating toward social sectors, the most significant shifts occurred during
the period 1993-1995. While the allocation of public investment to education has increased
significantly, the allocation to health has remained low.
Social Impact of the Adjustment
25.   As indicated previously, the program supported stabilizing the economy and increasing
the rate of economic growth-per capita GDP growth averaged about 2 percent during the
period. This economic growth was not sufficient to substantially reduce poverty, nevertheless,
the dramatic increases in poverty of the 1 980s were reversed. To protect the vulnerable poor
from the impacts of the adjustment, the program supported a further reallocation of resources to
social sectors. With regard to current expenditures, the program supported a greater allocation of
resources toward: (i) primary education, particularly for text books and teaching materials; and
(ii) primary health care, particularly in the major cities. Through the program period, overall the
shares of expenditure to primary education and primary health care increased as part of the
general reallocation of resources to the social sectors. By 1994, the budget allocation to primary
and secondary education increased to about 10 percent of Central Government expenditure-a
significant improvement compared to the corresponding average of 3 percent during the period
1990-1991. This share increased even further to about 12.5 percent in 1995. Due to an
inadequate expenditure tracking system, it has proven to be more difficult to account for the
allocation of expenditures on health care. However, in 1995, the Government agreed to develop
a methodology to better track expenditures within this sector. Given these marginal inclusions,
social sector and poverty related issues should have been dealt with directly. This lesson along
with the efforts to reform the social sectors has already been reflected in the on-going
comprehensive education sector reform.
Technical Assistance Program
26.   In addition to supporting the Program Coordinating Unit (PCU), the technical assistance
program was designed to help implement the reform program. The support to the financial sector
reforms consisted of: (i) strengthening the SBEF to develop prudential norms and regulations and
to evaluate the asset portfolios of banks and internal bank control systems; (ii) providing a new
integrated information system for the SBEF; (iii) strengthening the Gerencia de Sector
Financiero (GSF) at the Central Bank to develop and implement a program to manage bank
crises; (iv) providing internal and external training for staff from SBEF and GSF; (v) drafting the
laws and regulations to improve the efficiency and competitiveness of the financial sector,
including pension, insurance and capital markets; and (vi) undertaking audits of the insurance
companies and pension institutions. The technical assistance to the public enterprise reforms



-10-
Implementation Completion Report              Bolivia: Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2298-BO)
provided assistance to the technical team managing the privatization program, including support
for the preparation and implementation of specific privatizations. Support to the trade and
registration reforms consisted of assistance to developing systems for streamlining export
approvals and simplify'ing firms registration and control procedures.
27.   The technical assistance component was essential to ensure the implementation of the
SAP, and in early- 1992, the PCU was established. With regard to the SBEF, although there was
slow progress initially, activities accelerated starting in late-1992. Through a program of
external consultancies and training, the assistance allowed the SBEF to: (i) improve supervision
of banks; (ii) issue Circulars complementing the new Banking Law; (iii) develop prudential
norms and regulations; and (iv) develop guidelines for portfolio evaluation. As part of the
assistance to improve the supervision of banks, the program supported an improvement in
information systems, including an upgrade of the computer system. To ensure a transparent
process and the selection of an appropriate system for the Bolivian banking system, there were
some delays in procuring the computer equipment and in training the staff of the SBEF.
Nevertheless, these activities were successfully completed by late- 1995. With regard to the
assistance to the GSF to implement mechanisms for managing bank crises, an external consultant
was contracted during 1992, but work was delayed due to the need to reorganize and clarify the
role of the GSF. This assistance was only partially successful, because of the limited
institutional capacity of the GSF.
28.   The technical assistance also successfully supported consultancy services that provided
recommendations for the legal, regulatory and institutional changes necessary for capital markets
development. This resulted in the drafting of the various new capital markets laws. In addition,
the analysis of contractual savings provided background information and recommendations for
overhauling the old pension system and developing the new system incorporating fully-funded
individually capitalized accounts. As supported by the program, the audits of the pension funds
was carried out as planned, but the audits of the insurance companies were delayed due to a
lengthy process to identify and select qualified independent auditing companies. Nevertheless,
these audits were also completed well before the end of the program's support.
29.   The technical assistance also supported a technical secretariat coordinating the design and
implementation of the privatization program. This included the provision of consultancy
services to: (i) prepare the necessary legislation; (ii) prepare the documentation for sale,
including bidding; (iii) carry out asset valuations; and (iv) finalize the sale of the enterprises,
which often included difficult negotiations with the affected labor groups. With the change in
administration and privatization strategy, the secretariat moved to the newly created Ministry of
Capitalization and the support expanded to include some additional activities associated with the
capitalization. The technical assistance also supported the design and implementation of
streamlined trade and registration procedures that led to the "ventanilla unica" and a
computerized support system. While the technical assistance identified the need to undertake a



Implementation Completion Report                Bolivia: Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2298-BO)
major overhaul of the registry system, including its consolidation, these recommendations have
not yet been fully developed or implemented.4
30.   As stipulated in the Credit Agreement, the Government entered into a Management
Service Agreement (MSA) to administer the technical assistance program. After considering
different proposals and prolonged negotiations, the MSA was awarded to UNDP/OPS in
April/May 1992 and subsequently was maintained through the life of the program. The use of
the MSA contributed to the success of the implementation of the program. Although adding to
the overall length of the process of procuring the computer system for the SBEF, the use of the
UNDP/OPS resulted in an orderly, effective and transparent awarding of the International
Competitive Bid (ICB).
31.   Despite its satisfactory and timely implementation, technical assistance supporting a
structural adjustment program should be handled through a separate operation that is prepared in
advance and implemented in parallel. Furthermore, sufficient institutional capacity needs to be
developed through such technical assistance to implement the program in a timely manner. The
separation of operations provides a more focused approach and allows for clearer and separate
administrative procedures.
Credit Disbursements and Cofinancing
32.   As indicated, the original amount of the Credit was augmented four times to reflect
increases resulting from IDA reflows. The Credit was disbursed in three tranches, excluding the
technical assistance component.5 Following the fulfillment of the administrative conditions for
Credit effectiveness, the amount of US$ 15.4 million was disbursed in January 1992. The first
IDA reflow amounting to US$11.3 was disbursed in April 1993. Following the fulfillment of all
conditions for the release of the second tranche (see Appendix B), US$ 26.7 million was
disbursed (the tranche amount along with the second IDA reflow) in March 1994. The release of
the second tranche was delayed for about 13 months primarily due to the increase in the fiscal
deficit and the delay in closing unprofitable mines of COMIBOL. The conditions were filled
when the new Government took corrective actions during the second half of 1993 and 1994 to
bring the fiscal program back on track. In addition, following the completion of the study
determining COMIBOL's unprofitable mines, the Government proceeded to fulfill the required
actions. As a result of the change in privatization strategy and the delay in the release of the
second tranche, the Government requested a one-year extension of the closing date (to July 1,
1995) that was subsequently granted. Following the fulfillment of all the conditions for the
release of the third tranche (see Appendix C), US$ 18.15 million (the tranche amount along with
the third IDA reflow) was disbursed in May 1995. To complete the technical assistance to
strengthen the SBEF and disburse the fourth IDA reflow, the Government requested (and was
4   The registries identified as needing improvement and consolidation included those for real estate, vehicles,
commercial transactions, land title, civil transactions, and other property, including warehouses.
5   Due to exchange rate fluctuations, actual disbursements differ from original loan amounts. The numbers cited
in the paragraph refer to actual disbursements. For a comparison of original amounts and actual
disbursements, see Part 11, Table 5.



-12-
Implementation Completion Report           Bolivia: Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2298-BO)
granted) an extension of the closing date to December 31, 1995. Associated with the fourth IDA
reflow, US$ 9.15 million was disbursed in August 1995. The Credit was successfully closed on
December 31, 1995 with an undisbursed balance of SDR 0.1 13 million (US$0.150 million
equivalent).
33.   To cofinance the operation, the Government of Switzerland contributed CHF1O million
(US$7 million equivalent). This cofinancing was formalized in February 1992 and disbursed
during 1992 and 1993. The Government of the Netherlands also cofinanced the operation in the
amount of NLG 19.1 million (US$10.8 million equivalent) that was fully disbursed by end-1992.
Furthermore, USAID provided US$2.25 million throughout the life of the program to primarily
support the pension reforms. These grants were all administered by IDA.
34.  In addition, as part of the assistance, the Governments of Germany and Bolivia entered
into a parallel credit agreement for DM 27 million in November 1992 that was disbursed in three
tranches tied to the release of the SAC tranches. To support the technical assistance, the German
Aid Agency (GTZ) provided financing to assist the SBEF in its analysis of non-bank financial
intermediaries. Also, the Inter-American Development Bank (1DB) extended two fast-disbursing
loans to the Bolivian Government in 1991. The first (for US$60 million) was to support the
reform of the financial sector and promote private investment and contained the same
conditionality as the SAC. The other (a multisectoral credit line for US$80 million) included
US$2.5 million in complementary technical assistance for institutional strengthening and training
for the Central Bank and the Ministry of Planning.
Performance of the Association
35.   The development of the program was built on the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
(FY88), economic and sector work (including an Updating Economic Memorandum, a Poverty
Report, and annual Public Investment Reviews) and the policy dialogue with the Government.
During the identification, preparation and appraisal stages, the performance of IDA was
satisfactory. IDA played a catalytic role in engaging the Government, the IMF and IDB to
identify key structural constraints and propose solutions to remove. In program design, it was
realized that there was a trade off between wide coverage of reforms and concentration on a
limited subset of deep reforms. The program was viewed as a bridge from stabilizatiQn to
sustained growth. While it removed key constraints in the financial sector, it was not deep
enough in other key sectors of the economy dominated by the public sector-hydrocarbons,
mining, electricity and telecommunications-and likely adversely affected the acceleration of
higher economic growth. Given the lack of Government commitment to tackle the real issues in
these sectors, the design of the program was compromised. As a result, a "comprehensive"
program was designed, but with only major reforms in the financial sector and COMIBOL.
36.   During implementation, IDA's performance was also satisfactory. There continued to be
close cooperation with the Government and the IMF through the annual PFP discussions that
included joint missions. In addition, there was close cooperation with the IDB on issues of
program implementation. The dialogue with the Government and the implementation of the
program also benefited by complementary economic and sector work carried out during the



-13-
Implementation Completion Report           Bolivia: Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2298-BO)
program period, including the Updating Economic Memorandum (Report No. 11 123-BO), the
Public Sector Investment Review (Report No. 11 124-BO), and the report Bolivia: Structural
Reforms, Fiscal Impacts and Economic Growth (Report No. 13067-BO).
37.   The total time allocated to pre-board activities (FY90-FY92) was about 110 staff weeks
(see Part II, Table 4). To ensure a successful implementation of the program, supervision efforts
were intensive during FY92 and the first half of FY93. In the later years, more responsibility for
supervision was given to the resident mission and formal supervisions from headquarters often
combined with other related activities, including economic work (e.g., Bolivia: Structural
Reforms, Fiscal Impacts and Economic Growth) and PFP discussions with the Government and
IMF. On average, the task manager carried out three missions a year that directly or indirectly
resulted in SAC-related discussions.
Performance of the Borrower
38.   The Government's performance overall was satisfactory. Given the lack of commitment
of the Government to address the privatization of the large public enterprises, the program
designed was strong in the financial sector but weak in other key areas of the economy. As a
result, the instruments selected to tackle the problems in these other areas were second best
alternatives. Nevertheless, the designed program was well implemented and deepened during the
subsequent administration. Moreover, despite the change of administration in the middle of
program implementation, there was a high degree of continuity during the transition period,
including maintaining the key staff within the PCU, thereby ensuring institutional memory.
These contributed to the successful implementation of the program by the end of 1995. The
Government also fulfilled the auditing requirements-the annual and tranche audit reports were
received within the designated time period. Audits for the PPF and the technical assistance were
not carried out by the Government because they were under the umbrella of the MSA with
UNDP/OPS. However, copies of the annual audited statements prepared by the designated
auditors of UNDP/OPS were provided to IDA.
Program Sustainability
39.   The Government has successfully maintained macroeconomic stability and has restored
fiscal discipline, although the fiscal balance remains fragile. In light of the still weak balance of
payments position, Bolivia also remains vulnerable to changes in the external environment.
Given these fragilities, sound fiscal, monetary and exchange rate policies must be maintained in
order to ensure stability. The reallocation of public resources toward basic infrastructure and
social services achieved during the program period is unlikely to be reversed. This process was
reassured as a consequence of the deepening of the structural reforms (i.e., Capitalization,
Popular Participation and Administrative Decentralization) undertaken by the new
administration.
40.  It is unlikely that most of the structural reforms supported by the program will be
reversed. There has been a reduction in the role of the state as a direct supplier of financial
services in the economy, and the closure of the state banks has opened up the possibilities for



-14-
Implementation Completion Report            Bolivia: Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2298-BO)
expansion of financial intermediation by the private sector. At the same time, the role of the
state as regulator and supervisor of the banking sector has been strengthened. Despite the
progress achieved during the program period, further efforts, and more importantly, a
commitment to enforce the developed regulations and legislation are required. The privatization
of the small and medium-sized commercial public enterprises is also unlikely to be reversed.
However, with regard to increasing private investment in the hydrocarbons sector, the future
structure of the sector will only be determined after the capitalization of state hydrocarbons
company (YPFB) is completed. While private investment in the mining sector has increased, to
consolidate the structure of the sector and ensure that COMIBOL retains its status as a holding
company, passage of the revised Mining Law is required. Finally, it is unlikely that the
procedures to simplify trade and registration processes will be reversed, but additional measures
are required to consolidate the registry system.
Current and Future Operations
41.   As indicated previously, the new administration deepened the privatization efforts
through the introduction of the Capitalization Program. On-going operations that support these
efforts include: (i) the Regulatory Reform and Capitalization Technical Assistance Operation
(FY95), that is supporting the establishment of the regulatory framework and providing technical
assistance to capitalizations of ENTEL and LAB; (ii) the Hydrocarbons Sector Reform and
Capitalization Technical Assistance Operation (FY96), that is supporting the establishment of the
new legal framework for the hydrocarbons sector and providing assistance to the capitalization of
YPFB; (iii) the Power Sector Reforn Technical Assistance Project (FY96) that is supporting the
capitalization of ENDE; and (iv) the Capitalization Program Adjustrnent Credit (FY96) that is
providing support to the overall capitalization program. In addition, the Financial Markets and
Pension Reform Technical Assistance Project (FY96) is supporting the further strengthening of
the financial sector and the implementation of the pension reform. Furthermore, through its
support to improving the judicial system, the Judicial Reform Project (FY95) is contributing to
the establishment of an improved environment for private investors. Finally, the Education
Reform Project (FY95) is providing support to the first stages of a comprehensive social sector
reform.
Key Lessons Learned
42.   Key lessons learned include the following:
*  Ownership and commitment of the Government are essential elements for good
design and successful implementation of a structural reform programn. In this
particular case, the design of the program and the selection of the instruments were
constrained by the lack of commitment of the Government in 1991 to privatization of
the large public enterprises. However, the SAC and Bank sector reports helped to
keep this issue on the agenda. By 1994, the subsequent administration- recognizing
the continuing problems in the sectors dominated by the large public enterprises-
launched a "capitalization" programn to bring private capital and management to these
sectors.



-15-
Implementation Completion Report                Bolivia: Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2298-BO)
*   Social sector and direct poverty related issues should be dealt with directly-i.e.,
either through a carefully designed sub-program or through separate sectoral
operations-and not included as marginal elements in a structural adjustment
program. Minor actions do not contribute to resolve the structural problems of the
social sectors and detract the focus on the other key sectors included in the program.
*   To avoid delays in the implementation and allow for greater focus, technical
assistance supporting a structural adjustment program should be handled through a
separate operation that is prepared in advance and implemented in parallel.
Furthermore, sufficient institutional capacity needs to be developed through such
technical assistance to implement the program in a timely manner.
*   Strong up-front supervision is recommended in order to ensure that the program is
properly launched and implementation is on track. This up-front "investment" will
be paid off through reduced supervision costs in the outer years.



-16-
Implementation Completion Report                   Bolivia: Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2298-BO)
PART II. STATISTICAL APPENDIX
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives Substantial    Partial       Negligible     Not Applicable
Macro policies                   El           0               0                  0
Sector policies                  0            Z               0                  0
Financial objectives             0            0               0                  0
Institutional development        0            El              0                  0
Physical objectives              0            0               0                  0
Poverty reduction                0            0               0                  0
Gender issues                    0            0               0                  0
Other social objectives          0            0               0                  0
Environmental objectives         0            0               0                  0
Public sector management         0            0               0                  0
Private sector development       0            0               0                  0
Other (specify)                  0            0               0                  0



-17-
Implementation Completion Report                   Bolivia: Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2298-BO)
B. Project sustainability           Likly          Unlikely      Uncertain
(1)            (/)               )
E               0 
Highly
C. Bank performance                 Satisfactor     Satisfacory   Deficien
(1)            (1)           (/)
Identification                           O      0                      0
Preparation assistance                   O      0                      0
Appraisal                                0             0               o
Supervision                              0             0               O
Highly
D. Borrowerperformance              Satisfacto      Satisfacry   Deficien
(/)            (/)           (/)
Identification                            O      0                      0
Preparation assistance                    0      0                      0
Appraisal                                 O      0                      0
Supervision                               0      0                      0
Highly                                       Highly
E. Assessment of outcome     Satisfactory    Satisfactly   Deficient     Unsatisfac
0           0                0                 0



-18-
Implementation Completion Report              Bolivia: Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2298-BO)
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Year of
Credit Title              Purpose                           Approval  Status
Preceding Operations in
Lending Program:
Financial Sector Adjustment   Strengthen banking system by  FY88       Closed
Credit                    improving regulations and supervision.
(Cr. 1925-BO)
Mining Sector Rehabilitation   Promote new private mining   FY89       In operation
Credit                    investment and restructure COMIBOL
(Cr. 2013-BO)             into a holding company
Economic Management       Strengthen economic management    FY89       Closed
Strengthening Operation   capabilities, including improvements
(Cr. 1977-BO)             in public investment programming.
Following Operations in
Lending Program:
Regulatory Reform and     Support establishment of new      FY95       In operation
Capitalization TA Operation   regulatory framework and
(Cr. 2647-BO)             capitalizations in aviation and
telecommunications.
Hydrocarbons Sector Reform   Support establishment of new legal    FY95  In operation
and Capitalization TA     framework in hydrocarbonas sector
Operation                 and capitalization of YPFB.
(Cr. 2762-BO)
Power Sector Reform TA    Support capitalization of ENDE.   FY96       In operation
Project
(Cr. 2790-BO)
Capitalization Program    Support overall capitalization program   FY96  In operation
Adjustment Credit         and establishment of regulatory
(Cr. 2761-BO)             environment.
Financial Market and Pension  Support further strengthening of  FY96   In operation
Reform TA Project         financial sector and implementation of
(Cr. 2789-BO)             pension reform.
Judicial Reform Project   Support improvements to judicial  FY95       In operation
(Cr. 2705-BO)             system to improve environment for
private investors.
Education Reform Project  Support improvements in primary and  FY95    In operation
(Cr. 2650-BO)             secondary education, including
rationalizing institutional structure.



-19-
Implementation Completion Report                      Bolivia: Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2298-BO)
Table 3: Project Timetable
Measures                                         Planned Date             Actual date
Time taken to Prepare Credit                                              16 months
Identification Mission                                                    May /June 1990
Initial Preparation Mission                      _                        August/September 1990
Initial Bank Review                                                       December 1990
Initiating Memorandum to the Loan Committee                               January 18, 1991
Appraisal Mission                                                         January/February 1991
Discussion of Adjustment Programn                                         March 1991
Post-Appraisal Mission                                                    March 1991
Completion of Negotiations                                                May 30, 1991
Approval By Board Directors                                               September 17, 1991
Loan Signing                                                              September 20, 1991
Date of Effectiveness                            October 1991             December 6, 1991
Approval of Second Tranche Release               February 1993            March 2, 1994
Signing of First Reflow Agreement                                         April 16, 1992
Signing of Second Reflow Agreement                                        March 2, 1993
Signing of Third Reflow Agreement                                         May 10, 1994
Signing of Fourth Reflow Agreement                                        February 14, 1995
Approval of Third Tranche Release                January 1994             May 10, 1995
Supervision Missions                                                      October/November 1991
January 1992
March/April 1992
_______________________________________  .August/September  1992
December 1992
June 1993
September 1993
November 1993
March 1994
June/July 1994
November/December 1994
March 1995
June 1995
December 1995
Closing date SAC                                 July 1, 1994             December 31, 1995
Closing date Dutch Grant Agreement               July 1, 1993             January 1993
Closing date Swiss Grant Agreement               December 1992            September 1994
Closing date USAID Trust Fund                    March 1993               August 1996



-20-
Implementation Completion Report             Bolivia: Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2298-BO)
Table 4: Staff Resources by Fiscal Year
(Staff Weeks)
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996 | Total
Preparation    54.3                                               54.3
Appraisal             40.0   11.1                                 51.1
Negotiation            6.0                                         6.0
Supervision                  51.3   33.7   19.7   11.7           116.4
PCR                                                        3.0    3.0
Total        54.3   46.0   62.4   33.7   19.7   11.7    3.0  230.8



-21-
Implementation Completion Report            Bolivia: Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2298-BO)
Table 5: Credit Amounts
(SDRs Thousands and US$ Thousands)
SDRs
Thousands              US$ Thousands
Original    Original   Disbursed (1)   Canceled
Credit 2298-0 BO     30,000      40,000       42,498         150
Credit 2298-1 BO     7,900       10,400       11,277           0
Credit 2298-2 BO      8,030      11,120       11,195           0
Credit 2298-3 BO      6,740       9,370       10,625           0
Credit 2298-4 BO      6,100       8,600        9,150           0
TOTAL          58,770      79,490       84,745           0
Note: (1) Original and disbursed amounts differ due to exchange rate fluctuations.



-22-
Implementation Completion Report            Bolivia: Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2298-BO)
Table 6: Credit Disbursements by Fiscal Year
(US$ Millions)
Credit       FY92       FY93        FY94       FY95       FY96       TOTAL
PLANNED
2298-0 (1)           16.8       16.8        6.4                                40
ACTUAL
2298-0 (1)        15.443                 15.483      7.521       0.172     38.619
2298-0 (2)         0.659       0.890      0.482       1.833      0.015      3.879
2298-1                        11.277                                       11.277
2298-2                                   11.195                            11.195
2298-3                                              10.625                 10.625
2298-4                                                           9.150      9.150
TOTAL        16.102     12.167     27.160      19.979      9.377     84.745
Notes: (1) Includes fast-disbursing funds only.
(2) Includes technical assistance funds only.



Appendix A
Page 1 of7
Stxmatural MJtamQt Credtt (Cr. 22W$-O); Poliay latri
Issues and Objectives               Prior Actions/Commitments                Status             Second Tranche (1)              Status               Third Tranche (1)               Status
I. FRAMEWORK FOR STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT AND MACROECONOMIC MANAGEMENT                                   Released 4/94                                      Released 5/95
Definition of a               Letter of Development Policy containing          July 19,    Maintenance of a macroeconoMic          Fiscal      Maintenance of a macroeconomic        Since 3/94
structural adjustment         the policies to be implemented under               1991       framework consistent with the        off-track    frammork consistent with the
program designed to           the program, including improvements in                        objectives of the program.           until 3/94   objectives of the program.
increase the                  the supervision and regulation of the
level and efficiency of       financial system, improvements in the                         Compliance with the policy                         Compliance with the policy            Throughout
investment in the             allocation of resources by the                                objectives and programs             Throughout   objectives and programs included
Bolivian economy.             financial system and capital markets,                         included in the Structural                         in the Structural Adjustment
reductions in the share of production                        Adjustment Program described                       Program described in the Letter
carried out by the public sector,                             in the Letter of Development                      of Develop_nt Policy.
improvements in the performance of                            Policy.
public sector investment and                                                                                    Submission of an audit report on        Received
enterprises,  reductions in the burden                        SubMission of an audit report                     the disbursements made under the         9/21/94
of administrative requirements and                            on the disbursements made            Received    second tranche.
increases in the level of resources                          under the first tranche.             7/22/92 S
devoted to social services.                                                                         9/17/93
II. FINANCIAL SECTOR COMPONENT
A. PUBLIC BANKS
Improvement of allocation    Issuance of a Supreme Decree for the              July 15,      For each institution, either:        Done (i)    Compliance with the program for    Finalized
of resources through          closure of BAB, BAMIN and FONEM.  These            1991        (i) closure of the                   end-1991      the recovery, sale,                  early-1991
closure and/or                 institutions have ceased lending                              institution, release of                           adjudication and liquidation of
restructuring of public       operations, established plans for                             employees not involved in loan                     financial and fixed assets of
banks and elimination of      retaining only those personnel directly                       recuperation or liquidation                        these institutions.
Government role in             involved in loan or asset recovery or                        and compliance with the
lending directly to the       in liquidation, and established a                             program for the recovery,
nonfinancial private          program for the recovery, sale,                                sale, adjudication and
sector.                       adjudication or liquidation of                                 liquidation of financial and
financial and fixed assets,                                   fixed assets; (ii) sale to the
private sector with no
remaining Government
participation.
Issuance of a Supreme Decree                    July 15,    Completion of either: (i)              Done (i)    Compliance with the program for    Finalized
restricting BANEST's functions.  BANEST           1991        closure or sale to the private    end-1992        the recovery, sale, adjudication    end-1994
has ceased lending, developed a plan to                       sector of branches found to be                    and liquidation of financial and
release employees involved in lending                         not cost effective or                             fixed assets of BANEST.
operations, established a program for                         justifiable, transfer of those
the recovery, sale, adjudication or                           functions which can be more
liquidation of financial and fixed                           efficiently handled by the
assets, and will no longer receive any                        private sector, and compliance
subsidy from the Treasury. Large                             with the program for the
taxpayers are now permitted to make tax                       recovery, sale, adjudication
payments through commercial banks. The                        and liquidation of financial
Government has initiated an evaluation                        and fixed assets; or (ii) sale
of BANEST's role as a financial agent                         of BANEST to the private
and provider of banking services, to                          sector, with no remaining
determine:  (i) the potential for using                       Government participation.
the private sector as a financial agent
for the Government; and (ii) the costs
and benefits of providing banking
services through BANEST's branches,
including an evaluation of
institutions.



Appendix A
Page 2 of 7
Issues and Objectives               Prior Actions/Coeuitments                Status                Second Tranche               Status                Third Tranche                  Status
Issuance of a Supreme Decree to ensure          July 15,
that the Fondo Desarrollo Capsino                 1991
will not have access to development
credit for onlending purposes and will
not be eligible as a direct financial
intermediary to private sector
borrowers. The Letter of Development
Policy comits the Government to
defining the role of the FDC in
providing services to the rural poor.
B. DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
Improvements in the           Issuance of a Supreme Decree for the             Feb. 28,     Evidence of implementation of        end-1993
allocation of development    establishment of new non-bank financial             1991       eligibility criteria for
credit through expansion      intermediaries,                                               access of banks and non-banks
in the scope of eligible                                                                    to development credit and
intermediaries, changes       Issuance of a Central Bank resolution            July 15,     supervision of these
in the terms to reflect       providing sound eligibility criteria               1991       intermediaries consistent with
market conditions and          for access of banks and non-bank                              sound regulatory practices.
improvements in the           financial intermediaries to development
incentives for repayment      credit. The Letter of Development
of development credit by      Policy comits the Central Bank to
intermediaries and final      requiring that each institution
borrowers.                    maintain a share of non-performing
loans on development credits no more
than 50% higher than the average rate
of non-performance for the private
coinercial banking system.
Maintenance of market-determined                July 17.
interest rates through an auction               1991 and
system With a floor rate no less than          throughout
the average of the borrowing rate of
the private banking system (savings and
time deposits) and BCB CEDES.
The Letter of Development Policy
comits the Central Bank to not                  July 19,
reschedule development credit (unless           1991 and
an institution is intervened).                 throughout
C. IMPROVEMENTS IN REGULATION AND SUPERVISION OF FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES
Improvements in the           Prudential regulations and capacity of           Ongoing      Enactment of the Banking law          May 3,      Continued implementation of the          During
financial condition of        the Superintendency of Banks                    since 1/91    by Congress and implementation          1993      regulations.                             1994
banks and other financial    significantly 3trengthened.                                    of the regulations.                                                                          1995
intermediaries.
Presentation of a law to Congress for           July 31,
the sound regulation and supervision of           1991
the financial system, including (among
other provisions) a 6% capital-asset
limit, explicit provisions for handling
bank crises, establishment of the
authority and autonomy of the
Superintendency of Banks and
codification of certain prudential
regulations.



Appendix A
Page 3 of
Issues and Objectives                Prior Actions/Commitments                  Status                Second Tranche                 Status                 Third Tranche                   Status
Development of an action plan to                 July 1991      Implementation of the action            During      imposition of a 10% provisioning           During
improve supervision and regulation,                             plan.                                    1993       requirement for Class 3 loans              1994 
including: (i) establishment of an                                                                                  under the new criteria.                     1995
adjustment period for the strengthening
of the capital base of commercial banks
according to strengthened prudential
regulations: (ii) a requirement that
recipients of commercial loans above a
given amount have audited financial
statements; and (iii) modification of
the classification system for bank
loans and investments, including the
assessment of loan collateral, in order
to reduce discretion.
Improve the efficiency of
financial markets through    The Letter of Development Policy                     July 19,
increasing access to           commits the Government to a program of             1991 and
credit market                   encouraging selective disclosure of              throughout
information,                    credit information from SBEF's Central
de Riesgos, whose clients provide
explicit authority, public disclosure
of regulatory rulings, requirements
that banks publish their loan
classifications and requirements that
banks disclose interest rates charged
on a uniform basis.
The Letter of Development Policy                  July 19,
commits the Government to establish a             1991 and
program for the management of bank               throughout
crises.
D. IMPROVEMENT IN FUNcTIONING OF THE CENTRAL BANK
Increase the ability of        The Letter of Development Policy                   July 19,
the Central Bank to            commits the Government to establish an             1991 and
manage efficiently the          automatic mechanism for liquidity                throughout
financial system.              support for commercial banks, to not
undertake any wholesale refinancing of
or contribution to banks' capital, and
to not insure bank deposits in excess
of US$S,000.
Initiation of a program to improve the
functioning of the Gerencia del Sistema           July 17,
Financiero in order to ensure correct               1991
certification of ICIS and to strengthen
management of bank crises.
Initiation of a program to strengthen
the Gerencia de Desarrollo to improve             July 17,
administration of the auction system                1991
and to streamline operating procedures
for development credit.



Appendix A
Page 4 of 7
Issues and Objectives              Prior Actions/Commitments                Status               Second Tranche              Status                 Third Tranche                Status
E. CAPITAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT
Increase the efficiency       Improvements in capital market                 July 1991
of the allocation of          regulation to permit stock brokers to
capital through               undertake repurchase agreements,
improvements in the legal    improve disclosure requirements and
framework for and             permit banks to issue subordinated
supervision of insurance,    mandatorily convertible debentures.
pensions and the
securities market.            The Letter of Development Policy               July 19,
colmaits the Government to amend               1991 and
relevant laws to: (i) permit sociedades       throughout
limitadas to issue and trade securities
subject to disclosure guidelines; (ii)
permit origination and trading of
bankers acceptances on the 9olsa; liii)
allow borrowing and lending of storage
warrants; and (iv) permit brokers to
carry securities for their own account.
The Letter of Development Policy               July 19,
cor_its the Government to improve              1991 and
procedures for the repossession of            throughout
collateral pledged in lending
contracts, permit trading of such
contracts and improve the commercial
registration system for contracts
secured with moveable property and
other forms of collateral.
The Letter of Development Policy
comits the Government to strengthen or         July 19,
reorganize the institutions supervising        1991 and
the capital markets, to require               throughout
external audits of insurance companies
and complementary pension funds and to
close insurance companies unable to
meet minim   capital requirements
within a fixed time period. The Letter
of Development Policy commits the
Government to undertake a study of the
contractual savings system and to study
the changes In law and regulation
necessary to effect the recomendations
of the study and to improve supervision
of capital markets.



Appendix A
Page s of
Issues and Objectives                Prior Actions/Commitments                  Status                Second Tranche                Status                  Third Tranche                  Status
III. PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM
A. STRENGTHENING OF PUBLIC ENTERPRISES
Improve the performance,       Six-month performance contracts signed            2nd half
efficiency and financial        for ENDE (electricity) and ENFE (rail).            1991;
self-sufficiency of major    Draft medium-term performance contracts
public enterprises.             prepared for ENDE, ENFE, ENTEL                    1st heif
(long-distance and international                    1992
telecomfgunications) and YPFB
(hydrocarbons).
The Letter of Development Policy                  July 19,
commits the Government to completion of             1991
the following improvements in the
management of major public enterprises:
(i) implementation of the ENFE
restructuring program; (ii) design of
improved procedures for YPFB contracts
with private investors; and (iii)
design of a plan for opening up the
telecommunications sector to increased
competition.
Progress made in the agreed program to           June 1991    Completion of the long-term             2nd half
limit COMIBOL losses, including                                 reorganization plan for                 1993
reductions in personnel, cessation of                           CO4I9OL and closure of all
investment in COMIBOL properties,                               unprofitable mines.
preparation of an analysis of the costs
and incomes from COMIEOL mines, and
completion of audit reports of COMIBOL
operations.
Improve financial              Transfers to public enterprises have              July 1991                                                          Elimination of all transfers to           In 1995
discipline of public            been reduced sharply since 1986.                                                                                    public enterprises (excluding             budget
enterprises.                    Preparation of an action plan for: (it                                                                              those for agreed public
elimination of all transfers to public                                                                              services) and of arrears in the
enterprises (excluding those for agreed                                                                             payment of debts among public
public services); and (ii) elimination                                                                              enterprises.
of major arrears in the payment of
debts among public enterprises.
B. PRIVATIZATION
Reduce                          Investment bank hired to assist with             July 1991      The Government will bring             Done (i)    The Government will bring                 Done (i)
financial/managerial            the privatization of LAB (airline).                             enterprises to point of sale,          by end-      additional enterprises to point    by March
burden on Government and                                                                        including approval for                   1993       of sale, including approval for         1995
improve the efficiency of    Establishment of inter-ministerial                  July 1991    privatization, completion of                          privatization, completion of
production.                     commission to set policies and hiring                           valuation and sales documents                       valuation and sales documents
of sufficient technical staff to manage                         and offered for sale,                               and offered for sale, sufficient
the privatization program.                                      sufficient to achieve the                           to achieve the following
following targets: (i) Lloyd                        targets: (i) Lloyd Aereo
Issuance of a policy statement and               July 1991    Aereo Boliviano, 2 large                              Boliviano, 4 large enterprises
implementation guidelines for the                               enterprises and 3 smaller                           and 5 smaller enterprises; or
privatization program.                                          enterprises; or (il) 3 large                        (ii) 5 large enterprises and 6
enterprises and 5 smaller                           smaller enterprises.
Approval of a privatization agenda               July 1991      enterprises.
setting out enterprises to be brought
to point of sale, sufficient to meet
the conditions for second tranche
release.



Appendix A
Page 6 of 7
Issues and Objectives                Prior Actions/Commitments                  Status                Second Tranche                Status                  Third Tranche                  Status
The Letter of Development Policy                  July 19,      Approval of a privatization           end-1992
coemmits the Government to the                    1991 and      agenda setting out enterprises
following: (i) the medium-term                   throughout    to be closed or brought to
objective of selling or liquidating all                         point of sale, sufficient to
public enterprises operating in                                 meet the conditions for third
competitive markets (excluding the                              tranche release.
mining and hydrocarbons sectors, where
constitutional restrictions preclude
divestiture of state assets); {ii) no
market protection for new owners; (iii)
pricing of enterprises realistically to
reflect market value; (iv) no new
investments, Government transfers or
credit for enterprises targeted for
sale or liquidation; (v) flexibility
for new owners in the level and mix of
employees; (vi) payment of the
short-term costs of the program; (vii)
no sale of enterprises to public sector
institutions; (viii) no new public
enterprises or joint ventures between
the Government and the private sector
to be established in the productive
sectors (excluding mining and
hydrocarbons) ;and (ix) privatized
enterprises will be required to be
established as sociedades anonimas
mixtas, unless the Government finds
that the cost of doing so is
prohibitively expensive.
IV. TRADE AND REGISTRATION PROCEDURES
Improve efficiency of          The Letter of Development Policy                  July 19,
institutions and rules         commits the Government to an action               1991 and
governing trade to raise       program to reform trade and                      throughout
Government revenues and        registration procedures, including: (i)
facilitate commerce.           implementation of the customs reform
begun with support from the IDB, which
Streamline firm                would include a new customs law,
registration and control       privatization of certain customs
procedures to increase         functions, a new personnel strategy and
productivity,                  computerization of customs procedures;
(ii) implementation of a duty drawback
system; (iii) simplification of export
procedures, possibly through a
ventanilla unica; and (iv)
simplification of firm registration and
control mechanisms.
V. PUBLIC SECTOR INVESTMENT PF0GRAM
Improve selection of           The Letter of Development Policy                  July 19,
public sector investment       comits the Government to seeking                   1991 and
projects.                      agreement of the Bank to undertake any           throughout
public sector investment over USS10
million in the following sectors: water
and sanitation, transport and
agriculture.



Appendix A
Page I of 7
Issues and Objectives                Prior Actions/Comeitments             |   statu4                 Second Tranche                Status                  Third Tranche                  Status
VI. LEGISLATION
l4ining:
Improve incentives             Congress has passed the investment,               A     1991
framework for private          mining and hydrocarbons laws.                    Investment:
investment.                                                                     Sept. 1990
Hydrocarbon
Nov  1990                                                          _
VII. HEALTH AND EDUCATION EXPENDITURES
Improve allocation of          The Letter of Development Policy                  July 19,
social sector                  coirmits the Government to: (i) an                 1991 and
expenditures through            increase in the share of expenditures            throughout
increasing share of            devoted to the health sector to 3.0S  by
current expenditures on        1993; (ii) an increase in the share of
primary health care and        health expenditures in the major cities
improving distribution of    devoted to primary health care to 30%
expenditures on primary        by 1993; (iii) an increase in the share
education,                     of personnel allocated to primary
health care in the major cities to 40%
by 1993; and (iv) an increase in
expenditures on texts and teaching
materials to 5% of expenditures on
primary education by 1992.
VIII. FISCAL POLICY
Finance the increase in        The Letter of Development Policy                  July 19,
public goods essential to    commits the Government to undertake a                1991 and
development by increasing    study of the extent of and measures to             throughout
tax revenues,                  reduce tax evasion, and to implement an
action plan to reduce evasion based on
the study's results.
Note: (1) All items listed under second and third tranches were required in the legal agreement.



I



I ~  t.XL  ,S~vKflj;Appendix B
IDA/SecM94-66
FROM: Mml President                                                          March 4, 1994
BOLTVIA: Structural Adluatmggt Credilt (Cg 229&-Bol
Releni of the Secnd Tranche Indudinep the Secod 1DA Rfo
1.    As provided in Secton 3.01 of the Developumet Ciredit Agreemen for the Structural
Adjustnent Credit (SAC) of SDR 45.93 million (US$ 61.2 million equivalent) to the Republic of
Bolivia Of SePtembe 20, 1991, as amended bY two suPPlemental agreements, discussions have been
held regularly with the Government since the release of the firt tranche on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Structuiral Adjustment Program (SAP) assisted by the Credit. This memorandumn
summarizes recent macroeconomic developments and progress in fulfilling conditions for releasing the
Credit's second tranche of SDR 19.23 million (US$ 25.6 million equivalent), including the second
IDA reflow of SDR 8.03 million (USS 10.7 million equivalent).
L BACKGROUND
2.    The SAC is intended to support the Government's reform program aimed at increasing the
efficiency and level Of invetment to accelerate economic growth. 'The main reforms include: (i)
finacial sector reform to strengthen banking suPervisioni, to privatize or close and liquidate loss-
making public banks (Banco Agrfcola de Bolivia (BAB), Banco Minero (BAMIN), Fondo Nacional de
Exploracion Miners (FONEM) and Banco del Estado (BANEST)), tD establish a mechanism for
handling bank crises and to improve the laws and regulations governing peasions, insurance, and
securites markets; Cii) improvements in the operation of the major state enterprises, including
elimination of transfers to, and arrears of, state enterprises; (iii) a comprehensive privatization
program with the medium-term goal of divesting all state enterprise in productive sectors; (iv)
streamlining of trade and registration procedures, including customs reform, simplification of export
approvals and simplification of firm registration and control mechanistms; and (v) improving public
sector resource allocation through stengthening public investment project selection and increasing the
share of current expenditures devoted to prim2ary health care and primary education.
3.    T'he SAC was appraised in January 1991 and approved by the Board on September 17, 1991.
The Credit Agreement was signed on September 20, 1991 and the Credit became effective December
6, 1991. The initia Credit Agreement of SDR 30 million (US$ 40 million equivalent) has been
amended twice to reflect increases from EDA reflows. 'The dates and amounts of the amending
agreements are April 16, 1992 (SDR 7.9 million), and March 2, 1993 (SDR 8.03 million). The first
*Questions on this memorandum may be referred to Mr. Vicente Fretes-Cibils (Ext. 31969)
Distibutin
Executive Directors and Alternates
Office of the President
Executive Vice Presidents, IFC and MIGA
Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA
Directors and Department Heads, Bank, EFC and MIGA
This documn~nt has a -estriciech d:i~- tiriFt dn~                    h  efnm
of thetr oIffic:a! dutie-,  Its coq~tzitS -r?.  -C   .-.     2'    ar7k '1!a



-2-
tranche of SDR 11.2 million (USS 14.9 million equivalent) was disbursed at effectiveness in January
1992, followed by disbursement of the associated IDA reflow of SDR 7.9 million (US$ 10.5 million
equivalent) in April 1993. The current undisbursed balance is SDR 24.03 million (USS 32.0 million
equivalent). Approximately half of the amount allocated towards technical assistance (SDR 2.8
million or USS 3.7 million equivalent) has also been disbursed. The SAC has been co-financed by
the Dutch and Swiss Governments. A Dutch Grant in the amount of 19.1 million Dutch guilders was
signed in April 1992 and has been fully disbursed. A non-reimbursable Swiss Contribution of 10
million Swiss francs was formalized in February 1992 and has also been fully disbursed except for
funds retained for technical assistance.
4.    Release of the second tranche, originally scheduled for February 1993, was delayed primarily
due to fiscal performance inconsistent with the agreed macroeconomic policy framework. Concerns
about fiscal performance have also delayed the completion of the IMF ESAF review.
5.    A Country Assistance Strategy for Bolivia was recently prepared and presented to the Board
on February 8, 1994 along with a Municipal Development Project.
H. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMNTS
6.    Since 1985, the Government's economic program has succeeded in restoring macroeconomic
stability but has only gradually stimulated economic growth. The inflation rate has declined since
1985 and remained at about 10% in 1992 and 1993. Real GDP growth averaged 2.8% in 1988-90
due to a limited private sector investment response. Real GDP grew by 4.1% in 1991, 3.8% in 1992
and estimated at 4% for 1993, leading to significant real increases in per capita income fOr the first
time in more than a decade. Increased private investment has contributed to the recent economic
growth. In 1992, private investment amounted to around US$400 million-a 20% increase over
1991-with increased investment in mining, hydrocarbons, construction, manufacturing and services.
7.    Ilic  Ferformance: Between 1988 and 1991, the overall deficit of the non-financial public
sector steadily declined from 6.5% to 3.8% of GDP. The deficit increased slightly in 1992 to 4.5%
of GDP and deteriorated significantly to 6.6% of GDP during 1993. In 1992, the deficit was mainly
financed through foreign borrowing on concessional terms, thus preventing crowding-out of the
private sector. However, during 1993 the deficit was financed to a larger extent through an
acceleration of domestic credit to the public sector. The increase in the 1992 and 1993 fiscal deficits
was a result of increased expenditures-both current and capital-during the period preceding the
Congressional/Presidential election in June 1993. Since taking office in August 1993, the new
Government has acted aggressively to improve fiscal discipline (see below).
8.    Balance of Payments: Bolivia's balance of payments position remains weak as a result of
persistent trade deficits since 1988. Moreover, since 1991 the trade balance has further deteriorated
due to falling exports and rising imports. A sharp decline in the terms of trade-partially mitigated in
1992 by a depreciation of the real exchange rate-has contributed to the fall in the value of exports.
An important factor has been the price of natural gas-Bolivia's most important export-which fell by
50% due to a change in contract terms triggered by the liberalization of the market in Argentina, the
country's only natural gas buyer. During 1993, a notable factor was the sharp weakening in the
world prices of tin and zinc. The declines in export prices have been partially mitigated by increased
volumes, but the net effect was negative in 1992 (in dollar terms, exports fell by 15%) and only
slightly positive in 1993 (exports increased by 4%). On the other hand, imports have shown an



upward trend in the last few years. Fueled by the expansionary hscal program, imports expanded by
17% during 1992 and by about 5% during 1993. As a consequence of the trade perfrmance, the
current account deficit also increased in 1991-93 relative to 1988-1990, reaching about 9.5% of GDP
in 1993. These deficits have been financed largely by an accelerated rate of concessional loan
disbursements from multilateral organizations and bilateral creditors and by larger than anticipated
inflows of private capital.
9.    Monetary and Finandal Developments: Parallel to the decline in inflation, a rapid
remonetization has taken place, mostly due to the important capital inflows which followed economic
stabilization. This remonetization has been coupled with a dollarization, which to a certain extent has
limited the effectiveness of monetary policy. As a result of relatively high real interest rates, in 1992
total banking deposits grew by 26%-the bulk of which (86%) correspond to foreign currency
deposits. Although the degree of dollarization may indicate less than full confidence in the domestic
currency, other encouraging signs in the banking sector have emerged: the average deposit term is
rising and the spread between the lending and deposit rates is declining. However in 1993, real
interest rates increased, partially in response to the accelerated demand for credit to finance the
increased fiscal deficit.
HI. PROGRESS AGAINST TRANCHE REIEASE CRITERIA
10.   Pursuant to paragraph 4(a), of Schedule 1 of the Credit Agreement, conditions for the socond
tranche release require that the Association shall be satisfied: (i) with the progress achievod by the
Government in the carrying out of the Program; (ii) that the actions related to the relse of the
second tranche described in Part A, of Schedule 3 of the Agreement, have been taken in form and
substance; and (iii) that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Government is consistent with
the objectives of the Program. Progress in carrying out the Program, in implementing specific
actions and in maintaining a macroeconomic policy consistent with the Program's objectives are
described below:
(i) Overall Program. The borrower has made satisfactory progress overall in carrying out
the Adjustment Program. While the previous Govermnent implemented many of the measures
described below, the new Government has stated its commitment to the structral adjustment process
and has continued to implement the Program.
(i) Specific Actions. The Government of Bolivia has taken the following actions to meet the
specific criteria contained in Part A of Schedule 3 of the Credit Agreement:
1.    BAB, BAMIN and FONEM have: (a) either bee sold to the private
sector; or (b): (i) had their operations closed; (ii) their employees not Involved In loan
recuperation or liquidation have been released, and (iii) complied with the First Action Plan'.
This condition has been met. The Government has implemented alternative (b).
BAB, BAMIN and FONEM closed operations in the second half of 1991. At that time, Treasury
subsidies stopped and the Superintendency of Banks and Financial Entities was named as Interventor
1 'Ffnt Action Plan' means the action plan described in a ltter from the Govemrmnt to the Association (dated July 26, 1991) for the
recovery, sae, legal adjudication or liquidation of the financial and fixed amts of BAB, DAMEN, ad FONEM.



-4-
Implementation Completion Report            Bolivia: Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2298-BO)
development credit. However, to ensure liquidity, in late- 1994 there was a marked expansion in
Central Bank credit to the banking system when the Superintendency of Banks and Financial
Entities (SBEF) closed two illiquid and insolvent banks. While the authorities gradually adjusted
policies to the credit expansion and the impact of the Mexican crisis, additional measures,
including higher savings from external financing, were necessary in 1995 to ensure higher
accumulation of international reserves. Against this background, real interest rates on deposits
and loans in both domestic and foreign currency have been market determined and remained high
during the program period.
10.   Macroeconomic instability, primarily related to the fiscal imbalances that emerged during
1993, was in part responsible for the delay in the release of the second tranche, originally
envisioned for February 1993. These concerns also delayed the completion of the review of a
fourth year arrangement under the IMF ESAF. With the corrective measures undertaken by the
new administration in the second half of 1993 and first three months of 1994, it was recognized
that the macroeconomic program was back on track. This provided a solid base for the
successful implementation of the adjustment program supported by the Credit and resulted in the
completion of the IMF review in April 1994. After release of the second tranche in March 1994,
macroeconomic stability was maintained for the rest of the year and through 1995. A new three
year ESAF agreement with the IMF was approved by the Board in December 1994, together with
the first annual arrangement thereunder. The mid-term review of the first year arrangement was
completed in November 1995.
Financial Sector
11.   Public Banks and Funds: To improve the efficiency in the financial sector, the SAP
supported reducing the role of the state as a director supplier of financial services. To achieve
this, in the second half of 1991 the Government closed Banco Agricola de Bolivia (BAB), Banco
Minero (BAMIN) and Fondo Nacional de Exploraci6n Minera (FONEM). At that time,
Treasury subsidies stopped and the Superintendency of Banks and Financial Entities (SBEF) was
named as Interventor to implement the program to carry out the process of recovering, selling,
transferring or liquidating the fixed and financial assets of these public banks. The valuation of
all assets was completed by 1992, and by end- 1993, most real assets were liquidated primarily
through public auctions. With regard to the liabilities of these banks to the Central Bank, the
reconciliations were completed in early-1994. During 1995, final audits were conducted and the
Treasury assumed all remaining assets and liabilities, thereby completing the liquidation process.
In addition, the Government closed Banco del Estado (BANEST) in the second half of 1992 and
most of its financial, fiscal and central banking services were transferred to the private sector
through public biddings. In 1993, assets and liabilities were evaluated and accounts reconciled,
and in February 1994 the Government issued a Supreme Decree that initiated the disposition of
all financial assets and liabilities. By end-1994, all remaining assets and liabilities of BANEST
had been transferred to the Treasury, thereby completing the liquidation process.
12.  Improving the Allocation of Development Credits: To achieve this, the SAP supported
the implementation of eligibility criteria and sound supervision of financial institutions
intermediating development credit (ICIs). In 1991, a Central Bank resolution established



new President and Board of Directors. The reorganizaion of COMBOL is expected to be completod
by end-1994. The Government has also made substantial progress towards disposing of COMIBOL
mines and mining operations. Progress in this area has been achieved through learn, joint ventures
and closures. Out of a total of twelve mines assessed as unprofitable, eleven have been closed or
have ceased operations. The one exception-the Catavi Mine-has undertaken a persnel
rationalization plan, reducing personnel from 346 to 100. With this level of staffing and current
international mineral prices, it is assessed that this mine can opere at a break even point.
Nonetheless, the Government is continuing negotiations with personnel and the union to close the
mine by May 1994. In addition to the actions agreed with the Association regarding the closure of
unprofitable mines, the Government has closed or has ceased operations in five out of a toa of six
metallurgical/industrial operations deemed as unprofitable. Furthermore, the Government is
negotiating the closure of the remaining plant-the Pulacayo Industril Plant-which is expected to be
completed by May 1994.
5.    (a)    Approval for privatization, completion of asset valuations and
sales documentation and offer for sale of at least 51% of the voting shares held by the Borrower
have been made in respect of: either (i) Lloyd Areo, BoUviano, 2 Large
Enterprises and 3 Small Enterprises; or (Ii) 3 Large Enterpris and S Small Enterprise  .
(b)    An agenda has been furnished to the Assodiation for the sale to the
private sector or closure of the Borrower's enterprises which will be offered for sale or closed
before the actions under Part B hereof are taken.
Ilis condition has been met. With regard to (a), the Govement has implemented
alternative (i). The Privatization Law was approved by Congress and published on May 5, 1992.
Tbe Government completed the asset valuation and sales documentation and offered Lloyd A6roo
Boliviano for sale, but received no acceptable bids. Also during 1992 and 1993, the Government sold
and liquidated more than 30 commercial public enterprises, of which many were small. At least two
were large (Fabrica de Aceites and Ingenio Azucarero Guabiri) and three were small (FObrica de
CerImicas, FAbrica Nacional de Vidrio y Plan and Taller de Cerimica).
With regard to (b), the Government has furnished to the Association, an agenda for
the sale or closure of enterprises which will be implemented to fulfill the conditions for disbursement
of the third tranche. This agenda, which is satisfactory to the Association and will be implemented
during 1994, includes Lloyd Adreo Boliviano, 4 large enterprises and 5 small enterprises.
6.    A certified copy of the audit report referred to in Section 3.04 (b) (i) of
this Agreement in respect to the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the first tranche
has been furnished to the Association.
This condition has been met. The audit reports and the auditors' unqualified opinions
for the first tranche and the first IDA reflow were received on July 22, 1992 and September 17,
1993, respectively.
3 *l  entrpri me- nas a Governmnent enterprise holding fixed asst with a value equiwvlnt to USS9 million or won. *SIIU
EntcepriK- mean  a Govemment enterpnre holding fixed asts with a maxinum value equialeat to leo dun Us$9 milliona a minmum
value equivalnt to US$1 miilion.



-6-
7.     The Third Action Plan has boew caied out.
lbis condition has beea met. The Government has been implementing the agreed
action plan to improve regulation and supervision of the financial system by issuing Circulars both
contemplated in the Action Plan and required under the new Banking Law. These Circulars include
establishment of criteria for: (i) portfolio classification and provisioning; (ii) mnim   contents of
credit folders for loan clasifications; (iii) investment classification and provisioning; (iv) truth in
lending requireme; and (v) public information on deposit ratms and financial service commissions.
In addition, the Government has developed internal operating guideines, including monthly published
information on loans according to classifications and associated provisions.
The Government, through the new Banking Law and Central Bank Circulars, has also
developed a program for the management of bank crises, which contains the following elements: (i) a
preventive surveillance system for banks that violate certain objective criteria; (ii) intervention of
banks that do not comply with an agreed rehabilitation plan after being subject to preventive
surveillance, which have lost more than 50% of their capital or which have (in the opinion of the
Superintendency of Banks and Financial Entities and the Central Bank) committed egregious violations
of prudential regulations; and (iii) rules for the provision of short-term liquidity support by the
Central Bank.
S.     The Regulations are being implemnented In a manner satisfactory to the
AssociationS.
This condition has been met. The Government has issued regulations to the new
Banking Law. Among others, these regulations define criteria for the establishment of: (i) financial
entities; (ii) risk weights for dermining capital adequacy and capital definitions; (iii) portfolio
evaluation, including the evaluation of credits; (iv) investment restrictions; (v) reserve requirerments,
including adequacy; (vi) term deposits; and (vii) warehouse deposits. These regulations are being
implemented in a manner which is satisfactory to the Association.
9.     The Central Bank Circular Is being implemented, in a manner satisfactory
to the Association, and the Superintendency of Banks and the Central Bank are supervising the
Financial Intermediaries In a manner satisfactory to the Association'.
This condition has been met. As recently reviewed by Bank staff, the guidelines for
defining eligibility criteria for access of financial intermediaries to development credits established in
the Central Bank Circular are being implemented in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
4 Trhird Actiou Pbn- mean. the action plan for the irnproweme and upevWaion of the Bdivian banking sysem, conained in the
documn signed by the Govemment and delvered to the Asociation (datad July 26, 1991).
5 Reultios mens the regulations and Superinteadency of Bnlana Circulan to be introduced by the Government to enforce the Banking
6 *Csgum Bank Cizcular meoan the Centrl Bank circular (dated July 15, 1991) defining eligibility criteria for access of fiacial
iunrmedire to development credit.



Similarly, the Central Bank and the Superintendency of Banks and Financial Entities, responsible for
enforcing the regulations, are supervising financial intermediaries in a satisfactory manner.
(ii) Macroeconomdc Framework. The macroeconomic policy of the Government is
consistent with the objectives of the Structural Adjustment Program. The new Government has taken
measures to correct the fiscal imbalances that emerged during 1993. The corrective actions taken by
the Government have led to a deceleration in the rate of expenditures, particularly current
expenditures in the last quarter of 1993, and an increase in revenues (through improved tax
collections) which together have restored fiscal discipline. In light of the fiscal sippage during the
first semester, if the Government had not undertaken these measures, the fiscal deficit for 1993 wou1d
have been on the order of at least 7% of GDP instead of 5.7% of GDP (excluding the one-time
severance payments to public sector employees equivalent to about 1% of GDP). The fiscal deficit in
relation to GDP for the fourth quarter of 1993 is the lowest of the last few years. Furthermore, fiscal
restraint continued during the first months of 1994 and the outcome is well in line with a feasible
fiscal program for 1994. During this same period, the Goverrnent has also met other major
macroeconomic targets, including those for the inflation rate and net international reserves. The
Government has submitted to Congress a budget proposal for 1994 with a fiscal deficit target
equivalent to 3% of GDP, based in part on a publicly announced nominal increase of 7.5% in public
sector wages. This macroeconomic framework provides a solid base for the successfil
implementation of the Adjustment Program supported by the Credit. On the basis of recent
performance under the financial program and the 1994 budget, there are good prospects that the IMF
will complete its review of the fourth year arrangement under the ESAF in the coming weeks.
IV. CONCLUSION
11.   The Government has met all of the requirements for the release of the second tranche set out
in the Credit Agreement. The Government has therefore been advised of the availability of the
second tranche of SDR 19.23 million (USS 25.6 million equivalent), including the second IDA reflow
of SDR 8.03 million (USS 10.7 million equivalent).
Lewis T. Preston



I



International Development Association                            Appendix C
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IDA/SecM95-187
FROM: The President                                                        May 12, 1995
BOLIVIA: Structural Adiustment Credit (Cr. 2298-BO)
Release of Third Tranche includine the EDA Reflows
1.    As provided in Section 3.01 of the Development Credit Agreement for the Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC) of SDR 58.77 million (US$ 86.2 million equivalent) to the Republic of
Bolivia of September 20, 1991, as amended by four supplemental agreements, discussions have
been held regularly with the Borrower since the release of the second tranche on the progress
achieved in canying out the Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) assisted by the Credit. This
memorandum summarizes recent macroeconomic developments and progress in fulfilling
conditions for releasing the Credit's original third tranche of SDR 4.8 million (US$ 7.5 million
equivalent),-the..third IDA reflow of SDR 6.74 million (US$ 10.5 million equivalent) and the
fourth IDA reflow of SDR 6.1 million (US$ 9.5 million equivalent, for which effectiveness is still
pending).
I. BACKGROUND
2.    The SAC is intended to support the Borrower's reform program aimed at increasing the
efficiency and level of investment to accelerate economic growth and to reduce poverty. The
main reforms include: (i) financial sector reform to strengthen banking supervision, to privatize or
close and liquidate loss-making public banks (Banco Agricola de Bolivia (BAB), Banco Minero
(BAMN), Fondo Nacional de Exploracion Minera (FONEM) and Banco del Estado
(BANEST)), to establish a mechanism for handling bank crises and to improve the laws and
regulations goveming pensions, insurance, and securities markets; (ii) improvements in the
operation of the major state enterprises including elimination of transfers to, and arrears of, state
enterprises; (iii) a comprehensive privatization program with the medium-term goal of divesting
all state enterprises in productive sectors; (iv) streamlining of trade and registration procedures,
including customs reform, simplification of export approvals and simplification of firm registration
and control mechanisms; and (v) improving public sector resource allocation through
strengthening public investment project selection and increasing the share of current expenditures
devoted to primary health care and primary education.
Questions on this memorandum may be referred to Mr. Vicente Fretes-Cibils (Ext. 31969)
Distribution
Executive Directors and Altemates
Office of the President
Senior Management, Bank, IFC and MIGA
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  I



-2-
3.    The SAC was appraised in January 1991 and approved by the Board on September 17,
1991. The Credit Agreement was signed on September 20, 1991, and the Credit became effective
December 6, 1991. The initial Credit Agreement of SDR 30.0 million (US$ 40.0 million
equivalent) has been amended four times to reflect increases from IDA reflows. The dates and
amounts of the amending agreements are April 16, 1992 (SDR 7.9 million), March 2, 1993 (SDR
8.03 million), May 10, 1994 (SDR 6.74 rnimlion) and February 14, 1995 (SDR 6.1 million). The
first tranche of SDR 11.2 million (US$ 15.4 mnillion equivalent) was disbursed at effectiveness in
January 1992, followed by disbursement of the associated IDA reflow of SDR 7.9 million (US$
11.3 million equivalent) in April 1993. The second tranche of SDR 11.2 mnillion (US$ 15.8
million equivalent) was disbursed in March 1994, as was the associated second IDA reflow of
SDR 8.03 million (US$ 11.2 rmillion equivalent). The current undisbursed balanced is SDR 18.4
million (US$ 28.6 million equivalent).  Approximately three-quarters of the amount allocated
towards technical assistance (SDR 2.8 rnillion or US$ 3.9 million equivalent) has also been
disbursed. The SAC has been co-financed by the Dutch and Swiss Governments. A Dutch Grant
in the amount of f 19.1 million was signed in April 1992 and has been fMlly disbursed. A non-
.r.eumbursable-Sudss Contribution of Sw F 10.0 million was formalized in February 1992 and has
also been fully disbursed.
4.    A Country Assistance Strategy for Bolivia was presented to the Board on February 8,
1994 along with a Municipal Sector Development Project.
IL RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
5.    The program has succeeded in restoring macroeconomic stability, has stimulated economic
growth, and has contributed to reducing poverty. The 12-month inflation rate has declined from
10 percent in 1993 to 8.5 percent at the end of 1994, although it increased slightly to 9.6 percent
at the end of March 1995. Real GDP grew by about 4 percent in the period 1993-1994, leading
to sustain real increases in per capita income for the first time in more than a decade. For the first
three months of 1995, real GDP expanded at an annualized rate of 3.5 percent. Increased private
investment--resulting from  an improved macroeconomic outlook and some promotional
legislation in recent years--has contributed to the recent economic growth.
6.    Fiscal Performance: In 1993, the overall deficit of the public sector increased
significantly to 6.5 percent of GDP during 1993.  This was a result of increased current
expenditures before the June Congressional/Presidential election, and decreased total revenues
(primarily due to the decline in the export price of natural gas and grants). However, since taking
office in August 1993, the new Government has taken actions to control expenditures and
strengthen tax collections. By September 1994, the 12-month fiscal deficit was reduced to about
4 percent of GDP and reached 3.2 percent of GDP by the end of the year. Furtherrnore, the
Governmnent has maintained fiscal discipline during the first three months of 1995. Preliminary
data for end-March 1995 indicate that the agreed limit on the deficit of the combined  public
sector for end-March 1995 was observed.



-3-
7.    Balance of Payments. The Bolivian balance of payments position remains weak as a
result of persistent trade deficits in the past. In 1994, however, non-traditional export
performance (primarily soybeans, jewelry and timber) was strong, with total exports increasing by
about 35 percent in US dollar terms. At the same time, import growth decelerated and imports
increased only slightly over 1993. For the first three months of 1995, trade performance has been
similar to that of the recent past. As a consequence mainly of the recent trade performance,
preliminary data indicate an improvement in the current account deficit (after official transfers)
from 8.8 percent of GDP in 1993 to about 5 percent of GDP in 1994. The deficits have been
financed largely by an accelerated rate of concessional loan disbursements from multilateral
organizations and bilateral creditors and by still low, although larger than anticipated, inflows of
private capital, which also lead to a net increase in intemational reserves of about US$ 120 million
(end-1994). However, during the first three months of 1995, net international reserves slightly
declined, primarily due to delays in disbursements from multilaterals and bilateral official lenders
pending the completion of a rescheduling with the Paris Club (finalized during end-March 1995).
8.    Monetary and Financial Developments: During 1994, the Central Bank has sought to
restrict credit -to comnercial banks to help attain its targets for the growth of money and
international reserves. Together with strong private sector demand for credit, this policy resulted
in high real interest rates, which in turn attracted short term capital iniflows and resulted in
increased deposits--with US dollar deposits at commercial banks equivalent to about 81 percent
of total deposits in December 1994. For the banking system as a whole, the growth of credit to
the private sector slowed from 39 percent in 1993 to 19 percent in 1994, as growth in bank
liabilities decelerated and demand for development credit (based on foreign credits on-lent by the
Central Bank) declined. Domestic credit of the Central Bank declined by 18 percent in 1994 in
relation to currency at the beginning of the year.
9.    However, by late-1994, while Central Bank credit to the nonfinancial public sector
continued to contract, credit to the financial system increased sharply. This occurred after the
Superintendency of Banks in November 1994 closed two illiquid and insolvent commnercial banks,
wh-ic-h accounted for about 11 percent of total commercial bank assets. The Central Bank
provided liquidity support to the commercial banks, cash redemption of small deposits in the
closed banks, and compensation for large depositors in the form of special non-interest bearing
certificates of deposit, with maturities up to 18 month. The expansionary credit policy to the
financial system continued until February-March 1995. It was intended to ensure liquidity in the
system in light of the decline in short-term extemal credits and non-renewal of credit lines
experienced by commercial banks, which was a direct result of the Mexican financial crisis. The
authorities are adjusting policies gradually to the credit expansion and Mexican impact, but
additional monetary and fiscal measures, including higher savings from external financing, may be
necessary to ensure a higher accumulation of international reserves in the future. Moreover, the
authorities recognize the fragility of the banking system and, based on updated information on
the quality of the portfolio and the capital adequacy of the commercial banks, will take steps to
help the banks to strengthen their capital.



-4-
10.   Policy Framework. In the last quarter of 1994, the Borrower completed discussions with
the Association and the IMf on an updated Economic Policy Framework (1994-1997) paper, and
requested a three-year arrangement under the ESAF, and a first annual arrangement thereunder
(approved in December 1994). The objectives of the program are to sustain GDP growth of at
least 4 percent per year and reduce the incidence of poverty. The key foundations of this will be
the implementation of sound fiscal and monetary policies to ensure macroeconomic stability,
including continued -progress towards. reducing inflation to industrial. country levels and
accelerating balance of payments viability. The IMF's mid-term review of the program is
scheduled for end-May 1995.
m. PROGRESS AGAINST TRANCHE RELEASE CONDITIONALITY
11.   Pursuant to paragraph 4(b), of Schedule 1 of the Credit Agreement, conditions for the
third tranche release require that the Association shall be satisfied: (i) with the progress achieved
by the Borrower in carrying out of the Program; (ii) that the actions related to the release of the
third tranche-described in Parts A and B, of Schedule 3 of the Agreement, have been taken; and
(iii) that the macroeconornic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the objectives
of the Program. Progress in carrying out the Program, in implementing the specific actions, and
in maintaining a macroeconomic. policy consistent with the Program's objectives are described
below.
(i) Overall Program. The Borrower has continued to consolidate macroeconomnic
stability in addition to making overall satisfactory progress in carrying out the Adjustment
Program. More specifically, supervision in the banking sector has been strengthened, there have
been improvements in the operation of major state enterprises through the elimination of transfers,
efforts towards privatizing all state enterprises in productive sectors have continued, and trade
and registration procedures have been simplified. In addition, public sector resource allocation
has improved as the Association and the Borrower have frequently exchanged views on all
investment projects over USS 10 million in key sectors, including transportation, agriculture and
water and sanitation. Furthermore, the share of current expenditures devoted to primary health
care and primary education has increased with the general reallocation of resources to social
sectors. Despite the progress achieved to date, the supervision of the banking system still needs
further strengthening. The Borrower is aware of this situation and has initiated a follow up
program to continue strengthening its institutional capacity to ensure stability in the banking
system. Since August 1993, the Borrower has significantly deepened the structural reforms by
developing and starting to implement an ambitious second generation of structural reforms, which
includes capitalization, popular participation and education reform.  The centerpiece of the
expanded reform program is a privatization of the six major public enterprises through a process
called capitalization'. This program involves transferring management control and up to 50
The program includes the capitalization of Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos (YPFB--
hydrocarbons), Empresa .Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (ENTEL--long distance telecommunications),
Empresa Nacional de Elecrricidad (ENDE--electricitv generation and transrnission), Empresa Nacional de
Ferrocarriles (ENFE--railways). Lloyd Aereo Boliviano (LAB--airlines), and EmpresaM.etalzurgica l'inro
(EMV--smelter). Under the onginal Structural Adjustment Program, the Borrower improved the efficiency of



-5-
percent of the ownership of these state-owned enterprises to strategic investors and transferring
the state's present ownership to the Bolivian people. The capitalization framework law was
passed by Congress in March 1994, as have a number of related key pieces of legislation,
including the System of Sectoral Regulation Law (October 1994), the Electricity Law (December
1994) and an amendment to the tax law (December 1994). The objectives of the popular
participation program (for which legislation was passed in April 1994) are to decentralize political
and economic decision-making by transferring the. administration.of key public services and
resources to local communities. Finally, the comprehensive education reform is designed to
improve the quality and coverage at the primary and secondary levels by rationalizing the
institutional framework, developing new curriculum and teacher training programs, and improving
access, equity and efficiency. The framework Education Reform Law was passed in July 1994
and the reform was officially inaugurated at the beginning of the 1995 school year.  The
implementation of these reforms, which benefit all Bolivians, are being carried out despite the
political difficulties that the authorities are confronting from special interest groups, including
some cooperatives and teachers' union.
(ii) Speciic Actions. The Government of Bolivia has taken the following actions to meet
the specific criteria contained in Part B of Schedule 3 of the Credit Agreement:
1.    The First Action Plan is being complied with, to the extent applicable.
The First Action Plan is the action plan described in a letter from the Borrower to the Association
(dated July 26, 1991) for the recovery, sale, legal adjudication or liquidation of the financial and
fixed assets of BAB, BAMIN, and FONEM.
This condition has been met. In the second half of 1991, the Borrower closed
operations of BAB, BAMIN, and FONEM. At that time, Treasury subsidies stopped and the
Superintendency of Banks and Financial Entities was named as Interventor to implement the
program to carry out the process of recovering, selling, transferring or liquidating the fixed and
financial assets of these public banks. As contemplated in riie Plan, the valuation of all assets and
liabiElfies wVas completed by-the end of 1992. By end-1993, most real assets were liquidated
primarily through public auctions. With regard to the liabilities of these banks to the Central
Bank, the reconciliations have been completed. In addition, the Borrower has initiated the final
audits of these banks and has prepared the legal documents required to transfer all remaining
assets and liabilities to the Treasury, which will conclude the liquidation process.
2.    The Second Action Plan is being complied with. The Second Action
Plan is the action plan described in a letter from the Borrower to the Association (dated July 26,
1991) for the recovery, sale, legal adjudication or liquidation of BANEST's financial and fixed
assets.
these enterprises through the use of performance contracts. At that time, however, the Borrower was not in a
position to privatize these public services. Against this background, the capitalization program is a carefully
designed program to expand the privatization and to eliminate state domination in the key economic sectors.



-6-
This condition has been met. In the second half of 1992, the Borrower ceased
most operations of BANEST and through a public bidding process transferred most of the
financial, fiscal and central banking services provided by BANEST to the private banking sector.
During 1993, assets and liabilities were evaluated and accounts were reconciled. Based on a
Supreme Decree issued in February 1994, the final phase of the BANEST liquidation, including
the disposition of the financial assets and liabilities, was also initiated. By end- 1994, all remaining
assets and liabilities .of BANEST .were transferred to the Treasury, thus completing the liquidation
process as contemplated in the Plan.
3.    (a) Transfers from  the Borrower's budget to national and regional
public enterprises (except those for which the Borrower has the prior written consent of the
Association) have been eliminated.
This condition has been met. In the 1995 budget approved by Congress in March
1995 and in the economic program for the period 1994-1997 contained in the updated Econornic
Policy Framework Paper (approved by the Boards of the IMP and the Association in December
.1994.), there-re no transfers to the national or regional public enterprises.
(b) The arrears in the payment of debts among the Borrower's public
enterprises have been eliminated.
This condition has been met. Based on an analysis of the 1995 budget recently
approved by Congress, all arrears in the payment of debts among the public enterprises have been
cleared.
4.    Commercial banks in Bolivia have been required to make provisions
in amounts equivalent to 10% of their Class 3 loans (as such term is defined in the
Superintendency of Banks' Circular dated July 6, 1988).
This condition has been met. Based on an analysis of the quarterly Circulars issued
by the Superintendency of Banks during 1994 and 1995, all commercial banks in Bolivia are
making the required provisions in amounts equivalent to 10% of their Class 3 loans.
5.    Approval for privatization, completion of asset valuations and sales
documentation and offer for sale of at least 51% of the voting shares held by the Borrower
have been made in respect of: either (a) the Lloyd Aereo Boliviano, 4 Large Enterprises and
5 Small Enterprises; or (b) 5 Large Enterprises and 6 Small Enterprises2.
This condition has been met. The Borrower has implemented alternative (a).
Based on the Privatization Law approved by Congress in May 1992, the Borrower has completed
the asset valuation and sales documentation for more than 40 commercial public enterprises, of
which, about 80 percent were classified as small and the rest were classified as large. In 1992,
2  "Large Enterprise" means a Government enterprise holding fixed assets with a value equivalent to USS 9
million or more. "Small Enterprise" means a Government enterprise holding fixed assets with a maximum
value equivalent to less than USS 9 million and a minimum value equivalent to US$ I mnillion.



Lloyd Aereo Bolivianio was offered for sale, but no acceptable bids were received. In this
administration, Llovd Aereo Boliviano has been included among the public enterprises to be
capitalized. During 1993, the Borrower successfully sold at least two large enterprises (Fabrica
de Aceites and Ingenio Azucarero Guabira) and at least three small enterprises (Febrica de
Cerdmicas, Fabrica Iacional de Vidrio y Plan and Taller de Ceramica). During 1995, the
Borrower has offered for sale more than ten additional enterprises, of which at least one is large
(Hilanderia Santa Cruz) and at least two are small (Hotel Terminal de Oruro and Inmetal). In
addition, in March 1995, the Borrower issued public international bids for the capitalization of
two of the large public enterprises--ENDE (the National Electricity Company) and ENTEL (the
National Telecornmnunications Company).
6.    Certified copies of the audit reports referred to in Section 3.04 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement in respect to the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the First
Tranche and the Second Tranche have been furnished to the Association.
This condition has been met. The audit reports and the auditors' unqualified
opinions.for.the-first tranche and the first IDA reflow were received on July 22, 1992 and
September 17, 1993, respectively. For the second tranche and the second IDA reflow, the audit
reports and auditors' unqualified opinions were received on September 21, 1994.
7.    The Regulations are being implemented in a manner satisfactory to
.3
the Association
This condition has been met. The Borrower has issued regulations to the Banking
Law, which was approved in April 1993. Among others, these regulations define criteria for the
establishment of: (i) financial entities; (ii) risk weights for determnining capital adequacy and capital
definitions; (iii) portfolio evaluation, including the evaluation of credits; (iv) investment
restrictions; (v) reserve requirements, including adequacy; (vi) term deposits; and (vii) warehouse
deposits. In general, the regulations are being implemented in a manner which is satisfactory to
t'he Association. Given the status of the banking system prior to the Banking Law, these
regulations and measures have resulted in some improvements, but the system is still fragile.
(iii) Macroeconomic Framework   The macroeconomic policy of the Borrower is
consistent with the objectives of the Structural Adjustment Credit. In light of the recent economic
performance and the agreed program (see paragraphs 5 to 10), the macroeconomic framework
provides a good base for the successful implementation of the Adjustment Program.
3  "Regulations" means the regulations and Superintendency of Banks' Circulars to be introduced b- the
Borrower to enforce the Banking Law.



IMAGING
Report No:       16107
Type: ICR



