Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19041
PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BOLIVIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(CREDIT 2298-BO)
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OPERATION I
(CREDIT 1809-BO)
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT STRENGTHENING OPERATION
(CREDIT 1977-BO)
March 16 1999
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = Bolivian Pesos (Bs)
1988    US$1.00           Bs 2.35                    1993    US$1.00            Bs 4.27
1989    US$1.00           Bs 2.69                    1994    US$1.00            Bs 4.62
1990    US$1.00           Bs 3.17                    1995    US$1.00            Bs 4.80
1991    US$1.00           Bs 3.58                    1996    US$1.00            Bs 5.07
1992    US$1.00           Bs 3.90                    1997    US$1.00            Bs 5.25
Abbreviations
BAB            Banco Agricola de Bolivia (Bolivian Agricultural Bank)
BAMIN          Banco Minero (Mining Bank)
BANEST         Banco del Estado (State Bank)
CGR            Comptroller General of the Republic
COMIBOL        Corporacion Minera de Bolivia (Bolivian Mining Corporation)
ENDE           Empresa Nacional de Electricidad (National Electricity Company)
ENFE           Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles (National Railways Corporation)
ENTEL          Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (National Telecommunications Company)
ESAF           Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESMO           Economic Management Strengthening Operation
FDC            Fondo de Desarrollo Campesino (Farmers Development Fund)
FONDESIF       Fondo de Desarrollo del Sistema Financiero y de Apoyo al Sector Productivo (Fund for Development of
the Financial System and Productive Sector)
FONEM          Fondo Nacional de Exploracion Minera (National Fund for Mining Exploration)
FSAC           Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GSF            Gerencia de Sistema Fianciero (Financial System Unit)
IDA            International Development Bank
IDB            Inter American Development Bank
IMF            International Monetary Fund
IRD            Internal Revenue Department
LAB            Lloyd Aereo Boliviano (Bolivian Airline)
MP             Ministry of Planning
MPC            Ministry of Planning and Coordination
NAFIBO         Nacional Financiera de Bolivia (Bolivian Financial Institution)
NEP            National Economic Program
OECF           Japanese Overseas Cooperation Fund
PAR            Performance Audit Report
PC             Performance Contract
PFMO I         Public Financial Management Operation I
PIP            Public Investment Program
PIU            Public Investment Unit
PSM            Public Sector Management
RIC I          Reconstruction Import Credit I
SAC            Structural Adjustment Credit
SDR            Special Drawing Right
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
YPFB           Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos (Bolivian Petroleum Corporation)
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
DGO:                                                                     Mr. Robert Picciotto
Director                                                                 Ms. Elizabeth McAllister
Manager, OEDCR:                                                          Mr. Ruben Lamdany
Task Manager:                                                            Mr. Luis Ramirez
Peer Reviewer                                                            Ms. Alice Galenson



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                    March 16, 1999
MEMORANDUM TO TIHE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND TBIE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Performance Audit Report on Bolivia-Structural Adjustment Credit (Credit
2298-BO), Public Financial Management Operation I (Credit 1809-BO), and Economic
Management Strengthening Operation (Credit 1977-BO)
This is the Performance Audit Report (PAR) on the Public Financial Management Operation I
(PFMO I), the Economic Management Strengthening Operation (EMSO) and the Structural Adjustment
Credit (SAC). The Board approved PFMO I, for US$11.5 million equivalent on May 28, 1987. The credit
closed on June 30, 1994, two years behind schedule. The Board approved EMSO for US$10 million
equivalent on December 22, 1988. This credit closed on June 30, 1995, three years behind schedule. The
Board approved SAC for US$40 million equivalent on September 17, 1991 and augmented it with four
subsequent IDA reflows worth US$39.5 million equivalent. This credit closed on February 1996, 19
months behind schedule. The governments of Netherlands and Switzerland provided co-financing grants
(US$10.8 and US$7.0 million equivalent respectively). IDB, USAID and the Government of Germany
provided parallel financing tied to SAC disbursements (two loans for US$140 million by IDB, US$2.25
million by USAID and US$17.5 million equivalent by Germany). Overall, totalfinancing linked to SAC
reforms reached US$257 million, or about five per cent of 1991 GDP.
PFMO I and EMSO were technical assistance credits with the objective of restructuring state banks
and improving banking supervision, tax administration, public investment, public administration, civil
service, regional planning and statistical services. The SAC was a quick disbursing credit with the
overarching objective of increasing the level and efficiency of investment in the Bolivian Economy. The
SAC program intended to achieve this objective by reforming the financial sector, public enterprises,
public sector investment, trade and registration procedures and social expenditures.
The PAR concludes that the Bank and the donor community provided excessive financing for a
relatively weak reform program. The SAC aimed at valid goals in terms of Bank and Government
objectives at the time, but it designed weak reforms and/or promoted activities with little relevant value
added. The public enterprise component aimed at reforms to restructure rather than privatize public
enterprises, and it failed. The public investment component of the SAC had no value added. Higher
expenditures in health and education did not include reforms to these sectors. Financial sector objectives
were accomplished and were relevant, but SAC merely finished activities left undone by two earlier Bank
credits that had the same objectives. PFMO I completed most planned activities, but with serious
shortcomings. EMSO completed its activities with long implementation delays and accomplished little
towards its development objective.
The PAR rates the outcome of SAC as marginally satisfactory rather than satisfactory as in the ICR
because of the PAR judgement of low relevance. SAC's public investment and public enterprise
components lacked relevance because their design added little towards the objectives; and expenditures in
health and education lacked relevance because of a lack of reform in the sectors. The outcome of financial
sector reforms was satisfactory. The PAR rates Bank performance as unsatisfactory rather than
satisfactory as in the ICR because of the Bank's role in coordinating donors aid and encouraging high
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I    official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  l



financing while designing a weak reform program. In addition, the Bank did not monitor, during
supervision or preparation of the ICR, the main objective of SAC as stated in the President's Report-to
increase the level and efficiency of investment. Also, the Bank disbursed IDA reflows during suspension
of disbursements. The PAR rates institutional development impact as substantial rather than modest as in
the ICR because of the institutional improvements in the financial sector. Both the PAR and the ICR rated
sustainability as likely.
The PAR rates the outcome of PFMO I as marginally satisfactory, institutional development impact
as modest, sustainability as uncertain and Bank performance as satisfactory. These ratings are the same as
those in the ICR, except that the latter rated outcome as satisfactory. The PAR concludes that PFMO
should have focused more forcefully on improving enforcement capabilities to implement SAFCO, a
highly advanced public administration system that looks good in the books but is toothless in practice. In
addition, PFMO's design contributed to increase dependence upon foreign consultants to run day-to-day
operations, and its financial sector component failed to restructure the state banks.
The PAR rates the outcome of EMSO as marginally unsatisfactory, institutional development
impact as negligible, sustainability as uncertain and Bank performance as unsatisfactory. These ratings
differ from those in the ICR, which rated outcome as satisfactory, institutional development impact as
modest, sustainability as likely and Bank performance as satisfactory. The PAR found major
implementation delays and little development outcome for each of the main components of EMSO. The
most relevant components for EMSO, civil service reform and decentralization, were not a priority for
several administrations during implementation. In addition, the PAR concluded that many government
agencies accepted the project as budgetary support rather than as technical assistance.
Two main lessons emerge from this experience. First, excessive financing by the Bank and the
donors may have slowed the pace of inevitable reforms. High financing provided before the SAC was
used to restructure and/or capitalize the State Bank, the State Agricultural Bank, the Mining Bank and the
National Fund for Mining Exploration. This lengthened the life of institutions that increased their non-
performing portfolio and ultimately had to close. The SAC was then needed to finance a slower and
costlier liquidation of these institutions. Foreign-financed consultants acting as line managers allowed
high public officials to continue performing day-to-day operations without an urgent need to reform the
civil service. High levels of financing related to SAC allowed a postponement of deeper reforms from
1991 to after 1994. Second, social sector reforms should have been targeted directly with separate
operations rather than as a marginal appendix of SAC.



Contents
Preface .................... iii
Ratings and Responsibilities .....................v
1. Background                                    .1
2. Objectives and Design                              .2
3. Implementation                                  .5
4. Overall Assessment                                .9
Relevance                                .9
Efficacy and Efficiency of Outcome .10
5. Ratings .16
6. Lessons .21
Annexes
A. Basic Data Sheets .23
Table
4.1  Bolivia-Public and Private Investment .11
This report was prepared by Luis Ramirez (Task Manager), who audited the project in September
1997. Silvana Valle provided administrative support.






iii
Preface
This is the Performnance Audit Report (PAR) on the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC,
2298-BO, FY92), the Economic Management Strengthening Operation (EMSO, 1977-BO,
FY89), and the Public Financial Management Operation I (PFMO I, 1809-BO, FY87) for
US$11.5 million.
On May 28, 1987, the Board approved the PFMO I, for US$11.5 million, a largely
technical assistance operation geared toward strengthening controls over public expenditures and
improving the "financial management"-accountability, integrity, and transparency-of the
country's tax system, banking system, and public financial administration. On December 22,
1988, the Bank approved the EMSO, for US$10 million, a "companion" technical assistance
operation to the Bank's PFMO I to enable the Government to enhance the efficiency of public-
sector investment and management.
On September 17, 1991, the Board approved the SAC for SDR 30 million (US$40
million equivalent), which was augmented by four subsequent IDA reflows worth US$39.5
million equivalent. The credit included a technical assistance component of SDR 2.7 million
(IJS$3.6 million equivalent), and was cofinanced by the governments of the Netherlands (a grant
for 19.1 million Dutch guilders, equivalent to about US$10.8 million) and Switzerland (a grant
for 10 million Swiss francs, equivalent to about US$7.0 million). IDB, USAID and the
Government of Germany provided parallel financing: two fast disbursing loans by IDB, one for
US$60 million including identical conditionality as that of the SAC and one for US$80 million to
support a multisector line of credit; US$2.25 million from USAID to support the pension reform
component; and DM27 million (about US$17.5 equivalent) from the Government of Germany,
disbursed in three tranches tied to SAC tranches. Overall, total financing linked to SAC reforms
reached US$ 257 million, or aboutfive per cent of 1991 GDP.
This PAR focuses on the role and joint contribution of SAC, PFMO I and EMSO to
Bolivia's structural adjustment efforts and development prospects. The audit builds on the
Implementation Completion Report for SAC, issued on November 12, 1996, the Project
Completion Report for PFMO I, issued on December 11, 1995 and the Implementation
Completion Report for the EMSO, issued on November 12, 1996. The audit also builds on the
full, appropriate range of Bank documentation-the President's reports, sector and economic
reports, loan documents, program files and discussions with Bank staff-and OED missions
which visited Bolivia in September and November 1997.
The PAR was sent to the Government on February 5, 1999. No comments were
received.






v
Ratings and Responsibilities
Performance Ratings
Structural Adjustment   Economic Management         Public Financial
Program           Strengthening Operation    Management Operation I
(Credit 2298-BO)         (Credit 1977-BO)         (Credit 1809-BO)
Outcome            Marginally satisfactory    Marginally unsatisfactory    Marginally satisfactory
Sustainability            Likely                 Uncertain                 Uncertain
Institutional
Development            Substantial              Negligible                 Modest
Borrower
Performance           Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
Bank
Performance          Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory             Satisfactory
Key Project Responsibilities
Structural Adjustment Program (Credit 2298-BO)
Task Manager            Division Chief             Director
Appraisal               William Shaw               John Page            Ping-Chewing Oh
Completion           Vicente Fretes-Cibils        Dan Morrow              Paul Isenman
Economic Management Strengthening Operation (EMSO) (Credit 1977-BO)
Task Manager            Division Chief             Director
Appraisal               Jocelyne Albert        Katherine Marshall       Ping-Cheung Loh
Completion             Deborah Bateman            Dan Morrow              Paul Isenman
Public Financial Management Operation I (Credit 1809-BO)
Task Manager            Division Chief             Director
Appraisal                Nancy Barry           Katherine Marshall         Andre R. Gue
Completion                Jit B.S. Gill          Krishna Challa           Yoshiaki Abe



1
1.  Background
1.1    Between Bolivia's revolution in 1952, when Victor Paz Estenssoro seized control of the
Presidency, and 1985, when he returned to the office, Bolivia had collapsed economically and
socially. During the period, the Government had progressively increased its involvement in the
country's productive and financial sectors. By the mid-1970s, the public-sector consisted of 520
agencies-120 federal, 350 regional and municipal, and 50 public enterprises and financial
institutions. By 1985, the public sector was responsible for 65 percent of all mining production
and 80 percent of all hydrocarbons output. It also had 70 percent of energy production, more
than 50 percent of the assets of the banking system and more than 70 percent of all air passenger
transport. This bloated Government structure bred inefficiencies, misinvestment, and
undercapitalization. In parallel with this increasing Govemment role in productive activities,
civil society underwent severe political turmoil: between 1979 and 1985 Bolivia had three
elections, six presidents, three coups that succeeded, and twice as many that failed.
1.2    By 1985, Bolivia was facing the biggest economic crisis of its history. Annual inflation
was more than 20,000 percent in FY85 (with an annual rate of 60,000 percent between May and
August 1985). GDP per capita had fallen by 3.8 percent annually since 1980, reaching about
US$740 in 1985 (measured in 1990 prices and exchange rates). Exports had plummeted by one-
third and the financial sector was in shambles, with a deteriorating lending portfolio, inadequate
prudential regulation, and an absence of mechanisms for dealing with problem banks. The
country's total external debt had reached US$4.2 billion in 1986, about 8 percent higher than total
GDP of that year. The tax system had degenerated into 400 separate surcharges, yielding
revenue of just 1 percent of GDP in 1985. Both public and private investment had collapsed.
Investment fell from 14.3 percent as a proportion of GDP in 1980 to 7.2 percent in 1985. The
collapse in savings was even larger-from 18.7 percent of GDP in 1980 to 8.5 percent in 1985.
1.3   In August 1985, President Estenssoro's Government implemented the National Economic
Program (NEP)-a series of measures that the Bank called "audacious" and laid the basis for
"sustained growth in the future." After a six-year hiatus in lending (1980-86), the Bank
responded to the Government's NEP by focusing on rehabilitation of Bolivia's principal public
export sector. The thrust of the Bank strategy was to reactivate export production in the
potentially lucrative but inefficient mining and natural-gas sectors-thereby increasing the
country's capacity to service its external debt and restoring its creditworthiness. The Bank was
optimistic that the Government's first-year efforts to restructure and rehabilitate its public
enterprises-and COMIBOL, the Bolivian Mining Corporation, in particular-would translate
into speedy growth in mining, hydrocarbons and the country's nascent agriculture sector.
1.4    Related lending operations preceding the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC). The
Bank's first lending operation in 1986 was a Reconstruction Import Credit (IC I, US$55
million). It was conceived as quick-disbursing financing with minimal conditionalities. The
objective was to enable COMIBOL, the state mining company, and YPFB, the Bolivian
Petroleum Corporation, to procure capital equipment and spare parts. An additional objective
was to provide the means for the country's agro-based industries to procure inputs to be
processed into exportable goods. The RIC was a catalyst for other donor support, enabling the
Bank to take the lead in mobilizing external financing and sponsoring Bolivia for debt
rescheduling-a role that the Bank has sustained and fathered since. In May 1987, the Bank
approved Public Financial Management Operation I (FPMO I, US$11.5 million) to rehabilitate



2
the country's tax system, banking system, and public financial management. A month later, it
approved another import credit (RICI, US$45 million). And in December 1988, the Bank
approved a FPMO I "sister" technical assistance operation, the Economic Management
Strengthening Operation (EMSO, US$10 million), to help the Government increase the efficiency
of public investment programming mechanisms.
1.5   The banking-system component of FPMO I I led to further participation of IDA in the
Bolivian financial sector. In June 1988, the Board approved a Financial Sector Adjustment
Credit (FSAC, US$70 million) to strengthen banking-system supervision, regulations and
accounting practices, rehabilitate state-owned banks and establish measures for responding to
financial-sector crises. The credit, including three supplemental IDA reflows for an additional
US$36 million, was nearly fully disbursed by October 1991. The Government of Sweden
provided a trust fund of US$0.9 million administered by IDA in connection with the FSAC. The
Japanese Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) lent US$70 million equivalent, with
conditionality identical to that of the FSAC. In total, about US$177 million were provided by
different donors in support of FSAC reforms. In addition to enabling the Government to liquidate
its debt to commercial banks, its two key, overriding objectives were to rehabilitate or restructure
the state-owned banks (already being targeted by PFMO I) and to strengthen the Central Bank.
However, progress on bank restructuring and Central Bank strengthening was falling prey to
internecine squabbles among interest groups, despite the Bank's rapid approval and disbursement
of the FSAC.
1.6   By 1991, the Bank was concerned that "Bolivia was entering its fifth year of economic
stabilization without significant growth" and that macroeconomic stability had not yet been
assured because the structure of the economy had not changed substantially. Slow growth was in
part due to a collapse in tin prices and a severe drought. But the larger problem, as correctly
stated by the SAC's President Report, was the low level and impaired productivity of investment.
This low investment productivity was due to (i) an inadequate legal framework to encourage
private investment; (ii) misallocation of capital through the financial system; (iii) inefficient
operation of public enterprises; (iv) weak institutions and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures;
and (v) inadequate levels of infrastructure and social services. Therefore, the main reforms
supported by the SAC included components in the financial sector to close or liquidate loss-
making public banks; in the public enterprise sector, to improve operations of major state
enterprises; and in the public investment program, to improve public investment decision-
making. Other components of the SAC included modifications to trade and registration
procedures and to the composition of Government expenditures.
2.    Objectives And Design
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC)
2.1    The SAC intended to consolidate what the Bank considered to be "a still-incomplete
stabilization process" and give the country access to quick-disbursing credits to meet its import
needs. Overall, total financing linked to SAC reforms reached US$257 million, or about five
percent of 1991 GDP. The stated objective of the SAC in the President's Report was to increase
the level and efficiency of investment in the Bolivian Economy. The SAC program intended to do
this through, in order of importance, five broad components: (1) the financial sector component,



3
which included similar objectives as the earlier FSAC loan (para. 1.5 above): it would improve
regulation and supervision of the financial system, privatize or liquidate loss-making public
banks, improve the allocation of donor-financed credit, establish a mechanism for handling bank
crises, and improve the laws and regulations governing pension, insurance, and securities
markets; (2) the public enterprise component would improve the efficiency of Government
enterprises through the implementation of performance contracts in major public enterprises and
through privatization of some small public enterprises; (3) the public sector investment
component would improve Government's investment project selection; (4) the trade and
registration procedures component would facilitate trade and remove bureaucratic procedures
that impair investment by small businesses; and (5) the social expenditures component would
support increased targets for expenditures on primary health care and basic education.
2.2    Thefinancial sector component. SAC supported the Government in dealing with a long-
standing problem faced by its state banks. In fact, Bank involvement on this issue started in
1987. Both the PFMO I and the FSAC included programs to restructure the State Bank
(BANEST), the State Agriculture Bank (BAB), the Mining Bank (BAMIN), and the National
Fund for Mining Exploration (FONEM). In spite of these efforts, the banks were in extremely
poor financial condition in late 1990, with high levels of non-performing assets and inadequate
credit approval procedures. The Government and the Bank agreed in 1991 that the only solution
to this long-standing problem was to liquidate or privatize these banks. Consequently, as
conditions of Board presentation under SAC, the Government issued Supreme Decrees to allow
the closure of BAB, BAMIN, and FONEM, and to restrict BANEST functions. It also ensured
that the Fondo de Desarrollo Campesino would not have access to development credit. In
addition, before the last tranche release, the full program of recovery, sale, adjudication and
liquidation of assets of these institutions should have been completed. SAC also called for the
Government to limit the Central Bank's relationships with financial institutions and to strengthen
the capacity of the Gerencia del Sistema Financiero (GSF) to certify institutions as financial
intermediaries and to better manage potential financial crises.
2.3    The public enterprise component. By 1985, the non-financial public enterprise sector
had grown to roughly 100 enterprises operating in markets that competed with the private sector.
These included the two "giant" state enterprises in mining and petroleum-COMIBOL and
YPFB in addition to the three "service monopoly" enterprises providing electric power (ENDE),
transport (ENFE), and telecommunications (ENTEL). Despite some improvements during 1986-
91, the productive and managerial inefficiency of PEs was still gobbling up the bulk of public
investment funds from the center, crowding out private-sector investment. Yet, privatization of
PEs was not an immediate option because of lack of government ownership. Instead, the SAC
supported performance contracts (PCs) between the Government and YPFB, ENDE, ENFE, and
ENTE, and it called for restructuring the transport monopoly, ENFE. It also called for improving
the investment environment for YPFB and COMIBOL with regulations to promote joint public-
private ventures in exploration and development. 1 And it pushed for better efficiency of the
mining sector by simplifying licensing procedures, improving its tax regime, closing unprofitable
mines, and reorganizing COMIBOL..
2.4    The public sector investment component. The Bank had performed annual reviews of the
public investment program in support of the Consultative Group process since 1986. It had also
1. The Government's 1990 Hydrocarbons Law and 1991 Mining Law had permitted this limited private-sector
involvement.



4
financed a US$10 million technical assistance (EMSO, see para. 2.8 below) to help the
Government increase the efficiency of public investment programming mechanisms. In addition
IDA administered a Swiss Grant in the amount of SwF 4 million (US$2.5 million) for the same
purpose; IDB and the Governments of Italy and Bolivia cofinanced the project up to a total of
US$16.6 million. Despite some improvements, the SAC President's Report concluded that there
still remained projects with considerable political support that were too expensive or would
involve the state in productive activities better left to the private sector. Yet, the SAC did not add
much to the existing PIP process. The Government and the Bank agreed, through its SAC Policy
Letter, that "the Government would exchange views with the World Bank on investments over
US$10 million in the transportation, agriculture, and water and sanitation sectors."
2.5   Shift of expenditures to health and education. By 1990, the Government's successful
Social Investment Fund had channeled funds into small investment projects in rural areas,
particularly infrastructure. However, human resource development-health and education-had
not yet been addressed. In late 1990, the Bank approved its first human resource project, the
Integrated Health Development Project (US$20 million), which helped determine the minimum
expenditure levels needed to support expected primary health care programs. To fulfill that need,
the Government made a commitment to increase the share of expenditures devoted to the health
sector from 3 percent of expenditures in 1989 to 3.8 percent by 1993. This commitment was part
of the SAC Policy Letter agreed with the Bank. The Policy Letter also committed the
Government to increase expenditures on text and teaching materials for primary education from
close to zero in 1989 to 5 percent of primary education expenditures in 1992.
2.6    Trade and registration procedures. The New Economic Policy program (1985) had
placed a high priority on trade deregulation. Still, by 1991, there were excessive regulatory
restrictions on private-sector activity, as firms were required to register with an army of public-
sector agencies and business organizations before they could begin operations. In addition, the
customs service was inefficient and rife with fraud and duty evasion. SAC sought to improve
trade and business registration procedures, and support customs reforms being undertaken by
IDB and the Spanish Customs Service, including the design and presentation of a new customs
law.
Public Financial Management Operation I (PFMO I)
2.7   The PFMO I had three main components: (a) The tax administration component, which
was part of a broader effort involving IMF, IDB, UNDP, and USAID to enable the Government
to implement its 1986 tax reform. IDA support was targeted at institutional strengthening and
information processing. (b) The banking system component sought to strengthen the banking
system by improving the supervisory role of the Central Bank and by restructuring the country's
two major development banks-the Agriculture Bank (BAB) and the State Bank (BANEST). (c)
The public administration and ministerial control component included two technical assistance
elements: one, to support the design, creation, and implementation of a management information
system to improve operational programming, budgeting, budget execution, cash and debt
management, accounting, internal controls, and financial reporting; and two-by far the most
critical objective of the PFMO I-to help the Government establish an executive-level council
(CONSAFCO) and Executive Secretariat to assume management responsibility for Bolivia's
new, modern financial administration and control system (SAFCO).



5
Economic Management Strengthening Operation (EMSO)
2.8    EMSO (and its sister PFMO I project) marked the beginning of IDA's intense
supervisory efforts, one in which foreign consultants were heavily involved in administrative line
responsibilities throughout the lending period. EMSO consisted of five specific components: (a)
a public investment component to establish a rational, transparent system for selecting, budgeting,
monitoring, and evaluating public investment projects, and to enhance institutional capacity to
implement the system once established; (b) a public sector management component to rationalize
the wage structure, create conditions for stable employment in the public sector and to prompt the
Government towards a comprehensive civil service reform package; (c) a regional planning and
management component, to help the Government work toward a strategy for regional planning
and management, delineating the fiscal and institutional implications of decentralization, and
identifying the resources necessary for implementing the strategy; (d) a component to strengthen
statistical services to measure income, employment and poverty in Bolivia; and (e) a tax
component to support work in tax administration reform (complementing PFMO I).
3.  Implementation
Struetural Adjustment Credit
3.1    Overall implementation performance. Slippages in compliance with macroeconomic
objectives and in implementation of some components of the public enterprise program delayed
the second and third tranche disbursements of the SAC. Disbursement of the second tranche
(US$15.4 million) was suspended from February 1993 to March 1994. The Bank, however,
disbursed IDA reflows of US$11.3 million in April 1993, which indicates that the Bank
"expected" the suspension to be lifted before the end of the fiscal year.2 This was not the case.
It was not until late 1993 that a newly elected Government stepped up adjustment efforts
considerably, met SAC conditionality and, in some important aspects (like privatization and
decentralization), went beyond SAC objectives. The final closing date, July 1994, had to be
postponed twice, up to December 1995.
3.2   In what follows, we describe the main issues that led to major implementation delays:
3.3    Suspension of second tranche disbursement. The Bank suspended the second tranche
release of the SAC because of macroeconomic imbalances in 1992 and 1993 and because of
delays in closing unprofitable mines of COMIBOL. The fiscal deficit in both years violated the
macroeconomic policy framework agreed with the Bank and IMF's ESAF. The deficit of the
non-financial public sector increased to 4.5 percent of GDP in 1992 and to 6.6 percent of GDP in
1993, leading to a postponement of the IMF ESAF review. The 1992 deficit was financed by
donors-on concessional terms, while the 1993 deficit included, in addition to foreign financing,
significant unplanned increases in domestic credit to the public sector. These high fiscal deficits,
especially in 1993, led to a record BOP current account deficit of 9.5 percent of GDP that year.
These imbalances were mostly due to high public expenditures before Congressional and
2. Management policy to disburse IDA reflows when a loan disbursement has been suspended requires a written
statement by the Region indicating that the Region expects the suspension to be lifted before the end of the fiscal year.
The Region did send a memorandum to that effect before IDA reflows were released.



6
Presidential elections in June 1993. After a new Government took office in August 1993, it
restored fiscal discipline and reduced the fiscal deficit to 3.2 percent of GDP in 1994, putting the
SAC on track again. A plan to reorganize COMIBOL was to be completed before February
1993, but faced delays due to institutional weaknesses. The Government completed the
diagnostic study to prepare the action plan only in the second half of 1993 and began
implementation in 1994.
3.4    Delay of Central Bank reforms. Similarly, despite initial enthusiasm and a very
aggressive implementation strategy, Central Bank reform proved to be an arduous and prolonged
affair. IDA provided technical advice early on, but Government ambivalence about the internal
organization of the Central Bank continued for a while, as did ongoing conflicts with the Bank
Superintendency. A Central Bank Law was finally approved in October 1995, increasing the
Bank's independence and removing developmental financing from it.
3.5   Protracted liquidation ofpublic banks. Actions on the public banks have a much longer
story of delays that comes from well before the SAC entered the picture in 1991. Plans to
restructure the banks started in 1987 when the Bank approved PFMO I to rehabilitate the
country's tax system, banking system, and public financial management. Restructuring plans
continued with the approval of the FSAC in June 1988. PFMO I failed to drive consensus on
restructuring proposals for the public banks, and the FSAC was unsuccessful at picking up the
pieces. As a conditionality for second-tranche FSAC disbursement, the Government was
expected to present restructuring plans for the State Bank (BANEST) and the State Agriculture
Bank (BAB). However, after presenting an action plan to fulfill the conditionality, the
Government did not act on it. Instead, it recapitalized BANEST, which led to more bad loans.
The financial conditions of the four public banks and funds in operation in 1991, BAB, Banco
Minero (BAMIN), Fondo Nacional de Exploracion Minera (FONEM) and BANEST were
extremely poor, with high levels of non-performing assets and inadequate credit approval
procedures. The Government had agreed to deactivate FONEM under IDA's Mining Sector
Rehabilitation Project, but, as the SAC President's Report indicated in 1991, "so far the
Govemment has resisted liquidation of FONEM." Most of the losses of all these public financial
institutions were being absorbed by the Treasury, although the Government failed to correct their
problems of mismanagement.
3.6   The banks closed after restructuringfailed. The failed restructuring of the public banks
led the Government to close their operations in the second half of 1991, before implementation of
the SAC. The main contribution of the SAC, action plans for the recovery, sale, legal
adjudication or liquidation of the financial and fixed assets of BAB, BAMIN, FONEM, and
BANEST, was set as a condition for the second tranche release. These actions fell behind
schedule. It took more time than expected to complete the valuation of assets and liabilities (end
1992), to complete the liquidation of most real assets (end 1993), and to finalize the liquidation of
all financial assets and liabilities (end 1994). BANEST operations were closed in the second half
of 1992, but the liquidation of assets and liabilities continued up to late 1994. The final
resolution of most pending issues before the second and third tranche releases was achieved with
the help of a highly intensified program of supervision missions. There were ten supervision
missions between effectiveness of the SAC in December 1991 and the release of the second
tranche in March 1994-about one supervision mission every three months. This frequency
continued up to the closing of the project, with five more supervision missions between June
1994 and December 1995.



7
Public Financial Management Operation I
3.7    Marginally satisfactory implementation. The Bank disbursed most of the project on time
between FY88 and FY90, although the closing date was extended for two years to facilitate
preparation of a following credit, the PFMO II. The Government implemented most of the
project satisfactorily, but delayed the implementation of some components like the establishment
of the Accountant General's Office and the creation of a separate Ministry of Tax Collections. In
addition, as mentioned above, restructuring of the two state development banks was tabled
because of a lack of political consensus on a restructuring plan. Furthermore, movement on
SAFCO (para. 2.7 above) would prove to be an Achilles heel throughout the lending period.
Only in 1990 did this "international Bible" for public administration become law. Moreover, as
of 1998, it has still not become fully operational due primarily to political interference and
mismanagement in the civil service and the Judiciary.
Economic Management Strengthening Operation
3.8   Significant delays. The EMSO project encountered major implementation delays. The
Bank had to extend the closing date three times between the original date on June 30, 1992 and
the actual closing on June 30, 1995. The main difficulties arose because the project was
negotiated with one Government administration in 1987 and implemented by two successive
administrations from 1989-95. Each change in administration brought consequent shifts in
policy priorities, program personnel, and the roles of operating agencies, leading to redesign of
project components and objectives.
3.9   Public Investment Program (PIP) difficulties. Most notably, the PIP component started
with methodologies that were too complicated for Bolivia's institutional environment; these
methodologies had to be scrapped. By the end of 1992, four years after the initiation of the
project, Bank ESW (Public Sector Investment Program Review, Report No. 11 124-BO) noted
little implementation of the PIP component. About 95 percent of the projects in the investment
budgets had not been evaluated according to established procedures; and the information systems
developed served as a registry rather than as an instrument for managing public investment.
Most importantly, the country did not have clear rules for PIP implementation, since SAFCO
regulations had not yet been developed. The Bank noted these points in an aide memoire of
December 1992, and reiterated them in project discussions in May 1993; regulations were finally
issued late in 1995. Additional complications arose when a new Government came to power in
August 1993 and eliminated the Ministry of Planning (MP). The new Government distributed
MP functions to other ministries. It also enacted a Popular Participation Law-approved in April
1994, which transferred most investment decisions to local governments. These changes made
previous PIP endeavors obsolete.
3.10   The public sector management (PSM) component also experienced substantial delays.
PSM started in late 1987. Immediately afterwards the Bank and the Government made promising
proposals about PSM to the Consultative Group Meeting of 1988. However, PSM slowed during
1990-92 due to disruptions caused by shifts in the institutional responsibility of the program from
the Ministry of Planning to the Ministry of Finance and by a lack of Program Director during
1991-92. After the change in Government in August 1993, the scope of the civil service reform
sub-program was reassessed, leading to a comprehensive review that the Government expected to
finance through a new IDA operation in 1997. A Bank panel of evaluators, however, found the
quality of the new project (at entry) as marginally satisfactory. The project achieved this low



8
rating in spite of having been under preparation for at least 3.5 years at a cost of over
US$800,000. The panel concluded that the Civil Service Reform Program "had been under
active preparation under at least two governments, three ministers of finance under the present
Government, as well as under two task managers, and three division chiefs or equivalent in an
ever changing Bank environment." Nevertheless, the main explanation for slow progress has
been an apparent lack of Government ownership of civil service reform during the period under
review. High Government officials had little incentives to reform. With the blessing of the donor
community, most financing had been programmed to remunerate consultants who acted as line
managers. In fact, in 1997, donors were financing about 700 consultants serving in line
managerial positions at an annual cost of about US$10 million. Consequently, high public
officials were able to continue to perform day-to-day operations without a demanding need to
reform the civil service. By 1998, after more than ten years of implementation of PSM, the Civil
Service Reform Program is again on the design board. The new program is expected to include
civil service reform at the municipal and prefecture level. This new design has led the Bank to be
concerned-rightly-about the capacity of the Government to assume the future fiscal
responsibilities inherent to the program.
3.11   The regional planning and management component experienced substantial delays. In
the first phase of the project, consultants working for the Ministry of Planning (MP) prepared
studies to promote decentralization. Legislation to support decentralization, however, was not a
priority for the Government at the time. The succeeding administration revisited the issue, but
did not assume a leadership role due to political considerations. The 1992 supervisory mission
recognized that this work prepared by EMSO was at risk of having a moot impact on the process
of designing legislation, and raised the issue with the Government. It also took actions in this
area, such as appointing someone to the post of area coordinator, a condition for further extension
of the project. The Government became more involved thereafter and presented legislation to
Congress. IDA reviewed this legislation and noted to the Government that it lacked meaningful
content. The essential contention was that the Government was not proposing to establish a new
fiscal structure, but rather that it was merely transferring execution of certain activities to the
regional level. Congress did not approve the legislation. The failure of this regional planning
component of EMSO may have contributed to strengthening the hand of a new Government, with
new ideas for decentralization. In effect, after the new Government took power in 1993, it
formulated a new decentralization strategy in 1994, which radically changed this EMSO
component. With the passage of a Popular Participation Law in April 1994, EMSO support now
went to developing financial systems for municipalities. In addition, EMSO support went to
strengthen municipal capability to manage the transfer of infrastructure responsibility. However,
the complexity of the new tasks necessitated defining new operations, which IDA did, with the
Municipal Sector Development Project (FY94) and the Rural Communities Development Project
(FY96). In summary, after many delays, the decentralization strategy prepared with the support
of EMSO was not implemented, but EMSO provided limited support to a new strategy which is
still in its early stages of implementation.
3.12   The EMSO component to strengthen Statistical Services, primarily through computers,
personnel, and vehicles, also experienced significant delays mainly due to frequent changes in
management and staff. Although the program began in late 1988, there still exists substantial
work in 1998 to fully achieve its main objective of monitoring the impact of economic policies on
the most vulnerable groups of the population. The EMSO tax administration component was
marginal, mainly to complement actions implemented by PFMO I, together with UNDP and IDB
and later with PMFO II. Most of this component was implemented successfully and on a timely



9
basis. Some delays, however, were encountered in implementing the large taxpayer offices in
Cochabamba and Santa Cruz and in developing tax enforcement programs.
4.    Overall Assessment
Relevance
4.1    Structural Adjustment Credit. The SAC (FY92) was appropriate in terms of Bank and
Government objectives at the time, but it was weak in design and value added. Of the five SAC
components described above (para. 2.1), three were major in substance, but included little value
added, and the other two were relatively minor in substance. The financial sector component
aimed at highly relevant objectives, but its additional contribution to already ongoing reforms
was small. It merely picked up on what had not been done by-and repeated some components
of-earlier operations aimed at the same objectives. It included conditionalities that made the
Government step up actions to liquidate state banks and to complete other financial sector
activities already covered by the PFMO I and the FSAC. The objective of the public enterprise
component was also major in substance, but the design of the program not forceful enough to
promote privatization, which the Bank considered necessary but unfeasible. Three years later,
privatization proved not only feasible, but it was actually achieved through an innovative
privatization/capitalization program conceptualized by the Government on its own. SAC had
been resigned to continue floating major inefficient public enterprises with weak restructuring
efforts rather than urging full privatization-while the Bank's ESW had suggested that
privatization was essential to achieve a higher rate of economic growth. The public investment
component aimed, through the SAC's Policy Letter (not through formal conditionality), at a weak
agreement. It agreed that "the Government would exchange views with the Bank on all
investments over US$10 million in the transportation, agriculture, and water and sanitation
sectors." This component had no value added. The Bank had already been "exchanging views"
through consultations and annual reviews of the public investment program (PIP). The Bank had
done this in support of the Consultative Group process, which met every year since December
1986 and had already financed EMSO to improve the public investment program. The SAC did
not modify or add to this already existing PIP component. Finally, the SAC sought to improve
trade registration procedures and to increase the share of expenditures in health and education,
components that, although needed, were minor in relative importance compared to the other
objectives of SAC.
4.2    The Public Financial Management Operation I (FY87) was appropriate in terms of
objectives, but the design of the operation was faulty in at least two important aspects. First, the
formulation of restructuring plans for the main two development banks, Banco Agricola and
Banco del Estado, was an ill-conceived idea. It created expectations and pressures to provide
financing for further restructuring through the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FY88). While
being restructured, the Bank's kept accumulating bad loans. This led to financial deterioration
and to a final liquidation of the banks in 1992, for which additional financing had to be provided
through the SAC (FY92). And second, the formulation of SAFCO, one of the most advanced
financial administration and control systems of Latin America, did not anticipate early enough the
need to aggressively develop institutions to implement and enforce it. Consequently, SAFCO
was toothless, great on paper, but weak in practice. The tax administration component, the rest of



10
the banking system component and the emergency program providing information on non-
financial public sector transactions were relevant components, with appropriate objectives and
relatively adequate design.
4.3    The Economic Management Strengthening Operation (FY89) included relevant
objectives but poor design. The main weakness in the design of the project was its excessive
reliance on foreign consultants to run day-to-day operations of each of the different sub-
components of the program. While the main objective of EMSO was to develop institutional
capacity, the design was especially perverse in developing institutional dependence, especially in
the civil service reform program. Donor financing was used to pay for consultants acting as line
managers, which allowed high public officials to continue performing without a demanding need
for civil service reform. The public investment program also relied heavily on foreign
consultants and led to methodologies too complicated for Bolivia's institutional environment. In
addition, the design of the PIP did not include provisions to create clear rules for its
implementation. The decentralization component was designed by foreign consultants who
elaborated many studies leading to proposals that did not get priority from the Government and,
under pressure from the Bank, led to legislation that lacked meaningful content. The tax
administration component and the statistical services component were also highly dependent on
foreign consultants, but did relatively better in transferring technology to local professionals.
Efficacy and Efficiency of Outcome
Structural Adjustment Credit
4.4    SAC achievements need to be judged in conjunction with the achievements of other Bank
credits and of aid provided by other donors with similar objectives as those of the SAC. This is
necessary because, as mentioned earlier, some objectives achieved by SAC were merely added to
complete earlier credits aiming at the same objectives (financial sector). Some objectives not
achieved by SAC were later accomplished by a new Government with the aid of other Bank
credits and donors support (public enterprises). In addition, some objectives, like improving the
efficiency of the Public Investment Program (PIP), were included in the SAC without any
modification or value added to the already existing PIP that was pursued anyway in the absence
of SAC. Furthermore, decentralization and privatization changed the nature of the problems
faced by the PIP. New programs and credits to regulate privatized public enterprises and to deal
with decentralization were now needed to substitute for SAC's earlier objectives.
4.5   SAC had mixed development outcome. The project achieved most of its goals in the
financial sector component, but with major shortcomings. The project did not achieve its goals in
the public enterprise component; but a new Government, with a stronger hand after SAC's
failure, went beyond SAC objectives as it implemented its own program. The project added
nothing to the public investment component (PIP). The project achieved its goal to increase
expenditures towards health and education. Nevertheless, the development outcome of these
expenditures has been minor since the education sector is in disarray, with an educational reform
that is only starting, and the health sector lacks a coherent strategy. Finally, the project did
achieve some marginal improvements in trade and registration procedures. More importantly, all
these components included activities to be carried out, as the President Report stated, "to increase
the level and efficiency of investment in Bolivia." OED did not find any evidence of either an



11
increase in the level or and increase in the efficiency of investment.3 Total investment, as a
percentage of GDP remained unchanged. In addition, OED agrees with the ICR conclusion that
the systems developed in Bolivia to monitor public investment do not capture efficiency
improvements. We develop these arguments in what follows.
Table 4.1: Bolivia-Public and Private Investment (As percentage of GDP)
1991     1992     1993     1994      1995     1996
Total Public Sector             8.6      9.6      8.5       8.2      8.0       8.3
General Enterprises          5.3       5.7     5.4       5.8       5.8      6.6
Public Enterprises           3.3       3.9     3.0       2.4      2.1       1.7
Private Sector                  6.8      6.4      6.8       4.9      6.3       6.8
Total Investment Expenditures    15.4   15.9    15.3       13.1     14.3      15.1
Source: UDAPE (Unidad de Analisis de Politicas Economicas) Report, Volume 7, August 1997.
4.6    Financial sector reform: improved banking regulation and supervision. With support
from SAC, the Government presented to Congress and Congress approved a new Banking Law.
This law endowed the Central Bank with powers to manage bank crises-preventive surveillance,
intervention in non-complying banks, and rules for intervening in cases of short-term liquidity
problems. The Government issued complementary regulations regarding the classification of
loans, disclosure of information and provisioning. It also introduced innovative mechanisms to
auction development credit, to broaden the eligibility of financial intermediaries and to set
prudential regulations to qualify and continue to be an intermediary of development credit. It
increased the independence of the Bank and created a new non-bank financial intermediary
(Nacional Financiera de Bolivia) as a joint venture between the Central Bank and private
investors to on-lend developing credit to commercial banks. In addition, to deal further with
liquidity problems, the Government created an umbrella fund (Fondo de Desarrollo del Sistema
Financiero y de Apoyo al Sector Productivo). These were major developments in the financial
sector, but with little value added attributable exclusively to SAC. Many of the same actions had
been delayed or not done before under PFMO I and FSAC, which included many similar
activities as SAC. In addition, some of these activities continued to be delayed under SAC. In
particular, conflicts between the Central Bank and the Bank Superintendence about their
respective roles delayed reforms until a Central Bank Law was finally approved in October 1995.
4.7    Financial sector reform: inefficient liquidation ofpublic banks. The closing and final
liquidation of the state banks were major accomplishments of the Government of Bolivia with
financial support from SAC. But the Government achieved these objectives only after bank
restructuring plans-financed by prior credits-had failed and there was no other alternative but
to close the banks. Without priorfinancing by the Bank and other donors, the state banks would
have failed and closed at least three years earlier, with a lower liquidation cost (see para. 3.4). It
was the capacity of the Treasury, assisted by donor financing, to cover state banks losses-while
implementing restructuring plans bound to fail-that allowed the banks to prolong their survival.
Eventually, the Government had to close and liquidate the banks. Partial financing from the SAC
(US$257 million, including other donors) was now utilized to achieve the banks' final
liquidation. Although plans agreed under SAC for the recovery, sale, legal adjudication or
liquidation of assets fell behind schedule, the liquidation of all financial assets and liabilities was
finally achieved by the end of 1994. In summary, the Government achieved SAC objectives in the
3 OED interpreted the President's Report statement as a goal to increase the level and efficiency of investment with
respect to existing levels before the time of SAC approval.



12
financial sector, but not before an expensive and tortuous process that could have been
substantially shorter and cheaper.
4.8    Public enterprise reforms: SACfailed to achieve most of its objectives. SAC supported
the implementation of performance contracts (PCs) to improve the efficiency of ENDE
(electricity), ENFE (railroads), ENTEL (telecommunications), and YPFB (hydrocarbons), and
the preparation of diagnostic studies and action plans to restructure COMIBOL (mining). The
implementation of these PCs failed. The Government recognized this failure and halted
implementation of the PCs in 1992 (with the exception of ENDE, which had signed a PC for five
years). The PCs had set up poorly defined targets to improve efficiency, particularly labor
productivity targets that eventually led to perverse incentives resulting in larger than programmed
increases in salaries. In spite of these failures, the Government achieved some partial successes,
especially by eliminating all debt arrears among, and all transfers to, public enterprises.
However, as mentioned before, after 1993, outside the context of the SAC, the Government
created its own alternative to the program of management contracts supported by the SAC. This
was the Capitalization Program, which was supported with several self-standing new credit
operations (para. 4.9 below). Some moderate privatization was done under SAC though. The
passage of a Privatization Law in 1992 met SAC conditionality. In addition, for the second
tranche, the Government was expected to bring to the point of sale either (1) Lloyd Aereo
Boliviano (LAB), two large enterprises, and three smaller enterprises or (2) three large
enterprises and five smaller enterprises. For the third tranche, the conditionality was either (1)
LAB, four large enterprises, and five smaller enterprises or (2) five large enterprises and six
small enterprises. By 1994, just two large and three small enterprises were sold. These actions
were sufficient to have met SAC's fonnal conditionality, which did not require to sell the
enterprises, but just to bring them "to the point of sale."
4.9    Capitalization. When the Sanchez de Lozada Administration took office in 1993, it soon
offered its own alternative to replace the program of management contracts that had been
supported by the SAC. This was the Capitalization Program, an innovative, ambitious program
to transfer management control and up to 50 percent of ownership of the key public enterprises
(with the exception of COMIBOL) to strategic investors. The state would cede its share (the
other half) to the people in the form of a pension fund. Each Bolivian adult was to receive one
share each of the companies to be capitalized in an individualized pension account. The
distribution of shares to individual accounts would be completed by the second half of 1996, after
all companies had been capitalized. IDA supported this effort with several self-standing
operations: Regulatory Reform and Capitalization Technical Assistance (US$14.7 million, FY95),
Hydrocarbons Sector Reform and Capitalization Technical Assistance (US$10.6 million, FY96),
Power Sector Reform Technical Assistance (US$5.1 million, FY96), and Capitalization Program
Adjustment Credit (US$64 million, FY96).
4.10   Public investment program. OED concluded that the final PIP outcome would have been
the same, with or without including this issue in the SAC's Policy Letter. The SAC did not
include any additional specific measure or modification to improve the public investment
program system. It just reinforced the need for consultation by the Government with the Bank
and the donor community concerning the selection of investment projects. The Government had
been carrying out consultations about the PIP with the Bank and the donor community every year
since the revival of the Consultative Group in December 1986 and had approved EMSO in 1988
for the same purpose.



13
4.11   Shift ofpublic investment to health and education. As the capitalization/ privatization
program unfolded, the share of public expenditures allocated to the productive sectors declined
and the share of expenditures allocated to the social sectors increased. By 1994, the share of
central Government expenditure allocated to primary and secondary education had increased
from 3 percent of total public expenditures in 1990 to 10 percent later and then to 12.5 percent in
1995. OED concluded, however, that the successful reallocation of spending to health and
education has not yet produced much development outcome (human development indicators have
not changed significantly). This is largely because real results from investment in human capital
can only be seen in a very long term. Also because badly needed reforms to the education system
started late, in 1995/96, and a much needed national health strategy has not yet been formulated.
4.12   Trade and registration procedures. Streamlining registration and control procedures for
exporters was badly needed to facilitate trade and reduce opportunities for corruption. SAC
helped the Government streamline these procedures-enabling the country to begin to adhere to
GATT requirements by as early as 1993. Firm registration and control procedures have been
simplified with the ventanilla unica-a single office where exporters can satisfy registration-type
requirements. Some limited progress was also made at simplifying internal licensing, company
registration, and transactions with the public sector. And, despite success at attracting private
agents to manage customs houses covering about 90 percent of registered trade, Bolivia's
customs regime is still one of the greatest source of corruption in the public sector. Although
private agents have improved the management of customs sites, they do not have the
implementation power to prevent contraband from passing by their installations during the night,
with the complicity of local institutions, or to control duty-free border crossings. In summary,
the efficacy of the actions supported by SAC to improve trade and registration procedures has
been relatively satisfactory, but has been diminished by the lack of stronger institutions for law
enforcement. The capacity of the Government to prevent trade from moving outside custom
installations, to enforce the law and to implement judicial action continuous to be weak.
Public Financial Management Operation I
4.13   OED concluded that the project successfully completed most planned activities and
advanced towards achieving its objectives, but had major shortcomings. (a) Tax administration
improved significantly, but tax auditing, enforcement of tax laws, and control of corruption in
some regional offices continue to be serious problems. (b) Banking system reform accomplished
a lot, but through a long and expensive process supported by several Bank credits, and it failed at
restructuring the state banks. And (c)financial administration and control created an emergency
program and a long-term framework for public financial management (SAFCO), but with major
enforcement shortcomings. We elaborate these issues below.
4.14   The tax administration component can be called successful from a broad perspective, as
domestic tax collections increased from about 1 percent of GDP in 1984 to 7.8 percent of GDP
by 1992, and then to 10 percent in 1995. This impressive increase in tax collections was
primarily the result of macroeconomic stabilization and of the introduction of a tax reform law in
1986. Improvements in tax administration also contributed to tax collections, but much less than
expected since this component of PFMO I experienced several implementation problems. Tax
collection improved as this task was given to commercial banks. Nevertheless, the efficiency of
the banks in handling tax collections was much less than expected. The Internal Revenue
Department (IRD) was restructured after a transitory Ministry of Tax Collections was merged
with the Ministry of Finance in late 1988. Nonetheless, IRD suffered from staffing constraints



14
and low salaries. These deficiencies affected processing of information received from the banks
and reduced IRD's capacity to monitor and audit taxpayers, especially the large ones (the
Government is still in the process of consolidating the large taxpayer units of 500). Most
importantly, the lack of progress in Civil Service Reform, Judicial Reform, and Customs Reform
severely limits progress in tax administration. Weaknesses in the Judicial System obstruct
enforcement of tax laws against tax evaders and corruption in Customs and in some regional
offices continues to be high. Still, the development outcome of this component of PFMO I was
satisfactory in the sense that it dealt with the initial stages of tax administration reform. As
concluded by the PCR and agreed with by this PAR, this component of PFMO I (along with
EMSO and support from USAID, IDB and the Swiss) contributed to creating a good base for
further improvements in tax administration effectiveness. Further efforts to improve tax
administration are necessary and are still underway-particularly auditing and investigation. In
addition, as Bolivia's oil and gas monopolies continue to shift to private sector operations, their
tax contributions will also shift, which will require attention to new problems of tax
administration and enforcement.
4.15   The banking system component helped creating a successful Bank Superintendency and
Central Bank reform. In the beginning, problems were encountered with the distribution of
responsibilities between the Central Bank and the Superintendency. These issues have been
smoothed out over time. Currently, financial regulation is coordinated by a General Financial
Superintendency (SIREFI), covering four financial sector superintendencies: banking, insurance,
pensions, and securities. The Government reorganized the Central Bank, strengthened its core
divisions, and computerized its accounting systems. The Bank provided technical assistance for
the supervision of audits of commercial banks. Yet, these activities necessitated the intervention
of three separate operations over a period of 10 years, and thus cannot be ascribed fully or solely
to the PFMO I. Most importantly, PFMO I failed at restructuring the state banks. Its
restructuring proposals for the two major development banks-the Agriculture Bank (BAB) and
the State Bank (BANEST) had to be shelved because of a lack of political consensus on a
restructuring plan. Later, the FSAC also failed at restructuring the banks, but continued to
provide financing. Afterwards, the banks had to be liquidated as part of the implementation of
the SAC between 1991 and 1995, but not before incurring enormous losses in the process (see
paras. 3.4-3.5 above).
4.16   The Financial Administration and Control component helped create an integrated
accounting system and implement it in the central administration. It also introduced important
procedural changes in budget formulation, execution, treasury disbursements, and accounting. It
supported the restructuring of the Ministry of Finance and the Comptroller General of the
Republic (CGR), and the establishment of the Accountant General's Office, and contributed to
the reform of auditing procedures. It also supported the commission of four financial
management computer systems, and helped train about 3,000 officials in financial management.
Nevertheless, most importantly, the Emergency Program subcomponent greatly enhanced the
Treasury's ability to manage public finances by providing valuable income, expenditure, and
cash-flow data. The program covered almost 95 percent of resource flows in the nonfinancial
public-more than the original target of 35 public sector entities. Work on an integrated
financial system was also initiated.
4.17   The SAFCO subcomponent has so far been an unfortunate story. SAFCO has been
considered by most experts as "the International Bible for Public Administration," but after ten
years since its inception, SAFCO has still not become fully operational. The law, approved in



15
1990, created a modem framework for effective public financial management. It helped establish
norms and procedures for budgeting, budget execution, public credit, accounting, internal control,
and auditing. CGR-an independent, apolitical body-enforces SAFCO across the entire public
sector. The accounting books and operations of all entities subject to Government control are
open at all times to examination by auditors from the Contraloria, which reviews some 500
public institutions annually. However, in 1998, only three of SAFCO's seven systems are
operating at acceptable levels, but even these three systems cannot be fully enforced in case of
conflict because of institutional weaknesses and corruption in the judicial system. Consequently,
the eight-year-long SAFCO law is still "on the books" and toothless. Several problems are
delaying implementation: The continued segregation of systems and information across
functional areas, due not just to the complexity of the law but also to resistance by those who
stand to lose with improved accountability; a disconnection between regulatory and operating
functions; an absence of oversight and monitoring functions, since the unit charged with
overseeing standards (DONPA) has no power to enforce regulations; and a personnel
infrastructure that suffers from high turnover, marginal pay, and the same lack of incentives that
plagues the entire civil service. In addition, public audits are still subject to political pressure.
This happens because auditors internal to public entities have a competing loyalty-although
their work is to conform to the Contraloria 's audit standards, they owe their pay and their
professional positions to the entities that employ them. Although the law stipulates that internal
auditors cannot be removed for cause without the Contraloria 's approval, the threat of
organizational ostracism weighs heavily. Internal auditors have been loathe to issue hard-hitting
audits that cast parent organizations in bad light. Despite all this, SAFCO and the Contraloria
continues to produce high-quality audits. The audits conform to sufficiently high standards that
in 1996 a quality control review found that the Contraloria is qualified to perform studies on
international financing institutions-only the second such recognition and certification in Latin
America. But, without follow-through, judicial rulings to back it up and enforcement capabilities
to implement their findings, SAFCO's importance, effectiveness, and development outcome is
extraordinary on paper, but nil in practice.
Economic Management Strengthening Operation
4.18   Minimal development outcome. OED concluded that the project completed most of its
activities with major implementation delays and accomplished little towards achievement of its
development objectives. Of its relevant components, the PIP had little influence in practice (para.
3.8 above) and the Civil Service Reform is still in the drawing board after about 10 years of
implementation (para. 3.9). The regional planning component of EMSO also achieved little, but
Government, after the Popular Participation Law of 1994, has been implementing a promising
decentralization strategy with the help of other Bank operations (para. 3.10). The statistical
services and the tax administration components performed better, but the value added of EMSO
was relatively small, with most of its development outcome shared with PFMO I, UNDP, IDB
and later with PMFO II (para 3.11).



16
5.    Ratings
Structural Adjustment Credit
5.1    Outcome: marginally satisfactory. OED rates the outcome of the SAC as marginally
satisfactory. The SAC achieved its major relevant objective, the financial sector component,
although with major shortcomings, as described in paras. 3.3-3.5 (project implementation) and
paras. 4.4-4.7 (efficacy of outcome). SAC failed to achieve its second relevant objective, the
public enterprise component. A new government, though, went beyond SAC objectives. The
new government rejected the idea of implementing management contracts as supported by SAC
and implemented its own innovative capitalization/privatization program that was supported by
other Bank credits. SAC activities towards the next relevant objective, the public investment
component, had no value added to the already existing PIP, which in turn did not significantly
affect public investment decision-making. The other two objectives, improving trade and
registration procedures and changing the allocation of expenditures to health and education had
mixed outcome, but SAC activities in these areas were relatively less relevant in terms of long-
term structural reform. Finally, this PAR could not find any evidence that the main objective of
the SAC-as stated in the President's Report-"to increase the level and efficiency of
investment," has so far been achieved with the help of SAC (para. 4.5 above).
5.2    Bank performance: unsatisfactory. IDA played a central role in coordinating the
Government, IMF, and IDB to identify and design the structural adjustment program supported
by SAC. Good quality ESW correctly identified the main issues that needed attention to transit
from stabilization to sustained growth. This knowledge, however, was not applied to the design
of the SAC program. In fact, the design of the SAC included little value added towards structural
reform. The program was relevant in the financial sector. But an important part of it, the closing
and liquidation of the state banks, was a direct consequence of past restructuring failures financed
by the donor community. The SAC was not forceful enough in the other components, especially
the public enterprise component. Bank management did not follow the recommendations of
ESW to promote a meaningful reduction of the role of the state in productive activities. Instead,
the program supported implementation of management contracts with the main public enterprises,
a strategy that failed in less than a year of approval of the SAC. The Bank faced a difficult
position at the time by having to settle for a less than optimal design due to a lack of Government
commitment to privatize. In spite of this low commitment to reform, the Bank took a leadership
role in putting together an abnormally large financial package amounting to about 5 percent of
1991 GDP. In view of such a weak reform package, the Bank should have promoted a more
limited financial package. Excessive financing of a weak action program facilitated
postponing-rather than accelerating-unavoidable reforms. The failure of SAC, however,
might have strengthened the hand of a more reform-oriented government later. In fact, three
years later, when a new Government was committed to privatization, the Bank was ready to help
again, but with a totally different group of self standing operations. The design of other
components of SAC, public investment, trade and regulations procedures and changes in
expenditures for health and education added little to long-term structural reforms. In addition,
macroeconomic imbalances and a lack of commitment to carry out even this sup-optimal reform
package led to a suspension of the second tranche disbursement from February 1993 to March
1994. The Bank, however, disbursed the second IDA reflow in March 1993, de-facto canceling



17
part of the effect of the suspension. Continuous implementation problems forced the Bank to
extend the number of supervision missions, which increased the cost of operating a credit that
added little to long-term structural change. Finally, although the main objective of the SAC was
"to increase the level and efficiency of investment in Bolivia," the Bank did not monitor the
overall level and efficiency of investment during project supervision or during ICR preparation.
5.3    Government performance: satisfactory. Government performance was highly
satisfactory after 1993, but mostly unsatisfactory before that year. Most remarkably,
Government performance in the financial sector before SAC, especially while restructuring and
capitalizing state banks and financing their losses while bad loans were increasing, was clearly
unsatisfactory. The lack of Government commitment to privatize large PEs during SAC
identification and preparation was also unsatisfactory performance. The slowness to complete
critical aspects of SAC during the first year and a half of its implementation, the loss of fiscal
equilibrium in 1992 and 1993 and the sluggishness in resolving conflicts between the Central
Bank and the Bank Superintendency were also unsatisfactory performance. The Government,
however, did attempt to improve the efficiency of COMIBOL and YPFB with efforts that proved
more difficult than expected. Performance after 1993 was completely different and highly
satisfactory. The Government completed implementation of SAC with particularly strong
commitment in the financial sector component. It acted forcefully to complete the liquidation of
the two main development banks. It also rejected SAC's management contracts and went beyond
SAC by designing its innovative capitalization/privatization program. It established a Ministry of
Capitalization in 1993 and, by early 1996, it had already awarded management of four of the six
major public enterprises to private investors. These actions went well beyond what had been
envisioned by SAC. Furthermore, the Government tied its new capitalization initiative to pension
reform, also moving beyond SAC.
5.4   Institutional development impact: substantial. SAC contributed to institutional
development in the financial sector by closing and liquidating the state banks and funds, by
strengthening the Central Bank and the Bank Superintendency and improving the Government's
capacity to regulate and supervise the banking system. In addition, by developing and
implementing its capitalization/privatization program instead of implementing SAC management
contracts, the Government achieved the most significant institutional development impact since
Bolivia initiated its National Economic Program in 1985. Institutional development in other
significant areas included in the SAC as health, education, public investments program and
customs were rather modest.
5.5    Project sustainability: likely. OED rates the probability of maintaining the achievements
generated in the banking system and in the capitalization/privatization program as high. The
probability of maintaining the methodologies for public investment decisions in a decentralized
system is rather low. The probability of maintaining the share of expenditures in health and
education will depend upon short-term budget circumstances. Most importantly, the probability
of maintaining the efficacy of the activities financed with these expenditures is uncertain; this is
so because the expected outcome of the educational reform is uncertain and because the country
lacks an integrated national health strategy. Overall, since the probability of maintaining the
most important achievements of SAC is high, OED rates the overall sustainability of SAC as
likely. It is unclear, however, whether the expected greater economic growth originated by the
reforms will translate soon into significant poverty reduction and, therefore, whether political
support for the remaining agenda will continue in the face of "reform fatigue." The political
culture, however, has changed on the economic front. The state has reduced its involvement as a



18
direct supplier of financial services in the economy, and the closure of the state banks has opened
possibilities for the expansion of financial intermediation by the private sector. The State has
also strengthened its role as regulator and supervisor of the banking sector, and has been ceding
control over productive activity and investment. Other reforms are also unlikely to be reversed-
privatization of small- and medium-size commercial public enterprises, increased private-sector
investment in the hydrocarbons sector as YPFB is capitalized, and growing private sector
investment in the mining sector. In addition, most importantly, the capitalization/privatization of
large PEs done after the SAC is unlikely to be reversed.
Public Financial Management Operation I
5.6    Outcome: marginally satisfactory. The project achieved relevant objectives in the tax
administration and the banking system components. The project also achieved good results in the
emergency program (a sub-component of the financial administration and control component).
The project, however, did not achieve its most important long-term relevant objective, the highly
advanced public administration system developed by SAFCO. Unless enforcement capabilities
improve in Bolivia and the judicial and civil service reforms advance, SAFCO will not be able to
develop its potential to attain satisfactory results. Meanwhile, SAFCO is an excellent public
administration proposal, but in the books, not yet fully operational and toothless. In addition, the
restructuring proposal of the state banks financed by PFMO was a serious shortcoming that led to
expensive restructuring (para. 4.7 above).
5.7    Bank performance: satisfactory. OED agrees with the finding of the Project Completion
Report that Bank performance in project preparation was satisfactory. The project was complex.
It was prudent for the Bank to seek the help of high-caliber-international consultants to design the
many components of the project; and it was advisable to coordinate extensively with the IDB,
IMF, UNDP, and USAID. The Bank was successful at both of these activities. Nonetheless, the
design of the project led-together with EMSO-to excessive dependence upon foreign
consultants to run day to day operations. With the benefit of hindsight, the Bank should have
paid more attention earlier to the role that foreign consultants were playing in running day to day
operations rather than contributing to strengthen institutional development. In addition, Bank
supervision should have focused forcefully on improving enforcement capabilities to implement
SAFCO (para 4.17 above). Supervision was satisfactory on other aspects. The Bank was
flexible and continued to adjust to new circumstances to solve implementation problems that
were slowing disbursements. Therefore, about 95 percent of all the credit was disbursed earlier
than anticipated, but the closing date was postponed for two years to facilitate preparation of a
follow-up credit the PFMO II.
5.8    Government performance: unsatisfactory. Although the Government achieved successes
in the tax administration program, it moved slowly in those components that implied long-term
structural solutions, like the establishment of the Accountant General's Office and the creation of
a Ministry of Tax Collections. Tax auditing, enforcement of tax laws, and corruption in regional
offices continues to need major attention. In addition, although the banking system component
helped create a successful Bank Superintendency and Central Bank reform, the Government
showed little determination in resolving conflicts between the Central Bank and the
Superintendency. This delayed implementation and increased the cost of urgently needed
reforms in the financial sector. The restructuring of the state banks was an expensive endeavor
that prolonged financial distress rather than accelerated structural change. The SAFCO
subcomponent, considered by experts as a model for public administration, has remained



19
toothless in practice. The Contraloria is a special case of this general problem of SAFCO: An
institution with excellent auditing capabilities, but de-facto ineffective because of lack of
enforcement capabilities.
5.9   Institutional development impact: modest. The lack of progress in Civil Service Reform,
Judicial Reform, and Custom Reform severely limits the institutional development impact of the
tax administration, the financial sector, and the SAFCO programs supported by FPMO. Tax
administration has experienced staffing constraints and low salaries for employees of the Internal
Revenue Department, which hampers gathering and processing of tax information and interfere
with monitoring and auditing of taxpayers. Enforcement of tax laws is obstructed by problems of
governance and corruption in the judicial system. Collection of trade taxes is below potential due
to corruption in customs. The restructuring of the state banks supported by PFMO left no
institutional development, since these institutions had to be closed later. In addition, the
enforcement power of resolutions issued by the Office of the Comptroller and by the several
superintendencies is practically nonexistent due to institutional weaknesses and problems of
governance in the court system.
5.10   Project sustainability: uncertain. OED rates the probability of maintaining the
achievements generated or expected to be generated in the tax administration and in the SAFCO
program as uncertain. The sustainability of these achievements is highly correlated to
institutional developments in the Civil Service Reform System and in the Judicial System, which
have so far been modest. The probability of maintaining the achievements generated in financial
regulation through the banking, insurance, pensions, securities and general financial
superintendencies is high, but their relative importance is diminished by the lack of progress in
the judicial system reform.
Economic Management Strengthening Operation
5.11   Outcome: marginally unsatisfactory. The project completed most of its activities with
major implementation delays, did not achieve its most relevant objectives, and is not expected to
yield substantial development results. The project had some relatively minor successes, however,
in tax administration, registration of public investment and statistical services. Its most relevant
components, the PIP and the Civil Service Reform Program, have so far not shown significant
development outcomes. The PIP served as a registry of investments, which is an improvement
over the pre-existing situation, but the PIP has not substantially affected public investment
decisions. In 1995, just before closing the project, however, there was some improvement in
developing norms and regulations affecting public investment. But the development outcome of
these measures is still to be seen. The emergency component of tax administration produced
positive results, but no permanent changes affecting development outcome. The public sector
management component has experienced extensive delays, leading to a Civil Service Reform
Program that is again on the design board after ten years since it started. The regional planning
component also faced major implementation delays and helped finance studies that were shelved.
It also led to non-meaningful legislation and it was not sufficient to provide assistance to the
decentralization strategy implemented by a new Government after the Popular Participation Law
of 1994. The statistical services component produced useful results, but has been unable to
deliver its main relevant objective, i.e., to monitor the impact of economic policies on the most
vulnerable groups of the population.



20
5.12   Bank performance: unsatisfactory. The Bank played a central role in coordinating the
donor community to identify and design technical assistance to support the Govemment with its
structural reform program. This was a complex endeavor and the Bank did the right thing by
seeking the help of high caliber consultants. EMSO (and its sister PFMO project), however,
marked the beginning of an intense dependency of the Government on foreign consultants who
became heavily involved in administrative line responsibilities throughout the lending period.
With the benefit of hindsight, this has probably been the most significant contribution of the
donor community to delay (rather than accelerate) major reforms to the institutional system in
Bolivia. The Government has had no real incentives to reform the Civil Service. By 1998, after
more than ten years of implementation, the Civil Service Reform Program is again on the design
board (paras. 3.9 and 4.3 above). In addition, some other significant contributions of EMSO
have been left on paper, without implementation. The methodologies developed to implement the
PIP were too complicated for the institutional environment of Bolivia and did not significantly
affect investment decision-making. Studies prepared through the regional planning and
management compohent led to recommendations that had no Government priority at the time.
The Bank's efforts to promote decentralization led to legislation without meaningful
content-but the Bank was helpful with new credits after a new Government initiated later its
own decentralization program. Finally, most contributions to tax administration and statistical
services continue to be dependent on foreign assistance, leaving sustainability of the program in
doubt.
5.13   Government performance: unsatisfactory. OED agrees with the findings of the ICR that
the reforms supported by the project-primarily civil service and decentralization-were
generally not in the list of priorities of each new successive administration during the life of the
project. The Bank identified the project in late 1986, but approved the project almost at the end
of the administration of President Paz Estenssoro (1985-89). It implemented the project under
the administrations of President Paz Zamora (1989-93) and President Sanchez de Lozada (1993-
97). The project has been on the design board again in 1998, under the administration of
President Hugo Banzer (1997-2001). Each new Government changed priorities, personnel,
project management and the role played by different Government agencies. Most implementing
agencies perceived the project as "budgetary support" to finance day-to-day activities of the
Government. In that sense, the main problems arose from a poorly designed project by the Bank.
Nevertheless, it was the responsibility of the Government to have made greater efforts to use TA
fund appropriately and to carry out day-to-day activities using Treasury resources rather than
foreign technical assistance funds.
5.14  Institutional development impact: negligible. The project generated negligible
improvements in local capacities in each one of its components. The PIP component was mostly
designed to support the Public Investment Unit (PIU) of the Ministry of Planning and
Coordination (MPC). However, MPC was dissolved in 1993. Pre-investment studies are now
the responsibility of the Ministry of Sustainable Development, public investment registry and
information are now in the Ministry of Finance, and social sector investments are in the Ministry
of Human Development. In addition, the Popular Participation Law of 1994 gave major
investment decision-making responsibilities to the municipalities, changing the role of PIU into
helping the municipalities to prepare for their new role. As such, the institutional development
impact of the public investment component of EMSO is still developing, but has had negligible
impact so far. The other major component of the project, the Civil Service Reform Program, has
so far had no major institutional development impact. Most importantly, because of its negligible



21
institutional impact, the project continues to be heavily dependent on consultants to carry out its
different tasks.
5.15   Project sustainability: uncertain. Most of the activities supported by the project continue
to be dependent upon foreign financing. The sustainability of the program, therefore, is highly
dependent upon donors participation or upon a radical departure that would allow self-sufficiency
in the future, both outcomes being uncertain at this moment. OED does not agree with the
conclusion of the ICR that some activities, like public investment planning and statistical
services, are "essential" and therefore will have to be continued even in the absence of project
financing. Essential activities might be discontinued, creating essential problems. In fact, OED
agrees with the ICR conclusion that the sustainability of the PSM component, i.e., the Civil
Service Reform Program, is questionable. Nevertheless, OED considers Civil Service Reform to
be essential to all components of the Structural Reform Program in Bolivia.
6.    Lessons
Financing by the Bank and Other Donors to Restructure/Capitalize State Banks May Have
Postponed Unavoidable Reforms and Increased the Cost of Reforming the Financial Sector.
6.1    Most financing provided to restructure and capitalize BAB, BAMIN, FONEM and
BANEST helped to lengthen the life of institutions that ultimately closed. The Bank provided
financing from PFMO I that led to restructuring proposals which were not implemented because
of lack of political support. Later, in 1989, the Bank and other donors provided US$177 million
(FSAC) to restructure and capitalize the same banks that continued to increase bad lending. This
worsened their financial performance until the banks eventually failed and had to be closed in
1992. Financing by the Treasury to cover bank losses prolonged their existence and increased
the cost of liquidation later. Without pre-SA C financing by the Bank and other donors, the state
bankis would have failed and closed at least three years earlier. Then, a high proportion of a
relatively high SAC (US$257 million, including other donors or about 5 percent of 1991 GDP)
had to be utilized for the banks final liquidation.
The Use of Foreign-Financed Consultants to Act as Line Managers Delayed Rather Than
Accelerated Reforms, Especially to the Civil Service.
6.2    The public sector management component of EMSO started in late 1987 and included
Civil Service Reform as its major element of structural reform. The program slowed down on
several occasions and it has been reformulated more than once. Eleven years later, it is again on
the design board. The PAR concluded that the main explanation for slow progress has been the
lack of incentives for the Government to reform, since donor financing has been used to pay
consultants to act as line managers. This allowed high public officials to continue performing
day-to-day operations without civil service reform. This PAR agrees with the ICR in concluding
that "for implementing agencies, technical assistance projects have often been seen as budgetary
support." In summary, OED concluded that financing of foreign consultants to intensively
participate in the PIP, tax administration, decentralization and Civil Service Reform generated
institutional dependence-on foreign consultants-rather than institutional capacity, and delayed
rather than accelerated institutional reforms.



22
The Amount and Timing of Financing Was Not Proportional to the Government's Commitment to
Reform.
6.3   This PAR agrees with the conclusion of the Implementation Completion Report that "the
design of the program and the selection of instruments were constrained by the lack of
commitment of the Government in 1991 to privatize large public enterprises." But this PAR also
concludes that, because the amount of financing was not proportionally constrained, the Bank lost
an opportunity to accelerate PEs reforms. In fact, the overall reform program supported by SAC
was weak. Nevertheless, the total amount of financing approved by the Bank and the donor
community in support of the SAC was a record high at US$257 million, or about five percent of
1991 GDP. In addition, the Bank disbursed IDA reflows while disbursements had been
suspended. This experience confirms one major lesson in development aid: Excessive financing
for a weak reform program may enable postponement rather than accelerate implementation of
unavoidable reforms.
Sector-wide Reforms Should Be Targeted Directly Rather Than as an Appendix of SAC
6.4   In Bolivia, SAC's strategy for human resource development was predicated on shifting
public investment from state intervention in productive activities to expenditures in health and
education. But this "spin-off' strategy was not enough to address the country's poor human
resource indicators. Social sector issues are better dealt with directly-either with a carefully
designed subprogram or with a separate operation-and not included as just a marginal element
of a structural adjustment program.



23                           Annex A
Basic Data Sheet
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 2298-BO)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal      Actual or       Actual as % of
estimate    current estimate  appraisal estimate
Total project costs                    257.04          ---                ---
Loan amount                            79.49          84.75              106.6
Cofinancing                            17.80            ---               ---
Parallel financing                     159.75           ---               ---
Cancellation                            ---            0.15
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95        FY96       Total
Appraisal estimate (US$M)      16.8    16.8     6.4       ---       ---        40
Actual (US$M)                16.102   12.167   27.160   19.979    9.377      84.785
Actual as % of appraisal       96       72      424       ---       ---       212
Date of final disbursement: October 12, 1995
Project Dates
Original                 Actual
Initiating memorandum                                                01/91
Negotiations                                                         05/91
Board approval                                                       09/91
Signing                                                              09/91
Effectiveness                                10/91                   12/91
Approval of Second Tranche Release           02/93                   03/94
Signing of First Reflow Agreement                                    04/92
Signing of Second Reflow Agreement                                   03/93
Signing of Third Reflow Agreement                                    05/94
Signing of Fourth Reflow Agreement                                   02/95
Approval of Third Tranche Release            01/94                   05/95
Closing date                                 07/94                   12/95



24                                  Annex A
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95    FY96   Total
Preappraisal        54.3                                                       54.3
Appraisal                   40.0    11.1                                      51.1
Negotiations                  6.0                                               6.0
Supervision                          51.3    33.7    19.7    11.7             116.4
Completion                                                             3.0      3.0
Total               54.3    46.0    62.4   33.7    19.7    11.7        3.0   230.8
Mission Data
Date (month/year)
Identification/                              05-06/90
Preparation
Appraisal                                    01-02/91
Supervision I                                10-11/91
Supervision II                               01/92
Supervision III                              03-04/92
Supervision IV                               08-09/92
Supervision V                                12/92
Supervision VI                               06/93
Supervision VII                              09/93
Supervision VIII                             11/93
Supervision IX                               03/94
Supervision X                                06-07/94
Supervision XI                               11-12/94
Supervision XII                              03/95
Supervision XIII                             06/95
Supervision XIV                              12/95



25                                  Annex A
Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency: Government of Bolivia
PRECEDING OPERATIONS
Year of
Operation                                    Purpose             Approval      Status
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit  Strengthen banking system by   FY88      Closed
(Credit 1925-BO)                  improving regulations and
supervision.
Mining Sector Rehabilitation Credit    Promote new private mining  FY89
(Credit 2013-BO)                  investment and restructure
COMIBOL into a holding
company.
Economic Management Strengthening   Strengthen economic            FY89      Closed
Operation                         management capabilities,
(Credit 1977-BO)                  including improvements in public
investmnent programming.
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Regulatory Reform and Capitalization   Support establishment of new  FY95
TA Operation                      regulatory framework and
(Credit 2647-B)                   capitalization in aviation and
telecommunications.
Hydrocarbons Sector Reform and    Support establishment of new     FY95
Capitalization TA Operation       legal framework in hydrocarbons
(Credit 2762-BO)                  sector and capitalization of
YPFB.
Power Sector Reform TA Project    Support capitalization of ENDE.  FY96
(Credit 2790-BO)
Capitalization Program Adjustment  Support overall capitalization  FY96
Credit                            program and establishment of
(Credit 2761-BO)                  regulatory environment.
Financial Market and Pension Reform    Support further strengthening of  FY96
TA Project                        financial sector and
(Credit 2789-BO)                  implementation of pension
reform.
Judicial Reform Project           Support improvements to judicial  FY95
(Credit 2705-BO)                  system to improve environment
for private investors.
Education Reform Project          Support improvements in primary  FY95
(Credit 2650-BO)                  and secondary education,
including rationalizing
institutional structure



26                                  Annex A
Basic Data Sheet
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OPERATION I (CREDIT 1809-BO)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ Thousands)
Appraisal      Actual or       Actual as % of
estimate    current estimate  appraisal estimate
Total project costs                     24,560         24,982              101.7
Loan amount                             11,500         11,857              103.1
Cofinancing
- IDB/UNDP (parallel cofinancing)        1,600          1,473               92.0
- USAID                                  3,060          3,252              106.2
- Government of Bolivia                  8,400          8,400              100.0
Cancellation                                                2
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (amount in US$ thousands)
FY88   FY89   FY90  FY91  FY92 FY93  FY94  FY95  Total
Appraisal estimate       3,400   4,800  3,300   --    --    --    --    --   11,500
Actual                   3,510   4,790   1,950   850   380   170   140    70   11,860
Actual as % of appraisal   103    100     59     --    --    --    --    --   103.1
Date of final disbursement: August 5, 1994
Project Dates
Original              Actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)        02/86
Preparation                                       05/86
Appraisal                                         02/87
Negotiations                                      04/87
Board approval                                   05/28/87
Signing                                         07/31/87
Effectiveness                                     09/87                12/15/87
Closing date                                     06/30/92              06/30/94
Completion                                        12/91                06/30/94



27                                    Annex A
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Planned               Revised               Actual
Preappraisal                     20.0                   40.0                 53.6
Appraisal through
Board Approval                    16.0                  16.0                 13.1
Board approval through
Effectiveness                     6.0                   3.0                   0.6
Supervision                      65.0                   75.0                 88.4
Completion                        14.0                  18.0                 15.3
Total
Mission Data
Date     No. of  Staff days    Specializations    Performance   Types of
(month/year) persons   infield     represented        rating     problems
Through            3/84       10        29    Task management;        n.a.
appraisal          5/86                       auditing; accounting;
10/86                      central banking; tax
administration; legal
Appraisal          4/87       4         3    Task management          n.a.
through Board
Approval
Supervision       10/87       16        77    Task management;        1 to 2   Managerial,
4/88                       budgeting; accounting;          technical
11/88                      treasury; public credit;
3/90                       auditing; institutional
1/91                       development; central
2/92                       banking; tax
6/94                       administration
Completion         6/94        1        10    Task management; tax      1
administration
Performance ratings: I - Problem free/minor problems; 2 - Moderate problems; 3 - Major problems.



28                                    Annex A
Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency: Government of Bolivia
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Operation                                     Purpose             Year of       Status
Approval
La Paz Municipal Development Project    Related components:        1987
Financial management
computerization (includes
budgeting, accounting,
investment planning).
Economic Management Strengthening    Related components: Public    1988
Operation                            investment programming, tax
administration, regional and
public sector management
strengthening.
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit   Related components:           1989
Strengthening of banking
system including banking
supervision/regulation.
Public Financial Management Operation   Related component: Project  1991
II                                   is continuation of PFMO I,
with more emphasis on
implementation of
computerized IFMS.
Structural Adjustment Credit         Related components: Budget    1991
transfer mechanisms from
central to local governments.



29                           Annex A
Basic Data Sheet
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT STRENGTHENING OPERATION
(CREDIT 1977-BO)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ millions)
Appraisal      Actual or       Actual as % of
estimate    current estimate  appraisal estimate
Total project costs
Loan amount                              9.70           9.59              98.86
Cofinancing
- Switzerland                            2.50           2.72              108.8
- IDB/Government of Italy                4.38
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95   Total
Appraisal estimate
(US$M)                   1.00   4.30   2.30   2.10   ---   ---    ---    ---    9.70
Actual (US$M)                   1.76   1.01   1.00  2.62   3.00   0.05   0.15    9.59
Actual as % of appraisal       40.9  43.9  47.6   ---   ---    ---    ---    98.9
Date of final disbursement: July 6, 1995
Project Dates
Original                  Actual
Pre-appraisal                                                        05-06/88
Appraisal                                                             06/88
Negotiations                                                           11/88
Board approval                                                       12/22/88
Signing                                                              01/01/89
Effectiveness                                02/89                   05/24/89
Closing date                                06/30/92                 06/30/95



30                                  Annex A
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95   FY96
Preappraisal         97.5
Appraisal            17.6   17.6
Negotiations                 6.6
Supervision                 18.9   33.3   20.4   33.4   33.6    19.4  13.1
Completion                                                                      4.0
Total              115.1   43.1   33.3   20.4   33.4   33.6    19.4  13.1    4.0
Mission Data
Date (month/year)
Identification/Preparation                           04/87
05-06/87
Appraisal                                            06/88
Supervision I                                        09/88
Supervision II                                       03/89
Supervision III                                      09/89
Supervision IV                                       03-04/90
Supervision V                                        10/90
Supervision VI                                       01/91
Supervision VII                                      07/91
Supervision VIII                                     09/91
Supervision IX                                       03/92
Supervision X                                        12/92
Supervision XI                                       02/93
Supervision XII                                      04/93
Supervision XIII                                     11/93
Supervision XIV                                      03/94
Supervision XV                                       06/94
Supervision XVI                                      11/94
Supervision XVII                                     03/95
Completion                                            06/30/95



31                               Annex A
Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency: Government of Bolivia
PRECEDING OPERATION
Operation                                               Year of
Purpose.           approval       Status
Public Financial Management   Improve government's       1987       Closed
(Credit 1 809-BO)            financial management
ability, including tax
collection.
FOLLOW-ON OPERATION
Public Financial Management II  Continue strengthening   1991
(Credit 2279-BO)             financial management
ability.
Municipal Sector Development  Improve municipal          1994
Project                      management, including
(Credit 2560-BO)             civil service.
Rural Communities            Support to participatory    1995
Development Project          planning process.
(Credit 2772-BO)
Civil Service and Administrative  Implementation of civil  1997
Reform                       service reform.



