Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2298-2 BO
Second Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated
March 2, 1993
CREDIT NUMBER 2298-2 BO
SECOND AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 2, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered a Development Credit 
Agreement (Structural Adjustment Credit), dated September 20, 1991, (the Development 
Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the program 
referred to in Recital (A) of the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement (the 
gram),;
(B)
the Borrower and the Association have entered into an Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement (Structural Adjustment Credit) dated April 16, 1992 
whereby additional assistance was made available 
to the Borrower for the 
financing of the Program;
(C)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further additional 
assistance toward the financing of the Program by easing the amount made available 
under the Development Credlt Agreement and the Agreement Amending Development Credit 
Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million and thirty 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,030,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development
Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by:
Page  2
(a)
in paragraph (q) the deletion therefrom of the amount "SDR 11,200,000,, 
and the subsitution therefor of the amount "SDR 27,130,0001,;
(b)
deleting the word "and" after paragraph (7) thereof;-
(c) substituting the stop at the end of paragraph (z) thereof by, a semicolon 
and adding the word "and" after such semicolon; and
(d)
by adding the following new paragraph (aa):
(aa) "Second Amending Agreement" means the Second Agreement Amending 
the Development Credit Agreement (Structural Adjustment Credit) between the 
Borrower and the Association, dated March 2, 1993."
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-five million 
nine 
hundred and thirty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 45,930,000) (the 
Credit), which includes an original amount in various currencies equivalent 
to 
thirty million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 30,000,000) an additional 
amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million nine hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,900,000) (the Additional Financing) 
and an additional amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million 
and thirty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,030,000) (the Second 
Additional Financing)."
Section 1.03. The proviso at the end of Section 2.04 (b) of the Development 
Credit Agreement is deleted and a new proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04 
(b)(i) before the semicolon and the word "and" to read as follows:
"provided, however, that any commitment charge on (A) the Additional 
Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Amending 
Agreement; and (B) the Second Additional Financing shall accrue from a date 
sixty days after the date of the Second Amending Agreement".
Section 1.04. Paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement 
is amended by the deletion therefrom of the amount "SDR 19,100,000" and the 
substitution therefor of the amount "SDR 27,130,000".
Section 1.05. The following paragraph is added at the end of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement, and the existing last paragraph is redesignated 116"..
"7. After a date twelve (12) months from the date of the Second 
Amending Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made and no commitment shall be 
entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Second Additional 
Financing. At any time after such date, the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Second Additional Financing 
from 
the Credit Account or any part thereof."
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the 
execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly 
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions 
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on 
behalf of the Borrower, that this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, 
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the 
evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
Page  3
Section 2.04. If this Agreement shall not have come into force and effect by a 
date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, this Agreement and all 
obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association 
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If this Agreement shall 
terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Development Credit Agreement 
shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Jorge Crespo Velasco
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ping-Cheung Loh
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
