Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2298 BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 20, 1991
CREDIT NUMBER 2298 BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 20, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated July 19, 1991, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Association in the financing of urgently needed imports and 
services required during such execution;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of Switzerland a 
grant in an amount of ten million Swiss francs to assist the Borrower in the execution 
of the Program on terms and conditions to be set forth in an agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and the Government of Switzerland; and
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in three tranches and for the financing of services, training and equipment as 
hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 with the modifications thereof 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
 
"'Project' means the imports and other activities, including the 
Technical Assistance Program as the same is defined in the Development Credit 
Agreement, that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to 
the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement.";
(b)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Association of their respective obligations under the Development Credit 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(c)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"BAB" means Banco Agricola de Bolivia, the Borrower's Agriculture Bank;
 
(b)
"BAMIN" means Banco Minero, the Borrower's Mining Bank;
 
(c)
"Banco Central" means Banco Central de Bolivia, the Borrower's Central 
Bank;
(d)
"BANEST" means Banco del Estado, the State Bank;
 
(e)
"Banking Law" means the law on the regulation and supervision of the 
Borrower's financial system contained in the bill of law No. 22813 submitted to the 
Borrower's Congress on August 2, 1991;
(f)
"Central Bank Circular" means Banco Central's circular, dated July 15, 
1991 defining eligibility criteria for access of Financial Intermediaries to 
development credit;
(g)
"COMIBOL" means Corporacion Minera de Bolivia, the Borrower's Mining 
Corporation;
(h)
"Financial Intermediaries" means those banks and other financial 
institutions that are eligible for development credit from Banco Central;
(i)
"First Action Plan" means the action plan described in a letter from the 
Borrower to the Association, dated July 26, 1991 for the recovery, sale, legal 
adjudication or liquidation of the financial and fixed assets of BAB, BAMIN and FONEM;
(j)
"First Tranche" means a portion of the Credit not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 11,200,000 to be released by the Association on or after the 
Effective Date;
(k)
"FONEM" means Fondo Nacional de Exploracion Minera, the Borrower's Mining 
Exploration Fund;
(l)
"Large Enterprises" means the Borrower's enterprises holding fixed assets 
with a minimum value equivalent to $9,000,000, each one;
(m)
"Ministerio de Planeamiento" means Ministerio de Planeamiento y 
Coordinacion, the Borrower's Ministry of Planning;
Page  3
(n)
"PPF" means the project preparation advance granted by the Association to 
the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated August 21, 1990 and September 
26, 1990 between the Borrower and the Association;
(o)
"Regulations" means the regulations and Superintendency of Banks' 
circulars to be introduced by the Borrower to enforce the Banking Law, such 
regulations to be satisfactory to the Association;
(p)
"Second Action Plan" means the action plan described in a letter from the 
Borrower to the Association dated July 26, 1991 for the recovery, sale, legal 
adjudication or liquidation of BANEST's financial and fixed assets;
(q)
"Second Tranche" means a portion of the Credit not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 11,200,000 to be released by the Association to the Borrower on or 
after the date the actions set forth in Part A of Schedule 3 to this Agreement have 
been taken by the Borrower;
(r)
"SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
343 (1986);
(s)
"Small Enterprises" means the Borrower's enterprises holding fixed assets 
with a maximum value equivalent to less than $9,000,000 and a minimum value equivalent 
to $1,000,000, each one;
(t)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(u)
"Superintendency of Banks" means the Borrower's Superintendencia de 
Bancos;
(v)
"Technical Assistance Expenditures" means the expenditures to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement in 
respect of the Technical Assistance Program;
(w)
"Technical Assistance Program" means the technical assistance program 
described in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(x)
"Third Action Plan" means the action plan for the improvement and 
supervision of the Borrower's banking system, contained in the document signed by the 
Borrower and delivered to the Association dated July 26, 1991; and
(y)
"Third Tranche" means a portion of the Credit not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 4,800,000 to be released by the Association to the Borrower on or 
after the date the actions set forth in Parts A and B of Schedule 3 to this Agreement 
have been taken by the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to 30,000,000 Special Drawing Rights (SDR 30,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the expenditures made, or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made, in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Technical Assistance Program, open and maintain in dollars a 
special account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the PPF withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and 
to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of 
the PPF shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 1, 1994 or such later date as the 
Page  4
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2001 and ending March 15, 2031. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2001 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower credit-worthy 
for Bank lending, the Association may,  subsequent to the review and approval thereof 
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of 
the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the 
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of 
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not 
change the grant element obtained under the abovementioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) Banco Central is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions 
in respect of expenditures for the Program other than Technical Assistance 
Expenditures.
(b)
Ministerio de Planeamiento, is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any actions required or permitted to be taken 
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions in respect of Technical Assistance Expenditures.
Page  5
(c)
Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower hereby 
entrusts: (i) Banco Central with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal 
applications (other than those for Technical Assistance Expenditures); and (ii) 
Ministerio de Planeamiento with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal 
applications for Technical Assistance Expenditures; under the Credit and each such 
respectively for the collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished to 
the Association in support of such applications; such withdrawal applications shall to 
the extent practicable be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate 
amounts of not less than SDR 100,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall carry out a technical assistance program 
satisfactory to the Association (the Technical Assistance Program) which shall 
include: (i) technical assistance and training to: (A) support an improved supervision 
of the Borrower's banking system and establish
efficient mechanisms for handling bank crises; (B) assist in the development, and the 
supervision of, the Borrower's capital markets; (C) assist in the reform of the 
Borrower's major enterprises and in the Borrower's program to privatize its 
enterprises; and (D) streamline the Borrower's trade and registration procedures; and 
(ii) acquisition and utilization of equipment for purposes of carrying out such 
technical assistance and training.
(b)
For purposes of carrying out the Technical Assistance Program referred to 
in paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the 
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with the principles and 
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
(c)
The Borrower shall: (i) promptly upon its completion, submit to the 
Association any study which shall be carried out under the Technical Assistance 
Program; and (ii) take into account any comment of the Association thereon when 
implementing the recommendations of any such study.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained 
sound accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
subject to paragraph 6 of Part A of Schedule 3 to this Agreement 
in relation to the Second Tranche, and paragraph 6 of Part B of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement in relation to the Third Tranche, 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than ninety days after the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account has been made under each of the First, Second and 
Third Tranches, a certified copy of the report of the audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested;
Page  6
(iii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each fiscal year the 
report of the audit of the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section, including those of the Special Account by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iv)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date December 20, 1991 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this Agreement, the 
Minister of Planning and Coordination of the Borrower is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Planeamiento y Coordinacion
La Paz
Bolivia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINPLANEACION 
3280 (MINCORD BV)
La Paz, Bolivia
Page  7
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Samuel Doria Medina
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account for expenditures made 
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of: (i) the reasonable 
cost of goods required during the execution of the Program; (ii) the reasonable cost 
of goods and services for the Technical Assistance Program up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,800,000; and (iii) repayment of the principal 
amount of the PPF withdrawn and outstanding and payment of all charges thereon as 
provided in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement, all to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
       Group           Subgroup       Description of Items
       112                --          Alcoholic beverages
       121                --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                      refuse
       122                --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                      or not containing tobacco
                                      substitutes)
       525                --          Radioactive and
Page  8
                                      associated materials
       667                --          Pearls, precious and
                                      semiprecious stones, unworked
                                      or
                                      worked
       718             718.1          Nuclear reactors, and
                                      parts thereof, fuel elements
                                      (cartridges), nonirradiated for
                                      nuclear reactors
       897             897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                      platinum group metals
                                      (except watches and watch cases)
                                      and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                      wares (including set gems)
       971                --          Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
                                      gold ores and concentrates)
(b)
expenditures, other than Technical Assistance Expenditures, in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower;
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except 
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 6,000,000 
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures (other than Technical 
Assistance Expenditures) before that date but after March 20, 1991;
(d)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $5,000 
equivalent;
(e)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance;
(f)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or 
for luxury consumption; and
(g)
Technical Assistance Expenditures when the aggregate withdrawals in 
respect of such Expenditures shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 2,800,000.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals for expenditures (other than Technical Assistance 
Expenditures) under contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost less than 
the equivalent of $1,000,000 (one million dollars) may be permitted by the Association 
upon the basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify.
(b)
Withdrawals for Technical Assistance Expenditures under contracts for the 
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000 
(twenty-five thousand dollars) up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $150,000 
equivalent, may be permitted by the Association upon the basis of statements of 
expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify.
4.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures, other than 
Technical Assistance Expenditures, to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit (excluding from such aggregate 
amounts paid to, or on the order of, the Borrower in respect of Technical Assistance 
Expenditures) withdrawn from the Credit Account and the total amount of such
commitments shall have reached:
(a)
the equivalent of SDR 11,200,000, unless the Association shall be 
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement 
based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: (i) with the progress achieved by 
the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (ii) that the actions described in 
Part A of Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association; and (iii) that the macroeconomic policy framework
of the Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the Program; and
(b)
the equivalent of SDR 22,400,000, unless the Association shall be 
Page  9
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement 
based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: (i) with the progress achieved by 
the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (ii) that the actions described in 
Parts A and B of Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association; and (iii) that the macroeconomic policy framework of 
the Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the Program.
5.
If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4 above, the Association 
shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved in the carrying out 
of the Program or the actions taken pursuant to Schedule 3 to this Agreement are not 
satisfactory, or that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is not 
consistent with the objectives of the Program, and, within 90 days after such notice, 
the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the 
Association, or the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework continues to be not 
consistent with the objectives of the Program, then the Association may, by notice to 
the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.
(A) (i) Contracts entered into for the procurement of goods (other than 
contracts entered into for the procurement of goods for the Technical Assistance 
Program) estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each; and (ii) 
contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more each and to be used for the Technical Assistance Program, shall be awarded 
through international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent 
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), and, 
other than in the case of goods to be used for the Technical Assistance Program and 
referred to in subparagraph (ii) hereof, subject to the following modifications:
(a)
Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is 
substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a timely manner of the 
opportunity to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply for 
inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to 
bid; 
such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper of general 
circulation in the Borrower's country and, in addition, in at least one of the 
following forms:
(i)
a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Forum, 
Business Edition; or
(ii)
an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal 
of wide international circulation; or
(iii)
a notice to local representatives of countries and territories 
referred to in the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of the 
goods required."
(b)
The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
 
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the bidder to 
state the bid price in a single currency widely used in international trade 
and specified in the bidding documents."
(c)
Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
 
(B)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described 
in paragraph 1 (A) (ii) above, goods manufactured in Bolivia may be granted a margin 
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 of 
the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
2.
Contracts for the procurement of goods (except the goods referred to in 
paragraph 3 below) estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $5,000,000 shall be 
awarded:
(a)
by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public procurement 
Page  10
procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of such procedures, provided 
that such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the Association;
(b)
by other purchasers, in accordance with established commercial practice, 
provided that such contracts may be awarded on the basis of evaluation comparison of 
quotations obtained from at least two suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, except 
that direct contracting procedures acceptable to the Association may be used where 
considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines; and
(c)
by any purchasers, for the supply of commodities, on the basis of 
evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained from more than one supplier.
3.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of $100,000 but more than the equivalent of $25,000, up to an aggregate 
amount not exceeding $300,000 equivalent, for the Technical Assistance Program may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$25,000 or less up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $150,000 equivalent, for the 
Technical Assistance Program may be awarded on the basis of comparison of price 
quotations obtained from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
5.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission to the Association 
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of 
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of 
the respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the advertising 
and tendering procedures followed and such other information as the Association shall 
reasonably request.
6.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this 
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission to 
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit 
Account in respect thereof, such documentation and information as the Association may 
reasonably request to support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
7.
The provisions of the preceding paragraph 6 of this Schedule shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraphs 4 (a) and 4 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
Part A:
Second Tranche
 
1.
BAB, BAMIN and FONEM have: (a) either been sold to the private sector; or (b): 
(i) had their operations closed; (ii) their employees not involved in loan 
recuperation or liquidation have been released; and (iii) complied with the First 
Action Plan.
2.
Either: I. (a) BANEST's branches which, in the opinion of the Association, are 
not cost effective or justifiable, have been closed or sold to the private sector.
(b)
BANEST's functions which, in the opinion of the Association, can be 
handled efficiently by the private sector have been transferred to the private sector.
(c)
The Second Action Plan is being complied with.
 
Or II. BANEST, in its entirety, has been sold to the private sector.
 
3.
The Banking Law has been enacted and put into effect.
 
4.
(a)
A plan for the reorganization of COMIBOL has been completed.
 
(b)
COMIBOL's mines, which in the opinion of the Association are not 
profitable, have been closed.
5.
(a)
Approval for privatization, completion of asset valuations and sales 
Page  11
documentation and offer for sale of at least 51% of the voting shares held by the 
Borrower have been made in respect of: either (i) the Lloyd Aereo Boliviano, 2 Large 
Enterprises and 3 Small Enterprises; or (ii) 3 Large Enterprises and 5 Small 
Enterprises.
(b)
An agenda has been furnished to the Association for the sale to the 
private sector or closure of the Borrower's enterprises which will be offered for sale 
or closed before the actions under Part B hereof are taken.
6.
A certified copy of the audit report referred to in Section 3.04 (b) (ii) of 
this Agreement in respect to the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the 
First Tranche has been furnished to the Association.
7.
The Third Action Plan has been carried out. 
 
8.
The Regulations are being implemented in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association.
9.
The Central Bank Circular is being implemented, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association, and the Superintendency of Banks and the Central Bank are supervising the 
Financial Intermediaries in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
Part B:
Third Tranche
 
1.
The First Action Plan is being complied with, to the extent applicable.
 
2.
The Second Action Plan is being complied with.
 
3.
(a)
Transfers from the Borrower's budget to national and regional public 
enterprises (except those for which the Borrower has obtained the prior written 
consent of the Association) have been eliminated.
(b)
The arrears in the payment of debts among the Borrower's enterprises have 
been eliminated.
4.
Commercial banks in Bolivia have been required to make provisions in amounts 
equivalent to 10% of their Class 3 loans (as such term is defined in the 
Superintendency of Banks' Circular dated July 6, 1988).
5.
Approval for privatization, completion of asset valuations and sales 
documentation and offer for sale of at least 51% of the voting shares held by the 
Borrower have been made in respect of: either (a) the Lloyd Aereo Boliviano, 4 Large 
Enterprises and 5 Small Enterprises; or (b) 5 Large Enterprises and 6 Small 
Enterprises.
6.
Certified copies of the audit reports referred to in Section 3.04 (b) (ii) of 
this Agreement in respect to the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the 
First Tranche and the Second Tranche have been furnished to the Association. 
7.
The Regulations are being implemented in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Category" means goods and services for the Technical 
Assistance Program;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Technical Assistance Program 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to 
the Eligible Category; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $400,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
Page  12
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective Eligible Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible 
Category, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Technical Assistance Program, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the Eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide suchadditional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
Page  13
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
