Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2298 BO
Dutch Grant Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Program)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by the
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
Dated April 16, 1992
DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2298 BO
DUTCH GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 16, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) acting as Administrator (the 
Administrator) of grant funds provided by the MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION OF 
THE NETHERLANDS (the Minister).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a Development Credit Agreement (Structural Adjustment 
Credit), dated September 20, 1991, between the Recipient and the Association (the IDA 
Credit Agreement), the Association has agreed to extend to the Recipient a credit in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 30,000,000) to assist in the financing of urgently needed imports and services 
required during the execution of the Recipient's program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Recipient's economy, as 
described in the letter dated July 19, 1991 from the Recipient to the Association (the 
Program);
WHEREAS (B) pursuant to an agreement dated December 11, 1986 between the 
Minister and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the 
Association (the Arrangement), the Minister has appointed the Bank and the 
Association, and the Bank and the Association have agreed, to administer grant funds 
to be made available by the Minister for the financing of certain programs and 
projects supported by the Bank and the Association, as the case may be, in accordance 
with the provisions of the Arrangement;
WHEREAS (C) the Minister has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant 
out of said grant funds (the Grant) to assist the Recipient in the financing of 
urgently needed imports during the execution of the Program on the terms and 
conditions hereinafter set forth; and
Page  2
WHEREAS (D) the Minister and the Association have agreed to amend the Schedule 
to the Arrangement for purposes of including the Program therein;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
 
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (12) 
and (13), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
 
(iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.05;
 
(v)
Article V;
 
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g) and (h), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
 
(viii)Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08;
(ix)
Article X; and
 
(x)
Article XI.
 
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
 
(i)
the term "Association", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Section 6.02 (e) thereof, means the International 
Development Association acting as Administrator of the Grant 
pursuant to the Arrangement, except that in Section 6.02, the term 
"Association" shall also include the International Development 
Association acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Agreement except that in Section 
6.02 (a), the term "Development Credit Agreement" means the IDA 
Credit Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Credit", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Grant;
(v)
the term "Credit Account", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account, an account opened by the 
Administrator on its books in the name of the Recipient to which 
the amount of the Grant is credited;
(vi)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
 
"'Project'" means the imports and other activities that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant pursuant to the provisions of 
the Schedule to the Dutch Grant Agreement."; and
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
 
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in Dutch 
guilders; provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed out 
Page  3
of the proceeds of the Grant have been paid or are payable in another 
currency, the Administrator shall, at the request of the Recipient, 
purchase such currency with the proceeds of such withdrawal."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Recitals to this 
Agreement and in the IDA Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein set 
forth, and the terms "Dutch guilders" and "f." mean the currency of the Netherlands.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in the 
amount of nineteen million one hundred thousand Dutch guilders (f.19,100,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, goods to be 
financed out of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to the IDA Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be July 1, 1993 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained 
sound accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than ninety days after the last withdrawal from the 
Grant Account has been made, a certified copy of the report of the 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall have reasonably requested;
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each fiscal year, the 
report of the audit of the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(iv)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
Page  4
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its signature by the 
parties hereto.
Section 4.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations 
hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The Minister of Planning and Coordination of the Recipient is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministerio de Planeamiento y
   Coordinacion
La Paz
Bolivia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINPLANEACION
3280 (MINCORD)
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Jorge Crespo
Authorized Representative
Page  5
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account for expenditures made 
(or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of 
such proceeds.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Administrator by notice to the Recipient:
Group          Subgroup                 Description of Items
112               -                     Alcoholic beverages
121               -                     Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                        tobacco refuse
122               -                     Tobacco, manufactured
                                        (whether or not containing
                                        tobacco substitutes)
525               -                     Radioactive and associated
                                        materials
667               -                     Pearls, precious and semi-
                                        precious stones, unworked or
                                        worked
718            718.1                    Nuclear reactors, and
                                        parts thereof, fuel elements
                                        (cartridges), nonirradiated
                                        for nuclear reactors
897            897.3                    Jewelry of gold, silver
                                        or platinum group
                                        metals (except watches
                                        and watch cases) and
                                        goldsmiths' or
                                        silversmiths' wares
                                        (including set gems)
971               -                     Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
                                        gold ores and concentrates)
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Recipient or for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of the Recipient;
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
 
(d)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $5,000 
equivalent;
Page  6
(e)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Administrator shall have 
financed or agreed to finance; and
(f)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose 
or for luxury consumption.
3.
Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $1,000,000, may be permitted by the 
Administrator upon the basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and 
conditions as the Administrator shall specify.
