Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1934a-YU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MACEDONIA STREZEVO IRRIGATION PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
July 14, 1978
Euoe,MddeEatad othAriaRein                F\LE   GOPY
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This doceument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performane: of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
US$1                     .                   Dinars (Din) 18.0
Din 1                                        US$ 0.0556
Din 1,000,000                                US$ 55,555.56
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                              2.20 pounds
1 quintal                                    100 kilograms
1 metric ton (m ton)         =               1,000 kilograms
1 metric ton (m ton)         =               0.98 long ton
1 millimeter (mm)                            0.04 inch
1 centimeter (cm)                            0.39 inch
1 meter (m)                                  1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)                             0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)                               2.47 acres
1 square meter (m2)          =               10.76 square feet
1 square kilometer (km2)    =                0.384 square mile
1 liter (1)                                  0.264 gallon
1 hectoliter (hlA                            100 liters
1 cubic meter (ma)                           1.31 cubic yards
1 million cubic meters (Mm3)=                264.2 million US gallons
1 atmosphere (atm)                           14.7 pounds per square inch (psi)
mmhio                                        millimho
ppm                                          parts per million
q hydromodule                =               liters/sec/ha
Q discharge                                  m3/sec
ABBREVIATIONS
oC       degree Centigrade
0/00  =  per thousand
asl'  =  above sea level
AU    =  animal units
BOAL  =  Basic Organization of Associated Labor
ETo   =  Evapotranspiration
FAO   =  Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FNP   =  Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of the Less
Developed Regions
GMP   =  Gross Material Product
hr    =  hour
MW    =  Megawatt
N     =  nitrogen
0 & M =  operation & maintenance
P205  =  phosphoric pentoxide
Para  =  paragraph
SAR   =  Staff Appraisal Report
SBS   =  Stopanska Banka Zdruzena Banka
SDK   =  Social Accouniting Service
sec   =  second
SFRY  =  Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
SRM   =  Socialist Republic of Macedonia
ZIK   =  Pelagonija Agroindustrial Kombinat = ZIK Pelagonija
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973. The currency
equivalents given above are those effective in December, 1977.



APPRAISAL OF             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MACEDONIA STREZEVO IRRIGATION PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND ..........................................                    1
A.    The Agricultural and Rural Sector in
Macedonia ....... ................                               1
B.    Organization of the Agricultural Sector              ........      1
C.    Cooperation Between the Individual and
Social Sectors  ...............................                 2
D.    Agricultural Marketing and Agroindustries
in Macedonia .................................                  3
E.    Agricultural Development Strategy and
Priorities in Macedonia ..... ...........                       4
F.    Government Policy and Bank Lending Strategy ....                   5
II.   THE PROJECT AREA ....................................                     7
A.    Location .......................................                   7
B.    Climate ........................................                   7
C.    Topography and Soils ...........................                   8
D.    Farm Size and Land Tenure ......................                   8
E.    Employment  .....................................                  9
F.    Existing Infrastructure ........................                   9
G.    Agricultural Inputs and Supporting Services   ....                 9
H.    Agricultural Credit  ............................                 10
III.    THE PROJECT .........................................                   12
A.    Objectives  .....................................                 12
B.    Project Works ..................................                  13
C.    Status of Design ...............................                  14
D.    Implementation Schedule ........................                  14
IBRD Chart No. 18576 .........................                 15
E.    Cost Estimates  .................................                 16
F.    Financing ......................................                  17
G.    Procurement  ....................................                 19
H.    Retroactive Financing ..........................                  19
I.    Disbursements  ..................................                 20
J.    Accountns and Audit  ............................                 21
K.    Monitoring .....................................                  21
L.    Environmental Effects  ..........................                 22
M.    Water Rights  ...................................                 22
N.    Role of Women ..................................                  22
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which visited
Macedonia in October 1977, comprising of Messrs. E.P. Schertz, Y. Suzuki,
M. Tirmazi and J.D. Von Pischke (Bank) and J. Marinet (Consultant).
This document has a rtstficted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ........................                    23
A.    Project Organization ..........................                  23
B.   Vodostopanstvo BOAL Strezevo ....             ..............      23
IBRD Chart No. 18577 ........................                  25
C.   Project Implementation ........................                   24
D.   Operations and Maintenance ....................                   24
E.    Consultants ...................................                  26
F.    Training ......................................                   26
G.    Right of Way ..................................                  26
H.    Agricultural Supporting Services ....           ..........       27
I.   Fertilizers, Pesticides and Herbicides ........                   28
J.   Seeds .........................................                   28
V.   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION ............................                    28
A.   Present Cropping Patterns ......................                  28
B.   Future Cropping Patterns .......................                  29
C.   Yields and Production ...........................                 29
D.   Cropping Calendar ..............................                  30
E.    Farm Mechanization .............................                 30
F.   Drying and Storage .............................                  31
G.   Land Use Rationalization .......................                  31
VI.    MARKET PROSPECTS, PROCESSING, FARM INCOMES
AND PROJECT CHARGES ...............................                  32
A.   Market Prospects and Processing Requirements  ...                 32
B.   Prices .........................................                  32
C.   Farm Incomes ...................................                  34
D.    Project Charges and Cost Recovery ....           ..........      36
VII.    BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ....             ...............     38
A.    Benefits and Justification .....................                 38
B.   Risks and Uncertainty ..........................                  41
ANNEX 1 - Supporting Tables
ANNEX 2 - Project Works
ANNEX 3 - Related Documents and Data
IBRD MAPS NOS. - 13404 - Project Location
- 13405 - Project Layout



I. BACKGROUND
A. The Agricultural and Rural Sector in Macedonia 1/
1.01      Agriculture contributes 23% to the total GMP 2/ of Macedonia, and
absorbs 32% of the active working population of the Republic. Agricultural
production expanded at an average annual rate of about 3.6% between 1966 and
1977. Fruit and vegetable production grew most rapidly, encouraged by the
rising relative prices and increased availability of irrigation facilities.
1.02      Agriculture has declined in relative economic importance with the
progress of industrialization, but it still remains a dynamic sector in the
overall development of the Republic. While the agricultural population
declined by 1.5% annually between 1961 and 1971, its labor productivity
increased by an average annual rate of about 4.5%. From 1971 to 1975 agri-
cultural employment increased by about 4.5% per year accompanied by a decline
in productivity. However, unemployment and underemployment remain high,
relative to national averages. Lack of employment and income opportunities
in the rural sector had caused widespread emigration by the rural population
to the cities or as workers outside Yugoslavia. The emigrating population
mostly consisted of young able-bodied persons and has acted as an impediment
to full exploitation of agriculture. Recently there is a trend for migrant
workers to return to Yugoslavia. Increased income opportunities in individual
sector agriculture would help absorb the returning migrant labor, slow down
emigration and help them settle on farms.
B. Organization of Macedonia's Agricultural Sector
1.03      Agriculture in Macedonia, like that of the rest of Yugoslavia,
is characterized by the parallel existence of two sectors - social and indi-
vidual.
1.04      The social sector consists of agricultural kombinats, state farms
and agricultural cooperatives and other organizations such as veterinary and
research stations which operate under the principles of social ownership of
the means of production and workers' self management. The social sector
operates more than 20% of the cultivated land; employs 8% of the agricultural
labor force; produces 30% of the agricultural product; and contributes 45%
of the marketed agricultural production in the Republic.
1.05      In Macedonia, production in the social sector rose at a trend rate
or more than 9% between 1965 and 1975. The main explanations for the rapid
1/   Yugoslavia's agricultural sector at the national level is described in
Annex 1 of the Second Agricultural Credit Project appraisal report,
Report No. 1537a-YU.
2/   GMP is similar to GDP, but excludes certain services, such as public
administration, defense, education, health and social insurance.



growth of social sector agriculture are: (i) heavy concentration of invest-
ments, absorbing more than two-thirds of the gross fixed investment in agri-
culture in the post war period; (ii) a greater "intellectual input" of
university trained workers; and (iii) greater emphasis on research.
1.06      The individual sector in Macedonia occupies by far the larger part
of the cultivated land and employs more than 90% of the total agricultural
labor force. It consists of about 160,000 farms with an average size of
3.1 ha of cultivated land.
1.07      Production in the individual sector has increased by an average
rate of about 3.2% annually in Macedonia since 1965, falling far below the
performance of the social sector. The major causes for the low productivity
and yields in the individual sector and the increasing productivity gap
between the two sectors are: (a) a generally lower quality of land; (b) lower
share in the irrigated area; (c) inferior varieties of seeds, plants and ani-
mals; (d) low degree of mechanization; (e) low fertilizer input; (f) small
farm size and scattered holdings; (g) generally low levels of access to tech-
nology and markets; and (h) pricing policies (paras. 6.05-6.07).
C. Cooperation Between the Individual and Social Sectors
1.08      The individual and social sectors are complementary as well as com-
petitive. Labor-intensive crops, such as vegetables and tobacco, are almost
exclusively produced in the individual sector, which also has more than 90% of
the cattle and sheep. Cooperation between the social and individual sectors
takes the form of trade in inputs and output, provision of services by the
social sector such as supply of fertilizers, harvesting, cultivations, market-
ing and credit and the contracting of joint production. While such coopera-
tion benefits individual farmers, it is fairly limited and declining - limited
because of the concentration of social sector organizations in the valleys and
high plains and consequent lack of cooperation possibilities in the mountains;
declining because of the increasing importance of off-farm income of farmers
and the dissemination of new production techniques in the sector, both making
contract cooperation less attractive to individual farmers.
D. Prices
1.09      Agricultural prices are determined by three systems in Yugoslavia:
(i) Guaranteed minimum prices which the social sector must pay
to individual farmers are established for cereals, meat and
wool. Government subsidies to the social sector are used
when necessary to support social sector purchases.
(ii) Minimum prices without Government guarantee are established
for most agricultural products which require processing,
including milk, sugar beet, and other industrial crops.



(iii) Goods which are highly perishable and goods marketed in
farmers markets are free from Government price controls.
Minimum prices established by Government are adjusted to reflect changes in
production costs, world market trends, and social and political objectives.
Prices of cereals, meat and wool often exceed the minimum, while prices of
products requiring processing have tended to follow Government floors.
1.10      Production which is marketed through the social sector tends to
enter the sector through local agro-kombinats. Local monopsony is cosistent
with the Yugoslav practice and ideal of combination, integration, and conglom-
eration in the social sector, based on perceptions of economies of scale.
Restricted individual farmer access to credit, except through agro-kombinats,
and limitations on the size of individual sector enterprises preserve the
pre-eminent role of the social sector and diminishes the possibility of
individual farmer choice among social sector produce buyers. This system,
under which price policy is effectively controlled through the social sector,
introduces distortions in allocation in the economic sense which support
priorities within the Yugoslav system. Prices influence cash crop and overall
enterprise mix on individual sector farms. However, farmers' planning
is simplified by the stability of prices generated by the social sector.
1.11      The production projected to occur at full dvelopment is consistent
with the price incentives and constraints to which growers in the project
area are subject, as shown by the eight individual farm budgets (para 6.5-6.10)
and by the projection for the social sector (Annex 1, Tables 7 and 10).
E. Agricultural Marketing and Agroindustries in Macedonia
1.12      As elsewhere in Yugoslavia, Macedonia has "organized" markets with
"authorized purchases" by social sector enterprises existing side by side
with "informal" markets where the peasants sell directly to consumers. The
dependence of many individual farmers on "organized" social sector marketing
and processing channels is relatively high in Macedonia because much individual
sector production is grown for markets in other parts of Yugoslavia or for
exports. In the mid-1970's more than half of the marketed individual sector
production of wheat, grapes, eggs and mutton were sold in the organized
markets. Individual farmers also form groups to ship significant quantities
(especially of yearly vegetables) directly to local markets of larger cities
in the northern Republics.
1.13      Macedonia is a major supplier of fresh produce and tobacco.  Never-
theless, the share of Macedonia in Yugoslavia's total processed vegetable
production has declined from about 25% in 1960 to about 15% in recent years.
Expansion and replacement in Macedonia's processing industry have not kept
pace with the expansion of fresh vegetable production (para. 6.03). Macedonia
enjoys considerable natural advantage in tobacco production. This labor



-4-
intensive crop is well suited for small family farms, and the product is
shipped out of the Republic in fully processed and semi-processed form (para.
6.02).
F. Agricultural Development Strategy and Priorities in Macedonia
1.14      Principles and Policies.  The basic objective of the Macedonian
Agricultural Development Plan is to raise agricultural production to meet
expected domestic consumption and some export demand by emphasizing: (a) the
further development of the social sector through modernization of production
techniques, expansion of processing facilities, better utilization of avail-
able resources and the adjustment of production to changes in demand; and
(b) the development of individual farms primarily through cooperation with
the social sector to achieve further socialization of agriculture and rural
areas. 1/ To achieve its objectives, the Plan focuses on (a) price policies,
(b) investment policies and (c) support for cooperation between the social
and individual sectors.
1.15      Investments and Growth.  For 1976-80, the Macedonia Plan projects
an annual production growth rate of 4.5% for the agricultural sector as a
whole (8.5% in the social sector and 4% in the individual sector). Annual
investments are expected to reach Din 1.5 billion in Macedonia, more than
a 50% increase against the previous plan period, of which 13% would be in
the individual sector. The Plan calls for large investment in the social
sector for irrigation, land development and processing facilities, and
therefore continues to place major emphasis on the social sector. Incentives
involving taxes, depreciation allowances and access to foreign exchange are
offered for encouraging mobilization of enterprises' own resources. Measures
outlined for the promotion of the individual sector are: (a) increased
cooperation between the two sectors and greater individual sector access to
extension services in order to achieve a more rapid transfer of modern tech-
nology; and (b) provision of credit for on-farm investments.
1.16      These measures address the most tractable bottlenecks in the devel-
opment of the social and individual sectors. However, the support measures for
the individual sector are practically limited to farmers that either form an
association or cooperate with the social sector on a contractual basis, in
effect excluding farmers in remote regions where the social sector is not
well represented and where the scope for cooperation is limited. The Plan
apparently recognizes the difficulties facing individual sector development
and hence projects realistically low growth rates. The consequent widening
gap in incomes between the two sectors will reinforce the emerging trend for
farmers in the individual sector to seek additional sources of income outside
1/   Socialization is increased in the agricultural sector when value added
in social sector agriculture expands at a more rapid rate than value
added in the agricultural sector as a whole.



- 5 -
agriculture. Farmers in the mountainous regions who lack alternative economic
activities face difficulties in participating in this trend if they choose to
remain in their own localities. The projected growth rates for the social
sector seem realistic considering the relatively large proportion of invest-
ments in irrigation and the corresponding follow-up investments at the farm
level.
1.17      Financial and Economic Issues.  Efforts to stimulate production have
included price policies such as subsidies on inputs, such as fertilizer, and
on interest rates. However, low interest rates have not provided much stimulus
for the holding of financial assets, while encouraging the use of debt.  This
situation has led to liquidity structures in the economy which have produced
periodic payment crises and to subsequent legislation intended to ensure
prompt payment.  An interest rate study was undertaken by the Institute of
Agricultural Economics in Belgrade under the First Agricultural Credit Project,
providing the impetus for a more detailed study to be undertaken as part of
the Second Agricultural Credit Project. The Association of Yugoslav Banks and
other bodies are also in the process of probing the role of interest rates in
the economy.
1.18      The role of interest rates as resource mobilizers and allocators
remains ambiguous from the Yugoslav perspective. Resource mobilization and
allocation are seen as the proper functions of the planning mechanism, with
financial markets serving primarily as channels for moving and processing
funds according to the directions evolved by the plan. Banks performing com-
mercial and investment operations form the largest segment of the financial
market. Banks are controlled primarily by social sector enterprises which are
also the major borrowers. However, a portion of economic activity is under-
taken on a modified market basis rather than being subject to the Plan in
every detail, which suggests that the interest rate continues to play a role
in decision making. Low interest rates have softened one constraint on
investment decision making, and some investments in capital intensive tech-
nologies has probably taken place which is not in the best interests of
employment generation in the agricultural and agroindustrial sector.
1.19      Investment policy has also been used to stimulate agricultural
production, and large investments have been made in social sector agricul-
ture. However, few individual farmers have had access to credit for agricul-
tural investments other than farm inputs for crops grown under contract.
Liquidity shortages in social sector agro-kombinats making loans to individual
farmers have also contributed to individual farmers' severely restricted
access to credit.
F. Government Policy and Bank Lending Strategy
1.20      The current system of planning in Yugoslavia ensures a high degree
of consistency between the plans of each Republic and Autonomous Province.
The development objectives of the 1976-80 Social Plan for the Federal Republic
may be summarized as:



- 6 -
(a) Rapid economic growth and more efficient use of resources.
(b)  Generation of gainful domestic employment.
(c)  Containment of domestic inflation.
(d)  Maintenance of an open economy.
(e)  Reduced dependence on volatile exports and selective import
substitution.
(f)  Reduction of income disparity between regions.
(g)  More rapid agricultural development.
The implementation of measures designed to fulfill these objectives will occur
within the framework of Yugoslavia's political economy, which stressed the
social owernship of the means of production; a preference for unitary rather
than competing units engaged in use of financial and material resources, but
constrained by decentralization, often along regional lines; and decision-
making mechanisms designed to ensure widespread participation and conflict
resolution at as low a level as possible in the institutional structure.
1.21      The Bank's investment objectives in Yugoslavia may be summarized
as:
(a)  Support for the less developed regions.
(b)  Promotion of agriculture.
(c)  Institutional reform and coordination.
(d)  Reducing the external resource gap.
1.22      Agriculture is a priority sector from the point of view of both the
Government and the Bank, and its enhancement will contribute to the realization
of other objectives related to regional income disparities, employment generation
and efficiency. The unique position of agriculture as an area for development-
oriented intervention by the Bank and the Government results from the sector's
structure and the previous record of Government intervention.
1.23      Agriculture is the only major sector other than personal services
which social ownership is not predominant. About 85% of the agricultural land
in Yugoslavia is privately owned. However, the future of the individual farmer
is a very closely bound up with the role of the social sector and the monopoly
power conferred upon social sector elements in the food chain. The official
Yugoslav attitude toward the role of the indiviudal farmer has changed during
the 1970's, and it is now realized that the individual sector contains many
unexploited and attractive opportunities caused by discrimination against this
sector in resource allocation under previous development strategies. Past
emphasis on investment in social sector agriculture, largely to the exclusion



of individual sector agriculture, has increased the possibility of incurring
diminishing marginal returns to investment in social sector as opposed to
individual sector agriculture. Improvement in the conditions of production in
individual sector agriculture is consistent with the national goals of more
efficient resource use, employment generation, self-sufficiency in basic
foodstuffs, reduction of income disparities for disadvantaged rural groups,
and, of course, more rapid agricultural development. Official interest
in promoting investment in individual sector agriculture has created opportu-
nities for the Bank in terms of its concern for investment for the benefit
of the poor and of less developed regions within countries. In addition,
attention to the productive potential of individual sector agriculture is
consistent with the Bank's overall interest in increasing agricultural produc-
tion.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location
2.01      The project area is located along the Crna Reka (Black River) about
120 kilometers south of Skopje, the Macedonian capital (Map IBRD 13404). The
Crna Reka catchment area is surrounded by high mountains: Babuna mountains
to the north of Prilep, Bigla and Baba mountains west of Bitola and south
to the Greek border, Kozjak mountains on the east. The Crna Reka flows from
north to south in the Pelagonija valley, turns east along the Greek border,
flowing north to the Vardar river which crosses Greece and reaches the
Aegean Sea near Thessaloniki.
2.02      The Pelagonija valley, 60-70 km long and 12-15 km wide, covers
75,000 hectares, of which 21,500 belong to the Strezevo area, and 53,500 ha
to the Bucin area. Along the hills are colluvial terraces ranging from 600
to 630 m above sea level, with slopes of 2 to 3%. The central zone ranges
from 580 to 600 m, and is flat with alluvia soils. Bitola with 65,000 inhabi-
tants is the main city, forming part of Bitola Commune with 125,000 inhabitants
and 151 villages spread over the Pelagonija plain.
B. Climate
2.03      The climate is continental with cold winters and hot summers; frost
begins in October and can last till the end of April or beginning of May.
Summers are hot and dry with a maximum temperature of 350 in August.  The
average rainfall in Bitola is 588 mm with snow and rain providing good
growing conditions for winter rainfed cereals; but from June to September
rains are not sufficient for the production of high value crops. The average
daily wind velocity of 1.3 m per second during the summer period poses no
problems for sprinkler irrigation, although occasional short interruptions
in irrigation may be required because of wind conditions. Sunshine is satis-
factory for the crops grown, and for hay production. With the proposed



-8-
cropping pattern an average supplementary irrigation of 2,500 to 4,000 m3
per hectare, depending on the crops grown, can provide high yields. Climatic
data are presented in Annex 1, Table 1.
C. Topography and Soils
2.04      Topography.  The project is composed of two main topographic areas:
Flat low lands comprise about half of the project area, with slopes up to 2%,
and uplands cover the remaining 50%, with slopes averaging from 2 to 4%.  The
low lands lie in the alluvial plain of the Crna Reka. The uplands are located
on the western part of the project area, with slopes eastward oriented; the
southern part of the project area is slightly undulating.  Project area topo-
graphy is not a constraint to sprinkler irrigation.
2.05      Soils.  Project area soils are deep; alluvial soils are located in
the plain along the river, colluvial soils on the slopes below the water
supply canal, with alluvio-colluvial soils between them. All the soils are
derived from metamorphic rocks of silicious origin, without any limestone.
The alluvial soils, mainly clay-loam soils, were marshlands before the drain-
age of the plan was completed by 1968. Deep plowing for sugar beet, grown
once every 3 years on the heaviest soils of the project, would maintain good
drainage and accommodate deep root systems. The colluvial soils have a light
texture with a high percentage of fine sand, which may crust on the surface,
requiring frequent hoeing during the growing period. From an irrigation
viewpoint, 40% of the project area belongs to Class I, 50% to Class II, the
remaining 10% to Class III according to U.S. Bureau of Reclamation categories.
D. Farm Size and Land Tenure
2.06      About 8,500 families consisting on the average of 6 persons, live in
the 36 villages of the project area, including Bitola. Three thousand families
derive their main income from employment in the social sector, working for the
ZIK Pelagonija Kombinat on its land or in its factories. Over 9,500 ha, or
47% of the project area, is cultivated by ZIK Pelagonija. The 5,500 farm
families working in the individual sector farm over 10,800 ha, or 53% of
the project area, in holdings of from less than one hectare to a maximum of
10 hectares, with the following distribution.
45% of the families have a farm of less than 1 ha
31% of the families have a farm 1 to 3 ha
15% of the families have a farm 3 to 5 ha
9% of the families have a farm 5 to 10 ha
Land fragmentation is common. The average plot size varies from 0.2 to
0.4 ha, with farms of 3 to 12 plots scattered all over each village.



- 9 -
E. Employment
2.07      Because of the small size of farms and lack of means to intensify
production, underemployment is comon and many people go abroad to work.
Those abroad are estimated at 10.7% of the active population. It is only
during peak periods that full employment is reached. The average per capita
income in the project area is about US$260 for the individual sector and
US$580 for the social sector.
F. Existing Infrastructure
2.08      Communications.  The project area is linked with all parts of
Macedonia and Yugoslavia by the Bitola-Skopje railroad, and by the Bitola-
Prilep road connected to the main highway from Belgrade through Skopje to
Thessaloniki in Greece. In addition, macadam, paved and earth roads link
the different villages of the project area. These roads adequately meet
the present transportation needs of the project, especially for the social
sector. All the villages have electricity; piped water is available in
Bitola and some villages, but need to be improved.
2.09      Industry.  Part of the present agricultural production is for family
consumption and part for processing industries. Five factories belong to ZIK
Pelagonija: (a) An old milk plant in Bitola processes 40,000 liters of milk
per day with a designed capacity of 20,000 liters. (b) The sugar factory with
a daily capacity of 1,500 tons of sugar beet presently works at 60 to 70%
of its full capacity with sugar beets from the Strezevo and Bucin areas, plus
some production sent from Skopje and other places. (c) The yeast and alcohol
factory uses sugar beet factory by-products. (d) A brewery uses local and
other cereals. (e) An animal feed factory uses residues from various facto-
ries as well as unprocessed agricultural produce. Other factories in the
project area, which do not belong to ZIK, include a vegetable and fruit
canning factory with a 40,000 ton processing capacity and a flour mill with
a capacity of 4,000 tons of cereals. The Lozar wine enterprise in Bitola
processes up to 4,000 tons of grapes a year. In addition, a tobacco plant
belonging to Jugotutun Bitola and the Titov Veles oil mill buy tobacco and
oil seeds produced in the Strezevo area. Two slaughterhouses, one in Bitola,
the other at Porodin 10 kilometers from Bitola, do not have any by-product
processing facilities.
G. Agricultural Inputs and Supporting Services
2.10      Supporting services for social sector agriculture are the respon-
sibility of the agroindustrial combinat ZIK Pelagonija (para. 4.11). This
enterprise is also the largest provider of services to the individual sector
(para 4.12). Inputs are available on an ordinary commercial basis at stores



- 10 -
operated by ZIK's Cooperation Center, and inputs specific to contract crops
are provided by the processing facilities concerned (para. 4.14). The pro-
cessing facilities also provide certain services, such as credit and deep
plowing for sugar beets, to contract growers. Extension assistance is
provided primarily by the processing industry, through specialists for the
crops concerned. In addition, several extension agents working for the
Republic's Secretariat of Agriculture assist individual farmers (paras. 4.12-
4.13).
H.  Agricultural Credit
2.11      Bank loans for agricultural and agroindustrial development in
Yugoslavia have included four projects involving Macedonian participation, all
through Stopanska Banka Zdruzena Banka (SBS). SBS is the Borrower for the
Agro-Industries I (894-YU) and II (1371-YU) projects in Macedonia. The first
loan financed part of Macedonia's agricultural development program through
investments in the social and the individual sectors. Although the program
experienced delays, primarily caused by procurement problems and because of
cost overruns for which additional financing was difficult to obtain, the
project's objectives were generally achieved. All loan funds have been com-
mitted, and most will have been disbursed by December 1978 about 6 months
later than estimated in the appraisal report except for the final subproject
which is scheduled to be completed in September 1979. In general, the pro-
fessional competence and experience of SBS management and staff have been
acceptable, although some difficulties in reporting were experienced. Under
the Second Agro-Industries Project greater attention is being focused on
management information systems, regular subproject supervision by the Borrower
and adequate review and provision for effects of inflation on costs. The
Second project makes funds available to eleven social sector enterprises and
1,000 individual farmers for investments in agricultural processing facilities
and primarily production, respectively. After a slow start implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily. Four agroindustry subprojects have recently been
approved by SBS. Tender documents for two of these subprojects have been
prepared. Six subprojects for loans to individual subborrowers are being
appraised. Appointments of a procurement specialist and a consultant to
review the market center study have been delayed by a year, but they are
expected shortly. SBS is a participating bank in the two nationwide Agricul-
tural Credit Projects I and II. Under the First Agricultural Credit Project
SBS's performance in terms of subproject commitment and disbursement was above
the average reported for the eight project banks as a whole. SBS performance
under the Second Agricultural Credit project is also satisfactory relative to
that of the eight banks as a whole.
2.12      Interest rates in Macedonia range from 3% on certain irrigation
loans currently outstanding to 11% on loans funded from Bank loan proceeds.
The highest lending rate except for Bank funds is 10.5%, and applies to
certain types of loans funded from SBS's own resources. Under the Second
Agricultural Credit Project SBS has agreed to floor rates for the portion of



- 11 -
the subloans financed from domestic resources. These minima are 6% on loans
to social sector and 5% on loans to individual sectors. On lending outside of
projects in which the Bank participates, in 1977 SBS levied rates of 5.5% and
7.0% to agriculture and industry respectively, on loans financed out of
resources allocated in Macedonia by the Federal Fund for the Less Developed
Regions.
2.13      Almost all agricultural credit is provided in the Bitola commune
by SBS which is headquartered in Skopje. Agricultural lending in the Bitola
Commune by SBS approximated Din 200 million during 1974-76. More than half of
the lending has been short-term.  Long-term credit has gone overwhelmingly to
the social sector, primarily for the acquisition of farm machinery and live-
stock. Industrial loans for processing facilities are also used by the social
sector.  What little long-term loans funds have been made available to indi-
vidual farmers have been channelled primarily through social sector enterprises
which have a contractual relationship with the subborrowers for the delivery
of loan-financed produce to social sector processing facilities (para. 2.11).
These loans have been mainly for the acquisition of cows, sheep and farm
machinery; although in 1977, the first loans for individual sector investments
in orchards and vineyards were approved. However, less than 20% of the indi-
vidual farmers in Bitola Commune have received agricultural credit through
the social sector. Short-term credit has been made available to about 15% of
the individual sector from processing enterprises for the cultivation of
contract industrial crops. The limited availability of institutional credit
to individual sector farms can be partly explained by the structure of Yugoslav
banks, which are cooperative financing institutions whose founders consist of
large social sector enterprises which are also major borrowers. This structure
contributes to the highly skewed distribution of credit between the two
sectors.
2.14      Project Formulation.  The Pelagonija plain, consisting of 81,200 ha
of net irrigable land, is the largest basin in the Socialist Republic of
Macedonia. Physical and geographic features divided this plain into two
regions suitable for the developmnt of independent irrigation systems:
Irrigation        Bitola Region    Prilep Region    Total    Status
-------------------ha------------------
Strezevo             20,300               -          20,300    Planned
Bucin                22,000            22,900        44,900    Planned
Prilep                  -               5,000         5,000    Completed
Krapa                   -               8,000         8,000    Under construction
Konjarka              3,000               -           3,000    Planned
Total              45,300            35,900       81,200
Only a few years ago the Pelagonija basin was a marshy area subject to frequent
floods. More than 50,000 ha were constantly or periodically submerged. The



- 12 -
1958-63 Pelagonija dewatering scheme included regulation and training of main
rivers and a construction of main drainage and peripheral collector canals.
Erosion control works were also implemented including torrent regulation.
Protected and dewatered lands now form the production base for agricultural
development which could be enhanced with irrigation. The Government of SR
Macedonia informed the Bank that of the remaining projects at the planning
stage it placed the highest priority on the Strezevo System. A number of
Bank preparation missions visited the project area from 1975-1977. Initial
project preparation was entrusted to the FAO/WB co-operative program and was
followed up intensively by the Bank. Design of the Strezevo dam was completed
by Hidroelectroprojekt of Skopje and reviewed by a Bank consultant. The
design of the alimentation canal, main canal and the irrigation network was
prepared by Melioproekt, another Skopje based engineering enterprise, and
was reviewed by Bas Rhone de Languedoc of Nimes, France, one of the Associates
of "Gersar". The hydrology of the seven Baba mountain streams forming the
source for the alimentation canal was reviewed and updated by the Jaroslav
Cerni firm of Belgrade. Preparation of the agricultural component, compilation
and translation of the project documents was achieved through the co-operation
of Energoprojekt of Belgrade. The SRM Secretariat of Agriculture and Stopanska
Banka Skopje were intimately involved with all stages of project preparation.
Various alternative engineering solutions including a closed pressure pipe
system were considered and the present varient was adopted as it represented
the least cost solution for the use of available resources and fitted well
within the country's development plan for agriculture.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      The main objectives of the project are to increase crop production
on 20,300 ha, to raise labor productivity and farm incomes, to create employ-
ment in an area where unemployment and emigration are among the highest in
Yugoslavia and to substitute for food imports. Other elements include sup-
plying bulk water to the municipal water authority, and to the electric power
authority for cooling system makeup water requirements in a thermal power
plant currently under construction. Institution building objectives include
expanding and upgrading the operation of the project authority, Vodostopanstvo
(para. 4.01), and strengthening Stopanska Banka's involvement with the agri-
cultural sector (para. 2.11). The project is appropriate in terms of the
Bank's objetives in Yugoslavia. It promotes agriculture in a low income area
of a less developed region where public finance constraints limit infrastruc-
ture investment. In addition, the project supports institutional reform by
increasing socialization in the agricultural sector, creating more employment
opportunities inside and outside the sector in the process. The principal
project works are summarized in Section B.



- 13 -
B. Project Works
3.02      The project would include investments for the construction of:
(a) the Strezevo dam, located on the Semnica River 15 km
northeast of Bitola. This dam, made of rockfill with a
clay core, will have a capacity of 112 Mm3 and a height
of 84 m;
(b) a 62 km alimentation canal tapping peak season flow (October
to May) from seven streams on the Baba Mountains;
(c) a 45 km main canal, with a 30 km covered section along steep
mountain slopes, equipped with Amil or similar gates for
upstream regulation;
(d) a gravity fed sprinkler irrigation network to supply an
average annual volume of 86 Mm3 water for 20,300 ha, sized
to meet July/August peak demand, consisting of portable
flying lines for the individual sector (10,800 ha) and a
rotating boom system for the social sector (9,500 ha);
(e) surface drains connected to the existing drainage system;
(f) administration buildings for each of the operating sections
in the project area, office space for the central project
management, and equipment and maintenance buildings;
(g) 63 km of 5 m wide asphalt access roads, and farm dirt roads
4 m wide parallel to the secondary pipes;
(h) a pipeline to provide 12 Mm3 bulk water annually to the
thermal power plant intake on the Crna River;
(i) diversion structures from the alimentation and main canals
for the delivery of 22 Mm3 bulk water annually for domestic
and industrial consumption in the town of Bitola; and
(j) preparation of feasibility and preparation studies for three
possible irrigation projects in Macedonia.
Detailed descriptions of individual project components are provided in Annex 2.
during negotiations assurances were obtained that the project features as
described above and in Annex 2 would be carried out.



- 14 -
C. Status of Design 1/
3.03      Strezevo Dam.  Detailed final design of the dam and its appurtenant
structures, based on adequate site investigation works has already been com-
pleted, and reviewed by a reputable consultant. Foundation stability problems
have been resolved by providing a down stream berm (Annex 2, para. 4). Tender
documents, separately for the diversion tunnel and the remaining structures,
were prepared by Hidroelectroprojekt (para 4.05). Assurances were obtained to
that effect during negotiations. Employment of a panel consisting of at least
three experts not associated with the design and construction of the dam to
review the dam design prior to and during its construction would be a condi-
tion of effectiveness. This requirement is based on the seismic history of
the region.
3.04      Canals.  Alimentation canal design has been completed by Melioproekt
in sufficient detail for preparation of tender documents. The reviewing
consultants, Bas Rhone de Languedoc recommended upstream regulation of the
main irrigation canal through installation of suitable hydromechanical equip-
ment e.g. Amil type gates or similar. The design would be revised to include
these gates and silting tanks at the site of offtakes from the main canal.
3.05      Irrigation Network and Portable Farm Equipment.  Preliminary design
of the network has been prepared by Melioproekt and reviewed by Bas Rhone de
Languedoc. The recommendations made by the reviewing consultants particularly
in respect of pressure regulation and protection against water hammer are
being incorporated in the design. The final design would be again reviewed by
the consultants prior to the preparation of tender documents.
D. Implementation Schedule
3.06      The proposed project would be implemented over a four year period from
January 1978 through December 1981 (Chart 3.1). Irrigation would commence in
1982 on the full area (20,300 ha), bulk water supply to the thermal power
plant would begin in 1980, and the bulk water supply to the Bitola town water
system in 1982. An estimated schedule of expenditures is given in Annex 1,
table 2 and is summarized below:
Calendar Year                 1978        1979       1980        1981
Annual Estimated
Expenditure                 32.1        51.2       53.8        38.8
(US$ millions)
1/   See Annex 2 for details.



-15-
Chart 3.1
APPRAISAL OF
MACEDONIA STREZEVO IRRIGATION PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Implementation Schedule
ITEM                                  1978               1979                1980               1981
STREZEVO DAM
DIVERSION TUNNEL & ACCESS ROAD
Submission of Tender Documents
Construction
DAM BODY AND APPURTENANT WORKS
Submission of Tender Documents
Construction of Civil Works
Grouting in Foundation
HYDROMECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
Tenders for Nominated Sub-Contract
Supply of Equipment
Erection of Equipment
IMPOUNDING OF RESERVOIR &TESTING
ALIMENTATION CANAL
SUBMISSION OF TENDER DOCUMENTS
CONSTRUCTION DRAGOR TO STARA REKA
CONSTRUCTION STARA REKA TO VELUSKA                                                        _
CONSTRUCTION VELUSKA TO KISEVSKA
MAIN CANAL
CIVILWORKS
Submission of Tender Documents
Construction
HYDROMECHANICAL EQUIPMENT FOR U/S REG.
Tenders for Nominated Sub-Contract
Supply of Upstream Reg. Automatic Gates
Erection of Equipment
IRRIGATION NETWORK
LAYING OF UNDERGROUND PIPES
Submission of Tender Documents
Construction-                                                                -    - - - - - - -                         -
EQUIPMENT FOR PRESSURE REGULATION
Tenders for Nominated Sub-Contract
Supply of Equipment- m -                                                                    -        -        -        -
Erection of Equipment                                              _   _          _   _         _    _    _    _    _    _
ON FARM PORTABLE SPRINKLER EQUIPMENT
PROCUREMENT OF PIPE, BOOMS AND ACCESSORIES
Submission of Tender Documents
Supply of Equipment                                                -         - _       _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _
THERMAL POWER PLANT SUPPLY
Submission of Tender Documents
Construction- - -                                                            - -
BUILDINGS AND FARM ROADS
Submission of Tender Documents
Construction                                                       _         _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _   -
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Design and Tendering
Construction                                                       _         _   -              _   _   _   _   _   _
VEHICLES FOR M & 0
Submission of Tender Documents
Supply of Vehicles                                                 _   _   _   _   _   _   _
_      ENGINEERING
Design and Prep. Tender Documents
Construction Dravwings & Supervision                 _   =          _                -          _   =   _   =
World Bank -18576



- 16 -
E. Cost Estimates
3.07      The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies,
but excluding interest during construction, is estimated at US$174.4 million.
The base cost estimate includes customs duty and taxes on imported equipment
and is expressed in January 1978 prices which were obtained by increasing
January 1977 estimates by 12%. The foreign exchange component, which includes
both direct and indirect foreign costs, is estimated at US$69.7 million or 40%
of the total cost. The base construction cost estimates are based on unit
rates derived through analysis of owning and operating costs of construction
equipment and unit quantitative costs for major items of work. The unit
prices, which include about 8% for taxes and duties are in line with recent
bid prices for similar work. Physical contingencies of 15% have been applied
to Strezevo Dam, 10% to other civil works and 5% to equipment. Expected price
increases over the implementation period amount to about 21% of base cost plus
physical contingencies, assuming the following annual rates of inflation for
local and foreign costs:



- 17 -
Inflation Rate (%)
1978-79       1980-81
Civil Works                          10.0           10.0
Equipment                              7.5           7.0
Table 3.1: SUMMARY COST ESTIMATE
Foreign
Estimated Cost            Estimated Cost          as %
Item                 Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   of Total
---- Din million ----    --- US$ million -----
Irrigation Works   1102.9   759.4   1862.3    61.3    42.2   103.5           41
Equipment             86.4   172.2    258.6       4.8      9.6    14.4        67
Land Compensation   133.4       -       133.4      7.4     -        7.4        -
Engineering and
Administration    111.3       2.2    113.5      6.2      0.1      6.3        1
Base Cost           1434.0   933.8   2367.8    79.7    51.9   131.6
Physical
Contingencies      127.8   101.8    229.6       7.1      5.7    12.8       44
Price Contin-
gencies            332.6   208.4    541.0    18.5    11.5    30.0          39
Strezevo Con-
structions Cost  1894.4  1244.0   3138.4   105.3    69.1   174.4           40
Irrigation
Feasibility
Studies             16.2    10.8      27.0      0.9      0.6      1.5
Interest and
Other Charges
on Bank Loan
During Con-
struction           --     233.0    233.0       --      12.9    12.9      100
Total Project
Cost              1910.6  1487.8   3398.4   106.2    82.6   188.8
F. Financing
3.08      The proposed Bank loan to SBS of US$82 million would finance 99.3%
(a) the estimated foreign exchange component of the project cost, and (b) the
estimated interest and other charges on the proposed Bank loan during con-
struction. Bank funds would not finance the payment of local duties and
taxes. The project's local construction cost of US$105.3 million would be met
by equity contribution from enterprises in the Commune of Bitola, a grant from
SRM and loans from SBS and local banks as indicated in para. 3.09. SBS would
be obligated throughout the construction period to provide adequate funds for
carrying out the project. The proposed SBS loan funds obtained from FNP would



- 18 -
be for 20 years, including 4 years of grace. The proposed loans from SBS's
own funds and other local banks would be for 10 years, including 4 years of
grace. In accordance with the current Bank policy, the proposed loan would be
in standard terms for Yugoslavia, 15 years including 3 years of grace. Any
gains or losses under the Bank loan which arise from changes in currency
parities would be for the account of Vodostopanstovo. SBS would in turn take
adequate steps to protect itself against the foreign exchange risk on funds
accruing to it from subloan repayment before they are needed to make amortiza-
tion payments on the Bank loan. SBS would receive 0.5% spread on IBRD funds
to cover administrative costs (para 4.01).
3.09       The financing plan for the four year construction period would be
as follows:
Civil Works    Foreign            IBRD
Equipment      Exchange        Interest
Expenditure         Buildings   Payments to         During      Working            Total
Type            & Vehicles   Consultants   Construction  Capital  Other  Project
------------------------ US$ Million ---------------------------
Capital
Expenditure         174.2           0.2               -           -        -      174.4
Pre-Operating
Expenditure           -              --                           -       3.9       3.9
Working Capital        -              -                -          0.6       -        0.6
Interest during
Construction          -              -              12.9          -       7.5     20.4
IBRD Loan
Amortization          -                               -           -       3.4       3.4
Irrigation Feasi-
bility Studies        0.9           0.6               -           -        -        1.5
175.1           0.8             12.9         0.6    14.8    204.2
Funding Source
Loans
IBRD               68.9            0.8            12.3           -       -       82.0
SBS /1             79.5             -              0.6         0.6      5.0      85.7
Grants
S.R. Macedonia    11.1                              -           -        -       11.1
Equity Subscription
Bitola
Enterprises      15.6                             -           -        -       15.6
Project Cash
Generation            -             --                          -       9.8       9.8
175.1           0.1            12.9         0.6    14.8    204.2
/1   Includes US$67 million from the Federal Fund for the Accelerated Develop-
ment of the Less Developed Regions.



- 19 -
Assurances on the loan terms and sources of financing in paras. 3.08 and 3.09
were obtained during negotiations. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that quarterly installments of grant and equity subscriptions would be
made available to Vodostopanstvo's BOAL Strezevo according to a predetermined
schedule agreed by the Bank, and that the first installment of grant and
equity subscriptions would be received on or before December 31, 1978. Final-
ization of all the financial arrangements would be a condition of effective-
ness.
G. Procurement
3.10      Contracts for civil works and equipment financed under the proposed
Bank loan would be grouped, to the extent practicable, into 10 contracts and
would be tendered in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Of these, 5 contracts
totalling about US$152.2 million would be tendered for international competi-
tive bidding. The lower of a 15% preference or prevailing custom duty margin
would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids for equip-
ment under international competitive bidding. Only the major equipment contract
of about US$11.4 million for sprinkler irrigation equipment is likely to be
won by foreign suppliers. Due to the competitiveness of the Yugoslav con-
tracting industry the other 4 ICB contracts are likely to be won by Yugoslav
firms.
3.11      Procurement in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures,
acceptable to the Bank, would be appropriate for the remaining 5 contracts
totalling about US$6.2 million for items such as the diversion tunnel, access
roads, power plant pipeline, buildings, vehicles and telecommunications. The
diversion tunnel, access roads and power plant pipeline have been advance,
contracted and procured locally to avoid delays in project implementation.
Tender documents and selection of contractors for the above components would
be subject to prior Bank review. Buildings, vehicles and telecommunications
procurement (US$1.2 million) would be phased with the construction of major
project components and best be coordinated through small local contracts.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the procurement procedures
outlined in paras. 3.10 and 3.11 would be followed.
H. Retroactive Financing
3.12      Although most of the proposed project is on a normal time path, the
timely construction of two specific components of the project (diversion
tunnel for the dam and bulk water pipeline to the thermal power plant) are
important to financing, viability and justification of the project. Construc-
tion of the project can be achieved in four years only if full use is made of
each annual working season. Construction seasons are limited because of
severe winter conditions, complicated by high water flow early in the year.
Therefore, the diversion tunnel works and access roads construction was begun
in June 1978 to take advantage of the 1978 construction season. A one year



- 20 -
delay would result in a significant increase (about US$20 million) in total
project costs, adversely affecting both the financing plan and the economic
justification. The timely construction of the thermal power pipeline is
equally crucial. If there were a delay in the completion of this project
component, the power plant would be forced to develop alternative sources of
water for an interim period and would not need, or be ready to use, the pipe-
line water until two years later when an additional generating unit is expected
to be installed. In that case, the project agency would be deprived of an
estimated US$10 million in water revenues leaving a gap in the financing plan.
3.13      Advance contracting through local procedures to the extent of US$5.0
million has been necessary for the construction of the diversion tunnel, access
roads and thermal power pipeline. Retroactive financing of these expenditures
up to the amount of US$700,000 is recommended under the project. Contracts
for the diversion tunnel, access roads and thermal pipeline have been awarded
to Yugoslav construction firms.
I. Disbursements
3.14      The proposed Bank loan of US$82 million would be disbursed net of
taxes and import duties over five years as follows:
(a)  Civil works, equipment,             35%
vehicles and building
(US$47.5 million)
(b)  Sprinkler irrigation                100% of foreign expenditures
equipment (US$11.4 million)         and 100% of local expenditures,
ex factory
(c)  Consulting services (US$0.2         100%
million)
(d)  Interest and other charges          Amounts due
on the loan accrued on or
before September 14, 1981
(US$12.3 million)
(e)  Irrigation feasibility studies    40%
(US$0.6 million)
(f) Unallocated (US$10 million)
The grant from SR Macedonia of US$11.1 million and the equity contribution
from Bitola enterprises of US$15.6 million would be used to cover 14% of
the disbursements for construction costs by Vodostopanstvo. The SBS loan of
US$79.5 million would cover 46% and the IBRD loan of US$57.5 million would



- 21 -
cover 35% of the amount disbursed for construction costs. An estimated
schedule of disbursements is in Annex 1, Table 4. Bank disbursements would be
made against standard documentation.
J. Accounts and Audit
3.15      SBS would maintain a separate account for the project.  As required
by Yugoslav law, all banks and enterprises are audited annually by the Social
Accounting Service (SDK) which is acceptable to the Bank. A full unqualified
audit report on SBS for 1976 was produced by SDK following generally accepted
standards. Assurances were obtained that SBS would submit audit report
satisfactory to the Bank, within six months from the end of each fiscal year.
3.16      Vodostopanstvo would establish appropriate record keeping and
reporting procedures. Vodostopanstvo (para. 4.02) would maintain separate
accounts for all financial transactions under the project it would submit
annual reports audited by SDK and acceptable to the Bank within six months of
the end of the fiscal year. Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations. Vodostopanstvo would also recruit qualified accounting personnel
able to handle the requirements arising from the project, including a Financial
Director who would be selected with the concurrance of the Bank. The appoint-
ment of the Financial Director would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
K. Monitoring
3.17      In order to measure project implementation and subsequent performance
against the construction schedule, costs and benefits foreseen during appraisal,
SBS would submit periodic reports to the Bank. These would include data on
project expenditures and on construction of all physical facilities under
various project components. Information brought under irrigation, operation
and maintenance costs and cropping pattern would be submitted annually when
facilities become operational. During negotiations, details of the format in
which the above information would be furnished to the Bank were agreed.
3.18      It was agreed during negotiations that after completion of the
project, but not later than December 31, 1983, SBS would prepare and supply
to the Bank a report on the execution and initial operation of the project,
its costs, the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance of
the Bank and SBS of their respective obligations under the proposed loan
agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the proposed loan.



- 22 -
L. Environmental Effects
3.19      The present uncontrolled flow of the Semnica River during summer
months decreases at times to 0.04 m3/sec. However, a minimum biological dis-
charge from the Strezevo reservoir of 0.20 m3/sec would always be maintained.
This minimum would exceed the historical flow of the river during dry periods
and because of its steady nature would have a salutory effect on the regime
of the river and its environment.
3.20      The areas proposed to be irrigated by the project were once a part
of the Pelagonia swamps. These lands have been reclaimed over the past few
decades. A surface drainage system proposed as an integral part of the irri-
gation network would improve drainage conditions and help support an environ-
ment well suited to human and plant life.
3.21      The availability of safe and adequate water supply to the inhabitants
of the city of Bitola and its vicinity through the year 2000 would be ensured
by the project. At present, a large section of the population is not served
by a dependable supply of hygienic water because of the limited resources of
the town's treatment plant, augmented by heavily mineralized ground water
which is a source of constant complaints by Bitola residents.
3.22      The overall environmental effects of the project are, therefore,
expected to be positive and beneficial.
M. Water Rights
3.23      The Semnica Reka and Baba mountain streams, from which a substantial
portion of water for the project would be drawn, flow into the Crna Reka,
which in turn flows into the Vardar River, which flows through Greece. The
seasonal nature of the flow of the Semnica Reka and Baba mountain streams
is such that water for project use would be drawn primarily during the winter
and stored for summer use; hence, this would not adversely affect the summer
flow of the Vardar River. The Vardar River is the subject of agreements
governing riparian rights between Yugoslavia and Greece. Its provisions
relate particularly to the situation between May and September when the
rivers flow is least. The Government has submitted to the Bank a statement
that the proposed diversions for the project comply with the agreements and
a statement by the Greek Government acknowledging that they have been duly
notified of the proposed works and that the works meet with their agreement.
N. Role of Women
3.24      Yugoslavia has made considerable progress with respect to ensuring
equal opportunity for women. The project has no specific component designed



- 23 -
according to differentiations based on the sex of intended beneficiaries. It
is expected that women will benefit as much as men, and possibly more. More
opportunity for gainful employment of women on individual farms and on social
sector land will be achieved directly under the project, and additional jobs
will be created in other parts of the food delivery system by the increase in
production projected to occur with the project.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Organization
4.01      Borrower.  Stopanska Banka of Skopje would be the borrower under the
guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. SBS would be
responsible for fund mobilization from local banks and Government for on-
lending to Vodostopanstvo, for loan administration and for financial coordina-
tion and supervision. The structure and operation of SBS particularly as they
relate to agricultural lending, are described in Appraisal Report 1316a-YU,
for the Agriculture and Agroindustries II Project - Macedonia, dated January
1977. No material changes took place during 1977.
4.02      Implementing Agency.  The project authority would be the Pelagonija
Water Economy Enterprise (Vodostopanstvo) headquartered at Bitola. This is
a financially autonomous enterprise headed by a workers' council, an executive
committee and a general director. It has successfully completed a large
drainage project in the area, as well as flood and torrent control projects.
The overall responsibility for planning, construction and maintenance of all
project works would rest with Vodostopanstvo. It would finalize designs,
prepare and evaluate the bids, and coordinate construction on all components
of the project. With suitable strengthening and consulting assistance,
Vodostopanstvo is competent to execute and operate the Strezevo Irrigation
project. The Bank would sign a project agreement with Vodostopanstvo, which
would be the subborrower. Vodostopanstvo would as a condition of effective-
ness sign a subsidiary loan agreement with SBS.
B. Vodostopanstvo and BOAL Strezevo
4.03      For efficient project implementation, Vodostopanstvo's organization
and financial structure require some alteration. A separate Basic Organization
of Associated Labor, BOAL Strezevo, would be established within Vodostopanstvo
having as its sole and exclusive responsibility the implementation of the proj-
ect and the operation of the system after it is completed. This organizational
change is consistent with Yugoslav self-management practices, and is necessary
because Vodostopanstvo's current operations are diversified, and because its
financial situation has not strengthened over the last five years. BOAL
Strezevo would operate in a financially autonomous manner (para. 3.16) so that
its assets and cash flow would not be available to support the operation of
other Vodostopanstvo activities and units. However, Vodostopanstvo would be
ultimately responsible for the activities of BOAL Strezevo on the same basis



- 24 -
as for its other constituent BOAL's. BOAL Strezevo would be headed by a
director and would have four separate divisions: exploitation, financial,
technical and general and legal affairs (Chart 4.1). BOAL Strezevo would have
its headquarters in Bitola and its director would be a qualified engineer expe-
rienced in construction, operation and maintenance of similar works, selected
by Vodostopanstvo prior to loan effectiveness and whose qualifications and
experience would be satisfactory to the Bank. The director designate of BOAL
Strezevo participated in negotiations. Assurances were also obtained that
Vodostopanstvo would appoint other key staff by December 31, 1978. Adequate
number of qualified professionals exist in Macedonia, permitting timely ful-
fillment of this requirement. Any further reorganization within Vodostopanstvo
affecting BOAL Strezevo would require prior Bank approval.  Bitola Commune and
SRM would cover in full any financial deficit of BOAL Strezevo during the
early years of system operation, while water charges are being phased up to
the full development level, until BOAL Strezevo is financially self-sufficient
(Annex 1, Table 5, and para. 6.15). Assurances with respect to these matters
were obtained during negotiations. Appointment of the Director of BOAL
Strezevo would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
C. Project Implementation
4.04      Responsibility for designs and procurement would rest with
Vodostopanstvo while the implementation and supervision of construction
would be under the control of BOAL Strezevo.
D. Operation and Maintenance
4.05      The irrigation works including the Strezevo Dam would be operated
and maintained by BOAL Strezevo assisted by Melioprojekt and Hidroelectro-
projekt. Vodostopanstvo would arrange, at intervals of not more than five
years, formal safety inspections of the dam and appurtenant structures.
Inspection reports would identify actual or potential deficiencies in the
condition of these structures or in the quality of their maintenance or
methods of operation which may endanger their safety, and specify necessary
remedial measures. A copy of each report would be forwarded to the Bank.
4.06      The irrigation works including the dam would be operated and main-
tained by the three sector offices of the exploitation division of BOAL
Strezevo (Chart 4.1). Each sector would serve about 7,000 ha and would be
staffed by a maintenance engineer and his assistants. Each sector would have
a technical services center and would include a suitable communication link
with Bitola. The staff would also record areas irrigated and hours of irri-
gation and prepare water use data.
4.07      Every year in August, Vodostopanstvo would prepare a plan of system
operation for the following year including cropping patterns, movement of
portable sprinkler equipment, and deployment of labor for the social and the
individual sectors. This annual plan would be submitted to the Commune



-25-
Chart 4.1
APPRAISAL OF
MACEDONIA STREZEVO IRRIGATION PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Organization Chart
of
Water Economy Enterprise Pelagonia - Vodostopanstvo
and
Boal Strezevo
VODOSTOPANSTVO
|    HEAD O      SE
GEEAL  EAL      TCHIADIVISION                IGTO IVISFNNIA IISION
AFFAITEC                                        RGIOFN
BOAL STREZEVO
HEAD OFFICE
GENERAL& DIS          T TECHNICAL DIVISION    [EXPLOITATION DIVISION  FINANCIAL DIVISION
AFFAIRS DIVISION
PLANNING &1
DESIGN    J             SECTOR I
REPAIRS &                SECTOR II 1
MAINTENANCE l                         J
MACHINERY  1              SECTOR III  l
&TRANSPORT                                         Ba____I
World Bank - 18577



- 26 -
Assembly for approval. In addition, Vodostopanstvo would prepare and submit
to the Bank by 1980 a detailed plan which would govern the operation and
replacement of portable irrigation equipment in the individual sector.
Assurances relating to operation and maintenance were obtained during
negotiations (paras 4.05-4.07).
E. Consultants
4.08      The project would provide funds for local consultants who have com-
pleted preliminary and some final design of the project. These consultants
would complete final design, prepare and evaluate bid documents and supervise
construction. These consultants are acceptable to the Bank. Vodostopanstvo
has agreed to retain foreign consultants to review final design of the pipe
network and assist in preparing tenders. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms of
employment satisfctory to the Bank would be engaged to periodically inspect
the Strezevo dam, waterway earthworks and reservoir banks and their appur-
tenant structures constructed under the project at intervals of not less than
five years in accordance with appropriate engineering practice. The first of
such inspections to start not later than December 31, 1983.
F. Training
4.09      Sprinkler irrigation, relatively new in Macedonia, requires special
skills for operation. Specialized training for key professionals would be
arranged during the construction period. Training would cover efficient
sprinkler system operation, maintenance, and movement of portable field equip-
ment. Training in operating techniques is envisaged with existing sprinkler
systems. Additional instruction at sprinkler factories would cover equipment
repair and establishment of servicing workshops. Assurance were obtained
during negotiations that a training program, including an annual training plan,
would be proposed and agreed with the Bank by July 31, 1979.
G. Right of Way
4.10      Land acquisition for rights of way and property compensation in
agricultural projects is handled by the Republic authorities, with funds pro-
vided by the Republic. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
land and rights to land and property would be acquired in a timely manner to
avoid delays in project implementation.



- 27 -
H. Agricultural Supporting Services
4.11      The social sector is responsible for agricultural development of
24,000 hectares in the Strezevo and Bucin areas, and ZIK Pelagonija is the
organization set up for this purpose. Its staff of 3,300 works in 12 differ-
ent Basic Organizations for Associated Labor (BOAL's). Three deal with agri-
culture and livestock, six are industrial (sugar factory, yeast and alcohol
factor, brewery, animal feed mill, poultry farm and dairy plant), one deals
with transport and two with trade and cooperation with individual farmers.
ZIK Pelagonija includes an Agricultural Development Center with experts for
different crops, specialists for plant protection, mechanization, irrigation,
*          soil surveys, seed production and control, livestock, analysis and planning;
plus an experimental farm and two laboratories, one for pedology and agro-
chemistry, the other for seed control. The Agricultural Development Center
serves in a research and advisory role to improve husbandry and efficiency in
the social sector. It also serves the individual sector through demonstrations
of the crops and livestock grown by ZIK, and also through direct assistance.
Another organization, Lozar, engaged in wine production, deal with orchard and
vineyard production in the project area.
4.12      The individual sector farms 10,800 hectares of the Strezevo project.
Individual farmers cannot own more than 10 hectares cultivated land. They
must follow self-management agreements adopted by the Commune of Bitola
concerning varieties to be grown, minimum amounts of fertilizer to be applied,
etc. (para. 5.15-5.17). Agricultural inspectors responsible for agriculture,
livestock, and irrigation in the SRM Secretariat of Agriculture supervise
these agreements. ZIK's Cooperation Center BOAL, which purchases inputs for
ZIK, also assists and advises individual farmers through six cooperative units
in the Strezevo area. Each unit has a specific geographical responsibility,
is equipped with stores for inputs, and provides seeds, fertilizers, pest-
icides and herbicides and other inputs to farmers.   The Center assists
individual sector land preparation and harvesting with equipment belonging
to ZIK. Land preparation is mainly undertaken by the Cooperation Center for
sugar beet, which requires deep plowing and subsoiling which the individual
farmers are unable to do with their small tractors. Harvesting is done with
combine harversters for cereals and cornpickers for maize, paid for on a per
hectare basis. In addition to the assistance provided by the Agricultural
Development Center and the cooperative units of ZIK, two other organizations
assist individual farmers. The Center for Individual Farmers financed 50% by
the Republic and 50% by the Commune has extension agents belonging to the
Department of Agriculture who advise individual farmers. Processing factories
assist farmers working under contract through extension agents specialized in
the crop the factory buys. For farmers working under contract, inputs are
provided through loans in kind repaid at harvest time with an interest rate of
6% (plus 6% subsidy from the Government). During 1976-77, all credit was
repaid at the time the harvest was sold to the unit.
4.13      The different organizations responsible for extension work would be
reinforced for project implementation, providing more assistance to both sec-
tors. From a present average of one extension agent for 140 hectares in the



- 28 -
individual sector, the average would reach one extension agent for 80 hectares.
Factories directly interested in the improvement of production in the Strezevo
project would continue to play a role of primary importance.
I. Fertilizers, Pesticides and Herbicides
4.14      Today the social sector applies more chemical fertilizers than the
individual sector, where consumption is mainly for crops grown under contract.
Manure is produced and applied in both sectors. To achieve the high yields
expected with the project, fertilizer consumption over the project's 20,300
hectares would substantially increase to more than 14,000 tons of chemicals
and almost 100,000 tons of manure annually. Chemical fertilizers are mainly
composites locally manufactured from imported raw material for phosphates and
potash; nitrogen fertilizers are locally produced. Annex 1, Table 6 lists for
each crop the types of fertilizers to be used and application per hectare.
Use of pesticides and herbicides would increase with the project, and pro-
jected yields would be sensitive to their rational use. Their proper appli-
cation would be one of the main tasks of the extension agents.
J. Seeds
4.15      Part of the seeds used in the Strezevo project would be selected
seeds produced by ZIK Pelagonija, which expects to set up a new division for
seed production, in addition to the existing division for seed control.
Seeds not produced by ZIK would be produced in other parts of the country or
imported. Seeds are provided free of charged by Jogotutun for tobacco grown
under contract. Oil seeds and sugar beet seeds are provided by the respec-
tive factories.
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
5.01      The project would permit a five-fold increase agricultural production
over the social and individual sectors, with irrigation available for all crops
on 20,300 hectares. Land use would be intensified through double cropping.
A. Present Cropping Pattern
5.02      The social sector is highly mechanized, using modern husbandry
methods, fertilizers, efficient pest and disease control, and selected seeds.
Nevertheless good summer crops plus double cropping is not feasible with rain-
fed cultivation. Wheat is the main winter crop, grown over almost 5,000
hectares, with an average yield of 3.8 ton per hectare. The main summer crops



- 29 -
are sunflower, maize and sugar beet grown over a total of 3,700 ha with yields
which depend upon the rains. Annex 1, Table 7 shows the present cropping
pattern.
5.03      The individual sector is much less developed with lower yields.
Although mechanization is already well underway, draught animals continue to
be used on the very small farms with resulting seasonal underemployment of
draught power. In addition to cereals and industrial crops, some high value
crops such as tobacco and summer vegetables are grown with some supplementary
irrigation from wells. Annex 1, Table 8 details the existing cropping pattern.
B. Future Cropping Patterns
5.04      In the absence of the project there would be no significant changes
in social sector cropping patterns and the cropping intensity would not be
increased, except in response to changes in input costs and produce prices.
In the individual sector it is expected that a trend of modestly increasing
productivity would continue.
5.05      Under the project, the social sector would follow a 3-year rotation
with cereals, sugar beet and industrial crops (maize, sunflower, soyabeans and
a small amount of tobacco), including some high value crops, mainly industrial
pepper production, which can be partly mechanized. Wheat reduced to the
minimum required for purposes of the crop rotation would be followed by a
second crop, maize silage, during the summer season; fodder peas would follow
soyabeans and sunflower. Orchards and vineyards would be replanted and their
acreage slightly increased with better and more productive varieties. Alfalfa
would be partly consumed as hay or fresh forage and partly sold to the feed
mill for alfalfa meal production (Annex 1, Table 10).
5.06      In the individual sector high value labor intensive crops would
create employment and increase returns to the smallest farms. On the larger
farms partially mechanized industrial tomato and pepper production would be
undertaken (para. 5.12). A 3-year cropping pattern on these farms would
permit forage production as a second crop. Alfalfa would be consumed on the
farm by dairy cattle and sheep raised for family consumption. Late and winter
vegetables would be grown over more than one thousand hectares. Orchards and
vineyards would be renewed and extended. Wine would be produced on the farm
for family consumption, and grapes and other fruits would be grown for the
local market (Annex 1, Table 11).
C. Yields and Production
5.07      The social sector and to a lesser extent the individual sector are
already able to provide good yields for crops suited to the climatic condi-
tions, mainly wheat. Under irrigation with the project, yields and production



- 30 -
could be greatly improved. It has been assumed that yields of the social
sector would reach higher levels than the individual sector, due to more
advanced technology and the greater use of inputs. By the fifth year full
development for enterprises other than orchards and vineyards would be reached
in the social sector and substantially realized in the individual sector.
5.08      For wheat receiving one irrigation in the social sector, a yield of
5.5 tons per hectare would be reached, compared to 4 tons in the individual
sector under rainfed conditions. Yields of sugar beet would reach 60 and 50
tons respectively, maize 7 and 5.5 tons, tobacco 2.5 and 2.2, etc. Overall
production would widely increase from a total of 92,000 tons of biomass in
1977 to almost 600,000 tons with the project, mainly due to increments in
sugar beet and forage.
5.09      Sugar beet would produce the highest revenues in the social sector,
tobacco and vegetables in the individual sector (Annex 1, Tables 10 and 11).
D. Cropping Calendar
5.10      Chart 5.1 gives for each crop the growing period and the month by
month working days in the individual sector. This Chart shows that maize
forage grown as a second crop must be sown very rapidly after wheat harvest-
ing - 2,500 hectares in the social sector and 500 hectares in the individual
sector would have to be plowed and sown in no more than 3 weeks. There is
enough machinery to do the work in time. Land preparation and sowing of
fodder peas would follow soyabean and sunflower harvesting. Early sowing of
short growing varieties of soyabeans and sunflower would permit greater forage
production. April and the beginning of May would be the peak period for sow-
ing and transplanting, and August and September for harvesting. Sugar beet
harvesting would extend over a longer period, but not beyond the end of
October because of transportation problems on slippery dirt roads. Timing
requirements are rigorous but not beyond the resources and capability of
cultivators in all but exceptionally adverse circumstances.
E. Farm Mechanization
5.11      The social sector is already fully mechanized, and ZIK Pelgonija
has a fleet of 240 tractors with implements (100 working in the Strezevo proj-
ect area), and 80 combine harvesters. With the project a more intensive crop-
ping pattern would be followed, requiring more tractors. With wheat production
decreasing, no incremental combine harvesters would be required. Additional
equipment for maize-silage is necessary, as are sugar beet harvesters for the
2,500 hectares of sugar beet to be grown every year.
5.12      In the individual sector 380 tractors belonging to farmers are
already working, although they are underutilized. In addition, the ZIK Coop-
eration Center has 36 tractors (70 hp to 90 hp) strong enough for deep plowing



-31 -
and subsoiling for sugar beet cultivation. With the project the higher crop-
ping intensity would require more tractors. Many local people who have left
to work in foreign countries would have an incentive return to the project
area when irrigation starts, and would be able to buy the equipment they need.
Dairy production on the large private farms would require harvesting machines
for maize silage production; such equipment would be bought by the Cooperation
Center and rented to farmers for harvesting. Very small project farms, which
presently use draught animals, would be expected to mechanize. Motor culti-
vators are not yet used in the project area, but it is projected that 50
motorcultivators would be bought during the first 5 years of the project.
F. Drying and Storage
5.13      During summer months, hours of sunshine are quite high and the
farmers have sufficient outdoor drying areas in their villages to handle
their wheat and barley crops. Drying is somewhat more difficult for hay
making when rains exceed the average. Some social sector alfalfa is sold
fresh to the feed mill, which is equipped with dryers, some is consumed fresh,
and the remainder is used for hay. Maize grown in the social sector is sold
to the feed mill or to the Zitomakedonija flour factory in Bitola which has
storage facilities and is equipped for drying if necessary. In the individual
sector the drying and storage of maize and alfalfa hay is handled largely
according to traditional methods, which are expected to remain adequate. Most
of the forage produced with the project would be for silage which would be
stored in pits lined and covered with plastic sheets to avoid pollution. The
main problem in silage production would be to train farmers to compress the
green mass sufficiently to avoid aerobe fermentation. The responsibility for
the storage of crops grown under contract rests with the factory concerned.
For tobacco, Jogotutun provides assistance to farmers for construction of
sheds where the leaves are dried before the are sorted and wrapped by size and
quality for delivery to the factory. Grading and packing centers for fruit
and vegetable production would be set up with storage capacity for fruits sold
to consumers during the winter.
G. Land Use Rationalization
5.14      Land use rationalization with irrigation in the social sector should
not pose any unusual problems beyond the managerial capability of ZIK
Pelagonija. Its land is consolidated and cropping patterns are already the
subject of considerable planning and attention.
5.15      Land use rationalization with irrigation in the individual sector
will be a complex process because of institutional factors. Wholesale land
consolidation is not to be attempted because it is politically unacceptable.
In addition, fragmentation of holdings is perceived by many farmers to have



- 32 -
certain advantages as a hedge against dispossession. Therefore, land owner-
ship patterns will not be changed to accommodate the introduction of irriga-
tion. Because of the extensive fragmentation of holdings which presently
exists, farmers have devised methods of cooperation to ensure that land use
is rationalized to the extent required to obtain economies of scale suffi-
cient to justify the use of farm machinery and to ensure access to plots for
machinery, to exclude animals from land where they could destroy crops, to
facilitate mutual assistance and to take advantage of economies in marketing.
Such cooperation is encouraged by the arrangements under which farmers
voluntarily enter into contracts with social sector produce buyers. Land
use rationalization under irrigation is expected to be based on this strong
local institution of voluntary cooperation among farmers with respect to land
use decision making.
5.16      Centralized efforts to rationalize land use decisions on the
thousands of small, fragmented holdings involved would not be able to achieve
the flexibility required to ensure that land use patterns harmonize with labor
availability and other factors of importance to farmers. These inefficiencies
will not be entirely eliminated by the proposed decentralized system, and some
of the potential benefits from irrigation of individual sector lands will not
be realized because of institutional problems related to land use rationaliza-
tion. The rate of adoption of the proposed cropping pattern in the sector
reflects these and other factors, and full development yields have been esti-
mated conservatively to reflect this probability. The proposed land use
rationalization arrangements are nevertheless regarded as optimal. Attempts
at maximization through forced land consolidation or centralized decision-
making would involve economic and social diseconomies judged to outweigh the
benefits foregone under the proposed arrangements.
5.17      Land use rationalization in both sectors would be within the legal
framework of land tenure in Macedonia. In 1976, the Socialist Republic of
Macedonia passed legislation covering land use rationalization for the produc-
tion of industrial crops and to take advantage of mechanization, drainage, and
irrigation. The Republic Law has to be implemented through a Commune decision
in which basic criteria are established for land and water use, which would
require Vodostopanstvo to prepare an annual plan. This plan would provide for
the rational use of land taking into consideration the layout of the irriga-
tion network, the cropping pattern, crop rotation, water use, labor avail-
ability and requirements, mechanization and arrangements for the disposition
of agriculture products, considering the capacities of processing facilities
and local and external markets. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that the land use procedures outlined in paras. 5.14 through 5.17 would be
followed.
VI. MARKET PROSPECTS, PROCESSING, FARM INCOMES AND PROJECT CHARGES
A. Market Prospects and Processing Requirements
6.01      The changes in output of agricultural production which will result
from the provision of irrigation water to project area farmers are consistent



- 33 -
with the projected changes in demand for agricultural produce which accompany
rising disposable income in Yugoslavia, with goals of agricultural self-
sufficiency at the Republic and national levels and with projected export
demand. Also, increased production will permit the fuller utilization of pro-
cessing facilities already in place which serve the project area (para 2.09).
At the same time, the incremental output from the project area at full devel-
opment would not have a material impact on Yugoslavia's total agricultural
product. Tobacco at 3.5% and sugar at 2.5% of respective national totals
are the only processed crops for which Bitola Commune will account for more
than 1.0% of Yugoslavia's projected 1985 production. Macedonia accounts for
higher proportions of Yugoslavia's fresh fruit production, and marketing
channels are well developed with nearby importing countries. No significant
marketing problems are expected to constrain the growth projected with the
project. However, certain investments in processing and related activities
would be required to cope with the increase in project area production, and
during negotiations the SRM ensured that the finance required for complementary
investments at the farm level and in transport and processing would be made
available to implement the project (Annex 1, Table 13).
6.02      Crop production is highly diversified in the project area.  Purely
industrial crops include sugarbeet, oilseeds and tobacco. Other categories
consist of cereals, vegetables, fruit and livestock products.
Sugarbeet production in project area will increase by 7.5 times over
the project development period. The sugar mill in Bitola will double its
capacity to 300,000 tons of beet, which exceed the output projected for the
project. Yugoslavia, currently an importer of sugar, is expected to reach
self-sufficiency in sugar by 1980, and projected increases in production after
1980 are expected to balance growth in domestic consumption.
Oilseed production is expected to increase by 28% over the project
development period. Output will be purchased by the processing plant in Titov
Veles which in 1977 achieved a capacity utilization factor of only 70%. Proj-
ect area volume at full development would equal about 15% of the factory's
present capacity. Yugoslavia is expected to remain a net importer of vegetable
oil until about 1980, following which production is expected to increase at
approximately the same rate as domestic demand.
Tobacco production is expected to increase nine-fold under the proj-
ect. Jugotutun, the tobacco monopoly, has a processing plant in Bitola which
prepares the small leaf crop for other factories which manufacture tobacco
products for domestic consumption and export. Yugoslav domestic sales and
exports of tobacco are projected to increase at a rate which will accommodate
fully the incremental production of the project area, and the plant in Bitola
will expand its capacity by one-third by 1985 and by an additional 88% as
required.
6.03      Cereals production will change greatly in composition.  Wheat output
will decline to a level determined by its usefulness in a rotation with sugar-
beet, and all output, as at appraisal, will be processed locally. Barley will
be phased out altogether. Maize production will increase, but at full develop-
ment Bitola Commune will remain a maize deficit area.



- 34 -
Vegetable production is projected to increase by 82,095 tons during
project development. Output will be diversified in terms of variety and
seasonal availability. On-farm consumption is expected to increase, and
consumers will find a varied selection of vegetables available in the local
market. Incremental output under the project will provide the basis for
rejuvination of the vegetable processing industry in Bitola. The local
canning factory operated at about two-thirds of its 16,000 ton capacity in
the mid-1970's, and obtained raw materials from as far as 150 km from
Botola. It plans to undertake modernization and expansion of 50,000 tons
capacity to accomodate increased local output. Management expects these
changes to occur under a revised structure resulting from a merger with
ZIK Pelagonija. The canning factory has export links with West Germany and
other countries, and its expansion is consistent with Macedonian Government
projections of national and export demand for its products. Fruit production
will pass through the same channels as vegetables, and in addition supply
the Lozar winery, which plans to expand its activities to include frozen
fruit. Its wine making capacity will expand almost four-fold to accommodate
increased production from the project and other areas and a fruit juice
factory is foreseen whose construction is contingent upon a dependable water
supply, which would be provided with the project. Yugoslavia is an exporter
of wines and fresh fruit, and its export volume is expected to increase
over the development of the project. Domestic consumption is projected to
increase by more than 5% per annum.
6.04      Livestock production is expected to expand under the project,
primarily in the form of dairying. Irrigation will permit sizeable increases
in fodder production and in the availability of by-products suitable for con-
sumption by livestock. The animal feedmill capacity would be almost doubled
from 45,000 to 80,000 tons. Output of milk and milk products is expected to
triple. This level of production requires the expansion of dairy processing
capacity in Bitola. Discussions were underway in 1977 regarding the replace-
ment of the presently outmoded 4,000 ton dairy by a plant with a capacity of
30,000 tons annually. Macedonia is not likely to achieve self-sufficiency
in milk production for quite some time to come, and Yugoslavia will become
self-sufficiency only in mid-1980's. Yugoslavia is also a net importer of
meat. Meat production is projected to increase by 2.4 times under the proj-
ect, and at full development output is expected to supply less than half of
the raw material requirement of the present slaughtering facilities in
Biotla. New slaughterhouse with processing facilities is under construction
140 kilometers from Bitola, which could, if necessary, absorb all the animal
production from the project.
B. Farm Incomes
6.05      There are 5,500 farms in the individual sector.  Farm budgets have
been prepared for the eight representative model farms, based on the farm size
distribution. Farm sizes, number and major operation under irrigation are as
listed below:



- 35 -
Farm Model   Farm Size   Number of Farms   % of Holdings   Major Operation
Farm A         0.8 ha           1,500               27%         Tobacco/Vegetables
Farm B         0.8 ha           1,000               18%         Vegetables
Farm C         1.75 ha          1,000               18%         Tobacco/Vegetables
Farm D         1.75 ha             700              13%         Vegetables/Tobacco
Farm E         3.5 ha             400                7%         Vegetable/Dairy
Farm F         3.5 ha             400                7%         Industrial Crop/Fruit
Farm G         6.0 ha              200               4%         Industrial Crop/Fruit
Farm H         6.0 ha              300               6%         Vegetable/Fruit
6.06      Under the present rainfed conditions, farmers' opportunities for
specialization are restricted. Therefore, present cropping pattern for farms
of the same size are assumed to be identical, except for 6.0 ha farms. The
present cropping pattern for the 6.0 ha farms are differentiated depending on
whether they carry on dairy operations (Farm G) or not (Farm H). The future
cropping pattern without project is expected to remain the same as at present.
The cropping patterns at present, in future, with and without project for
each model farm are given in Annex 1, Table 14. The total dairy cow holdings
of individual sector farmers in the projet area would increase from 1600 at
present to 3200. The increase is expected to be achieved under Farm Model E
(from 300 heads to 700 heads on 400 farms) and under Farm Model G (from 800
heads to 2000 heads on 200 farms). No changes in sheep holdings are expected.
6.07      The average size of farm households in the project area is about six
and does not vary much depending on farm size. Labor use profiles were con-
structed for each of the eight models, and indicate that the farms represented
by the four smallest models would provide a labor surplus available for employ-
ment at peak periods on the four largest types of farms. Hired labor is
costed at market wages of Din 150 per day.
6.08      Under full development, water charges for irrigation are expected
to be Din 6,680/ha (US$370) at the January, 1978 price level (para 6.16).
6.09      The results of farm budget analysis are summarized in Table 6.1
and details are given in Annex 1, Table 15. The present agricultural income
for farmers ranges from Din 10,340 (US$570) for a 0.8 ha farm to Din 51,100
(US$2,840) for a 6.0 ha farm with dairy operations. The average agricultural
income per capita amounts to Din 2,350 (US$130). Agricultural income consti-
tutes only 30% to 40% of the total income for families on small farms while
families on large farms derive most of their income from agriculture. The
average income of the farmers consists of about 50% from their own land,
and the rest from outside employment. Thus, the average income per capita of
the individual farmer was about Din 4,700 (US$260) in 1976. It is estimated
that 80-90% of the individual farmers earn less than the relative poverty
level (US$350 in 1976 dollars for Yugoslavia).



- 36 -
Table 6.1: SUMMARY FARM BUDGETS
Farm                              Farm Incomes                       Per Capita
Model                 Present   Future    Present   Future    Present   Future
----- Din ------    --------------- US$ ----------------
Farm A (0.8 ha)        10,340    39,010         570     2,170        100       360
Farm B (0.8 ha)        10,340    33,360         570     1,850        100       310
Farm C (1.75 ha)       11,390    68,150         630     3,790        110       630
Farm D (1.75 ha)       11,390    76,680         630     4,260        110       710
Farm E (3.5 ha)        18,190    67,110       1,010     3,730       170        620
Farm F (3.5 ha)        18,190   106,210       1,010     5,900        170       980
Farm G (6.0 ha)       51,100   184,060       2,840    10,230        470      1,700
Farm H (6.0 ha)       38,000   175,350       2,110      9,740       350      1,620
6.10      With the full development of the project, the average agricultural
income per capita would increase to Din 11,200 (US$620) from the present level
of Din 2,350 (US$130). Assuming no changes in off-farm employment opportuni-
ties, the average income from all sources for individual sector farmers would
be Din 13,500 (US$750). Most of the farmers with holdings of 1 ha or more
earn substantially more than the relative poverty level. For the two smallest
model farms of 0.8 ha holdings (Models A & B), the effect of the project on
agricultural income is also significant. Agricultural income per capital
would increase from Din 1,720 (US$100) to Din 6,500 (US$360) for Farm A (260%)
and Din 5,560 (US$310) for Farm B (200%). Assuming no changes in off-farm
employment opportunities, the earnings per capita of Farms A from all sources
would reach US$510 (100% increase) and B would reach US$460 (80% increase).
At full development, about 5% to 15% of the individual sector farmers would
remain below the relative poverty level.
6.11       In the social sector, virtually all of the land is operated by a
single agroindustrial kombinat, ZIK Pelagonija. The average per capita income
for ZIK workers was approximately US$580 in 1976 and few earn less than the
relative poverty level. With the project, the net income from agricultural
production for ZIK is expected to grow from Din 62 million to Din 250 million
at full development. As a result of the project, the wages for ZIK workers
are expected to increase substantially. ZIK is a diversified agroindustry
kombinat, whose workers' wages are determined not only by agricultural produc-
tion but also by earnings of its other agroindustry operations. Although the
above fact makes the estimate of future wages difficult, the average wage
could be at least double the present level of US$580. All the ZIK workers
would earn substantially more than the relative poverty level at full develop-
ment.
C. Project Charges and Cost Recovery
6.12      Proposed Water Charges.  Users of the water of the three project
components, i.e., farmers, Bitola Water Authority (Vodovod) and thermal power
plant (Electrostopanstvo), agreed through a series of water user agreements



- 37 -
on a system of water charges. These charges were negotiated amo-.Sg all parties
concerned, with village assemblies representing farmers, and appear to be
based on ability-to-pay criteria as well as a concern that construction,
operation and maintenance costs of the system be borne largely by direct bene-
ficiaries. For irrigation, the average rate of Din 2/m3 at full development
is agreed by Yugoslav parties involved in the project. Since the estimated
cost of equipping and monitoring all farmers with individual meters is pro-
hibitive, it has been decided that farmers would pay differentiated per
hectare charges based on water requirements calculated for their crops. This
is common practice in Yugoslavia, and provides an equitable mechanism of cost
sharing when individual meters are not available. It has also been agreed
that the irrigation charges would be gradually increased to the full develop-
ment level in order to alleviate the financial burden of farmers during the
early years of operations as farmers move towards full development. Even
though farmers in both sectors are expected to pay the same charges at full
development, the charges during the phasing-in period for the individual
sector farmers will start at a lower level and increase at a slower rate.
Full water rates would not be implemented before 1986, and based on 1978 cost
and price projections, they would be reached about 1987 for the social sector
and 1989 for the individual sector. The actual dates and phasing would be
determined on the basis of annual water charge reviews to be undertaken by
Vodostopanstvo. The finalization of the water user agreements would be a
condition of effectiveness. As shown in Annex 1, Table 5, the initial level
of irrigation water charges causes operational deficits to Vodostopanstvo
during the first four years of operations. The Commune of Bitola and SRM
would cover such operational deficits through the provision of additional
funds on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.03).
6.13      Based on the average water requirements of 3,850 m3/ha for the
social sector and 3,340 m3/ha for the individual sector, irrigation charges
at full development would be Din 7,700/ha for the social sector and Din
6,680/ha for the individual sector. Electrostopanstvo has guaranteed to
purchase 12 million m3 per year at Din 8.12/m3. On the other hand, water
sales to Vodovod would depend on the demand for potable water. The proposed
rates for this component are Din 4/m3 for domestic users and Din 8/m3 for
industrial and institutional users. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the water charges listed in paras 6.12 and 6.13, beginning
in 1980 for supply of water to the thermal power plant and in 1982 for all
other uses would be effective.
6.14      In order to evaluate the adequacy of the proposed project charges,
two indices have been used which are defined as follows for this project.
(a) Cost recovery index. The ratio of the present value of water
charges to be paid by project water users to the present value
of project investment, operation and maintenance costs.
(b) Project Charges/Incremental Benefits Ratio. The ratio of the
present value of water charges to be paid by farmers to the
present value of incremental income accruing to farmers. All
project charges, costs and benefits in 1978 constant dinar are
discounted at 10% over the 60-year life of the project.



Table 6.2 Project Charges/Incremental Benefits Ratio
0.8 ha Farm        1.75 ha Farm          3.50 ha Farm           6 ha Farm
Farm A  Farm B     Farm C  Farm D       Farm E   Farm F       Farm G  Farm H
 ---------------       _______-----Din-----   -    -   -  -   -   -  -    -
At Full Project Developmen,
Cash Income (After Taxes)
Present                                   10,340   10,340    11,390   11,390       18,190    18,190      51,100   38,000
Future without project                    12,360   12,360    13,450   13,450       20,420    20,420      53,750   43,260
Future with project (before water charge) 44,350   38,700    79,840   88,370       90,490   129,590    224,140  215,430
Incremental cash income                   31,990   26,340    66,390   74,920       70,070   109,170    170,390  172,170
Water Charges                                 5,340    5,340    11,690   11,690      23,380    23,380      40,080   40,080
Project Charges/Incremental Benefits Ratio      17%      20%      18%      16%         33%       21%         24%      23%
Discounted At 10% Over the Life of the Project
Incremental Cash Income                    175,650  141,660   360,380  403,810    345,600   504,740    689,100  768,260
Water Charges1/                              26,200   26,200    57,300   57,300    114,500   114,500    196,390  196,390
Project Charges/IncrementalBenefits Ratio      15%      18%       16%       14%        33%       23%         28%      26%
Estimated Rent Recovery Index2/                25%      31%       29%       28%        79%       40%         70%      46%
1/ Average Full Development Rate.
2/ Using conventional project criteria for quantifying returns to
risk, management and return on investment.
July 1978
ft                                               *      a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 39 -
6.15      Cost Recovery Analysis.  The summary of cost recovery analysis is
given in Annex 1, Table 16. The construction cost of Din 2,597 million (base
cost plus physical contingencies) and annual O&M costs of Din 42 million are
charged against the project. The present value of construction and O&M costs
discounted at 10% is Din 2,336 million. At the full development level start-
ing in 1989, the water charges from irrigation would be Din 145.3 million
annually. Water charges from the town water supply component would expand
through 2001 with population growth and economic activity in the area served.
Water charges projected for 2001 are Din 128.2 million in 1978 values. The
water charges from the thermal power plant would remain Din 74.3 million
throughout the life of the project. The present value of total charges is
Din 2,132 million, 36% of which comes from sale of irrigation water, 35% from
sale of water to the thermal power plant and 29% from sale of water to Commune
of Bitola. The cost recovery index for the whole project is 91%. As for the
irrigation component alone, the proposed charges would enable Vodostopanstvo
to recover 100% of O&M costs and 28% of the capital investment costs over the
life of the project.
6.16      Project Charges/Incremental Benefits Ratio Analysis.  The project
charges/incremental benefits ratios have been calculated for the eight model
farms. The results are given in Table 6.2, showing the ratios ranging from
14% (Farm D) to 33% (Farm E). The two analyses, cost recovery analysis and
project charges/incremental benefits ratio analysis indicate that the proposed
average water charges are reasonable for the following reasons:
(a)  Vodostopanstvo can recover a reasonable portion of the project
costs;
(b)  the level of water charges seems to be in line with the farmers'
ability to pay;
(c)  the larger farmers (Model E, F, G, H) pay out a higher propor-
tion of their incremental income for water charges compared with
smaller farmers (Model A, B, C, D), which appears to be consistent
with equity consideration.
An assurance was obtained during negotiation that these analyses should be
revised by Vodostopanstvo prior to the first water, incorporating up-to-date
information, so that water rate or other adjustments could be recommended if
necessary, especially as related to cropping patterns.
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Justification
7.01      The proposed project would increase yields and permit a more produc-
tive cropping pattern to be implemented on 20,300 ha through irrigation and
land development. It would directly benefit approximately 5,500 individual



- 40 -
farm families operating their own holdings whose average per capita incomes
are expected to expand by orders ranging from 2.6 to 6.4 times (paras. 6.12-
6.13), and about 3,600 families deriving a major source of income from employ-
ment in social sector agribusiness. These direct beneficiaries would number
about 50,000. The project would contribute to the realization of self-
sufficiency objectives for major crops. The project area is depressed rela-
tively to the average for Macedonia, which is one of the less developed parts
of Yugoslavia. Construction of the project will create considerable employ-
ment, and the production possibilities it will offer when in operation create
a permanent increase in opportunities for gainful occupation in the project
aroa. The project cost per hectare is US$6,012, excluding price contingencies,
which compares favorably with Bank financed investment in irrigation in other
parts of Yugoslavia.
7.02      Estimated pre-project and full development yields and production are
presented in Chapter V. Financial prices used in appraisal are those prevail-
ing at the start of 1978. With minor exceptions, projected economic farm gate
prices were obtained by adjusting financial prices, using individual factors
for each input and produce category, based on opportunity costs, taxation and
subsidies, and other values as appropriate. Traded agricultural produce
'-- "'i"", sunflower, soyabeans, sugar beet, milk and meat) is valued at
the nurder price. Where IBRD commodity price projections are available,
border prices through 1985 are used, expressed in January 1978 Dinars. Post
1985 economic prices are expected to be equal to those prevailing in 1985.
Where no such projections are used, the January 1978 border price is projected
to apply over the life of the project.  Input prices were determined as fol-
lows: seed costs were expected to alter in the same manner as relevant produce
prices. Fertilizer was converted to a border price to reflect a 20% subsidy
on imports, and projected through 1985 on the basis of IBRD projections.
Pesticide and herbicide financial prices did not require adjustment, and were
projected as being stable in constant Dinar terms over the life of the project.
Labor costs are projected to remain constant in real terms. Social sector
labor costs were deflated by 0.83 to reflect tax levels of 45% (1/1.45 = .69).
Family labor in the individual sector was valued at its opportunity cost,
Din 120 per day the going casual wage rate, in January 1978 dinars. Hired
labor in the individual sector was valued at its financial cost, which is also
its opportunity cost.
7.03      Using this data, a with vs. without project comparison was con-
structed for agriculture in the project area on the assumption that produc-
tivity without the project would remain constant, except for an increase of
2% annually based on historical experience and reasonable expectations, with
respect to arable enterprises in the individual sector over the project
development period. The incremental net benefit stream from agriculture
before water charges was used as an input into rate of return calculations.
7.04      Flood control benefis will accrue under the project.  However, the
incremental level of such benefits is negligible because present earthworks
and canalization of the major rivers provide adequate protection against



- 41 -
highi water in an estimated 49 years out of 50. Under the project the level
of protection would be raised to an estimated 99 years out of 100. Given
the small incremental and the speculative nature of such projections, analyti-
cal economy was served by inserting a nominal value for flood control into
the incremental benefit stream. The value selected, Din 6 million annually,
or about 1% of the annual incremental net benefit from arable crop production
at full development.
7.05      Income from the sale of bulk water to the thermal power plant and to
the Bitola town water authority, has been included in the benefit stream net
of imputed delivery costs through non-project systems to points of final use.
These elements were analyzed separately in project preparation and against
least cost alternatives yielded returns of more than 100% and 12% respectively.
7.06      The project cost streams include construction, operation and mainte-
nance of the irrigation system, and agricultural services such as extension.
Construction costs shown are net of price contingencies and deflated by 0.925,
reflecting taxes. Other costs have been deflated by this factor and by the
factor applied to social sector wages (0.83), as appropriate.
7.07      The most probable economic rate of return projected for the project
is 15%. This estimate is not greatly sensitive to moderate changes in any of
the component streams shown in Annex 1, Table 16, as indicated by the follow-
ing sensitivity manipulations:
(a) one year delay in realization of revenues -- 13%
(b) one year delay in realization of agricultural revenues -- 14%
(c)  10% increase in cost streams -- 14%
(d)  20% increase in cost streams -- 13%
(e) 10% decrease in revenue streams -- 14%
(f) 20% decrease in revenue streams -- 12%
(g) 10% increase in costs accompanied by a 10% decrease
in revenue -- 13%
(h) before revenues from sale of bulk water -- 11%
B. Risks and Uncertainty
7.08      Institutional Uncertainties.  Vodostopanstvo has not previously
shouldered responsibilities on the scale involved in the project. Teething
problems will be encountered, but these are not expected to have a materially
adverse impact on the projected rate of return. Special risks associated with
construction are identified below. Land use rationalization (para. 5.14)



- 42 -
appears to be the best alternative, in the sense of optimizing production
within the local preference for voluntary behavior as a means of organizing
for water use. The local authorities concerned were of the view that no
special enforcement measures would be required to secure the projected yield
increases and an efficient cropping pattern on privately owned land in the
project area. However, the existence of the project and the necessity of
imposing water charges on a per hectare basis would increase the risks of
individual farmers who because of age, infirmity, an inability to attract
hired labor, or a preoccupation with non-farm interests might not be in a
position to achieve projected agricultural yield increases. Speeding up
the pace of agricultural advance, the project increases the risks of marginal
farmers by increasing their costs of production through water charges.
The representative farm budget models for individual farmers show that, on
average, they would be able to. improve their productivity sufficient to cover
the additional costs and earn a reasonable return on their investment.
Farmers not able to keep pace would under the land use law be required to
relinquish operating control over their holdings to the social sector or to
others in a position to achieve the yields required for viability, and under
these circumstances, farmers may be compensated on fixed or share rent basis.
7.09      Financial Uncertainties.  The risk of cost overruns as a result of
unforeseen engineering problems is covered by a physical contingency allow-
ance on top of the overall base cost estimate. A price contingency allowance
of 21% has been added to base cost and physical contingency estimates. The
financing risk consists of cost overruns which could occur if the four year
construction schedule is not met, but the cost overrun guarantee from SBS and
the special efforts to the republic authorities to obtain all necessary funds
represent adequate assurances that funds would be most likely to be provided
without undue delays.
7.10      Construction Risks.  The construction timing risk is largely con-
tained by an accelerated pace of tasks which are preliminary to construction
work, and by advance contracting of critical components which must be completed
in 1978 to ensure a four-year construction period. All feasible and reasonable
attempts have been made to contain this risk; progress towards this goal have
been satisfactory to date. The progress being made in these critical procure-
ment operations is satisfactory.
7.11      Production Uncertainties.  Production possibilities in the project
area are sufficiently diversified and the infrastructure sufficiently developed
that there is no material risk attached to securing the projected yield in-
creases and a change to higher value crops consistent with appraisal projec-
tions.
7.12      Marketing Uncertainties.  While local bottlenecks in the marketing
chain may from time to time appear, these are likely to be temporary difficul-
ties in phasing rather than basic gaps in system performance. Marketing
problems (including price problems) are not expected to depress materially
the rate of return projected for the project.



- 43 -
7.13      In considering the importance of agriculture in the economy, the
risks involved in the project are worth taking.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Assurances were obtained from:
The SR Macedonia Government that:
(a)  BOAL Strezevo would receive the first quarterly installment
of grants and equity subscription (para 3.09) by December 31,
1978;
(b)  SRM and Bitola Commune would provide funds to cover the finan-
cial deficit of Vodostopanstvo BOAL Strezevo until it reaches
self-sufficiency (para 4.03);
(c)  Land and rights of way required for project construction and
operation would be acquired in a timely manner (para 4.10);
(d)  Land use rationalization would be undertaken throughout the
life of the project to utilize the irrigation system
efficiently (para 5.17);
Stopanska Banka Skopje that:
(e)  SBS would, after completion of the project, prepare a report on
the execution and initial operation of the project, its costs,
the benefits derived from the project and the performance of
the lending institutions not later than December 31, 1983
(para 3.18);
Vodostopanstvo that:
(f)  The project would be carried out as defined according to detailed
features (para 3.02);
(g)  A specialized consultant would be employed to review the design
of the irrigation network (para 3.05);
(h)  Vodostopanstvo would appoint a financial director and a director
for BOAL Strezevo, both appropriately qualified and acceptable to
the Bank, prior to effectiveness; and the BOAL Strezevo would be
adequately organized and staffed for efficient operation of the
project facilities (paras 3.16 and 4.03);
(i) BOAL Strezevo would be established prior to effectiveness for the
sole purpose of project implementation and operation (para. 4.03);



- 44 -
(j) BOAL Strezevo would prepare annually a plan for the operation
of the irrigation system, and by 1980 submit to the Bank a detailed
plan governing the ownership, operation and replacement of portable
farm equipment in the individual sector (para 4.07);
(1) Minimum charges for irrigation water and for water sold to the
thermal power plant and the town of Bitola would be according
to rates specified at appraisal (para 6.13);
(k) Cost recovery analysis will be undertaken prior to first water
so that water rate on other adjustments may be recommended for
the consideration of parties to self-management agreements
governing water rates and other charges (para. 6.16).
8.02      With the above assurances, the proposed project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$82 million for a period of 15 years including 3 years of
grace to the Stopanska Banka with the guarantee of the Socialist Republic
of Yugoslavia.



ANNEX 1
APPRAISAL OF
MACEDONIA STREZEVO IRRIGATION PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Supporting Tables
1.   Climatic Data
2.   Cost Estimates
3.   Schedule of Expenditures
4.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
5.   Vodostopanstvo BOAL "Strezevo" - Cash Flow Statement
6.   Inputs and Production Cost Per Hectare with Project
7.   Present Costs and Income Per Hectare - Social Sector
8.   Present Costs and Income Per Hectare - Individual Sector
9.   Present and Proposed Cropping Pattern Yields and Production
10.   Costs and Income per Hectare (Before Water Charges ) -
Social Sector With Project
11.   Individual Sector With Project
12.   Private Sector - Growing Periods and Working Days Per
Cultivated Hectare (Family Labor + Hired Labor)
(IBRD Chart No. 18227)
13.   Agricultural Investment Plan
14.   Individual Sector Farm Model - Present and Future
Cropping Pattern
15.   Individual Sector Farm Budgets
16.   Cost Recovery
17.   Economic Rate of Return
February 1978



APPRAISAL OF
MtACEDONIA_STREZEVO TRRICATION PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Climatic Data
Jan      Feb       Mar         Apr          May         June        July          Aug          Sep       Oct       Nov       Dec
Average Bitola Rainfall    mmar                   59        47        56          34          65            37          35          31            32        53        77        61          586
Average Novaci Rainfall    mmr-                   54        44        50          37          61            41          29          23            33       46         67        54          539
Bitola Monthly Temperature OC /a                -0.3       2.1       5.7        11.2        15.8         19.7        22.1         22.0         17.7      11.8       7.2       2.2
Bitola Relative Humidity    % /a                  84        78        72          65          66           61           55          54           63        74        81         84
Bitola 13.00 hrs Rel. Hum.  7 /b                  69        71        69          49          60           50           45          45           50        53         74        80
Bitola Cloud Cover            % 7   a             40        49        54          39          53           46          45           36           49        51        56        62
Bitola Average Wind        rn/sec                  -         --~------------------  1.3  m/sec daily average  ------------------- -----
13.00 hrs Average Wind   m/sec /A                1.7       1.7       3.0         4.4         2.5          2.7         3.1          3.1          2.8       3.6       2.6       3.0
Block in FAO Paper              /c                IX        IX        IX    VIII,IX    VIII,IX        VIII,IX      VIII,V      VIII,V       VIII,IX        IX         IX        IX
No. 24, p 14                                                                    V,VI                     V,VI
ETo                      mm/day Ld                 0       0.2       1.0         2.6         3.2          4.6          5.5        5.1           3.0       1.4       0.7          0
ETo                      mm/.onth                  0         6        31          78          99          138          171         158           90        43         21         0          835
Class A pan x 0.70       mm/month                ice       ice       ice          75         103          126          153         149           91        54        ice       ice          751
(1958-1973)
Bitola Average Absolute            /a
Minimum Temperature         C -              -14.7    -12.3       -6.8        -0.9         2.3           6.3         8.3         7.5          3.0      -1.1       -5.5    -10.4
Bitola Average Absolute
Maximum Temperature         C L               12.8     15.5       19.8        23.8        28.7         32.8         33.0        35.6         31.7      25.8       19.4      15.0
/a 22 year average. Bitola located at 410 N, 210 E, elevation 600.
/b Typical observations- 1964.
/c  Used to compute Blaney and Criddle.
/d  By Blaney and Criddltex\4thod.                                                                                                                                                         _X
Jantlary 1978



ANNEX 1
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
MACEDONIA STREZEVO IRRIGATION PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIAVI
Cost Estimate
Foreign
Local    Foreign    Total          Local   Foreign   Total    Exchange
------Din Million --------         ------US$million-------           %
Civil Works
Strezevo Dam               334.4      273.6       608.0        18.6       15.2       33.8      45
Alimentation Canal         168.6       69.0        237.6        9.4         3.8      13.2      29
Main Canal                 258.3      105.5        363.8       14.3         5.9      20.2      29
Irrigation Network         321.6      285.1       606.7        17.9       15.8       33.7      47
Power Plant Supply          10.6       24.7         35.3        0.6         1.4       2.0      70
Buildings                    9.4        1.5         10.9        0.5         0.1       0.6      14
Subtotal               1102.9       759.4      1862.3        61.3       42.2    103.5        41
Equipment
Stezevo Dam                  7.2       16.9         24.1        0.4         0.9       1.3      70
Alimentation Canal           0.5        1.2          1.7         -          0.1       0.1      70
Main Canal                   3.0        6.8          9.8        0.2         0.4       0.6      70
Hydrants                    12.8       29.9         42.7        0.7         1.7       2.4      70
Sprinkler Equipment         60.3      111.6        171.9        3.3         6.1       9.4      65
Telecommunications           1.3        2.9          4.2        0.1         0.2       0.3      70
Vehicles                     1.3        2.9          4.2        0.1         0.2       0.3      70
Subtotal                  86.4      172.2       258.6         4.8        9.6      14.4       67
Land Compensation
Strezevo Dam                82.4         -          82.4        4.6          -        4.6       -
Alimentation Canal           1.6         -           1.6        0.1          -        0.1       -
Main Canal                   3.8         -           3.8        0.2          -        0.2       -
Irrigation Network          45.6         -          45.6        2.5         -         2.5       -
Subtotal                133.4                   133.4         7.4                  7.4
Administration & Eng.
Strezevo Dam                38.2         -          38.2        2.1         -         2.1       -
Alimentation Canal          15.1         -          15.1        0.8          -        0.8       -
Main Canal                  21.3         -          21.3        1.2         -         1.2       -
Network (local)             34.3         -         34.3         2.0         -         2.0       -
Network (Foreign)             -         2.2          2.2         -         0.1        0.1    100
Power Plant Supply           2.4         -           2.4        0.1         -         0.1       -
Subtotal                11123         2.2       113.5         6.7        0.1       6.3        1
Base Cost Estimate          1434.0      933.8       2367.8       79.7       51.9    131.6        39
Physical Contingency2/    127.8         101.8        229.6        7.1         5.7      12.8      44
*                          (On Civil Works & Equip.)
Price Contingency 3!         332.6      208.4        541.0       1S.5        1 .5      30.0      39
Total Project Cost//        ]894       1744.D      3138.4       105.3       69.1    174.4        40
Irrigation Feasibility
Studies                     16.2       10.8        27.0         0.9        0.6       1.5      4O
3/ DiscreDancies due to rounding.
2/  Physical Contingencies are estimated at 15% for Dam, 10% for Civil Works and 5%  for
materials and equipment.
3/  Price Contingencies are:               1978-79        1980-81
Civil Works                             10.0%         10.0%
Equipment                                7.5           7.0
4/  Cost cstimate includes taxes and duties of about US$13 million.
January 1978



APPRAISAL OF                                               ANNEX 1
Table 3
MACEDONIA STREZEVO IRRIGATION PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Schedule of Expenditure
Total                1978                  1979                 1980                  1981         Foreign
Foreign   Total    Foreign   Total    Foreign   Total    Foreign   Total    Foreign   Total   Exchange
-------        -----------------------------Din million--------------------------------- 
Civil Works
Strezevo Dam               273.6    608.0       54.7      121.6       68.5      152.3      95.8      212.8       54.6      121.3    45
Alimentation Canal          69.0    237.6        6.9       23.7       24.1       83.1      20.7        71.3      17.3       59.5    29
M.in Canal                 105.5    363.8        9.0       31.2       42.9      147.8      32.2       110.9      21.4       73.9    29
Irrigation Netowrk        285.1    606.7        57.1      121.4       91.2      194.1      85.5      182.0       51.3      109.2    47
Power Plant Supplv          24.7      35.3      12.8       18.3       11.9       17.0         -          -         -          -      70
Buildings                    1.5      10.9       0.7        5.4        0.8        5.5        -                                -      14
Subtotal                759.4   1862.3    141.2         321.6    239.4        599.8    234.2       577.0    144.6        363.9    41
Price Contingency       165.1    409.9         7.1       16.1      37.1        93.0      63.4      156.1      57.5       144.7    40
Total                   924.5   2272.2    148.3         337.7    276.5        692.8    297.6       733.1    202.1        508.6    41
Materi.als & Equipment
Strezevo Dam                16.9      24.1       3.4        4.8        3.4        4.9       5.9         8.4       4.2        6.0    70
Alimentation Canal           1.2       1.7       0.1         0.2       0.3        0.4       0.4         0.5       0.4        0.6    70
Main Canal                   6.8       9.8       0.7         1.0       1.3        1.9       2.1         3.0       2.7        3.9    70
Hydrants                    29.9      42.7      29.9       42.7         -          -         -           -         -          -      70
Sprinkler equipment        111.6    171.9       44.7       68.8       22.3       34.3      22.3       34.5       22.3       34.3    65
lelecommunication            2.9       4.2        -           -         -          -         -           -        2.9        4.2    70
Vehicles                     2.9       4.2       1.5         2.1       1.4        2.1        _           _         -70
Subtotal                172.2    258.6        80.3      119.6      28.7        43.6      30.7       46.4      32.5        49.0    67
Price Contingency        21.5       32.3       3.0        4.5       3.3         5.0       6.1        9.1        9.1       13.7    67
Total                   193.9    290.9        83.3      124.1      32.0        48.6      36.8       55.5      41.6        62.7    67
Land Compensation
strezevo  oam                 -       82.4        -        31.8         -        31.8        -        10.6         -         8.2      -
Alimentation Canal            -        1.6        -          0.2        -         0.4        -          0.5        -         0.5      -
Main Canal                    -        3.8        -         0.4         -         0.7        -          1.2        -         1.5      -
Irrigation Network            -       45.6        -         9.1         -        19.1        -        15.9         -         1.5      -
Subtotal                    -      133.4        -        41.5         -        52.0        -        28.2         -        11.7      -
Price Contingency           -      22.5         -         2.1        -          8.1        -         7.6         -         4.7      -
Total                       -      155.9        -        43.6        -         60.1        -        35.8         -        16.4
Administration & Engineering
Strezevo Dam                  -       38.2        _         7.6         -         7.6        -        13.4         -         9.6
Alimentation Canal            -       15.1        -          1.5        -         3.8        -          4.6        -         5.2
Main Canal                    -       21.3        -          2.1        -         4.2        -          6.4        _         8.6
Network (Local)               -       34.3        -         9.7         -         6.4        -          7.2        -        11.0
Network (Foreign)            2.2       2.2       1.1         1.1       1.1        1.1              -          -               -    100
Power Plant Supply            -        2.4        -          2.4        -          -         -
Subtotal                   2.2    113.5        1.1       24.4       1.1       23.1         -        31.6         -        34.4      2
Price Contingency          0.3      26.8       0.1        1.5       0.2         3.5        -         8.5         -        13.6      1
Total                      2.5    140.3        1.2       25.6       1.3        26.6        -        40.1         -        48.0      2
Physical Contingencies
10% on Civil Works &
Equipment               101.8    229.6        20.9       44.2      28.8        69.8      33.3       70.6       18.8       45.0    44
Price Contingency           21.5      49.5       1.0         2.1       4.4       10.8       8.9        19.0       7.2       17.6    45
Total                      123.3    279.1       21.9       46.3       33.2       80.6      42.2        89.6      26.0       62.6    44
Grand Total                  1244.0   3138.4    254.7         577.3    343.0       908.7    376,6        954.1    269.7       698.3    40
Total Contingencies           310.2    770.6        32.1       70.1      73.8      190.2    111.7        270.9      92.6       239.3    40
Total Price
Contingencies               208.4    541.0       11.2        25.9      45.0      1ZU.4       7N.4      200.3      73.8      184.3    39
Irrigation Feasibility
Studies                      10.8      27.0        -           -        5.4       13.5       5.4        13.5
Note 1:  Discrepancies are due to rounding.
Note 2:  Physical Contingencies are estimated at 15% for Dam, 10% for 1!v"1 "orks and 5% for
materials and equipment.
Note 3:  Price Contingencies are:                 1978-79       1980-81
Civil Works                         --I0.         --
Equipment                              7.5            7.0
Note 4: Cost estimate includes taxes and duties oF about Din 235 million.
January 1978



ANNEX I
Table 4
APPRAISAL OF
MACEDONIA STREZEVO IRRIGATION PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                   Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter:                        at End of Quarter.-
1978/79                             US$ Millions
September 30, 1978                           2.0
December 31, 1978                            6.0
March 31, 1979                               9.5
June 30, 1979                               14.5
1979/80
September 30, 1979                          18.0
December 31, 1979                           22.5
March 31, 1980                              29.0
June 30, 1980                               37,5
1980/81
September 30, 1980                          42.5
December 31, 1980                           48.5
March 31, 1981                              54.5
June 30, 1981                               62.5
1981/82
September 30, 1981                          67.0
December 31, 1981                           71,5
March 31, 1982                              76.3
June 30, 1982                               80.5
1982/83
September 30, 1982                          81.5
December 31, 1982                           82.0
January 1978



APPRAISAL OF
MACIDONIA S'rREFEVO TIRIGAITON P'ROECTS
YUGOSLAVIA
Vodostopanstvo BOAL "Strezevo" - Cash Flow Statement
Total During            Construction  Period
Construction      l9-       1979     1980      1981      1982     1983      1984       1985      1986      1987      1988     1989      1990
Period
---------------------------------------------------------- Million Dinar -----------------________________________________
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Project Investment Cost                     3,138           577      909       954      698          -        -         -          -         -         -        -         -         -
Financial Charges during Grace Period         368           26        64       115     163           _ -           -          -         -         -         -        -              -
Debt Service:
(a) TBRD Loan                                62            -         -         -      62        241       230       221        210       200      189       179       169       158
(b) Stopanska Banka Loan (@4.2X)               -           _         _         _       _        105       105       105        105       105      105       105       105       105
(c) Other Local Bank Loan                   _             _          _         _       _         59        58        59         58        59       58        _                   -
Total Applications                 3 568          603      973    1.069       923        405       393      385        373       364       352       284       274      2i0
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Water Charges
(a) Irrigation                                -            -         -         -       -         70        93      128        162       211       271       304      342       364
(b) Town Water Supply                         _-                                       -         84       96       106        119       133       148      165       178       203
(c) Thermal Power Plant                     176                      -       85       91         97      104       112        119       128       137      146       145       167
Total Revenue                        176            -         -      T5        91       251       293        6         S07       472       X         Tl  7      5 
Less Operation & Maintenance cost            (70)          (5)      (5)      (15)    (45)       (81)      (07)      (93)      (99)    (106)    (113)    (122)    (130)    (139)
Less Incremental Working Capital
Requirement                                (lO)          (O)      (0)       (5)     (5)        (5)       (3)       (3)       (3)       (4)       (5)       (4)       (3)       4 4
Net Cash Generated from Operations                       3T       TT    41                             203       250        290       32         3   0      9      532       591
Grant from SR Macedonia                       200           60        30        30      80          _-                                                -                   -         -
Equity contribution from Bitola enterprises 280             70        70        70      70          _
IBRD Loan plus local charges                1,491          249       404       454     384          _        _         _          _         _         _         _         _        _
Stopanska Banka Loan (Federal Fund)(4.2%)  1,204           160       415       370     259          _         _        _          _         _         _         _         _        _
Other Local bank loans                         297          69        59        80      89          _         _        _          _         _         _                   - _
Total Sources                      3,568          603      973    1,6         923       T         203      250        290       36                    9       532       591
Surplus  (Deficit)                                 _-                         -            -       (240),   (190)    (135)       ( 83)    (  2)        86      205       258       328
Cumulative Surplus                                 _           _         _                 -       (240)    (430)    (565)       (648)    (650)    (562)    (357)       ( 99)      229
NOTE:  Assumptions for the financial projections are given in the Project File.
July 1978



A)PRAISAL OF
MA&CEDONtA STREZEVO IRRIGATION P., 1.
YUGOSLAVIA
/Inputs end Production Cost Per Nectar. with Project
Hired
Seeds                     Fertilizers                       Pesticides                        Herbicides                              LAbor            Production
Quantity Price                Quantity Price                  Quantity Price                    Quantity Price             Machinery,   N-oday              Cost per ha
Total Cost (Din)        Type      Totel Cost (Sin)         Type-   Total Cost (Din)        Ty55      Total Cost (Din)    service,          Din 130/day          (Din)
A. Social Sector
Wheat                             200 kg a   5        16-32-0        400 kg a 4          Linden           7 kg a 16       Dikuren      2.3 kg a 200                           4.5 days
N27%          lSO kga.2           EthiolS37         2kga.35        tassl        50   kgax   4
1,000                                    1,900                              182                              700         3,654         675 Din            7,211
Maize                              30 kg a  30        10-32-20       450 kg a 4          Linden           7 kg a 16                                                         16 dayo
N27%          200 kg a 2          Dehereban         2 kg a 40
Manure 10,000 kg/1,200 Din                                 192                               0          3,360        2,400 Din         10,252
900                             36 000
sugar best                          3 kg x 360        14-14-14      800 kg a 3          Volatae 010    15 kg x 37        Moat          5   kg a 190                         34 days
Manure         10,000 kg          Pheniteytion   15 kg a 81        Satsnol       6   kg a 187
Ultracid 40      1 kg s227
i,goo                                    3,600                              903                             2,072        5,017         5,100 Sin         18,492
Sunflower                          20 kg a   8        14-14-14       800 kg a 3         Lindan            7 kg e 16       Gees gerd 30  2.Skg a  96                         16 days
Manure         10,000 kga. 0.1)
160                                    3,600                              112                               240        4,055         2,400 Din         10,567
Soabeans                           60 kg a   6         0-20-30      300 kg a 2.5        Linden            7 kg a 16       Gezagard 50  2.5kg a  96                           8 days
N27%          130 kg a 2
360                                   1.030                               112                               240        4,055        1,200  Dia          7,017
Tobacco                           Free of charge    10-30-20        600 kg a 4          Bakren           36 kg a 21       Patorene 50  3  kig c 187                        131 days
Cineh           18 kg ax36
0                                   2,400                             1,404                               561        2,151        19,650 Din        26,1466
T oma&toes (Industrial)             3 kg a 400        16-16-16       300 kg a 3.2       6 different                       Deor-il       4.5kg a 240                        102 days
Manure         20,000 kgx 0.12 Pesticides                          Cenkor         0.5kg c 600
1,200                                    3,360      anounting to          2.389                             1,380        2,151         15,300            25,780
Pepper (Industrial)                 5 kg - 1,250                             3,360                            2,200                             1,350         2,111        133 days/         30,261
-                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~18,950 Din
Onions                            300 kg a  30        14-14-14      800 kg a 3                                                                                             34 days
Manure         10,000 kga
9.000                                    3,600                                0                               600        2.975         5,100             21,275
Alfalfa                            40 kg a  40        P205 45%      200 kg a 3.8                                         liptan         2   kg x 155                       10 days
Every 4 years                                                                          Ae~tit         3.5 kg a  65
400                                      760                                n          ~                    537        5,198         1.100              8,704
Maize Silage                       66 kg a   3        N27%          370 kg a 2          linden            7 kg a 16                                                         4 days
r2o3 45%      200 kg a 3.8        Dehereban         2 kg a 40
100                                   1,500                               192                                 0        4,671           600 Din          7,163
Fodder Peas                        60 kg a  1)         0-20-30-    300 kg s 2.5         Linden            7 kg a 16       Ge.Sgard 50  2.5 kgc  96                          4 days
N27%          130 kg a 2
900                                   1,050                               112                               240        4,671           600 Din          7,500
Orchards                               0               0-20-30      600 kg a 2.5        6 different                                                                        ioo days
N27%          600kg a 2           pesticides
2,700      a.nouting to          4,533                               537        2,881        15.000 Din         21,651
Vineyards                              0              10-32- 0      600 kg a 4          7 different                                                                         86 days
N27%          250 kg a 2          pesticides
2,900      ceoutiog to           2,003                                 0        2,585        12,900             20,388
B. Private Sector
Fotrtman                       2.000 kg a 5           10-30-20      800 kg a 3          Dithee           6 kg a 55        lione         2   kg x 190                        70 daya
N27%          158 kg a 2
10,000                                    2,700                             -330                               380        5,017         3,000             21,427
Laet  Vegetables                                      14-14-14      800 kg a 3          Lindas            7 kg a 16       Gezagard 50  3   kg c  96                         40 day.
Kasre          10,000 kg c 0.12
5,000                                    3,600                              112                               288        2.1)1         6,000             15,151
Winter Vegetables                   3,000                                    3,600                              112                                288        2,151        20 days/          12,151
3,008 Din
1/1 Detailed cackicary oq.ip.ent ...nts in Pr-je-t File..
January 1974



APPRAISAL OF
MACEDONIA STREZEVO IRRIGATION PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Present Costs and Income Per Hectare - Social Sector
Price   Gross                             Pesticides                     Hired    Production    Net                          Total Net
Yield    Per/kg   Income    Seeds   Fertilizers   Herbicides   Mechanization   Labor             Cost        Income    Cultivated         Income
Crop              kg/ha      (Din)   Dinlha   Din/ha        Din/ha       Din/ha          Din/ha        Din/ha    Din/ha         Din/ha      Hectares       (Din'000)
Wheat Grain        3,800      3.0    11,400       990        1,300           613          3,100           450      6,453         4,947       4,850          23,992
Straw       2,500        1/      -         -            -             -                                                      4           3              168
Barley Grain      2,300       2.8      6,440      720        1,125           613          3,100           450      6,008           432         390             168
Straw      2,500        1/      -         -            -             -              -  
Maize Grain       4,000       2.5    10,000       150        2,425           416          3,600         1,950      8,541         1,459         390             569
Sugar beet       32,000       0.58   18,560    1,800         2,500         2,570          4,730         3,600    15,200          3,360         780          2,621
Sugar beet tops 3,200       :1/       -        -            - 2                                        -         6             1           2              31
Sunflower         1,500       5.5     8,250        96        2,000           400          3,270         1,050      6,816         1,434       2,520          3,614
Alfalfa (Hay)     5,000       1.8      9,000      4001/        350           200          1,900           900      3,750         5,250         780           2,100-1
Orchards          9,000       5.0    45,000         04/      2,000         3,000          2,400         8,000    15,400         29,600          80          2,368
Vineyards         4,000       5.0    20,000         04/      1,500         1,600          1,000         6,000    10,100          9,900         120         I 1,188
Meadows           3,500        1/       -        -            -             -              -             -          -             -            110           -
Pasture              900       1/       -        -            -             -              -             -          -             -             30         ____
10,050         36,620
1/  The following quantities of by-products and fodder crops are included in livestock models in the Project File.
Wheat straw      4,850 ha x 2.5 tons - 12,125 tons                 Alfalfa hay           380 ha x 5.0 tons =  1,900 tons
Barley straw        390 ha x 2.5 tons -    975 tons                Meadows hay           110 ha x 3.5 tons =    385 tons
Sugar beet tops    780 ha x 3.2 tons =  2,496 tons                 Pasture hay            30 ha x 0.9 tons =       27 tons
2/  Alfalfa seeds 40 kg x 40 Din - 1,600 Din spread over 4 years.  Din 400/year.
3/  Out of 780 ha of alfalfa, production of 400 ha is sold to fodder plant (2.1 Million Din) and production
of 380 ha for on-farm consumption.
4/  Old plantation to be renewed.
January 1978



APPRAISAL OF
MACEDONIA STREZEVO IRRIGATION PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Present Costs and Income Per Hectare - Individual Sector
Gross                         Pesticides                     Hired    Family                                                          Total Net
Yield     Price       Income    Seeds  Fertilizer  Herbicides  Mechanization   Labor    Labor                   Production    Net Income   Cultivated          Income
Crop                 kg/ha   Per/kg/Din   Din/ha   Din/ha    Din/ha          Din/ha        Din/ha         Din/ha   Mandday/kg        Cost Din/ha    Din/h4          hectares       (Din'000)
Wheat Grain         2,900         3.0        8,700       990        625          170        1,400             300         4             3,485           5,215          3,240         16,896
Straw        2,000         1/          -         -          -            -            -               -            -               -
Barley Grain        1,300         2.8        3,640       720        475          170        1,400            300          4             3,065             575            630             362
Straw       1,500         1/          -                    -                         -               -            -               -
Maize               2,100         2.5        5,250       150      1,950          216          600          1,000         10             3,916           1,334            630           1/
Sugar beet         25,000         0.58      14,500         O2/   2,000         1,086        1,900          2,500        18              7,486           7,014            180          1,263
Sugar beet tops  2,500          1/          -        -          -            -             -              -            -               -
Sunflower           1,400         5.5        7,700        96     1,750           216          600          1,000        10              3,662           4,038         1,260           5,088
Tobacco             1,200        40.0       48,000         o2/   1,100         1,400          800          3,000        50              6,300          41,700            270         11,259
Tomato(Indust.)   20,000          1.2       24,000    4,000      2,000         2,560          800          3,000        30             12,360          11,640            400          4,656
Tomato (Fresh)    15,000          3.5       52,500    4,000      2,000         2,560          800          3,000        30             12,360          40,140            150          6,021
Pepper (Indust.)  12,000          3.0       36,000   10,000      2,000         1,700          800          3,000        30             17,500          18,500             70          1,295
Pepper (Fresh)      8,000         5.0       40,000   10,000      2,000         1,700          800          3,000        30             17,500          22,500             30             675
Beans               1,000        10.0       10,000    1,500      1,000           600          800            500         5              4,400           5,600            100            560
Peas                1,500         7.0       10,500    1,000      1,000           600          800            500         5              3,900           6,600            100            660
Potatoes           12,000         4.0       48,000   10,000      2,000        2,560           800          3,000        40             18,360          29,640            100          2,964
Alfalfa (Hay)       4,000         1.8        7,200       4002       350            0            0            900        40              1,650           1/               320               0
Orchards            5,000         5.0       25,000         n4/   1,500         2,300            0          4,000        40              7,800          17,200            320          5,504
Vineyards           1,500         5.0        7,500         04/   1,000           460            0          4,000        40              5,460           2,040            380            775
Meadows             2,000         1/                                                                                                                                     990
Pasture               900         1/                                                                                                                                     470
9,640         57,978
1/  The following quantities of by-products and fodder crops are included in livestock models in the Pro ect File
Wheat straw        3,240 ha X 2   tons - 6,480 tons           Alfalfa hay          320 ha X 4.0 tons - 1,280 tons
Barley straw         630 ha X 1.5 tons -   945 tons           Meadow hay           990 ha X 2.0 tons = 1,980 tons
Sugar beet tops      180 ha X 4.0 tons =   450 tons           Pasture hay          470 ha X 0.9 tons =   423 tons
2/ Sugar beet and tobacco seeds provided by the factory free of charge.
3/ Alfalfa seeds 40 kg X 40 Din = 1,600 Din spread over 4 years.  Din 400/year.
4/ Old plantations to be renewed.
January 1978



APPRAISAL OF
_cEDONIA SUZEVO IRRIGATION PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Present and Proposed Cropping Pattern Yields and Production
Social Sector                                                                             Private Sector
Present                          Future                       Incremental                 Present                           Future                        Incremental    Total
Area       Yield    Production       Area    Yield       Production       Production      Area       Yield    Production        Area      Yield       Production   Production  Incremental
Crops                 ha         ton/ha        (tons)      ha       ton/ha        (tons)           (tons)        Ha         ton/ha       (tons)       ha         ton/ha        (tons)         (tons)    Production (tons)
Wheat                      4,850      3.8        18,430        2,500    5.5         13,750          (4.680)          3,240      2.9          9,396        2,150    4.0            8,600         (   796)    ( 5,476)
Barley                       390      2.3           897         -         -           -             ( 897)            630       1.3            819         -         -             -            (   819)    ( 1,716)
Maize                        390      4.0         1,560          900    7.0          6,300           4,740             630      2.1         1,323           750    5.5            4,125           2,802        7,542
Sugar beet                   780    32.0         24,960        2,500   60.0        1*0,00O         125,C40            180      25.0         4,500         1.400   50.0           70,000          65,500      190,540
Sunflower                  2,520      1.5         3,780        1,100    3.5          3,850              70          1,260       1.4         1,764           700    2.8            1,960             196          266
Soyabeans                   -          -           -             250    2.5            625             625           -           -           -              300    2.2              660             660        1,285
Tobacco                     _    -                 -             200    2.5            500             500            270       1.2            324        1,100    2.2            2,420           2,096        2,596
Tomato (Industrial)         -          -           -             200   50.0         10,000          10,000            400      20.0         8,000           280   45.0           12,600           4,600       14,600
Tomato (Fresh)              -          -           -            -         -           -               -               150      15.0         2,250           300   30.0            9,000           6,750        6,750
Pepper (Industrial)         -          -           -             375   25.0          9,375           9,375             70      12.0           840           300   25.0            7,500           6,660       16,035
Peper (Fresh)               -          -           -            -         -           -               -                30       8.0           240           270   20.0            5,400           5,160        5,160
Beans                       -          _-                                 -           -_                              100       1.0           100           300    2.0              600             500          500
Peas                        -          -           -            -         -           -               -               100       1.5           150           200    3.0              600             450          450
Potatoes                    -          -           -                 -          -                     -               100      12.0         1,200           500   2e.0           10,000          8,800         8,800
Late Vegetables             -          -           -            _         _ -           -            -                           -           -             .800   25.0           20,000         20,000        20,000
Onions                      -          -           -             300   14.0          4,200           4,200           -           -           -              300   12.0            3,600           3,600        7,800
Winter Vegetables              -       -           -                                                                 -                                      200   10.0            2,000           2,000        2,000
Alfalfa                      780      5.0         3,900        1,000   14.0        14,000           10.100            320       4.0         1,280        1,200   12.0            14.400         13,120        23,220
Maize Silage                           -           -           2,500   40.0       100,000          100,000           -           -           -              500   35.0           17,500         17,500       117,500
Fodder Peass                -          -                       1,350   30.0        40,500           40,500           -           -           -           1,150   25.0            28,750         28,750        69,250
Orchards                      80      9.0           720          150   25.0          3,750           3,030            320       5.0         1,600          400   20.0             8,000          6.400         9,430
Vineyards                    120      4.0           480          150   20.0          3,000           2,520            380       1.5           570          270   18.0             4,860          4,290         6,810
Grapes                      -          -                 -           -         -              -                      -           -           -             190   16.0             3,040          3,040         3,040
Meadows                      110      3.5           385         -        -           _              ( 385)            990       2.0         1,980         -         -              -           ( 1,980)    ( 2,365)
Pastures                      30      0.9            27         -        _           _              (   27)           470       0.9           423         -         -              -           (   423)    (   450)
Cropped Area              10,050                55,139       13,475               359,850          304,711          9,640                  36,759       13,560                 235,615         198,856      503,567
Land Area                 10,350                              9,500                                                10.800                               10,800
Cropping Intensity                                               141%                                                                                      125%
January 1978



APPRAISAL OF
MACEDONIA STREZEVO IRRIGATION PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Costs and Income per Hectare (Before Water Charges) - Social Sector With Prolect
Pesticides    Machinery         Hired      Product          Net                    Total  et
Yield       Price        Gross Income           Seeds       Fertilizers   Herbicides    Equipment          Labor        Cost         Income    Cultivated        Incoke
Crop                     kg/ha    Per kg(Din)        Din/ha              Din/ha         Din/ha          Din/           Din/ha         Ustha    Din/ha          Din/ha      Hectares    Din'00
Wheat   Grain            5,500         3.0            16,500             1,000          1,900              882         3,654            675       7,211         9,289         2,500      23,222
Straw            4,500         1/
Maize   Grain             7,000        2.5            17,500               900          3,400              192         3,3f0         2,400       10,252         7,248           900       6,523
Sugar beet              60,000        0.58            34,800             1,800          3,600           2,975          5,0 7         5,100      18,492         16,308        2,500       40,770
Sugar beet tops        6,000         1/
Sunflower                3,500        5.5             19,250               160          3,600              352         4,055         2,400      10,567          8,683        1,100        9,551
Soyabeans                2,500        5.5             13,750               360          1,050             352          4,055         1,200       7,017          6,733           250       1,683
Soyabeans straw        3,000         1/                                                         2
Tobacco (small leaves)  2,500        40.0            100,000                 0-/        2,400           1,965          2,151        19,650      26,166         73,834           200      14,766
Tomatoes (Industrial)  50,000         1.2             60,000             1,200          3,360           3,769          2,151        15,300      25,780         34,220           200       6,844
Pepper (Industrial)    25,000         3.0             75,000            1,250           3,360           3,550          2,151        19,950      30,261         44.739           375      16,777
Onions                  14,000        6.0             84,000             9,000          3,600              600         2,975         5,100      21,275         62,725           300    .18,817
Alfalfa (sold)          14,000        1.8             25,200               400-           760             537          5,198         1,500       8,704         16,496           600       9,897
Alfalfa (Consumed)      14,000         1/                                  4153/          760             537          5,198         1,500       8,704                          400
Maize Silage            40,000          1                                  200          1,500              192         4,671           600       7,163                       2,500
Fodder Peas             30,000         1/                                  9004/        1,050             289          4,671           600       7,510                       1,350
Orchards                25,000        5.0            125,000                 0-/        2,700           5,070          2,881        156000      257651         990349          150       14,902
Vineyards               20,000        5.0            100,000                 0-         2,900           2,003          2,585        125900      205388         79,612           150      11,941
13,475    175,693
1/ The following quantities of by-products and fodder crops are included in livestock models in the Project File.
Wheat straw                2,500 ha  X 4.5 ton/ha  =  11,250 tons
Sugar beet top            2,500 ha  X 6   ton/ha  =  15,000 tons
Soyabean straw              250 ha  X 3   ton/ha  =        750 tons
Alfalfa consumed             400 ha  X 14  ton/ha  =   5,600 tons
Maize silage              2,500 ha  X 40  ton/ha  = 100,000 tons
Fodder peas               1,350 ha  X 30  ton/ha  =  40,500 tons
2/ Tobacco seeds provided by tobacco factory free of charge
3/ Alfalfa seeds 40 kg x 40 D = 1600 Din every 4 years or 400 Din per year.
4/ Investment for orchards (80,500 D/ha) and vineyards (84,500 D/ha) are taken into account in the Economic Analysis,
Annex 1, Table 17.
January 1978



APPRAISAL OF                                                  ANNEX 1
Table 11
MACEDONIA STREZEVO IRRIGATION PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Costs and Income Per Hectare (Before Water Charges)
Individual Sector With Project
Fertilizers,
Price     Gross                Pesticides,       Hired   Product.  Net                      Total Net
Yield   Per kg/   Income    Seeds    Mechanization   Labor   Cost             Income   Cultivated   Income
Crops                   kg/ha      Din     Din/ha      Din          Din/ha 5/    Din/ha  Din/ha    Din/ha    Hectares   (Din'000)
Wheat Grain             4,000      3.0      12,000      1,000       4,827             0    5,827       6,173       2,150       13,271
Straw            3,000       -         1/         -           -             -         -          -           -             -
Maize  Grain            5,500      2.5        1/          900       5,214         2,100    8,214        -            750         -
Sugar beet             50,000      0.58    29,000      1,800        8,694         4,500   14,994    14,006         1,400       19,608
Sugar beet tops      5,000       -         -          -           -              -         -          -           -            -
Sunflower               2,800      5.5     15,400         160      6,005          1,350    7,515       7,885         700        5,519
Soyabeans               2,200     5.5      12,100        360       4,092            900    5,352       6,748         300        2,024
Soyabeans straw      2,600       -         -          -           -              -         -          -           -            -
Tobacco                 2,200    40.0      88,000           O./    4,887          2,250   13,137    74,863         1,100       82,349
Tomatoe (Industrial) 45,000        1.2     54,000      1,200       6,960          4,500   12,660    41,340           280       11,575
Tomatoe (Fresh)        30,000      3.5    105,000         800      6,960          6,000   13,760    91,240           300       27,372
Pepper (Industrial)  25,000        3.0     75,000      1,250       6,795          4,500   12,545    62,455           300       18,736
Pepper (Fresh)         20,000      5.0    100,000         900      6,795          7,500   15,195    84,805           270       22,897
Beans                   2,000    10.0      20,000         600      4,045          1,350    5,995    14,005           300        4,201
Peas                    3,000      7.0     21,000         420      4,045          1,350    5,815    15,185           200        3,037
Potatoes               20,000      4.0     80,000    10,000        8,427          3,000   21,427    58,573           500       29,286
Late Vegetables        25,000      3.0     75,000      3,000       6,151          6,000   15,151    59,849           800       47,879
Onions                 12,000      6.0     72,000      9,000       5,381          3,000   17,381    54,619           300       16,385
Winter Vegetables    10,000        6.0     60,000       3,000       6,151         3,000   12,151    47,849           200        9,569
Alfalfa (Consumed)   12,000        1.8        -           4003/    4,871              0    5,271        -          1,200         -
Maize Silage           35,000       -         -           200      4,772              0    4,972        -            500         -
Fodder Peas            25,000       -        -            900      4,507              0    5,407        -          1,150         -
Orchards               20,000      5.0    100,000           04!    7,238          4,500   11,738    88,262           400       35,304
Vineyards              18,000      5.0     90,000           Ok     5,616          3,000    8,616    31,384           270       21,973
Grapes                16,000      6.0      96,000          iA/    5,616           3,000    8,616    87,384           190       16,602
13,560      387,587
1/ The following quantities of by-products and fodder crops are included in livestock models in the Project File.
Wheat straw   2,150 ha x 3.0 tons -   6,450 tons                       Soyabean straw         300 ha x  2.6 tons -   780 tons
Maize grain      750 ha x 5.5 tons =   4,125 tons                      Alfalfa hay          1,200 ha x 12.0 tons =14,400 tons
Sugar beet tops 1,400 ha x 5 tons =   7,000 tons                      Maize silage           500 ha x 35.0 tons =17,500 tons
Fodder peas         1,150 ha x 25.0 tons -28,750 tons
2/ Tobacco seeds provided by tobacco factory free of charge.
3/ Alfalfa seeds 40 kg x 40D - 1,600 D spread over 6 years @400 D/year.
4/ Investments for orchards (80,500 D/Ha) and vineyards (84,500 D/Ha) are taken into account in the economic
analysis in ANNEX 1, Table 17.
5/ Expenses for fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides, mechanization for the private sector are estimated to equal
75% of the corresponding level in the Social Sector.
January 1978



YUGOSLAVIA
MACEDONIA STREZEVO IRRITION PJECT
Prism  IoU  -Grcomingo Prds midlWarildaDayspsirCuishwood Hasm  jFammlyIV*ror+*HiredlLabw
20    0        WHEAT 
le o     _                                             t :                 ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~t   a 4___
1  * 14    tA1ZE
e *  a       aJOAW-* EET                                                                              -__         _    _ _         _                                   _ I _  _
22 *  4         M0lO"UWEA 
3   -          -0 t+l              3            _1 al           -           43
S  .  *       SOYABAANS                                                        :                                         _. 
,5 56         TOBACCO                                                                                 ____________1
nI          fie e          a  I 110*101          I   I            I                                             to
2 * 30        TOMATOES INDUSTRIALl_ 
tF*    4,     TOMATOES tFREINI                                                         15z                              1 _2 _
103 * 30       PEPPIR IINDUSTRIALI                                                                                      ___  __
110.11  I    120*151  I   I    Ia   I    I  I I                 aoio
lie * t0       PEPPER WFRSH 8_                                              _
10 N10( t  *I                      I    00. * 1i  I   I  1*1               t     t   i51111
40  * 9       PEAS AND BEANS
3  3        12      1       7      1   3           110. "
U     20      POTATOES
Ito.i       1*l           X      e                    1        =       
so * 40       LATE VEGETASLES
56   20       WNTrER OOs                                                                                                                                               e
te "a- ol                                                                                                                 -syt-t42    If-N. _ 
50 * 20       WINTER VEGETASLES
20    0       ALFALFA
24     6      MAIZE SILAGE
3)    0       FOODER PEAS                        _                               - I                                                                                                                                              ___
10 * 30       ORChARD IPEAR. APPLEI
E6  . 20      VINEYARDS -GRAPES                              a                 ID  ;                                        I            - - - - - - --1                                        3                                          l7l0
_                 I       |             *           2                                         I I  2  1  I                                   a               110* S
w0.I imk - 1823?
IF !



APPRAISAL OF                                                           ANNEX I
h.blc 11
MACEDONIA STREZEVO IRRIGATION PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Agricultural Investment Plan
Invested Item                  Total Cost         1978       1979        1980        1981        1982        1983       1984        1985        1986
_ _____________ --Million Dinars        -------------------------------
PRIMARY PRODUCTION
Social Sector
Agricultural Machinery                 105            -           -          -           -           74          31          -
Vineyards and Orchards                  26            -           -          -           -           10          10         -6
Livestock and Dairy                                                                    _1-  _  _2                46         -
TOTAL INVESTMENT                     346            -          _           -          127         126          87          6           -
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                 _1U            _           _     -                 50          59          55         5           _           _
TOTAL WITH CONTINGENCIES             515            -           -                     177        l18        J42                       -
Private Sector
Agricultural Machinery                  50            -           -          -                       15          10          13           7          5
Vineyards and Orchards                  75            -           -          -                       11          15         23          26           -
Livestock, Barn and Equipment           84                                                           84                      -          -            -
TOTAL INVESTMENT                     209                                                          110          25         36          33           5
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                  125            -          _                                                          24          31           4
TOTAL WITH CONTINGENCIES                                                                  4 -      -  1g                  60                     a4 9
COLLECTION. STORAGE. TRANSPORT FACILITIES
Social Sector
Fruit and Vegetable Collection Centers 2              -           -          -           -            2
Warehouses                              42            -           -          -           -           42
Cooperative Costs                        3                                                            3
Vehicles                                              -1                                             - _  _  I  _
Vegetable Selection, Packing Cold
Storage                               33            -          -           16          17
Milk Tank Truck                                                                           2 _                         -           -
TOTAL INVESTMENT                      83            _           -          16          20          47          -           _          _           -
24.LG  OQMT.iGS_ R4J                e                          -                                               -          -           -
TOTAL  ITTH CONTINGENCIES            121                                                                                              - - 20  2  73  _
COMMUNE OF BITOLA
Building for Development Center          1            _          _            1
Vehicles for Development Center          1            -          _            I          -           -                      -           -           -
TOTAL INVESTMENT                       2            -          -            2          -           -          -           -           -           -
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                    I            -          -            I          -           -          _           _           -           _
TOTAL WITH CONTINGENCIES               3           =3                                              -                      - 3                    _
PROCESSING FACILITIES I
Sugar Beet Processing Factory         370            -          123         123         124
Yeast and Alcohol Factory               40            -           -          20          20
Vegetable Processing                    40            -                      20          20_
TOTAL INVESTMENT                    449             -         123         163         163         -           -           -           -          -
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                  160                      .27          5                      - 1 6                              _           _
TOTAL WITH CONTINGENCIES                           _- 10                               7
GRAND TOTAL AGR. INVESTMENT        1,089            -         123         181        310         2R3         112          42          33          5
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                  493           -           27          60         136        136          70          29         31           4
GRAND TOTAL WITH CONTINGENCIES   1.582             _                                              I E9 4_182             iT          64           9
I/  Not comprehensive.  Additional investments are expected as investment plans in other processing facilities are finalized.



APPRAISAL OF
MACEDONIA STREZEVO TRRTGATION PROJECT
YUGOSTAVIA
Individual Sector Farm Model: Present and Future Cropping Pattern
(lactaTes)
0.8 ha narms                            1.75 ha Farms                                3.5 ha Farms                  6.0 ha Farms with dairy operations         6.0 ha Far-s without dairy operations
Present and /1     Future w/                       project   Present and /  re        esnad                 urew/ project    Present and  1        Future w/ project   Present and /1          Future  / project
Croa                    FutureTn project    Farm A   Farm B   Future w   rect    earn C   Farm        Future w/o project    Farm E   Farm F   Future win project                   Farm 0         Future w/n project          earn B
Wheat                          0.30             0.07    0.245            0.80             0.40      0.30            0.85             1.00      0.50            0.75                 1.00                  1.00                  1.33
Barley                            -                -        -            0.13                -         -            0.20                                       o -  0.65               -                  0.40
Maine                             -                -         -              -                -         -            0.35             o.6o      0.27            0.52                 1.50                  0.85                  0.33
Sugar beet                     0.07                -        -               -                -      0.34               -             0.50     0.9o                -                 1.25                     -                  1.6
Sunflower                      0.20             0.20         -           0.20             o,4o         -                                -         - 0
Snyabean.                         -                -        -               -                -         -               -             0.25     0.25                -                 0.50
Tohanno                        o.o6             0.30         -           0,07            o04o       0.13                                -     o.4o                -                    -                     -                     _
Tuestues (Induotrial)             -                -         -           0.15                -         -               -                -     0.30            0.20                  0.34                  0.35                 0.30
Tomato.s  (Fresh)              0.05                -    0.125               -                -      0.25                                                  -                 -                                -                     -
Pepper (Industrial)            0.03                -        -               -                -         -               -             oM          -                -                    -                     -                 o,47
Pepper (Fresh)                  .01                -   .0,125               -                -      0.20               -
Beans                          0.04             0.20                                      -                            -
Peas                              - o                   0                                 0 .3;0- 0.30                                                        0.20                     _                  0.20
Potat... s0O.04                                    -    O .20               -0o.30 
Tate Vegetabls                   -             0.193       -               -             0.30      0.30                                                                                                                           -
Oniuns                            -                -        -               -                -         -               -             0.20         -               -                                                                3 -  0.73
Witter Vegetables                 -                -         -              -                -         -               -             0.25         -               -0.5 -O
Alfalfa                           -                -    o.o6                -             0.15      0.15            0.17             0.75     0.25            o.65                  1.0                   0.15                 0.93
Maine silage                      -                -         -              -                -         -               -             0.75         -               -                 1.0                      -
Fodder Peas                       -                -   0.125                -             0.19     0.19                -             0.50     0.25                -                 2.0                                            -
Orehards                          -                -        -               -                -         -            0.21                -     0.30                -                    -                  0.5                  0.93
Vineyards                         -             0.03    0.03             0.05             0.04     0.04             0.10             0.05     0.07            0.33                  o.i6                  0.5                  o.16
GraPes                            -                -        -               -                - -       -               -                -     0.30                -                                          -                 0.23
Meadows A Pastures                -                -      _              0.25              _           -            0.59              _           -           1.50                     -                  0.85
Total                          o.80            0.993   0.910             1.65             2.18     2.20            3.00              5.25     3.79            4.85                  9.25                 4.80                  6.57
Cropping Intensity/S           1000             1240,   1138              94d,            1246     1258            86%               150%     1118%            94%                 154%                  71%                   109%
/1 Cropping patternin future is expected to be the sanm with the present cropping pattern.
75 Meadows and pastures are excluded in calculatitg cropping intensity.
Ja-usry 1978



APPRAISAL OF
MACE0DNLA STREZOEV3 IRRIIATION PROJECT
nx  Sl0,i4A
1otitrtl,0o9l 4ector Part Ocogets
WdWd"lS-.m .)    _L1t
0.8 ha fre                                    t 75 h. Pares                               3.5 h. Farce                   6.0 h. Pam with datry oper-oion-f          i. rio  .rmo wthout dair-   oerat.no
Present se/n proJect  Pctu-re v / project Pt aent  a/c project               s tPrest v/c Prj-ant               gr/o            Prsent  /C-nJet  v/o           < proJect  Present  yo proj-ct    trrre-    ...r..t
Gross .al.e of crop prod-ction /2          14,470    17 290        51500   47,270   16,040    19,160         96 260   103,510  16,020    19,530          93,430  151,630    20,440    24,920          117,J6)           34, 730     42,340        28n,19
Prdr-ti-on costs oacIodiog labor,/2         3.850     4,600         5,970    7,540    5,150      6,150       15.250    13,740   5,620       6,850       20,030   22,121r   8,020        9,780          29,410           10,080      12,290         45,52,1
Ie  f-o pr pr_ d-tr                        1,620    12,690         45,530  39,730   10,890    13,010         01,010    09,770  10,600    12,680         72.600  120,510   12,420    15.140            01,650            24,650      30.050        234,570
TooM- fro I lietOlk /3-                                                                  00        800          960        960   8.280      8,260       04,510    8.940   40.040    40,040           129,220           06,360      14,3600         14,360
Hie   ao   6    -                                                                                                           -          -           (4,200)  (5.400)    -          -             (0750)             -           -            (27,750)
Total I1roor                           00,620    02,690       45,530   39,730   11,690    13.810         81.970    90,730  18.680    20.960         02,910  133,050   52,460    55,IR0           200,120           39.010      0,4,410       221,1h0
T-es /5                                      (260)     (3510       (1 IO)  (, 30)    (M00)        (360)      (2,130)   (2,390)   (490)       (540)       (2,420) (3.460)   (1.360)   (1430)          (5.9h0)          (1.010)      (1.150)        (5,750)
par ircome before eater charges            10,340    12 360        44635    3700   11 .390    13,450         19.840    88,370  18.190       020,4      (20 9,490  029,590   51100    53,750         224 140           386000      43,262         215,430
Otrls-eme (DUs 6.660/Is.)                -                     (0<.360)  (5,360)    -         -         (10,660)  (10,0600)   -          -          (23,3602 (23,380)               -              4,9)--(49,000)
Farm in-ome frce gricoleoes                10,340    12,360        39.610   32,700   11,390    13.450        68,150    76.680  18,190    20 420         67,114  106,110   51,100    53!750           164.060           38,000      43,260         175,350
Total labor reqoir-ent (ass-day)           20        25           B0        70        25        30          140        100      75         90          245       250       175       210              580             125         145             500
/1  6.) ha farm with liVes-Ork operatio-s (200 fars.  Thie odel crrapode to F-r  3. The remaining 6.0 h. fams vithott livestock oper-tiMor  corr-epotd to Far. H (300 farms)
T  26 p.o. i-orees.  io yelds ad         ho prot-totis       i cots 1. ae,aed ir fut-re eithout prJect.  The ioceemee at tote rats *  es..-d to conIsnet .ratil 1987.
q   N incre.se i livestock prodtitity i5 eapected sithnot project
int 150/o-day.
75  2.64 of Valoe added.
7; n 21=3 , Water r               Lquir_n  *- eloti-ted tI  ha 3,340 0 (h..
J.np ey 1978



ANNEX 1
Table 16
APPRAISAL OF
MACEDONIA STREZEVO IRRIGATION PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Cost Recovery
Present value discounted at 10% p.a.
Irrigation   Town Water Supply   Thermal Power  Total
---------------Din million---------------------------
Total Water Charges         771               624                737        2132
Cost Recovery Index         0.37              4.11               8.10        0.91
June 1978



APPRAISAL OF
MACEDONIA STREZEVO IBRIGATION PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Economic Rate of Return
(Dinars Millions)
Incremental Economic Costs                                                    Incremental Economic Benefits
Calendar    Project                        Operation &   Agricultural    Temporary   Orchards &                          Flood           Sale of Bulk Water to
Year        Year       Construction   Maintenance          Services          Crops        Vineyards   Livestock   Control    Vodovod_             Electrostopanstvo V alvgues        eot   Benofit
1978          1             508               2               -                 -            -              _            _                              _                                 (510)
1979          2             728               2               -                                                                                                                           (730)
1980          3             695               2               -                 -            -                      .   -                              72                                 (625)
1981          4             462              29               2                 -            -                           -            -                72                                 (421)
1982          5                              35               3                79          (24)           (310)          6           61                72                                 (154)
1983          6                              35               3               156          (34)             33           6            64               72                                  259
1984          7                              35               3               P30          (35)             57           6           67                72                                  357
1985          8                              35               3               299          (24)             64           6           71                72                                  450
1986          9                              35               3               326           19              74           6           74                72                                  533
1987         10                              35               3               334           45              76           6           77                72                                  572
1988         11                              35               3               334           63              78           6            80               72                                  595
1989         12                              35               3               334           76              82           6           83                72                                  615
1990         13                              35               3               334           82              82           6           87                72                                  625
1991         14                              35               3               334           83              82           6           90                72                                  629
1992         15              60              35               3               334           83              82           6           94                72                                  573
1993         16                              35               3               334           83              82           6            97               72                                  636
1994         17                              35               3               334           83              82           6          100                72                                  639
1995         18              81              35               3               334           83              82           6          103                72                                  561
1996         19                              35               3               334           83              82           6          106                72                                  645
1997         20                              35               3               334           83              82           6          109                72                                  648
1998         21                              35               3               334           83              82           6          113                72                                  652
1999         22                              35               3               334           83              82           6          116                72                                  655
2000         23                              35               3               334           83              82           6          120                72                                  659
2001         24                              35               3               334           83              82           6          125                72                                  664
2002         25              60              35               3               334           83              82           6          125                72                                  604
2003         26                              35               3               334           83              82           6          125                72                                  664
2004         27                              35               3               334           83              82           6           125               72                                   66b
2005         28                              35               3               334           83              82           6          125                72                                  664
2006         29                              35               3               334           83              82           6          125                72                                  664
2007         30                              35               3               334           83              82           6           125               72                 3,441          4,105
4   Vodovod supplies water to the town of Bitola.                                                                                                             Economic Rate of Return  - 159
Electrostopanstvo uses cooling system make up water for the generation of electricity.
January 1978



ANNEX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
MACEDONIA STREZEVO IRRIGATION PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Project Works
Strezevo Dam and Appurtenant Structures
1.        The dam has been proposed in a high valley in the middle stretch of
the Semnica River, 15 Km to the north-east of the town of Bitola. The dam
with a total storage volume of 112 Mm3 would be a fill structure with a maximum
structural height of 84 meters. The total volume of the fill would be 3.5 Mm3
and would be obtained from the alluvial plain in the vicinity of the dam.
Water tightness would be ensured by a central clay core and a grouting curtain
from a grouting gallery along the bottom of the clay core. The prevailing
outer slopes of the fill would be 1:2 with a 10 meter wide dam crest. A shaft
and tunnel spillway would be provided on the left flank. A diversion tunnel,
to be transformed later into a bottom outlet, would be provided on the right
bank. An irrigation intake with a corresponding intake tunnel would also be
placed on the right bank. Upstream and downstream cofferdams have been fore-
seen and would eventually be incorporated into the main body of the dam.
2.        Site Investigations, Geology and Stability of Dam.  Ample investi-
gation works were performed for the Strezevo dam. Investigation bore-holes
amounted to 1,500 m, trial grouting to 650 m, investigation galleries to
400 m and pits to 70 m. In-site shear tests were performed on four blocks.
Considerable testing of construction materials and geophysical prospecting
was done.
3.        Geologically, the dam site is located in paleozoic metamorphic
rock. The structural anticline has left the right flank tectonically undis-
turbed but the left flank formed by sericite and muscovite schists are much
more disturbed. A prominant fault line intersects the left dam abutment and
passes to the right bank of the valley upstream of the dam. These schists
are mechanically the weakest, and give rise to weathered layers near the
surface which have been transformed into clayey materials of weak shearing
strength. With the exception of these schists, the foundation rocks are
generally satisfactory for the proposed type of dam. Four sliding blocks
were tested in the medium of the schists. The minimum value obtained for
the angle-of friction was 25 degrees but even lower values could be expected
in the weathered strata underlying the alluvium cover, which may pose
stability problems. A sensitivity check on a dam section 80 m high and
postulating consecutively the friction angle at foundation interface with
values of 200, 250 and 300 with rapid drawdown of the reservoir, revealed



ANNEX 2
Page 2
safety factors from 1.2 to 1.9, against design criteria of 1.5. To correct
the conditions of stability the alluvium and decomposed rock layers would be
excavated as far as possible and in addition to down stream berm 30m x 60m
would be introduced.
4.         Spillway.  The spillway structure would be in the form of a shaft,
linked by a free flow tunnel and a chute to the spillway stilling basin. The
spillway capacity would cater for a design flood with a return period of
10,000 years. The storage retention effect would reduce the inflow design
peak flood hydrogram of 400 m3/sec to an outflow of approximately 200 m3/sec.
5.        Grouting and Drainage.  A grouting curtain in two rows spaced
3 meters apart, would be provided in the tectonically disturbed quartzites
extending to a depth of 60 m, to 80 m, from a grouting gallery placed below
the clay core. A drainage blanket would be provided beneath the central part
of the dam. Due to poor geomechanical characteristics of the serriate schists
on the left flank, the drainage blanket would be provided in depth to provide
efficient pore pressure dissipation in foundation layers.
6.         Coffer Dams and Diversion Tunnel.  The system has been designed to
provide for diversion of a flood with a ten year return period, amounting to
150 m3/sec, diverted through a 4.6 m diameter tunnel placed on the right bank.
To meet the completion target of four years, the diversion tunnel would be
started by the Yugoslav authorities during 1978 prior to the approval of the
proposed loan.
7.         Irrigation Intake.  This structure would be placed on the right
bank consisting of an inlet tunnel of 2.5 m diameter, gate shafts, down
stream regulation gate, and energy dissipation basin.
8.         Bottom Outlet.  The diversion tunnel placed on the right bank would
be converted into a bottom outlet. The upstream portion of the diversion
tunnel would be closed by a concrete plug. The maximum capacity of the bottom
outlet would be 30 m3/sec enabling emptying of the reservoir, if necessary,
and providing the biological minimum.
Alimentation Canal (Collector Canal)
9.        The catchment of the Semnica river, on which Strezevo dam will be
located, is insufficient to meet the requirements of irrigation. Supplies
from seven streams emanating from the Baba Mountains would therefore be
diverted into the Strezevo reservoir by a canal 62 km in length. Diversions
would take place only during months of surplus flow (October to May) so that
existing uses on these streams during the dry summer months are not disturbed.
10.       The alimentation canal would start from the intake on the Kisevska
River at a level of 1,059 m asl and would terminate at its point of inflow
into the Rotinska River at a level of 907 m asl. The Rotinska eventually
flows into the Strezevo reservoir. A series of 47 falls each 1.5 m high would
be provided in it to reduce the velocity created by the prevailing steep
slopes.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
11.       All seven intakes would be provided with Tyrol type gates with
siltation reservoirs. The slope of the channel would vary from 1.7 to 3.0
0/00 and would have the following capacities:
Names of Stream             Mean Annual Flow xl-8               Canal Capacity
------------------ m3/sec ---------------
Kisevska                             0.58                            0.58
Graeska                              0.37                            0.95
Veluska                              0.53                            1.48
Bistricka                            0.71                            2.19
Stara Reka                           0.33                            2.52
Kinderka                             0.16                            2.68
Dragor (Sapuncjca)                   2.36                            5.04
The channel would be covered along its entire length.  Reinforced concrete
channel would be used in geologically weak stretches, but primarily construc-
tion would be with mass concrete. About 130 structures would be constructed
which would consist of road crossings, torrent crossings, syphons, aquaducts
and spillways. The alimentation canal has been designed to convey 1.8 times
the mean annual flow of the streams, accumulative in sequence. Losses within
the channel have been assumed to be 5% so that 49 Mm3 would become available
in addition to the 63 Mm3 from the Semnica River.
Main Canal
12.       The intake structure of the main canal would consist of a tunnel
310 meters long and would convey the stored waters of the Strezevo Dam. The
main canal would commence immediately at the end of the tunnel, located at an
elevation of 692.86 meters asl.
13.       As a basis for planning the layout of the main canal, geodetic
survey sheets to a scale of 1:2500 were used and the proposed alignment trans-
ferred to the field through installation of permanent markers. The canal
alignment has further been connected to the triangulation grid.
14.       The geological and geo-mechanical investigations were carried out.
Field samples and construction materials were tested. Shallow pits, 176 in
number, ranging in depths from 1 to 4.5 meters were excavated along the center
line of the canal, spaced at an average distance of 250 meters. In addition
adits were excavated in a total length of 300 meters, primarily near the
entrance and exit of tunnels. The terrain along the alignment of the canal
was found to consist of schists and intrusions of large granite masses. Based
on the test results of these pits, adits and some trenches, supplemented by
surface geological observations, the specific engineering geological charac-
teristics of the terrain have been established on maps. Special safety mea-
sures would be provided at 8 locations, where likelihood of landslides has
been anticipated. Two of these locations at Station Km 2 + 200 and 40 + 030
have been considered most unstable and further investigations on soil stab-
ility would be carried out during excavation. The location of the main canal



ANNEX 2
Page 4
is such that it would provide pressurized irrigation of the area without
recourse to pumping.
15.       The Canal has been designed with a capacity of 12.31 m3/sec at head
of which 11.11 m3/sec would be used for irrigation, 0.70 m3/sec for augmenting
domestic water supply for the town of Bitola and the remaining 0.50 m3/sec for
supplying cooling water to the Thermal Power Plant. The peak monthly irriga-
tion requirements would be 1,100 m3 per hectare based on the demand for August.
Losses in the system have been assumed at 25%, bringing the gross monthly
diversion requirements during August to 1,466 m3 per ha. The design of the
canal has therefore been based on the following hydromodule.
q hydromodule   =  3.6 x 24 x 31  =  0.55 1/sec/ha
Q irrigation    =  0.55 x 20,300  =  11.11 m3/sec
1000
The canal design has been optimized on the basis of economic comparison on a
number of alignments and its of 0.8% adopted. Due to very bad configuration
of the terrain, the canal would be covered by an arch structure in the first
30-kilometers and the remaining 25 kms would remain open with a trapezoidal
section. The canal would be provided with about 337 structures, consisting
of tunnels, syphons, aquaducts, spillways, road crossings, torrent transitions
and upstream control gates with intakes. Designs for typical structures of
each type have been prepared, and quantity surveys have been used for arriving
at their cost.
16.       For purpose of regulation the canal would be provided with a minimum
of 9 upstream control automatic gates, Amil type or similar, to ensure a con-
stant water level in the canal upstream of each gate. These gates would limit
losses during closures and also make it possible to keep the canal from going
dry in front of the intakes for irrigation. All intake structures would
include silting basins to minimize entry of fine silt in the pipes and resul-
tant damage to sprinkler nozzles. Adequate free board would be provided in
the entire length of the main canal.
17.       Irrigation Network.  The network will serve both the social sector,
a modern large agricultural enterprise covering 9,500 ha, and the individual
sector, consisting of 10,800 ha of small fragmented holdings. Irrgation is
supplemental. The capacity of the network has been sized to meet the demands
during July and August when there is practically no rainfall. Of the total
annual consumption, 77% occurs during July and August, and a twenty-four
hour operation would be required to apply the required volume of water during
these months. From the main canal, 9 primary pipes would take off at about
2,000 m intervals (IBRD Map 13405). Steel pipes would be used for sizes larger
than 500 mm, while smaller sizes would be asbestos cement. From the primary
pipes 864 m long secondary pipes would take off at 632 m intervals in a fish-
bone pattern on both sides of the primary pipes. Both in the social and pri-
vate sectors, five double outlet hydrants would serve a block of 192 m x 312



ANNEX 2
Page 5
m x 2 or 12 ha. Since pressures at the downstream end of the primary pipes
fluctuate between 19 atmospheres, at minimal discharge (static pressure), and
5 atmospheres, at full discharge (high friction losses), hydrants on one
secondary would operate in rotation. Foreign consultants would be engaged to
review the design of the irrigation network prior to preparation of the tender
documents.
18.       Mobile Sprinkler Equipment (Individual Sector).  The individual
sector would be provided with 300 m flying lines composed of numeorus sections
of quick coupling pipes in a 24 m x 24 m sprinkler pattern. Each line would
have 13 sprinklers, and during peak demand, would operate in one position for
11 hours. On the same 12 ha block a second sprinkler line would be waiting to
be switched on for the next 11 hour period. A 12 ha block would thus have a
total of 16 positions for the flying lines and a return period of 8 days.
Each sprinkler would have a discharge of 0.88 litres/sec, nozzel pressure of
4.5 atm, and an intensity of 5.5 mm/hr. This design criteria would meet the
peak demand for sugar beets during August. In spite of extreme parcelliza-
tion, there is a pronounced tendency among farmers in the project area to
group their parcels together in larger blocks on which different farmers
grow the same crop. The design of the system has therefore been conceived
in such a way that an eventual development of 12 ha blocks under the same
crop would take place while farmers would retain their legal ownership of
the individual parcels.
19.       Mobile Sprinkler Equipment (Social Sector).  The area in the social
sector would be irrigated by "booms", consisting of a 4 wheel self-propelled
under carriage supporting a 74 m diameter rotating boom on which sprinklers
are mounted. The booms would operate on a 100 m x 100 m sprinkler pattern (1
ha). The machine would operate at an intake pressure of 5 atm and would
give an intensity of 9.1 mm/hr. To meet the peak requirements during August
6.7 hours' operation in one position would be necessary, with three different
positions in 24 hours and a return period of 8 days. Infiltration tests have
shown that the intensity of water application from the sprinklers can be
absorbed by the soil without runoff. The above system of operation would
require one boom for every 24 ha. However, due to crops with lesser demand in
the cropping pattern, the average area served by one boom would be 30 ha (10
day return period). The choice of booms for the social sector is based on a
comparative economic study of various types of equipment, accounting for their
respective labor requirements and the pressure head available for their
operation.
20.       Drainage.  An extensive drainage network was constructed during the
reclamation of the Pelagonia swamp. Under the project, additional surface
drains would be provided with a specific discharge of 1.25 I/sec/ha based on
the one in 20-year 24-hour rainfall. Secondary drains would be located on
each side of a farm road, running parallel to the secondary underground pipes
and would discharge into primary drains, running halfway between and parallel
to the primary pipes.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
21.       Buildings.  The project would require office buildings for exploita-
tion of the system. The 20,200 ha would be divided into three sections of
about 7,000 ha each, with three primary pipe lines. Each section would
require 108 m2 of office space based on an average of 9 office workers per
section with 12 m2 per person. In addition, a 250 m2 store for equipment and
90 m2 of auxiliary buildings would be provided per section. For the Central
Project Management, 52 persons would need office space, for which 624 m2
of new offices would be provided adjacent to the existing main offices.
22.       Roads.  There is a fairly extensive road network in the project
area. The project would provide 63 km of 5 m wide asphalt roads running
along the primary pipes. Farm dirt roads, 4 m wide, would be constructed
perpendicular to the asphalt roads and parallel to the secondary pipes.
Bulk Water Supply for Town of Bitola
23.       In the mountains west of the town of Bitola, a weir was constructed
in the early fifties, on the Sapuncica tributary to the Dragor River, with
water also diverted to this location from another smaller tributary. Some 4.5
km of concrete channel and 1.0 km of steel pressure pipe convey water from the
Sapuncica weir to a small hydroelectric power plant. Downstream of the power
plant the water flows to the Dovledzik water treatment plant, with a present
capacity of 240 1/sec and then by gravity to the town's distribution system.
There is no storage in the Sapuncica system and summer flows are as low as
801/sec, considerably less than the town's requirements. A related problem
is that maintenance of the Sapuncica conduit is virtually impossible as it is
in constant use to supply Bitola. Total present use of water for industrial
and domestic purposes does not exceed 8.5 Mm3 of which about 6.5 Mm3 are
derived from the Sapuncica while the remainder is made up from some highly
mineralized ground water wells.
24.       The future industrial and domestic uses in the year 2000 for the
town of Bitola and its vicinity have been estimated at about 28 Mm3 of which
22 Mm3 would be supplied by the Strezevo Irrigation project. The project
would provide up to 17 Mm3 bulk water to the enterprise "Vodovod i Banji" from
the alimentation canal where it crosses the Dragor River while the remaining
5 Mm3 would come from the main canal, during the summer months. The construc-
tion of intakes, pumping station on the conduit from the main canal, and all
other water conveyance structures would be separately financed by the Vodovod,
outside of the project.
Bulk Water Supply for Thermal Power Plant
25.       A thermal power plant with a capacity of 420 MW is now under con-
struction at Novaci, near recently discovered lignite reserves at Suvodol,
19 kms east of Bitola. Make-up water for cooling required for this phase
would be 12 Mm3 annually and would be provided by the Strezevo project. The
main water supply of the thermopower plant would be the runoff from the Dragor
river catchment downstream of its crossing the alimentation canal. The water
would be diverted through a Tyrol type intake with stilling pool, and passed



ANNEX 2
Page 7
into a collecting basin at elevation 655 m asl, from where a steel pipe would
carry it to the edge of the irrigated area to the banks of the Crna River.
Shortages, to the extent of 2 Mm3 are expected to occur in some summers for
which diversion p,rovisions would be made from the alimentation canal as well
as the main canal.
26.        The water would be supplied in bulk at the Crna River and the Enter-
prise "Electrostopanstvo" would be responsible for the financing and construc-
tion of conveyance, storage and treatments at the Novaci plant and at Suvodol
where a small reservoir is under construction for equalizing seasonal flow
and protecting the mine from flooding. The Thermal Power Plant is due for
completion in its first phase by the end of 1979. The diversion structure and
the pipeline from the Strezevo project for this purpose would, therefore, be
constructed prior to December 31, 1979. The Novaci Thermal Station would be
expanded in 1982, but none of the water requirements for the second phase
would be provided from the Strezevo project.
Irrigation Feasibility Studies
27.        Construction of irrigation projects in the Vardar Basin of the
Socialist Republic of Macedonia began in the early 1950's. Development of
irrigation has been proceeding slowly, at an average rate of about 4,000 ha
annually. Review of Macedonia's long range irrigation requirements and pre-
liminary feasibility work on a number of other projects has been carried out
under an irrigation study included in the First Agro-Industries Project, but
it is clear that extensive additional preparatory work would be necessary
to bring the projects to levels acceptable to the Bank.
28.        Preparation of three feasibility studies for the development of land
and water resources of Skopsko Pole (15,700 ha), Pepelisko Pole, (4,000 ha),
and Gevgelisko Pole (8,800 ha) would be carried out by the Government of
Macedonia with Melioprojekt as project consultants, who would be supported
by specialized engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment and scope of work would be satisfactory to
the Bank. The technical, economic and financial feasibility studies would,
inter alia, cover preliminary design of irrigation and drainage facilities,
technical agricultural preparation and recommendations on institutions and
organizations. The specialized consultants would be employed before
December 31, 1978.
July 1978.



ANNEX 3
APPRAISAL OF
MACEDONIA STREZEVO IRRIGATION PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project Files
A.        General reports and studies on the agriculture sector
A.1 World Bank "The Economy of the Socialist Republic of Macedonia
Yugoslavia" (3 volumes), June 28, 1976.
B.        General reports and studies relating to the project
B.1 Hydrosystem "Strezevo-Bucin", report by Water Management Organiza-
tion, "Pelagonija" '7 volumes) - Bitola, March 1977.
B.2 Runoff from Baba Planina Hydrological expertise by "Jaroslav Cerni",
Institute for Development of Water Resources, Belgrade 1977.
B.3 Reports on Strezevo Project by Compagnie Nationale d'Amenagement de
la Region du Bas-Rhone Languedoc, Nimes, France, October-November
1976 and April 1977.
B.4 Report on Strezevo dam design by Mr. Alexander Bozovic, Chief
Engineer Energoprojekt, Belgrade, May 1977.
B.5 Report on Domestic Water Supply for Bitola by Mr. B. Grover, Ottawa,
March 1, 1977.
B.6 Resolutions, Proposals, Self-Management Agreements and Decrees by
SR Macedonia, Bitola Commune and other parties involved in project
construction, implementation and water use.
C.        Selected Working Papers
C.1 Report by World Bank Preparation Mission, Washington, July 22, 1977.
C.2 Report on review of hydrology of Seminica River and Baba Mountain
streams and Operation Study of Strezevo Reservoir.
C.3 -Preparation reports on Strezevo Project (Design Calculations, draw-
ings Estimates - six volumes), September 1977-January 1978.
C.4 Project Implementation File.



PRIzON /S                                                                  O              Y ,   - .   '   KJMANOVSK,-) 'eO SLAVIA
./V KvVG PG .                M t   or i\  vl \ACEDONIA - STREZEVO IRRIGATION PROJECT
DUM;  I   A,   ;\ X   \N  X    <ANOV% _S V    PROJECT LOCATION
TETIY,  i  /   K.                                     p _       j      ,,         I
'KOPk
S   E   l'  2^(1 ;"-xX ~~~~~~G                               TI  iKA
GOS,TIGIP -L E ': ' '- "IP
1                                                      RALOOV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S9,~~~~~~~TRU
Ftci~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1- ,; a\ 'i= AX'3"L''-i' <St   t0                                                                 ,=,,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7fUtMOfl
'- AN D
HR oD - STRUSKO  DEMI                                           LISKO
POLE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XC
R N~~~~~ 
~~~~    '  N ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~
0,    0W"'    .1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
V .4                                                                                                                                      1 
-C   OoO*OEy~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






IBRD 13405
/  i_  /MACEDONIA-STREZEVO IRRIGATION PROJECT
W , ----' ) \ '--> 4 / /,' \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~GENERAL LAYOUT
. \ ( ~~~~~~~/\i 0 < < \ //? ( twlecl Eou,ndory~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 
'-7 '    -     '          '    !          S         X        , )           .       -','0              R -    1 D          N.
K~~ -<,g/4S7 N1.1\1 Xu 
\~~~~7>t_ ,/                             / q                -J                         3                                                    //         XBo
9\0a :  u   ',tZ   ::  X                     C K /                                          WE
C .'      1.______________.,'______________ _________________ ______'\___
r X   x,,/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ -    Wr    (0  -Ai KsevSk2w           Dwgos r' \<                              G    R   E    E   C    E                                         ->~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K
) f-7\ 4 Obrwd (-l X f@_aA 1 (tt 41t 4 / / r -*O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~ 8 - <  oozP 8 x/  __ ;48 s 3ndor   \      <        _ < _ ~       k.,c                                                                       R,v
AL B A  Nl  ze; . .>_   gX   =  %XcerKanol 30vfdcrw_\ \  _   w ~ ~ ~   ~          ~          ~         ~         ~         ~        L,-~ M&



