Document of
FILE  COPY                           The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2269a-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
STOPANSKA BANKA SKOPJE
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
MACEDONIA STREZEVO IRRIGATION PROJECT
July 26, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS *
Currency Unit                     -                     Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)
US$1                              -                     Din. 18.00
Din. 1                            -                     US$0.0555
Din. 1,000                        -                     US$55.55
Din. 1,000,000                    -                     US$55,555.55
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973,
as of December 31, 1977, the rate was Din, 18,4452 - $1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31.
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
LDR                             -                 Less Developed Regions
(of Yugoslavia)
SFRY                            -                 Socialist Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia
SAS                             -                 Social Accounting Service
SBS                             -                 Stopanska Banka Skopje
Vodostopanstvo                  -                 Pelagonija Water Economy
Enterprise



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
MACEDONIA STREZEVO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Stopanska Banka Skopje (SBS).
Guarantor:           Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Beneficiary:         Pelagonija Water Economy Enterprise (Vodostopanstvo).
Amount:              US$82 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:               Amortization in 15 years, including three years grace,
with interest at 7.9 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:    The proceeds of the loan would be on-lent to the bene-
ciary (who would bear the foreign exchange risk) on
same t-erms as Bank loan except for additional 0.5
percent spread on interest rate to cover administra-
tive costs of Borrower.
Project
Description:        The Project is part of Macedonia's long term irrigation
development program for the Pelagonija plain, the single
largest area of arable land in the Republic. The Project
seeks to increase crop production on 20,300 ha, to raise
productivity and income, and to create employment in an
area where unemployment and emigration are among the
highest in Yugoslavia. The increased food production on
the newly irrigated land would substitute for imports,
cater to increasing domestic demand and provide limited
export potential. The project would supply bulk water to
the community of Bitola and to a thermal electric power
facility under construction. Feasibility and preparation
studies for three possible future irrigation projects are
also included.
The project would directly benefit about 5,500 individual
farm families and 3,600 families employed in social sector
agribusiness. These direct beneficiaries would number
about 50,000 in one of Yugoslavia's less developed regions
and average agricultural income per capita is expected to
increase about five-fold. The proportion of farmers
above the relative poverty level or target group would
increase from 10-20 percent to about 85-95 percent. At
full production incremental output is projected to exceed
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
500,000 tons of produce with a value of about US$26
million in January 1978 prices. Crop production patterns
will shift towards more labor intensive, higher value
crops. Adequate water supplies to the town of Bitola will
remove a constraint to the expansion of processing and
other industries in the area, as well as contributing to
public health.
Risks which have to be considered relate to construction
timing, financing, and institutional setting. The con-
struction timing risk is largely contained by an accele-
rated pace of tasks which are preliminary to construction
work and by advance contracting of critical components
which must be completed in 1978 to ensure a four year
construction period. The financing risk consists of cost
overruns which could occur if the four year construction
schedule is not met, but the cost overrun guarantee from
SBS and the special efforts of the Republican authorities
to obtain all necessary funds represent adequate assurances
that funds would most likely be provided without undue
delays. The institutional risks are associated with the
prevailing system of land use rationalization in the
project area. This land use system presupposes the
continuing success of cooperative grouping of individually
held land parcels. Inability to achieve this land ra-
tionalization through cooperative measures would detract
from the benefits of the project and has been taken into
account in the sensitivity analysis in the economic rate
of return. Based on the historical record, such risk is
considered acceptable and prudent.
Estimated Cost:                                  Local   Foreign  Total   Percent
-----(US$ MillionT----
Dam and Irrigation Works                     61.3      42.2   103.5       59
Equipment                                     4.8       9.6    14.4        8
Land Compensation                             7.4        -       7.4       4
Engineering and Administration                6.2       0.1     6.3        4
Irrigation Feasibility Studies                0.9      0.6      1.5        1
Physical Contingencies                        7.1       5.7    12.8        7
Price Contingencies                          18.5      11.5    30.0       17
Subtotal                                   106.2      69.7   175.9       100
Interest on Bank Loan During
Construction                                -       12.9    12.9
Total                                      106.2      82.6   188.8



- 11.1 -
Financing Plan:                                   US$ Million    Percent
IBRD                                             82.0           44
SBS /a                                           80.1           42
Republic of Macedonia Grant                      11.1            6
Equity Contributions from Enter-
prises in Town of Bitola                      15.6             8
Total                                           188.8          100
/a   Includes funds of US$67 million from the Federal Fund for
Less Developed Regions.
Estimated
Disbursements:                                           US$ million----------
Bank FY         1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
Annual                                   14.4   23.1   35.0   18.0    1.5
Cumulative                               14.4   37.5   62.5   80.5   82.0
Rate of Return:             15 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:   Report No. 1934a-YU,
Date: July 14, 1978






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO STOPAISKA BANKA SKOPJE WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Stopanska Banka Skopje (SBS), with the guarantee of the Socialist Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia, for the equivalent of US$82.0 million to finance the
foreign exchange costs including the estimated interest and other charges
during construction on the proposed loan for an irrigation project. The loan
would have a term of 15 years, including three years of grace, with interest
at 7.9 percent per annum. The proceeds of the loan would be on-lent to the
Pelagonija Water Economy Enterprise (Vodostopanstvo), the project authority
and implementing agency, on the same terms as the Bank loan except for an
additional 0.5 percent spread on interest rate to cover administrative costs
to SBS. The foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan would be borne by
Vodostopanstvo.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A basic economic mission visited Yugoslavia in November 1972; its
report entitled "The Economic Development of Yugoslavia" (194a-YU) was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on January 2, 1974. An economic mission
visited Yugoslavia in October 1975; its report entitled "Economic Memorandum--
Yugoslavia" (1086b-YU) was distributed to the Executive Directors on September
3, 1976. A Basic Economic Mission to review the Social Development Plan 1976-
80 and to assess the economic implications of the new institutional framework
emanating from the 1974 Constitution visited Yugoslavia in October and November
1976; its report entitled, "Yugoslavia: Self-Management Socialism and the Chal-
lenges of Development" (1615a-YU) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 5, 1978. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
3.        The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades
has been impressive, characterized by rapid growth accompanied by dynamic
structural and institutional changes. GDP grew in real terms (1972 prices)
at an average annual rate of about 7 percent and, given an average population
growth rate of one percent per year, real per capita income more than tripled.
In 1976, per capita GNP was estimated at $1,680 (World Bank Atlas Methodology).
The activity of the social sector, especially industry, was the driving force
1/   Part I of this report is identical to that in the Reports and Recommenda-
tions of the President for the Third and Fourth Industrial Credit Projects
(Report Nos. 2235a-YU and 2360-YU) of June 26, 1978.



-2-
of the economy and the share of industry in GDP increased from about 23 per-
cent in 1955 to about 32 percent in 1976, and paved the way for the develop-
ment of a modern industry/service oriented urban society.
4.         The population growth rate which averaged 1 percent per year during
the last two decades, however, varies considerably among the regions ranging
from an average rate of 1.6 percent for the less developed Republics and
Provinces (LDRs) to 0.7 percent for the developed ones (DRs). Structural
changes in the economy have permitted a sizeable transfer of the labor force
from agriculture to industry and services. Despite this, by 1975, 39 percent
of the employed resident labor force was still engaged in agriculture and
forestry, mostly on small private farms; industry (including mining) accounted
for 24 percent, and other sectors for 37 percent.
5.        The socio-political framework evolved through several constitu-
tional amendments which were consolidated in the new Constitution of 1974.
It strengthens three important features of the socio-political system of
Yugoslavia. First, self-management, whereby the use and control of the
socially owned means of production are entrusted to the workers' collectives,
is the fundamental right and obligation of every Basic Organization of
Associated Labor (BOAL--the smallest identifiable unit of production which
produces a marketable output) in every sector and activity. Second, the
responsibility for most important social and policy decisions is shifted from
the Federation down to the Republics and Provinces, and on to the communes.
And third, the management and financial responsibility for social activities
(health, education, welfare, etc.) is transferred from the realm of the state
to Communities of Interest (decision-making bodies which comprise delegates
of both suppliers and users of the specific services). Responsibility for
certain economic activities affecting large segments of the society (like
communal services, power production, highways and water management) is pro-
gressively similarly organized through Communities of Interest.
6.        The social sector, which includes government, enterprises and public
institutions such as libraries, hospitals, theatres and schools, has the lead-
ing role in economic and social development. It accounts for 85 percent of
CDP and employs over half of the total labor force. The private sector is
comprised predominantly of peasant farms (generally with a 10 hectare limit to
land holdings) and small enterprises (generally with a 5-person limit on the
number of nonfamily workers), mainly in handicrafts, construction, trade,
transport and tourism.  In the past, the private sector had been relatively
neglected by government policy. However, lately increased attention is being
devoted to private farmers with a view to accelerating the growth of agricul-
tural production and reducing the rural/urban income disparity. New legisla-
tion has also been enacted to promote private business through the pooling of
resources in joint ventures with social sector enterprises or among private
small scale industrial, transport, trade or other entities. These measures
aim to encourage private sector productive investment and employment, by
circumventing the 5 employee limitation, and to absorb the returning migrant
workers and mobilize their savings.
7.        Regional income disparity--with a gradient of per capita income fall-
ing generally from North to South--is one of the most important development



- 3 -
issues facing the country. Four regions can be distinguished by stage of
development. The Republic of Slovenia is the high per capita income region
with incomes almost double the national average. The Republics of Serbia
and Croatia and the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina make up the middle income
regions, with incomes ranging from 100 to 125 percent of the national average.
However, even within these regions there are pockets of underdevelopment,
which basically coincide with private sector agriculture. The Republics of
Bosnia-Herzegovina, Montenegro and Macedonia, with per capita incomes about
two-thirds of the national average, constitute the upper group among the
officially designated less developed regions. The Socialist Autonomous
Province of Kosovo (Kosovo), with an average per capita income of only 30
percent of the national average (about US$500.0 equivalent for 1976), is the
least developed region. These inter-regional disparities can be traced back
further to intra-regional disparities. Within Republics and Provinces the per
capita income spread betiween communes can extend over the range of 10 to 1,
and it is the prevalence of stagnating poor rural communes within the LDRs
which largely determines the disparity between the regions. The rate of
economic growth of the LDRs as a whole was only slightly below the average for
Yugoslavia, but due to t'he faster population growth (1.6 percent per year
versus 0.7 percent in th,e DRs) the income disparity had until recently tended
to widen. In order to reverse the trend and to accelerate economic growth and
social development in th,e LDRs, mechanisms were instituted for sizeable
transfers of financial resources, initially on a non-returnable basis. Since
1971, net credits on highly favorable terms (containing a grant element of
around 50 percent) were imade available to the LDRs through the Federal Fund
for the Accelerated Development of Less Developed Regions, equivalent to about
20 percent of their total investment in the social sector. These transfers
amounted to about US$430 million equivalent in 1976 in addition to about
US$250 million equivalent being transferred as budgetary grants for social
services. The mechanism for both categories assures a growth of transfers in
line with the growth in GDP.
8.        The rate of open unemployment to the total resident labor force
amounts to about 5 percent but understates the magnitude of the employment
generation problem because of the existence of large reserves of rural under-
employed and the need to employ returning migrant workers. The rate of regis-
tered 1/ unemployment to social sector employment averaging about 11.9 percent
for the country as a whole in 1976 is perhaps a better measure. A rapid
growth of the social sector which provides more productive employment is,
therefore, imperative if the natural increase of the labor force, in addition
to the returning migrants, is to be absorbed and the ranks of the unemployed
reduced. This problem takes on added urgency as the incidence of unemploy-
ment 2/ is highly regionalized ranging from 25.4 percent at one extreme in
Kosovo to 1.5 percent in Slovenia.
1/   In Yugoslav definition, unemployment is measured in terms of registered
job seekers actually unemployed as well as those employed but seeking new
jobs.
2/   Ratio of registered unemployment to social sector employment.



-4-
Recent Developments
9.        In 1975, the growth rate of the economy receded to 4.5 percent, fol-
lowing the rapid increase of GDP of 9 percent in the previous year. This was
due mainly to the combined effects of a restrictive monetary policy, stagnat-
ing exports and a reduced growth of personal incomes and leveling consump-
tion; economic investment and housing construction provided the major growth
stimulus during 1975. The inflationary pressure, which built up during 1974
and extended into 1975, receded drastically in the second half of the year;
the rate of increase of industrial producer prices decreased from 30 percent
for 1974 to 22 percent in 1975, and the index of real personal receipts stag-
nated for the whole of the year.   The good harvest in 1974 had a favorable
impact on the balance of payments, although meat exports were severely affected
by the European Community ban on meat imports. Exports to oil producing coun-
tries and to the non-convertible currency area continued to expand rapidly
in 1975, but were insufficient to compensate for the sharp decline in exports
to the convertible currency area. As a result, commodity exports declined
by 2 percent in real terms. Workers' remittances and receipts from tourism
increased marginally. However, a larger contraction of imports and an
improvement in the terms of trade led to some decline in the current account
deficit to $1.0 billion as compared to $1.2 billion in 1974.
10.       Further reduction of the balance of payments deficit and of the
inflationary pressures in the economy were the major objectives of economic
policy during 1976. As compared to a nominal increase of 22 percent in 1975,
GDP grew by 14 percent in nominal and 4 percent in real terms in 1976.  Fol-
lowing a near stagnation of industrial production (and economic activity in
general) in the first half of the year--as a result of the implementation
of new legislation enforcing greater financial discipline on enterprises--
industrial growth picked up in the second half of the year and recorded a rise
of about 4 percent. The combination of the economic slack and price policy
resulted in a cutback in the rise of producer prices and the cost of living to
less than 10 percent, i.e. less than half the previous year's increases.
Favorable results were also realized in the field of foreign trade. The
marked deceleration of inflation, the slackening of domestic demand and the
revival of Western European demand, as well as foreign trade policy, resulted
in a 20 percent growth of merchandise exports and about 4 percent decline of
imports in nominal terms. The reduced balance of trade deficit was also
aided by the inflow on account of invisibles, resulting in a $150 million
balance of payments surplus for the year.  Foreign exchange reserves also
reached a record of over $2.0 billion.  Social sector employment grew by
3.7 percent and allowed the absorption of some returning migrant workers yet,
with the realized GDP growth rate, this meant a virtual stagnation of average
workers' productivity for the year.
Estimates for 1977 and Prospects for 1978
11.       Although initial projections for 1977 envisaged a moderate GDP growth
rate of about 5.5 percent and a balance of payments deficit of some $500 mil-
lion, estimates for the year indicate both a higher economic growth rate and



balance of payments deficit than expected. The pick-up of economic activity
which started in the second half of 1976 continued into 1977 with industrial
production growing at a rate of about 10 percent in the first half of the year.
The large monetary expansion in 1976 also enabled the expansion of investment
and other components of domestic demand and resulted in a somewhat higher
inflation rate than anticipated (cost of living rise of 13-15 percent). For
the year as a whole, GDP is estimated to have risen by almost 7 percent with
industry growing by 8 percent and agriculture by 4 percent. Employment is
estimated to have grown by about 3.5 percent and average workers' productivity
at an almost equal rate. The most significant deviation, however, occurred in
the foreign trade sector. As a result of the slow growth of exports and the
fast growing imports connected with expanding industrial production, which was
not compensated for by the growth of invisibles including workers' remittances,
the balance of payments deficit for 1977 is expected to amount to $1.3 billion
matching that for 1974. The country was able to contract the necessary for-
eign financing in 1977, however, maintaining its external reserves at about
the previous year's level. The program for 1978 envisages the stabilization
of the economic growth rate of 6-7 percent, a reduction of the inflation rate
and a major consolidation of the foreign trade sector to improve the balance
of payments position.
Medium- and Long-Term Objectives and Prospects
12.       The surfacing of major economic problems during 1974, such as high
international inflation and balance of payments pressures, led to a reappraisal
of development objectives. More emphasis was to be given to the development
of Yugoslavia's own natural resources, with the development of the energy
sector as the highest pr:iority. The focus is on electric power, where the
generating capacity is falling critically short of the rapidly rising power
requirements of the expanding economy. The development of the power sector
will be based primarily on the viable hydropower potential remaining to be
developed and soft-coal reserves of the country. Other priority activities
are ferrous metallurgy, some segments of non-ferrous metallurgy (notably lead,
zinc, copper, nickel and bauxite/aluminum), technologically advanced production
equipment, basic chemicals including petroleum refining, agriculture and food
processing, interrepublic transportation, multipurpose works, and housing and
basic construction material.
13.       This emphasis on accelerated development of the raw material basis
and of the economic infrastructure requires a more capital-intensive invest-
ment pattern, associated with longer time lags between investment and out-
put. To sustain this development path, both continued high borrowing abroad
and an increased savings rate will be essential. Since, with the possible
exception of private savings, interest rates have not been given a signifi-
cant role to play in the determination of the level of aggregate savings, the
income policy--i.e. the guidelines governing the distribution of enterprise
income between workers' income and accumulation--will have to play a crucial
role.



14.       The new Five Year Plan (1976-80) focuses on the implementation of
these objectives. For GDP growth, an average rate of 7 percent per year is
proposed, compared with a target growth rate of the previous Plan of 7.5 per-
cent and a realized growth rate of 6.5 percent. For employment, the average
planned growth rate would come to about 3 percent with annual increments
exceeding the natural increase of the labor force by growing margins. This
would permit more vigorous pursuit of two major social objectives: the reduc-
tion of the number of temporary migrants abroad (estimated at about 900,000 in
1975), and an increased absorption of the rural underemployed into the social
sector, which is likely to have significant impact only in the DRs. The
economy will continue to be open to the world market, although the composition
of foreign trade is expected to change with a reduced share for raw material
and semi-finished products on the import side, and an increased share for
agricultural products and manufactured goods on the export side.  Workers'
remittances are not expected to increase in real terms, but rising tourism
receipts and construction work abroad are expected to compensate for the
expected declining importance of workers' remittances.
15.       The reduction of regional disparities is another priority objective
of the new Five Year Plan. To that end, the mechanisms for the transfer of
financial resources to the LDRs in the form of loans at concessionary terms
for economic investment and of budgetary grants for social development will be
continued, with some marginal increase in contributions as a proportion of
GDP. Since most of the natural resources of the country, including hydro-
power, are to be found in the LDRs, these regions will also benefit from the
increased emphasis on the development of power and basic industries which will
be financed jointly through direct financial contributions from the consuming
regions.
16.       The new Five Year Plan was prepared according to the self-management
principle stipulated in the Constitution of 1974. Self-management planning is
perceived as an iterative process of sequential, converging consensus-finding.
In the initial stage, broad priorities (as to sectors and activities) and
general quantitative targets and constraints (like growth rates of social
product and the volume of savings and investment) are determined on the basis
of consensus by the Assemblies of the socio-political communities (Govern-
ments at the Communal, Republican and Provincial, and Federal levels). Sub-
sequently, the planning process starts at the bottom with individual enter-
prises and Communities of Interest setting out expectations and targets. The
planning process then proceeds through successive and partially overlapping
stages of horizontal adjustments within sectors and branches (aimed primarily
at eliminating gross duplications), vertical adjustments between closely inter-
dependent sectors and branches (aimed at determining realistic orders of
magnitudes of production, conceptually within an input/output framework), and
regional adjustments between Republics and Provinces (aimed at both horizontal
and vertical consolidation). The socio-political communities participate in
this process by ensuring observance of the broad priorities, targets and con-
straints, and by resolving conflicts which cannot be resolved by the direct
participants. The evolving consolidated programs of action, which in their
totality constitute the operational portion of the Plan, are codified in the



- 7 -
form of "Social Compacts" 1/ or "Self-Management Agreements" 2/ which are
legally binding for the whole Plan period unless renegotiated in the case of
major deviations occurring in the course of Plan implementation. The new Plan
differs from the previous one in strengthening and formalizing the commitments
for implementation by enterprises, banks and government institutions.
Creditworthiness
17.        In spite of the recent balance of payments problems, the prospects
for Yugoslavia's continued economic growth during the next decade are good.
The country's endowment: of natural and human resources, its relatively low
dependence on imported primary energy, its pragmatic approach to economic
problems and its readiness to undertake institutional changes, combine to
give grounds for a favorable assessment of future prospects. Yugoslavia will
need to continue to raise foreign capital on a fairly large scale, mostly
from established channels such as the Euro-currency market, suppliers' credits
and the World Bank. In addition, greater use may be made of credit lines from
COMECON countries and the European Community, and efforts are being intensi-
fied to open up new sources of capital in OPEC countries. The debt service
ratio amounted to abou: 16 percent in 1976 and is expected to level at about
17 percent in 1977 and subsequent years. Taking into account Yugoslavia's
debt service record andl the measures taken in the past to control balance of
payments problems, as well as the prospective growth of production and struc-
tural improvement of tihe balance of trade, Yugoslavia remains creditworthy for
a substantial amount of Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 3/
18.       The Bank has made 50 loans to Yugoslavia totalling about US$1,981
million. Of this amount, approximately 43 percent (US$856.4 million) has been
for 17 loans for the transportation sector--9 for highways, 5 for railways,
and one each for a natural gas pipeline, an oil pipeline, and a port project.
Bank lending has generally concentrated on infrastructure including, in addi-
tion to the transportation loans, five power loans, one telecommunications
loan, two water supply and sewerage and five multipurpose loans. Five loans
1/   "Social Compacts" regulate broader economic issues or policies and are
concluded among Socio-Political Communities and also involving Economic
Chambers and Associations of Enterprises and Trade Unions.
2/   "Self-Management kgreements" are more specific and regulate most rela-
tions, rights and obligations within, among and between economic organ-
izations like BOALs, enterprises and banks.
3/   Substantially unchanged from Part II of the President's Reports for the
Third and Fourth Industrial Credit Projects (Report Nos. 2235a-YU and
2360-YU) of June 26, 1978.



- 8 -
totalling US$206 million (about 10 percent of the total amount lent to
Yugoslavia) have been made for agriculture and agro-industries. Twelve loans
amounting to US$300 million (about 15 percent of the total) have also been
made for industry and two for tourism amounting to US$30 million. The $27
million first Bank loan for air pollution control was approved May 25, 1976.
In addition, IFC has made investments in eleven Yugoslav enterprises totalling
about US$155 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and
IFC investments as of May 31, 1978 and notes on the execution of on-going
projects.
19.       The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued in its lend-
ing to Yugoslavia remain essentially unchanged. These objectives are:
(a) to support Yugoslav efforts to address the critical issues
of regional disparities and unemployment;
(b) to promote agricultural development in both the individual
farmer and social sectors by providing basic infrastructure
and credit facilities;
(c) to encourage structural reforms in the major sectors through
improved coordination, institution-building and technical
assistance;
(d) to help in identifying and financing gaps in basic infra-
structure-particularly transport and energy; and
(e) to alleviate critical shortages of convertible foreign
exchange by providing part of the required long-term capital,
encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to tap other
sources of medium- and long-term capital, and supporting
projects which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
It is obvious that each and every Bank operation cannot address all these
objectives nor be entirely oriented towards the welfare of the less developed
regions (LDRs), but the basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia
has increasingly been towards the development of the LDRs and the agricultural
sector in particular.
20.       The Bank's emphasis on assuring the accelerated development of the
LDRs is fully in accord with the Federal Government's avowed policy to narrow
the gap between the richest and the poorest regions. The new development Plan
assigns even higher priority to redressing such disparity, and to that end the
Federal Government has now obtained consensus of its constituents, not only on
the channeling of domestic resources to the LDRs through the Federal Fund
mechanism (see para. 7 of this Report) but also on the distribution of external
resources including Bank lending. The Bank has actively cooperated with the
Government in evolving a distribution pattern for Bank lending which gives
weight to the income levels and population size of particular regions and has
on this basis over the last three years effectively directed more than two-
thirds of its lending to the LDRs. While the Bank's ability to achieve such a



distribution is clearly influenced by the ability of the regions to generate
viable projects, recent experience in bringing forward well designed and eco-
nomically sound projects for the LDRs is cause for confidence in our ability
to maintain the level of Bank activity in the LDRs, though there will undoubt-
edly be year-to-year fluctuations.
21.       In recognition of the fact that such an expanded investment program
for the LDRs would need to be preceded by a systematic survey of these regions
to take stock of development potential and identify constraints, the Bank
undertook and completed economic surveys of the four LDRs (Kosovo, Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro). These regional surveys, coupled with
intensified Bank assistance in project formulation and ongoing economic and
sector analysis, reinforce the impact of the Bank's participation in the
development of these regions.
22.       Over the past several years, more than two-thirds of our lending, as
noted in paragraph 20 above, has been to the LDRs. Operations, such as this
proposed irrigation project and the recently approved third and fourth indus-
trial credit projects, as well as operations envisaged for LDRs over the next
two years, including loans for irrigation, water supply and sewerage and
multipurpose water resource and agricultural development, emphasize our
continuing orientation to the needs of the LDRs. Recently approved loans for
a Ninth Highway Project, a Fifth Railway Project and a Middle Neretva Hydro
Power Project, as well as the Second Power Transmisson Project approved in
1977, will both assist the LDRs and promote structural reforms in the trans-
port and energy sectors. IFC is currently investigating several new invest-
ment opportunities to encourage joint ventures which would provide technical,
management and marketing expertise as well as long-term capital.
23.       The Bank helped formulate the 1973 "Green Plan", a comprehensive
framework for agricultural development, which recognized the need to encourage
the role of the individual, low-income sector (which holds almost 85 percent
of the cultivated land and employs over 90 percent of the farm population).
As a follow-up, the 1976 "Green Plan" calls for even greater attention to
agriculture and clearly recognizes that the impetus for accelerated growth
must necessarily be derived from the underexploited resources of the indi-
vidual farming sector. 'It is now generally appreciated that the individual
farmer sector can generate significant increases in production if provided
with sufficient support in terms of extension services, credit for inputs and
basic infrastructural facilities. The loans for the Ibar Multipurpose Project
(Loan No. 777-YU) and the Metohija Multipurpose Project (Loan No. 1360-YU) in
Kosovo, the first and second Agro-Industries Projects (Loan Nos. 894-YU and
1371-YU) in Macedonia, and the first and second Agricultural Credit Projects
(Loan Nos. 1129-YU and 1477-YU, respectively), as well as the proposed project,
have given special attention to the needs of the individual farmer sector.
24.       The agricultural sector deserves attention for a number of develop-
mental considerations. It is the obvious vehicle for addressing the problems
of rural poverty which underlies regional disparity; it can provide opportuni-
ties for productively employing the rural population, thus reducing the pres-
sure for creating non-agricultural employment; and it contributes to reducing



- 10 -
reliance on imports and improving the prospects for exports of food and other
agricultural products. Forthcoming projects for irrigation and rural develop-
ment will support agriculture development in general and in particular, the
individual farmer sector.
25.       Decentralized management, which is the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's
socio-economic philosophy, adds to the inherent difficulties involved in for-
mulating coherent sector plans. One of the principal features of the 1974
constitutional changes and subsequent legislation, however, has been to revamp
the institutional framework and to introduce mechanisms for coordination. The
new system of self-management planning requires that the programs of all enter-
prises are discussed, negotiated and reflected in legally binding agreements.
In order to support these efforts for improved coordination, the Bank intends
to pursue vigorously the initiatives it has sponsored in terms of establishing
the basis for evolving coherent sector policies.
26.       Given the complexity of the Yugoslav system, which requires reaching
a consensus of all parties affected by any substantive decision, the process
of dealing with problems and of evolving acceptable solutions is cumbersome.
The Bank sees it important, however, to continue exerting its influence in
shaping the policy framework and having a further beneficial impact on foster-
ing coordination, particularly in the power and transport sectors where
significant progress has already been achieved. For instance, the Eighth
Highway Project (Loan No. 1377-YU) approved March 15, 1977, provides for
studies of road-user charges and railway costs which the Government and we
believe essential for developing intermodal coordination and devising a policy
framework for the transport sector. The Second Power Transmission Project
(Loan No. 1469-YU approved June 28, 1977), an extension of the interconnected
transmission system partly financed by the Bank in 1972 (Loan No. 836-YU),
will enable the supply of power throughout the country and thereby encourage
power exchange coordination among all republics/provinces. The promise of
further progress in the coming years is reassuring and additional improvements
in sector coordination and policy are foreseen in conjunction with upcoming
projects.
27.       A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and ability to address the
critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. While the Yugoslavs
are making concerted efforts to open up and enlarge access to Western finan-
cial markets and institutions (including the European Investment Bank), there
is no concrete evidence of substantial additional inflows. The Bank, there-
fore, remains the major source of long-term external capital for the foresee-
able future, and its significant level of operations in Yugoslavia not only
constitutes the largest source of long-term external capital but, equally
important, is regarded by international financing institutions as evidence of
international confidence in Yugoslavia's economic performance, policies and
prospects. In financing of infrastructure as well as industrial and agro-
industrial projects, we continue to devote particular attention to possibili-
ties for attracting co-financing. In our support of projects in the directly
productive sectors, we have and will continue to devote attention to those
which generate or conserve foreign exchange.



- 11 -
28.        Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank amounts to about one-fifth of its
total public debt, outstanding and disbursed. The outstanding debt to the
Bank is, however, expected to decline gradually from its current level to
about 10 percent of Yugoslavia's total external debt. Service on Bank loans
as a proportion of total debt service was 4.7 percent in 1976 and is projected
to be about 5 percent by 1980.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in Yugoslavia
29.        The agriculture sector grew at an average rate of about 3 percent
during 1970-75, occupied about one-third of the Yugoslav population and
accounted for around 15 percent of the GMP (Gross Material Product) 1/. In
view of continuing rural poverty and emerging food deficits, increasing
emphasis is being placed upon accelerating agricultural development. The
1976-80 Plan projects an increase in the growth rate to about 4 percent over
the period.
30.        The country hbas three distinct climatic zones and a predominantly
mountainous terrain. Agricultural activities are consequently varied, rang-
ing from cultivation of wheat, maize and sugar beets in the fertile plains,
to livestock rearing in the upland pastures, and cultivation of sub-tropical
crops and fruits along the Adriatic Coast and in the catchment basin of the
Aegean Sea.
31.        An important feature of Yugoslav agriculture is the co-existence of
social and individual sectors. The social sector, which grew out of postwar
collectivization, operattes under principles of social ownership of the means
of production and workers' self-management. It includes kombinats (integrated
farms and processing faLcilities), cooperatives and research institutions.
This sector produces one-third of total agricultural output, controls 15
percent of agricultural land, and employs about 6 percent of agricultural
man-power. In contrast, the individual sector, which owns 85 percent of the
cultivated land and employs over 90 percent of agricultural manpower, is
handicapped by small, fragmented and poor quality landholdings, and has been
neglected in terms of access to basic infrastructure, financing and techn-
ology. The Government now recognizes that further significant growth in
production will have to emanate from the individual sector, and has launched
programs in agricultural credit and extension, cooperation with the social
sector and marketing services.
1/   GMP (Gross Material Product) corresponds to GDP (Gross Domestic Product)
less output of certain services, such as public administration, defense,
education, health and social insurance.



- 12 -
32.        Responsibility for formulating agricultural policy rests with the
republics and provinces, all of which are represented on the Federal Committee
for Agriculture, the President of which is a member of the Federal Executive
Council with the rank of Minister. The Committee sets the principles for
development, establishes major policies, links the agricultural sector with
the overall national development plan and is responsible for coordination of
agrarian policy, legislation and prices and exports. There is also at the
Federal level the Federal Chamber of Economy, within which there is a unit
dealing with the agricultural sector which includes specialized committees.
The responsibilities of these committees are to promote coordination in such
specialized areas as research, planning and finance. The Federal Chamber of
Economy attempts to ensure overall coordination within the economy. Chambers
of Economy also exist at the republican/provincial levels; like the Federal
Chamber of Economy, they comprise social sector enterprises and, as such, seek
to achieve maximum self-management coordination among and serve as intermedia-
ries between enterprises in the negotiation of "social compacts" within their
respective republics/provinces. They also examine all legislation to be placed
before the respective assemblies, forecast markets, provide economic services
and scrutinize plans of enterprises. At the local level, the commune is the
link between the community and enterprises, and seeks to reconcile the various
interests of the enterprises and the community.
33.        Due to decentralized decision making, all functions associated with
policy implementation rest with autonomous self-governing organizations, such
as kombinats and cooperatives, which implement production and investment plans.
Even though it accounts for only about 15 percent of total cultivated land,
the social sector is the primary medium for policy implementation regarding
production and investments, since it has a virtual monopoly of technicians,
management skills and production processing and marketing activities outside
the small-scale sector.
Agriculture in Macedonia
34.        Macedonia is one of the less developed republics of Yugoslavia with
an estimated per capita income approximately 70 percent of the national aver-
age or about US$1,050. Agriculture contributes 23 percent of the total GMP of
Macedonia, and absorbs 32 percent of the active working population. Though
agriculture's role has been declining relative to the rest of the economy with
the rapid progress of industrialization, it remains an important sector.
Agricultural production expanded at an average annual rate of 3.6 percent in
Macedonia between 1966 and 1977. Fruit and vegetable production grew most
rapidly, largely by area extension, encouraged by the rising relative prices
and increased availability of irrigation facilities. With the increase in
employment opportunities in the industrial sector the active agricultural
population declined by 1.5 percent annually in Macedonia between 1961 and
1971. The net result of production growth and labor force decrease was
increasing labor productivity by an average annual rate of about 4.5 percent.
From 1971 to 1975 agricultural employment increased by about 4.5 percent per
year, accompanied by a decline in productivity. However, unemployment and
underemployment remain high, relative to national averages. Lack of employ-
ment and income opportunities in the rural sector had caused widespread



- 13 -
emigration of the rural population to the cities or to work outside Yugoslavia.
The emigrating population mostly consisted of young able-bodied persons and
has acted as an impediment to full exploitation of agriculture in the indi-
vidual sector. Recently there is a trend for migrant workers to return to
Yugoslavia (see paragraph 8). Increased income opportunities in individual
sector agriculture would help absorb the returning migrant labor, slow down
emigration and help them to settle on farms.
35.       Mountainous terrain covers 75 percent of Macedonia.  These areas
are unsuitable for field crop production, but extensive upland pastures
support sheep and cattle. The plains and valleys suitable for cultivation
produce grain, vegetables and fruit. However, expansion and replacement in
the processing industry has not kept pace with the expansion of fresh vege-
table production, and the share of Macedonia in Yugoslavia's total processed
vegetable production has declined from about 25 percent in 1960 to 15 percent
in recent years.
36.       In 1975, the social sector held 20 percent of Macedonia's cultivated
land, employed 8.8 percent of the agricultural labor force, produced 30 per-
cent of the agricultural product, and contributed 45 percent to the Republic's
marketed agricultural production. Social sector agriculture recorded an
average increase in production above 9 percent annually between 1965 and 1975,
about triple that of the individual sector. The main explanations for rapid
growth of social sector agriculture are: (a) concentration in this sector of
more than two-thirds of the gross fixed investment in agriculture in the
postwar period, (b) "intellectual input" by university-trained workers, and
(c) emphasis on research.
37.       The individual sector in Macedonia occupies by far the larger part
of cultivated land and employs more than 90 percent of the total agricultural
labor force. It consists of about 160,000 private holdings with an average
size of 3.1 ha. The average income per capita of the individual farmer was
about Din 4,700 (US$260) in 1976. On average about 50 percent of the income
of these farmers is derived from their own land and the rest from outside
employment. It is estimated that 80-90% of the individual farmers earn less
than the relative poverty income level (US$350 in 1976 dollars in Yugoslavia).
Production in the individual sector has fallen far below the performance of
the social sector, and there is an increasing productivity gap between the two
sectors. The major causes of low productivity and yields in the individual
sector are: (a) low qua'Lity of land remaining in private hands; (b) the small
share of private land under irrigation; (c) use of inferior varieties of
seeds, plants and animals; (d) low degree of mechanization; (e) low fertilizer
input; and (f) statutory limitations on farm size and scattered holdings.
However, with increasing cooperation between the individual and social sectors,
some of these constraints are being reduced.
38.       The individual and social sectors are for the most part complementary
as well as competitive. Labor-intensive crops, such as vegetables and tobacco,
are almost exclusively produced in the individual sector, which also has 95-98
percent of the cattle and 92-99 percent of the sheep. Cooperation between the
sectors consists of trade in inputs and output; provision of services by the



- 14 -
social sector such as supply of fertilizers, mechanization, marketing and
credit and the contracting of joint production. While such cooperation brings
benefits to the individual farmers who due to their geographical proximity
can establish such relationships with the social sector, it does not embrace
individual farmers who are isolated. In addition, the increasing importance
of off-farm income for certain farmers and the dissemination of new production
techniques in the individual sector make contract cooperation less attractive
for some. However, for the individual sector as a whole expanded cooperation
is the key to its development and is being increasingly encouraged by the
Government and supported by Bank operations.
39.       As elsewhere in Yugoslavia, Macedonia has "organized" markets with
"authorized purchases" by social sector enterprises and "informal" markets
where peasants sell directly to consumers. The importance of the organized
markets is relatively high in Macedonia because large parts of the individual
sector's production is sold to other parts of Yugoslavia or exported.
Agriculture Policy in Macedonia
40.       The basic objective of Macedonia's 1976-80 Agricultural Development
Plan is to raise the production of agricultural crops to meet expected domestic
needs and to allow for some exports by emphasizing (a) the further development
of the social sector through modernization of production techniques, expansion
of processing facilities, better utilization of available resources and the
adjustment of production to changes in demand, and (b) the development of indi-
vidual sector farms primarily through cooperation with the social sector.
Implementation will be achieved through (a) price policies, (b) investment
policies, and (c) support for cooperation between the social and individual
sectors.
41.       Annual total investment in agriculture is expected to reach about
US$83 million in Macedonia, more than a 50 percent increase against the
previous Plan period, of which 13 percent (compared to 8 percent for the pre-
vious Plan period) would be in the individual sector. Special incentives
encourage mobilization of enterprises' own resources--income tax rebates for
agricultural investments, turnover tax exemptions, interest rate subsidies for
investment credits, reduction of import duties on agricultural machinery and
increase in the foreign exchange retention quota from depreciation charges.
42.       The Agricultural Development Plan represents a significant step for-
ward by focussing on specific problems of individual farmers; however, top
investment priority is accorded the social sector for irrigation, land devel-
opment and processing facilities. Continued importance is given to the social
sector as the leader in agricultural development and as a catalyst in stimul-
lating increased production from the individual sector. Specific measures for
the promotion of the individual sector are: (a) increased cooperation between
the two sectors, (b) establishment or improvement of extension services to
achieve a more rapid transfer of modern technology, and (c) credit for on-farm
investments.



- 15 -
Water Development in Macedonia
43.       Autonomous water management organizations are responsible in
Yugoslavia for irrigation development, flood control and stream regulation.
While these organizations primarily serve agriculture, some are also involved
in domestic and industrial water supply. However, public water supply is
usually the responsibility of local towns and communes, which establish water
departments for the construction, operation and maintenance of water supply
systems. In the project area the water management organization, Vodostopanstvo,
began drainage and flood control activities in the 1950's, while the municipal
water department of Bitola, the principal town in the project area, has respon-
sibility for public baths and delivery of water for domestic and industrial
uses.
Bank Involvement in Yugoslavia's Agriculture Sector
44.       It has been part of the Bank's strategy in Yugoslavia for some years
to find ways of assisting with the development of agriculture, with a special
emphasis on helping the individual farmer. The 1973 Plan as revised in 1976,
provides a suitable fraraework for Bank lending, since it aims, by explicitly
supporting the individual farmer sector, to promote more even income distribu-
tion within the sector.
45.       The proposed Macedonia Strezevo irrigation project (about 60 percent
of which is directly involved with the individual sector) would represent the
seventh Bank loan for agriculture and agro-industries in Yugoslavia, following
the First Agro-industries Project in Macedonia (Loan No. 894-YU) in 1973 (pri-
marily involved with the social sector), the First Agricultural Credit Project
(Loan No. 1129-YU) in 1'975 (about 47 percent of which is directly involved with
the individual sector), the Metohija Multipurpose Project (Loan No. 1360-YU)
in 1977 (primarily involved with the individual sector), the Agriculture and
Agro-industries Projects for the Republics of Montenegro and Macedonia (Loans
Nos. 1370-YU and 1371-YU, respectively), the first primarily involving the
social sector and the second having significant involvement in the individual
farmer sector, and the Second Agricultural Credit Project (Loan No. 1477-YU)
in 1977 (about 57 percent of which is directly involved with the individual
sector). Other Bank loans for multipurpose projects have included agricul-
tural components; such as, irrigation works under the Ibar Multipurpose
Project (Loan No. 777-YU) of 1971 and two pilot irrigation projects under the
Morava Region Development Project (Loan No. 1262-YU) of 1976, both involving
primarily individual sector farmers. These projects, the progress of which
is summarized in Annex II, are proceeding satisfactorily. The mix between
involvement in the social and individual agricultural sectors in Bank projects
in Yugoslavia has been determined in each particular case by the Federal and
Republican/Provincial Governments' own efforts for the social and individual
farmer sectors and the high priority attached to the specific agricultural
production and processing schemes.



- 16 -
Performance Under First Agro-Industries and Agricultural Credit Projects in
Macedonia
46.       The objective of the First Agro-Industries Loan made to Stopanska
Banka Skopje (SBS) in 1973 (Loan No. 894-YU) was to assist in financing part
of Macedonia's agricultural development program relating to investment in the
social sector (livestock, agro-industry, vineyards, storage and fish ponds)
and the individual sector (farm mechanization, plantation, livestock and
vegetable production). The program experienced delays primarily caused by
procurement problems and cost overruns but has otherwise been generally
achieved up to the Bank's expectations and appraisal report estimates. All
loan funds (US$31 million) under the project have been committed and most will
have been disbursed by December 1978, about 6 months later than estimated in
the appraisal report, except for the final subproject scheduled for completion
in mid-1979. Under the Project, the appraisal procedures of SBS were stream-
lined and its appraisal reports of sub-projects have shown improvement.
Greater attention still needs to be focused, however, on management informa-
tion systems, regular supervision and adequate review and provision for
effects of inflation on costs; problems which are being addressed under the
Second Agro-Industries II Project (Loan No. 1371-YU) in 1977. Three studies
were undertaken in the project to provide a clearer understanding of individual
farm operations and productivity improvement opportunities, marketing pros-
pects for agricultural products and further needs and benefits of various
irrigation schemes. The marketing and small farm credit studies contributed
to the development and appraisal of the Second Agro-Industries II Project.
The irrigation study provided a review of Macedonia's long range irrigation
requirements which contributed to the development of the proposed project.
47.       Additional experience has been gained by SBS under the Bank's First
Agricultural Credit Project in Yugoslavia in 1975 (Loan No. 1129-YU), the
objective of which is to make funds available to participating banks in each
republic and province for lending to social sector enterprises and individual
farmers. The funds from this loan support the objectives of the agricultural
development plans to increase production, improve product quality, and raise
productivity and income, especially on private farms. Stopanska Banka's
performance in terms of commitment and disbursement is above the average
reported for the project as a whole. After a slow start, including delays
in the appointment of a procurement specialist to the staff of SBS and in
obtaining a consultant to review the market center study, implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily on the Second Agro-Industries Loan made to SBS in
1977 (Loan No. 1371-YU), as well as on the Second Agricultural Credit Project
to Yugoslavia in 1977 (Loan No. 1477-YU) under which SBS is one of the bor-
rowers.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
48.       Reclamation of the Pelagonija swamps from 1958 to 1963 provided the
largest single area of arable land in Macedonia, one of Yugoslavia's less
developed republics, for development of irrigated agriculture. The entire



- 17 -
plain was divided into five potential regions for development of land and
water resources; of which Strezevo is one of the largest. In its present
form, the project evolved f-rom a number of studies carried out for the Gov-
ernment of Macedonia beginning with a feasibility study by Yugoslav consul-
tants in 1971. Provisions were included in the first Macedonia Agricultural
Industries Project (Loan 894-YU) for consultants to review irrigation require-
ments for the republic. Based on the findings of this overall study, the
Government accorded the highest priority on developing the Strezevo irrigation
system. Initial project preparation was begun in 1975 by the FAO/IBRD Coopera-
tive program and was followed up intensively by the Bank. Energoprojekt, a
Yugoslav consultant, with l:he help of other consultants, prepared a project
preparation report of March 1977 for use by Bank preappraisal missions during
May to September 1977. A special technical feature of the project is opera-
tion of sprinklers through gravity pressure. The project was appraised in
October/November 1977. Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1978.
The Yugoslav delegation was headed by Mr. Vasil Tudzarov, Vice-President of
the Executive Council of Macedonia. Annex III contains supplementary project
data.
Project Objectives and Description
49.       The project is described in detail in the Staff Appraisal Report
"Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation Project", Report No. 1934a-YU, dated July 14,
1978 which is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
50.       The project is designed to increase crop production on 20,300 ha, to
raise labor productivity and income, to create employment in an area where
unemployment and emigration are among the highest in Yugoslavia and to promote
self-sufficiency in food production. Other elements include supplying bulk
water to the Bitola water authority and to a thermal electric power plant cur-
rently under construction. Institution building activities include expanding
and upgrading the operation of the project authority, Vodostopanstvo, and
strengthening Stopanska Banka Skopje (SBS) in financing agricultural develop-
ment. Also included are feasibility and preparation studies for three pos-
sible future irrigation projects, which would be an extension of the review
of Macedonia's long-range irrigation requirements and preliminary feasibility
work carried out under the First Agro-Industries Project.
51.       The project is designed to provide for the construction of (see
Map): (a) the Strezevo dam (rock fill with clay core) on the Semnica River
with a storage capacity of 112 Mm3; (b) a 62 km alimentation canal tapping
seven streams from the Baba Mountains; (c) a 45 km main canal for delivering
irrigation water; (d) a gravity-fed sprinkler irrigation network; (e) surface
drains; (f) maintenance and administration buildings; (g) access roads; (h) a
pipeline for the thermal plant from intake site; and (i) bulk water supply for
domestic and industrial consumption.
Project Implementation
52.       Institutional Arrangements.  The proposed loan would be channeled
through SBS, the borrower. The Agriculture Operations Department of SBS would
be responsible for coordinating disbursements. It has sufficient expertise in



- 18 -
agriculture, livestock, irrigation and economic and financial analysis areas
to supervise the project.
53.        SBS plays a prominent role in mobilizing invesiment resources in
Macedonia. As in the rest of the country, this regional bank assumed its
present form through mergers of commercial and investment banks. SBS is not
the only bank operating in Macedonia--banks from other regions have branch
offices there--but it dominates in financing investments in the republic.
SBS acquires its resources from private and enterprise savings, borrowings
from the National Bank and to a lesser but still important extent, from
foreign credits. Most Federal funds and regional resources are channeled
through SBS. SBS operates as a mixed commercial/investment bank and its loan
accounts are fairly evenly distributed among enterprises in all sectors of the
economy, indicative of a reasonably diversified loan portfolio. An important
part of SBS' current loan operations deal with the agricultural sector (short-
term loans: 12.4 percent and long-term loans: 8.5 percent). SBS is the
major source of credit to the agriculture sector in Macedonia. The total
assets of SBS as of mid-1977 were US$2.5 billion. The financial structure
and performance of SBS is satisfactory, keeping in view that it has close
ties with the republic's economy, both in funding and lending operations,
and merely seeks to earn sufficient revenues to cover all its expenses and
financial obligations. Any surpluses that might accrue are returned to the
member enterprises as dividends or are transferred to the founders' fund or
the bank to be used to supplement the bank's lending resources. SBS has been
a borrower under six previous Bank loans, including two agro-industries
projects, two agricultural credit projects and two industrial credit projects
(see paragraphs 45-47).
54.       The execution and implementation of the project would be entrusted
to Pelagonija Water Economy Enterprise, Bitola, (Vodostopanstvo), which is a
financially autonomous enterprise, headed by a workers' council, an executive
committee and a general director. It has successfully completed a large
drainage project in the area, as well as flood and torrent control projects.
The overall responsibility for planning, construction and maintenance of all
project works would rest with Vodostopanstvo. It would finalize designs,
prepare and evaluate the bids, and coordinate construction on all components
of the project. With suitable strengthening of its staff and consulting
assistance (discussed below), Vodostopanstvo is competent to execute and
operate the Strezevo Irrigation project. The Bank would sign a project
agreement with Vodostopanstvo, the subborrower, which would detail its
responsibilities (see Strezevo Project Agreement). A separate project
unit (BOAL Strezevo) organized as a basic organization of associated labor
(BOAL-see paragraph 5), would be established within Vodostopanstvo having as
its sole and exclusive responsibility the implementation of the project and
the operation of the system after its completion. BOAL Strezevo would be
headed by a director and would have four separate divisions: exploitation,
financial, technical, and general and legal affairs. Assurances were obtained
that Vodostopanstvo would establish BOAL Strezevo under arrangements satis-
factory to the Bank and appoint a qualified and experienced director prior
to effectiveness of the proposed loan (Strezevo Project Agreement, Sections
2.01(b), 3.02 and Schedule 2; Loan Agreement, Sections 7.01(d) and 7.01(e)).
The director designate of the BOAL Strezevo participated in the negotiations.



- 19 -
Assurances were also obtained that Vodostopanstvo would by December 31, 1978
appoint other key staff, appropriately qualified and experienced (Strezevo
Project Agreement, Schedule 2). It has also been agreed that the current
staff of Vodostopanstvo would be strengthened and a qualified and experienced
financial director with suitable accounting staff would be appointed prior to
the effectiveness of the proposed loan (Strezevo Project Agreement, Section
3.02 and Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(d)).
55.       Vodostopanstvo, reporting directly to SBS, will be responsible for
coordination of all project activities in conjunction with BOAL Strezevo and
its four divisions. It will prepare annual work programs for each division,
assess physical progress, prepare progress reports for submission to the Bank
on project status, identify project bottlenecks and initiate such consultation
with the Republic of Macedonia, the Commune of Bitola (the town and surrounding
region under whose jurisdiction the project area is located), SBS and the Bank
as may be necessary. The Bank would enter into a separate project agreement
with the Republic of Macedonia regarding its various undertakings concerning
the project (see Macedonia Agreement). The Commune of Bitola would be a
signatory to the Strezevo Project Agreement, in which its various undertakings
related to the project (discussed below) would be set forth.
56.       Implementation, Operation and Maintenance.  Reponsibility for
designs and procurement would rest with Vodostopanstvo while the implementa-
tion and supervision of construction would be more directly the function of
the BOAL Strezevo. Qualified and experienced local consultants satisfactory
to the Bank have completed preliminary and some final design of the project.
These consultants would complete final design, prepare and evaluate bid
documents and supervise construction. Vodostopanstvo has agreed to retain
specialist consultants, most likely foreign, to review final design of the
irrigation pipe network and assist in preparing tenders (Strezevo Project
Agreement, Section 2.02(a)). Vodostopanstvo would undertake inspections of
the dam and appurtenant structures at intervals of no more than five years and
copies of each inspection report would be sent to the Bank (Strezevo Project
Agreement, Section 3.04(b)). Extensive geological investigations have been
made at the dam site and reviewed by a reputable consultant and foundation
stability problems are urnlikely to arise; nevertheless, because of the past
seismic history of the region Vodostopanstvo has agreed that a board of
independent experts wouldl be appointed, prior to the effectiveness of the
proposed loan, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to advise
in the event of major unforeseen problems arising during project execution
(Strezevo Project Agreement, Section 2.02(b) and Loan Agreement, Section
7.01(g)). Construction on the diversion tunnel and access roads has begun
and completion of the project is scheduled for end 1981.
57.       Vodostopanstvo would prepare annually an implementation plan of
operation for the system including projected cropping patterns, schedule of
movement of portable spri.nkler equipment and deployment of labor (see para-
graph 66 below).  In addition, Vodostopanstvo would prepare a detailed plan
regarding the operation, maintenance and replacement of portable irrigation
equipment in the individual farm sector. These plans would be subject to
review by the Bank (Strezevo Project Agreement, Section 3.05). Due to the



- 20 -
size and complexity of this project, Vodostopanstvo has agreed that it would
not undertake any other major project or activity which would adversely affect
the completion of this project (Strezevo Project Agreement, Section 3.03).
58.       The success of the project requires participation of the individual
farmers in changing husbandry practices and cropping patterns to realize
the potential offered by irrigation of their small holdings. The Government
of Macedonia and the Commune of Bitola have delegated the responsibility of
coordinating irrigated agriculture in the individual sector in the project
area to Vodostopanstvo. The managerial and technical skills required by
Vodostopanstvo for these operations will be acquired through a program of
technical training for key personnel which Vodostopanstvo has agreed to submit
for review and approval of the Bank by July 31, 1979 (Strezevo Project Agree-
ment, Section 2.08). The Government of Macedonia, assisted by suitably
qualified and experienced consultants, would carry out by December 31, 1980
the irrigation feasibility studies (Macedonia Agreement, Section 2.05).
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
59.       The total estimated cost of the project is US$188.8 million.  The
estimate includes duties and taxes (about 8 percent of project costs) and
average allowances for physical contingencies of about 9 percent. Average
price contingencies or estimated price increases of about 9 percent per annum
have been included in project costs to meet expected inflation in foreign and
local costs during the project implementation period. The foreign exchange
costs for the project are estimated at US$69.7 million and include estimates
of the foreign exchange component of internationally and locally bid contracts
expected to be won by Yugoslavs (see paragraph 71). Interest during construc-
tion on the proposed Bank loan would add an additional US$12.9 million to
the foreign exchange required for the project. Details of the cost estimates
are shown in the Loan and Project Summary.
60.       The proposed Bank loan of US$82 million would finance almost the en-
tire estimated foreign exchange cost of equipment and materials, civil works,
and engineering services and the interest and other charges on the Bank loan
during construction or 44 percent of the total cost. Financing of interest
during construction on the Bank loan, 3 1/2 years, is justified by the finan-
cial requirements of the borrower and beneficiary. The projected cash flow
for the project indicates that without the inclusion of such interest during
construction financing of the Bank loan, the cash flow position of the bene-
ficiary and those of the borrower during the period of construction would be
imprudently stretched in meeting their obligations including servicing of the
proposed Bank loan. The Bank loan would have a term of fifteen years, includ-
ing three years grace, with interest at 7.9 percent per annum. The Bank loan
would be made to SBS who would enter into a subsidiary loan agreement, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to on-lend the proceeds to
Vodostopanstvo with the same amortization and grace period as the Bank loan,
but with 0.5 percent spread on the on-lending interest rate to cover admini-
strative costs (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b) and Schedule 4).



- 21 -
61.       Other sources of financing for the project include a loan from SBS
(42 percent or US$80.1 million; US$67 million of which is from funds made
available to SBS from the Federal Fund referred to in paragraph 7 of this
report), a grant from the Republic of Macedonia (6 percent), and equity con-
tributions from enterprises in the Commune of Bitola (8 percent) (Loan Agree-
ment, Section 3.01(b); Macedonia Agreement, Section 2.03; Strezevo Project
Agreement, Section 5.01). SBS would also finance any cost overruns that may
occur (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(a)). A quarterly disbursement schedule
regarding the grant and equity contributions would be undertaken (Macedonia
Agreement, Section 2.03 and Strezevo Project Agreement, Section 5.01). The
finalization of all financial arrangements would be a condition of effective-
ness (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(a),(c) and (f)). The foreign exchange risk
on the Bank loan would be borne by Vodostopanstvo. SBS would in turn take
adequate steps to protect: itself against the foreign exchange risk on funds
accruing to it from Vodostopanstvo's sub-loan repayments before they are
needed to make amortizat-ion payments on the Bank loan (Loan Agreement, Section
5.06).
Markets
62.       Agricultural produce from the project area is marketed locally in
peasant markets in which prices are not controlled by government, and through
social sector enterprises engaged in food processing and, on a limited scale,
sale of fresh produce in distant centers and abroad. Demand for fresh produce
is expected to increase in the project area with rising incomes and with a
greater variety of vegetables available regularly in the local market. Most
of the area's incremental production will be absorbed by local processing
facilities to utilize present excess capacity or to replace produce brought
from beyond the project area and transported to factories over considerable
distances. Assuming no expansion in local processing capacity, the projected
1990 output of project area farms would exceed potential local demand only for
sugarbeet, tobacco, vegetables, grapes, other fruit, and milk. Accordingly,
social sector enterprises dealing in these commodities have expansion plans
at various stages of preparation. In addition, the republic would ensure that
complementary investments at the farm level and in transport and processing
would be made available to meet the increased agricultural production in the
project area.
Cost Recovery and Financial Analysis
63.       Users of the water of the three project components, i.e., farmers,
Bitola Water Authority (Vodovod) and thermal power plant (Electrostopanstvo),
agreed through a series of water user agreements on a system of water quantity
deliveries and charges. These agreements were negotiated among all the parties
concerned, with village assemblies representing farmers, and are based on
ability-to-pay criteria as well as a concern that construction and Operation
and Maintenance (O&M) costs be borne largely by direct beneficiaries. It was
further agreed that irrigation charges would be phased in by gradual increases
to the full rates as agricultural production approaches full development
(Strezevo Project Agreement, Section 3.06(c)). In addition, cost recovery
analysis will be undertaken by Vodostopanstvo in consultation with the Bank



- 22 -
prior to the first water deliveries so that rate or other adjustments may be
recommended for consideration of the parties to the water user agreements
(Strezevo Project Agreement, Section 3.06(c)(ii)). The finalization of these
water user agreements would be a condition of effectiveness (Loan Agreement,
Section 7.01(h)). The proposed irrigation charges would enable Vodostopanstvo
to recover 100 percent of O&M costs and 28 percent of the capital investment
costs over 60 years of project life. The cost recovery index would be 91
percent for the entire project, including revenues from sales of bulk water.
64.       With irrigation, average per capita income for individual sector
farmers would increase from US$260 to US$750 after water charges. The propor-
tion of farmers above the relative poverty level would increase from the
current 10-20 percent to 85-95 percent. In the social sector, returns to
agricultural labor would at least double at full development, providing these
workers substantially more than the relative poverty level income.
65.       Most of the project would be financed by loans from IBRD and SBS.
The repayment terms are 15 years (including 3 years of grace) on the Bank
loan, 20 years (including 4 years of grace) on the funds SBS has obtained from
the Federal Fund (see paragraph 61) and 10 years (including 4 years of grace)
on SBS's own funds. During the period before irrigation charges are fully
phased in Vodostopanstvo's financial position will be characterized by proj-
ected cash flow deficits during the first four years, which the Commune of
Bitola and the republic have agreed to cover through the provision of addi-
tional funds on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (Macedonia Agree-
ment, Section 2.04 and Strezevo Project Agreement, Section 5.02). At full
development (1987) Vodostopanstvo is expected to be able to generate enough
funds to cover O&M costs as well as debt service and all of its other finan-
cial obligations.
Land Use Rationalization
66.       Land use rationalization for the application of irrigation water will
not require changes in land ownership since the present legal and customary
basis for land use rationalization in Macedonia is adequate to deal with
essential issues of access, mechanization, mutual assistance and marketing
of crops and equitable distribution of costs and benefits essential to the
successful implementation of the project. In the social sector, land use
planning is a routine element of farm management, and cropping patterns and
input proportions will be changed quickly and easily to incorporate the
advantages of irrigation. In the individual sector, changes in land ownership
to create the 6 ha blocks appropriate to system design, around each hydrant,
are not feasible because of institutional limitations. However, the tradition
of land use cooperation is well developed in the project area so that numerous
small, unfenced plots are worked on a compatible and convenient basis. Irri-
gation planning and portable equipment use will be incorporated into the same
farmer cooperation mechanism which now handles voluntary grouping for contract
cultivation, use of hired services, and to facilitate access to economies in
marketing. Local farmers would continue to make key decisions on a group
basis, with decision-making focused on 6 ha irrigation blocks. Oversight of
land use rationalization will rest with Vodostopanstvo, which each year must



- 23 -
by law present to the Bitola Commune Assembly an implementation plan for land
and water use, including a cropping plan, for the following season, based on
plans of social sector agricultural enterprises and decisions reached by
farmers on a village or smaller land unit level. The legal basis of
Vodostopanstvo's obligaition is found in 1976 Macedonian legislation and
enabling provisions passed by the Bitola Commune Assembly in 1977 (Macedonia
Agreement, Section 2.01 and Strezevo Project Agreement, Sections 3.05 and
5.03).
Agricultural Extension
67.       Agricultural extension services in the project area are provided
primarily by the social sector, although two Government funded agencies assist
in serving the individual sector. The agro-industrial kombinat responsible
for social sector land in the project area maintains its own research estab-
lishment and employs a variety of technical experts to deal with various
aspects of farm management and husbandry practices. The kombinat's coopera-
tive centers which supply inputs and services to private farmers also provide
extension advice. Social sector processing factories maintain extension
agents concerned with specific crops grown by individual farmers on a contract
basis. The intensity of extension coverage will increase from one agent for
140 ha in the individual sector at the time of appraisal to one for 80 ha at
full development. Processing facilities will continue to provide the largest
share of extension support for individual farmers.
Water Rights
68.       The Semnica Reka and Baba mountain streams, from which a substantial
portion of water for the project would be drawn, flow into the Crna Reka,
which in turn flows into the Vardar River, which flows through Greece. The
seasonal nature of the flow of the Semnica Reka and Baba mountain streams is
such that water for project use would be drawn primarily during the winter and
stored for summer use; hence, this would not adversely affect the summer flow
of the Vardar River. The Vardar River is the subject of agreements governing
riparian rights between Yugoslavia and Greece. The Government has submitted
to the Bank a statement that the proposed diversions for the project comply
with the agreements and a statement by the Greek Government acknowledging that
they have been duly notified of the proposed works and that the works meet
with their agreement.
Accounts and Audit
69.       As required by Yugoslav law all banks and enterprises are audited
annually by the Social Accounting Service (SAS). Normal audit by SAS which is
limited to verification of cash balances and checking of financial statements
for mathematical accur;acy and comparisons with previous years does not conform
to generally accepted international standards. SAS has implemented a training
program for its staff with the Bank's support, to undertake internationally
accepted audits of Yugoslav banks including SBS. A full unqualified audit
report on SBS for 1976 was produced by SAS following generally accepted
standards. Full audits with audit opinion are expected within two to three



- 24 -
years as per schedule agreed under the Second Industrial Line of Credit (Loan
No. 1277-YU).
70.       Vodostopanstvo would require BOAL Strezevo to establish appropriate
record keeping and reporting procedures. BOAL Strezevo would maintain sepa-
rate accounts for all financial transactions under the project and would submit
annual reports audited by SAS, and acceptable to the Bank, within four months
of the end of the fiscal year. Vodostopanstvo would also recruit qualified
accounting personnel able to handle the requirements arising from the project,
including the appointment of a qualified and experienced financial director
(see paragraph 54).
Procurement and Disbursement
71.       Contracts for civil works and equipment would be grouped to the
extent practicable into 10 contracts and procured in accordance with the Bank
Guidelines for Procurement. Of these, 5 contracts totalling about US$152
million would be procured by Vodostopanstvo under international competitive
bidding (ICB), under the supervision of SBS including a major equipment con-
tract of about US$11 million for sprinkler irrigation equipment. Of these
lots, with minor exceptions, it is expected that due to the competitiveness of
the Yugoslav contracting industry, only the supply of the sprinkler irrigation
equipment is likely to be awarded to a non-Yugoslav contractor. In assessment
of equipment bids, Yugoslav manufacturers would receive a preference of 15
percent or applicable duties, whichever is the lesser. Procurement in accord-
ance with local competitive bidding, following Government procedures which
are acceptable to the Bank, is appropriate for the remaining five contracts
totalling about US$6 million, of which US$4.9 million for the diversion tun-
nel, access roads and power plant pipeline has been procured through advance
contracting in order to enable construction to begin during the 1978 season
and avoid serious delays in project implementation. The Bank has reviewed the
bidding documents, bid evaluations and contract awards on these three items
and retroactive financing is recommended for expenditures of about US$700,000,
which are expected to be incurred by Vodostopanstvo prior to loan signature.
72.       Bank disbursements would extend over about four years.  An estimated
disbursement schedule is given in the Loan and Project Summary. Disbursement
of the proposed Bank loan would be made against 33 percent of the total cost
of civil works, equipment, vehicles and buildings, 100 percent of the foreign
or ex-factory price of locally manufactured equipment expenditures for the
sprinkler irrigation system and 100 percent of consultant services. Disbur-
sements would also be made against 100 percent of interest and other charges
during construction on the Bank loan.
Benefits and Risks
73.       The proposed project would increase agricultural production on
20,300 ha by providing irrigation water and certain supporting services,
enabling a more than five-fold increase in net farm incomes to about Din 560
million a year after water charges. The project would benefit directly about



- 25 -
5,500 individual farm families and 3,600 families in social sector agricul-
ture and processing. Social sector wages are projected to double with the
project, while the average per capita incomes of individual farmers are
expected to increase in a range of from more than 2 to more than 6 times,
depending on farm type. Increases in output, accompanied by a movement
towards high value crops requiring labor intensive cultivation, will permit
more efficient utilization of existing processing capacity and provide the
basis for selective expansion of agroindustry in and around the project area.
In addition to its employment generating aspect, the project will permit the
realization of greater self-sufficiency in food in the project area, Macedonia
and Yugoslavia, as well as providing limited incremients to export potential
for fresh produce, small leaf tobacco and beverages. Institution building
aspects include strengthening the local water management authority
(Vodostopanstvo), deepening the borrower's (SBS) involvement in the agri-
cultural sector, and increasing linkages in the agricultural sector by giving
more individual farmers the means and incentive to supply produce for social
sector processing industries and marketing channels. In addition, the poten-
tial for land exploitation may be enhanced by the increases in land values
expected to result from provision of irrigation at a charge which does not
fully exhaust the estimated level of rent. Minor project benefits include a
slight increment in flood control protection in the project area; the supply
of sufficient quantities of bulk water to the municipal water authority of
Bitola to overcome present shortages in domestic and industrial water, and
ensure adequate supplies until beyond the year 2000; and minor economies in
thermal power generation through supplies of cooling system make-up water
from project facilities.
74.       Risks which have to be considered relate to construction timing,
financing, and instituticonal setting. The construction timing risk is largely
contained by an accelerated pace of tasks which are preliminary to construc-
tion work, and by advance contracting of critical components which must be com-
pleted in 1978 to ensure a four year construction period. The financing risk
consists of cost overruns which could occur if the four year construction
schedule is not met, but the cost overrun guarantee from SBS and the special
efforts of the republican authorities to obtain all necessary funds represent
adequate assurances that funds would most likely be provided without undue
delays. The institutional risk is that associated with the prevailing system
of land use rationalization in the project area. At appraisal it appeared
that land use rationalization (see paragraph 66) was the best alternative, in
the sense of optimizing production within the local preference for voluntary
behavior as a means of organizing for water use. Nevertheless, there remains
the risk that the prevaiLing system will not be sufficient to obtain the
efficient organization of water use on the individual sector, with the result
that the expected producition and income gains would be reduced or that more
cumbersome and time consuming boundary readjustment measures would be imposed
that could delay project operation and the resultant effects of such develop-
ments have been taken into account in the sensitivity analysis of the economic
rate of return discussed in paragraph 75 below. It is the judgement of the
Macedonian Government and ours that, given the past history of the success of
voluntary and cooperative efforts, this is an acceptable and prudent risk.



- 26 -
Economic Rate of Return
75.       The overall economic rate of return is estimated at 15 percent.
Return calculations incorporate the economic value of agricultural produce
at the farmgate and the economic value of water sold to the generating plant
and the municipal water authority under self management agreements negotiated
by the parties concerned. This return does not reflect the additional net
benefits expected from development of the processing industry in the project
area. The economic rate of return is not greatly sensitive to moderate
changes in component cost and benefit flows. An increase in costs of 10 per-
cent accompanied by 10 percent decrease in revenues would lower the return
to 13 percent, while the omission of economic revenue from the sale of bulk
water would depress the return to 11 percent.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Stopanska Banka-
Zdruzena Banka-Skopje; the draft Project Agreement between the Bank,
Vodostopanstvo Pretprijatie za Stopanisuvanje so Vodi Skopje-Oozt Pelagonija-
Bitola, and the Commune of Bitola; the draft Agreement between the Socialist
Republic of Macedonia and the Bank; the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank; and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
77.       Provisions of the agreement of special interest were noted in para-
graphs 54 through 66 of this report and are listed in Section III of Annex III.
Special conditions of effectiveness for the proposed loan (Loan Agreement,
Section 7.01) are:
(i)  the execution of the Project Agreements on behalf of
Vodostopanstvo, the Commune of Bitola and the Republic of
Macedonia, and the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment on behalf of SBS and Vodostopanstvo have been duly
authorized or ratified (Sections 7.01(b) and (c) of the
Loan Agreement and referred to in paragraphs 54, 55 and
60 of this report);
(ii)  the project unit, BOAL Strezevo, within Vodostopanstvo has been
established under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with a
qualified and experienced director, and a qualified and expe-
rienced financial director for Vodostopanstvo has been appointed
(Sections 7.01(d) and (e) of the Loan Agreement and referred
to in paragraph 54 of this report);
(iii)  all financing arrangements including cost overrun guarantees,
and water users agreements have been duly authorized or
ratified (Sections 7.01(a), (f) and (h) of the Loan Agreement
and referred to in paragraphs 61 and 63 of this report); and



- 27 -
(iv)   Vodostopanstvo has appointed the members of the independent
advisory board on dam construction, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (Sections 7.01(g) of the Loan Agree-
ment and referred to in paragraph 56 of this report).
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.       I recommend th,at the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
July 26, 1978
Washington, D.C.






TABLE 3A                                             ANNEX I
YUGOSLAVIA          - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                           Page 1 of 4 pages
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                  -------------------------------a----e----------
---------------                           YUGOSLAVIA                           REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       255.8                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      144.2                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE           RoMANIA         SPAIN          GERMANY FED.REP. OF***
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     3BO.0 *  830.0*  1680.0 */a              550.0 /a  1580.0*    4420.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            18.4       20.4       21.5 /a             20.3        33.6        61.6
POPULATICN DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        72.0       80.0      84.0 /a             85.0         67.0       240.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        124.0      139.0     149.0 7a            136.0        105.0       439.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          26.8       21.0       18.2                19.0        21.0        17.3
CRUDE DEATH F.,TE (/THOU,AV)          11.5        9.1        9.2                8.9          8.8        11.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)         88.0       55.5      40.5                49.4        27.9         23.6
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YAS)        63.7      67.7       68.0                67.7         70.s        70.3
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                1.4        1.3        1.3                 1.3         1.4         1.2
POPULPTION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  1.2        1.0        0.9                 1.0         1.1         1.0
URBAN                                  6.0        4.6         ..                3.4          2.0         4.1
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           27.2       38.7       39.0 /b             40.8        S9.1        82.4
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        30.7       28.3       26.3               25.9        27.8         23.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                        63.2      64.3       65.4                65.5        62.5        63.6
65 YEARS AND OVER                      6.1        7.4        8.3                8.6          9.7        13.2
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.6        0.6        0.5                 0.5         0.6         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0         .         0.8 /c              0.7 /b      1.1         0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..         ..         ..                  ..          .
USERA (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..         ..         ..                  ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          8300.0         ,,      9150.0d           9900.0    11900.0    26500.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          57.0         *-        39 .              49.0         25.0         8.9
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)            7.0         *          5                   ..         1.1 /a      0.7
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  sx OF HOUSEhOLDS             16.4 /a   15.1          .                   ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             41.5       41.4         ..
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              6.9 'j    6.6          ..                 ..
LOWEST  40X OF HOUSEHOLDS             19.0       18.4         ..
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS (I)        1S.1**    15.1**    15.1*                    .          .
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS(II)   B4.9**    84.9**    84.9** .*.
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             140Q.0 /blOlQ.0        850.0                680.0       740.0 lb   580.0
POPULATION PER NUR.ING PERSON        1350.Q /b 410.0        450.0                200.0          *        350.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            200.3      170.0      170.0               140.0 /c   220.0         90.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)         115.0      124.0     137.0                118.0       107.0       121.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               91.0       92.0      97.5                92.0         81.0        88.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          27.0       29.0      35.4                28.0         40.0        56.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              4.5        2.6        1.7                 2.4         0.9         0.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        96.0       94.0       96.0 Li           113.0        123.0       129.0/a
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      34.0       45.0       49.0               44.0         57.0        66.o7i
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVlDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              12.0       12.0       12.0              12-13         11.0        15.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                      72.0       72.0       74.0               58.0         20.0        48.0/a
ADULT LITERACY RATE (x)                 77.0       85.0          . .                          94.0        99.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PE. ROOM (URBAN)                 1.7         ..        1.3/b               1.3 /d         *07/b
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                      ,.            ..      61.5        M        88.0   ,e                0.3/c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  54.5         ..      89.2/a               49.0 /d                100.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                    36.1         ,,       ao.i/b              27.0 /d       .
CONSUMPT ION
_ _ _ _ _ _
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          85.0      163.0      193.0               152.0       214.0        318.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU Pop)            3.0       35.0       72.0                   ..       71.0       220.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           480.0    1288.0    1887.0                1615.0      1634.0      4128.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                2.3        4.3  31      8                 26          5.8         17.7
------ --------- --------- ---------------- ---------   ---
SEE NOTES AND DEFINlTIONs ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 paes-
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, date for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Rfeent Estimate between
1973 sod 1975.
*    Gh? per capita data are bseed or the World Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 beit).
o   I.  Agri-ultere land held by social sector (Kobinete).
*e   II. Agricultore aInd held by prifete small-holdor- "IC heotaren naniisc'
AA   Selection of Federal Republil  of Germnay as an objectins coantry is based on the close econ-nic tie- maintained by the .o  coantrfee as cell
us an the fact that the grester part of Yugoalania' stoond one million corkers tnepor-rily abroad hoae raced employnenr in the Federal
Republic of Germany.
YXGOSLAVIA                   1960    a.  1963;    /b  1962.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:            1976;     /b  1971;c/c   RatIo of popm neto i        uner 1Si and 65 rod over to total lohor force;
Ad  Inclding shoot 900 chosand migrant.. uk-ro corking otd;                    Ac19~,7  oncoto~ of
-ctve resident labor force           If  lg-4 ovnra8r           jj  1972;    'T  Inside ont1
ROMANIA                     19A0      to  Not c mparablo  to thoe fo  other Centrolly Planned Eoenonin.   DerI-ed by usifg tho Bank                      -,laserhodolofy,
by ad4eting official R-enian n-titon-    occoo-n-sca and conoecting the  ito ft doilare at the effectine
e_chango rare for foreign trade tednessttone ohlch eppronta-tnt Lei 20 per US dollar;    /b  Ratio of popelation
under 15 and 69 and oner to total iabor forcel           /c  Hopi.ala oly, eicludee  -enitarit and mesoroity hones;
/d  1966;    /e  Inside  nly.
SPAiN                       1970    /s  Employment office estimace;    /b   er4nter-d. net alt  p-rticing in the cent,y.
GERMNY  FED. RP. (OF    1970    /s  Incolde tho r-1e-ant data relatiog  to B-rlin for which -p-arate date h-vn  -ot been npplied;                        /h  rteol.  urban
rurl;    /c  In-ide oniy.
R16, March 2. 1978
DEFL.FITIrIS OF SOCIAL INDICATOTS
Total - Toal surfce ares cesprisi.g lsd sres and island eaters.m     seacana   gda nurp                                    ses   trained  or  -certIfied  nursee  and
M eons recent es-timate a agriceltersI area used temp-rsrily nr per.a-                  sinlitary peesoonel with tra.nIn.   or enpe--ence
meetly for crops, pastures, earket 6 kitchen ga-dens or to lie fellow.                      Psulation per hospitl1 bed - Popuiat-io  divided by  cumber of hospital beds
ansilabie in public and priests general and specialized hospirel and
GNP  er caEpita (US) - GNP per capira e          ..imanes ar current macekr prices,             rehabtilitaioncenneras; ecnde  nursing ho            d es-bii7       . f
lculosed by same conseeta o  method as gWrld  ne-k Atlss (1973-75 basie!;                   custodisl and preventive oars 
1960; 1970 sed 1975 data.                                                                   Peraitaae   of  foruliee   av of reirsePnts) - Onepuerd free energy
eguin-le-t of met fond espp.lies non IableI.n coutry per capita pee day;
Populanion and ovsta  stacisoic                                                                 ansilshle sopplles r.espetae  cmnesric producotln. beporon lean enyorra  and
Populanion (id-vear million)   Ae of July firsc   if not available, aerage                      changes In stock; n-t sepplies exclude anImal feed  seeds, quantites used
ef  two end-year estimates ; 16, 1970 and 1971 data.                                          In food processing aed losses in distributios; regqiremente  ere eat_aated
by FAO based on physiologi-al needs fnr n..sIl actioity and health canal.-
Potulation denktry  - per sq uare ks -Mld-ce-r populaiton per square kilpeter s-tig e_ -irosssetsl tenper..ur_, body weights, age ncd see diatrin-...us to
(100 hentar_es  nf totel erea                                                                 population,  and allealeg 107l fee eas-es t hnsnehold lare.
Ppulation deceitvn-ar  gears Im  of serGe  land - Competed as sbone for                      Per caeita surely  o  erotei: ferns. tee dad) - Prot-in cntenet of per .apita
agrinult_cal lend only.                                                                       net sopply of food pe day; net supply of fond is dfied  aa  be;   qi-
nests for all countriea established by tSDA Economic Resear-h Serelcen
Vital esatistics                                                                                pro_.dn foe a                       tininu   allneasce cf 60 gr9as  uI total prote  per day, asd
Crude birob rete oar ohonsand. aoerae - h dn-     1 line birthn pe  thssaned of                 20 orEs of animnl and pulse protei, of which 10 grs  shold be animal
nId-yssr population; tseyesrt ithl etl verages ending in 1960 and 1970,                       protein; these dtandardd are low.er cha  those of 75 grA  of total preteEn
ard fi_e-yaar average aeding in 1975 fee enst_recent istimte.                                 nnd 23 gr_en  of anIma.l proteLe  as sanerage for the -,rld, penponed by FAO
Crudds death nets  er tbnusand. average   unsal deaths per thosan i o  mid-yner                 in che rhird World rood Survey
population; ten-year .ritbtaic aerage  ending in 1960 and 19710 and fine-                   Per capita protein seenle free sienl and eulse -          Protein supply of food
year ae- rfge ending in 1975 fee enst orsent astimate                                         derived free aelmels and pelese tn grms Wpr day
Infant mortdlity rate f/thont - Anemsl dearh. of infants under one year of age                Deeth rata (/thoh) snes 1-4 - Annual deaths pr  .o.ussnd tD  age genup 1-4
per rh..sad line birth.                                                                       yearn, ro child-en in this tse geolp; suggesred as en  ed icator of
Life a...ot_at birh_fy     - Average number of years of life remaiiningt en_alnuirititn
birth;  eusully fite-year  oavrsgea endieg in 1960, 1970 and 1975 fur develnp-
ing cnnntrlee.                                                                              Edusatimn
Green reeroduction rate-   -verage -nebe- of lIIe deughtrera   w oman will beer               Adletued enrollie-t  urtin - primary school - ecrolLmet of all agee as pe-
In her n-t-   reproductive perind if she enpariene  Pras..st ege-pe-ificcsueo   rmr  schno-g   popual; inldn                                           ildreagd6-1yer
fertILity rtae; nualLy fi-year  oeagee  ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                         her edoftnd foe dff-ste  Lengths of prlmty educ-ti; foe countri   eith
for deneloping cInet-iee                                                                      unienrsal educeoion, enrolent may senced 1QQ7, aic  ames peplls are beln=
Poenlation  graath raRe i7.l - total - CsiAponed snsel growth teens of mid-year                 or sbhe ths official school age.
population for 1950-60  1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                Adlu.ted ser-l-  ientrat   -seconda   school - Geepoo-d as tuns: asondarr
Poeplation snoath eats (i.) - srban - Competed likb  growth rata of total                       educatin requiree at less r font years of approved primary inatructin;
pnpnlarinn; differset definitions of urban areas may aftect ctmp-rability of                  provides general, nocetional nr t-acher training in-tenctios- for pepile
dana among cousntriesa                                                                        of 12 to 17 yearn of age; correspondence courses see generalSy exluded.
Urbeneoletlom  (7. ot terall - Ratio at urban en total population; different                  Years nf echooling  eronided (firs teed  second lenlels  - Totel yaec. of
definitians of urban ar-aa mAy effect -Cep-rability of data among conenriesa                  roto7ing; at ceo.edary leel, conationel instruction n y be paetially or
nomplately encloded.
Age  tructure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), *onking-age (15-64 years),                   Lneational esrolLeos  IY of secondary) - Vo-ational lestlonolona iocluds
and  riecrd (65  nears and one) da percenteges of mid-veer population.                        nechnical. industoal or ocher progrees whfth operace Indepsedeet cor es
Aoe  dependency ratio - fari  at population coder 15 and 65 -nd ove tohose                      depertmentn of  secondary  instttut_oIs.
of ages 15 th-ough 64.                                                                      Adulc lIteracy rate  (Y) - Literate nd,ls (ble to read and eon el as per-
Economic depandencv rotio - Ratio of population  -ndre lb and 65 -nd oner to                    ceotegs of cutol ade1r population aged 15 years and  ore.
the Iaboe force in age group of 1S-64 yearn
fanily~~~~~~~~ _lnlneceot    _cmlas  than  - ceimelatton  somber of accept ore          Housing
of birth-conreol devices under aspnices of national fastly plonelog eroertm                 Pereons pr roos (lrb.n' - Aceage v    ng ber of persons per ro-m  is occupied
sInce Incepton-                                                                               co-nentional d-eIling  it  -rban scene; d-ellrigs e-clode non-penranrot
fastll  planniong-ousera  IT(e/.f  serled nemeof - Percfnceges or carried ocen of              eructures and unoncupied pats.
chHld-bse-inc age (15-44  years) w_o ue bieth-coete_l device_  to nIl carried               Occu1ed d-ellinee virbout ,   lped water CT  - Occupied coneertonal dIel,ltge
aem in  none age g-oup.                                                                       ie urbn and ruraL *reaeseithoo  Inside or outside piped  aster fa-ilitoes
anpreog   f all oncpied dwellings.
employmen-                                                                                    -ccencooelncoetcioy  IT of aII d-eli          . C       t        dweIlings  itho
ocai labor furce  Etooendl -Econenically acc-ce persons  Including anned                        elec-rItuty in l1ving q-aroers an percel,oof total dwellIngs Inorban and
forces sod unemployed boo excluding hoesewis, strudents, etct     : defintioi ns              rural areas
5n  earlucs countries see nor comparable.                                                   core; dwelltnge connected to electe 1dm   (E)   Computed as .scoe for rural
Labor force ic agriculoure (7.) - Agelculrtuel lab-or fore (to fertolg, forssten,               dellgos ouly.
henning and ftchinn) ps -eroenoags of cotal Labor foIr_
tnIrptoyed (% of labar force) .  TIemployrd are usually defined na persons who                l?oet,upoion
are able and oilliEg to labk  a Lnb, cut of a lab -o a gi-en day,  remained out             RadSo recelvees  loer tob  roe) - 511 typee of receIvers for radio bro.dca.c.
of F lob, end seeking work fore spectifled  Inohnm  perIod not erceeding one                  co ceecral pablic pee coboaaed of Ppplar)nn; socludee eelicensed receivers
nek; may. 000 be comedeshble bitweec coenietee due to dlffereoc definions                     in canoutrle  and in y.re  shen h enIatra ton of radio secsaaa  to effaet
of ufmeployrd and soerce of dar                                                                            - e.g., eployment office noatisolce, sample  data foe recent yeers may sot be ceapareble stecs nest c ountelee ahotlbed
eurceys, compulsory un-oploy-eno t-sure-ce                                                    liceesif.
Income diatribution- Prcencage of peivate inc me (botb In cash and kind)                        less than rIght presoec; sclude  shguL ancen, hearses end ectaryt
received ly richest 50. richest 20f, pooreso 207, and po--Cet 40  af htones-                  vehiclel
holds                                                                                       electricitv  (koh/ve Pne  car) -       IAnal conasoptipp of ienduteial  caooertel,
public and peitvats esec tenty eD kilonato h-nrT  per capita, geera lly
Olettbetlon  of land p=peerhip -Perce-itge- of land moed by wealthiest 137                      based me prodrti-on data, aithout allonance for lomess In grids bar allpv-
aed poorest 107 of land  wneres                                                               ing foe 5peorts and -epoeca af elecricity.
Nleaaiu I',.ke/pr dper  ae) - 'errs pit  an..u. I nosopolofmI  kin llog-
Heaoth and Nutrition                                                                           testimtd f(Ro  dometic p od iction plct  n t import  sf n v-prLnt
Popelatis  per physician - Population divided bv n-umer of practiciDg
physicians qualifIed from a medical school nr                 I-ntoeetio  levaL



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
ECONOMIC DBVELOPMENT DATA
(Amoants in Million US Dollars)
Actual               Preliminarv    Estimated
1972     1973      1974         1975             1976                1965-72       1972-75       1973-76          1972      1974       1976
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                         CoeAstant 1974 Prices and Exchange Rate of $1 - 17.0 Din.                  Average Annual Growth Rates                  As Perceot of fEY
Gross Domestic Product                       21,638  22,720   24,765         25,887          26,922                  5.6            6,2           5.8          97.8    100          99.3
Gains Icom Toe-s of Trade                       468      681       -           +142            +197                                                             2.2      -           0.7
Crone Domestic Income                        22,106  23,401   24,765         26,029          27,119                  5.5            5.6           5.0         100.0    100         100.0
Imports (ifel. NFS)                           6,588   7,600    8,312          8,350           8,082                 12.6            8.2           2.1          29.7      33.6       29.8
Exports (i-l. SFS1                            5.437   5.788    5,694          5.872           6.506                  8.3            2.6           4.0          24.5      23.C       24.0
R--esre Gap                                   1,151   1,812    2,618          2,478           1,576
C-nsumptian Expenditure                      16,139  17,716   19,953         19,795          19,670                  6.7            7.0           3.5          73.0      80.6       72.5
Ievest-ten  Expenditure                       6,650   6,816    7,429          8,370           8,827                  6.0           8.8            9.0          30.1      30.0       32.5
Nati-oal Savings                              6,904   6,806    6,241          7,330           8,717                  6.6            2.0           8.6          31.2      25.2       32.1
Domestia Savings                              5,499   5,006    4,812          6,092           7,252                  3.1           3.5           13.2          24.9      19.4       26.7
MERCHANDTSE TRADE                                      Annual Data at Current Prices
Imports
Capital Goads                                 689   1,004    1,305          1,887           1,758                                                            21.3      17.4       23.9
Petrolesm and Faels                           177      359       952          943           1,080                                                             5.5      12.6       14.6
1,termediate Goads                         1,859   2,450    4,291         4,109            3,618
C-osumption Goods                             502      698       972          758             911                                                            15.5       12.9      12.4
Total Merch. Imports (c.i.f.)               3,227   4,511    7,520          7,697           7,367                                                           10.0      12.9       12.4
Exportb
Capital Goods                                 316     389        514          695             920                                                            14.1      13.5     1.8
Textile and Leather Goods                     362     409       477           600             761                                                            16.2     12.5       15.6
Non-ferrous Metallurgy                        272     325        556          458             472                                                           12.2      14.6        9.7
Agricultua.l Products (i-. food)              400     475       439           488             640                                                            17.9      11.5       13.1
other                                         887   1255    1,819           1.831           2,08539.6                                                                 47.9       42.
Total Metah. Experts (f,o.b.)               2,237   2,853    3,805         4,072            4,878                                                           39.6      47.9       42.8
MERCHANDISE TRADE INDICES                                        1974 = 100    109               114
Export Pfe- Indas                              65       76       100          l0911
Impart Price Index                             58       60      100           105             109
Toe-s of Trade Index                          lO9      112       100          104             105
Export Volume  Iden                           93       95       100           98             112
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                        Annual Data ir Constant 1974 Prices and Exchange Rate
of $1 = 17.0 Din.                                                                            As a Percentage of Total
Agriculture                                 3,213   3,490    3,763          3,663           3,846                 2.7            4.5           3.2          15.6      16.0       15.0
Mamufacturing and Mining                    6,374   6,712    7,471          7,888           8,125                 6.6            7.4           6.6          31.0      31,8       31.8
Other                                      10.956  11,362    12,276        13,026          13,589                 5.4            5.9           6.2          53.3      52.2       53.2
Total                                     20,543  21,570   23,510         24,577           25,560                 5.3            6.2           6.2         100.0    100.0       100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE-1L                                               Current Peises                                                                               As Percent of GDP/Market Price
Current Receipts                            2,772   3,48S    4,841          6,305            ,,                    ..            ..            ..           17.5      19.5
Current Expeoditures                        2,520   3,154    4,794          6,267            ,,                   ..             ..            ..           16.0      19.4
Budgetary Savings                             252     335        47            38            L.                    -             ''                          1.6       0.2
Public Soater Itovesxnta                      224     281       328           352            ,,                   ,,             ..            ..            1.4       1.3
LABOR FORCE AND OUITUT PER WORKERY                           TOTAL LABOR FORCE                                    VALISE ADDED PER WORKER (1974 PRICES AND EXCHANGE RATE $1   17 Di.
Million       7. of Total           1972-75                       US Dollars             Percent of Average         1972-75
1972    1975    1972    1975   Av. Ann. Growth Rate                 1972      1975             1972      1975    Av. Ann-  Growth Rate
Agriculture Y                                3.55    3.1C   45.4    39,0             -4.6                        905    1,182                 34        38             9,3
1Ssxsfacturl-g and Mixing                    1.65    1.82   21.2    23.6             4.3                       3,863    4,218                147      136              3.0
Other 2/                                     2.60    2.95   33.4    37,4             4.3                       4,214    4.416                160       142             1.6
Total -                                      7.80    7.92  100.0   100.0             0.8                       2,634    3,103                100      1000
1/ Budgets of Federation, Republics and Autonomous Prov:ln-es, and Co-.unes unconsolidated.
2/ Total resident Active labor force, i.e. excluding workers abroad sad unemployed.
3/ Estinated active labor force in the private and snital agricultural sector.
Europe, Middle East and Mach Afria Region
Janua.ry 27, 4978



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
Annual
Actual                                  Estimated  Growth Rates
1972    1973    1974    1975          1976        1977        1972-76
SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                  3424    4363    5696    6307          7259         7985          20.0
Imports (incl. NFS)                  3828    5124    8337    8760          8664        10832          22.5
Resource Balance (X-M)               -404      761    -2641   -2453       -1405       -2847
Interest                             -165    -222    -285    -337           -350      -  428          20.2
Workers Remittances                    889    1301    1511    1575          1728        1750           18.1
Other factor services net               17       50       93       62         40          42           23.8
Current Transfers (net)                 82       96      138      121        137         150           13.6
Balance on Current Account            419      464   -1184         2         150      - 1333
M&LT Loans L1
Disbursements                       943    1170    1426    1850           1700        2424          15.9
Repayments                         -570    -686    -814    -930           -800      - 1091           8.8
Net Disbursements                      373     484      612      920         900        1333           24.5
Capital Transactions n.e.i./2        -117    -255        139     -68        -133         -
Use of Reserves                      -675    -663       438       180       -917         _                    Actual
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE4-   1973    19 74    19 75           19 76
Official Grants & Grant-like            -        -        -       -    Public Debt Out. &             1871.8  2088.3  2325.3   2765.8
Disbursed
Public M&LT Loans
IBRD                               75.0   104.9   256.5   209.0   Interest on Public Debt            98.4   105.3   127.9    143.0
IDA                                  -        -        -        -    Repayments on Public Debt  208.7   288.1   316.9    159.7
Other Multilateral                   -        -        -        -    Total Public Debt Service  307.1   393.4   444.8    302.7
Governments                       183.9   179.7   615.4   274.7   Other Debt Service                746.4   822.7   989.7   1134.8
Suppliers                          82.3      3.0       .6       -    Total Debt Service            1053.5  1216.1  1434.5   1437.5
Financial Institutions            121.4       -      73.1    86.2
Bonds                                -        -      51.5       -    Burden on Export Earnings (%)/-
Public Loans n.e.i.                 4.2       -        -        -
Total Public M&LT Loans             466.8   287.6   997.2   569.9   Public Debt Services Ratio   5.3              5.4      5.5       3.3
Total Debt Service Ratio    18.3    16.6    17.7           15.8
TDS - Direct Investment IncL  -           -        -         -
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31, 1976
EXTERNAL DEBT                  Disbursements only           Percent       Average Terms of Public Debt
World Bank                          655.1                   23.7
IDA                                    -                      -           Int. as % Prior Year          6.1       5.6      6.1       6.1
Other Multilateral                     4.5                   0.2                          DO&D
Governments                        1516.2                   54.8          Amort. as % Prior Year    12.9    15.4    15.2             6.9
Suppliers                            50.8                    1.8                          DO&D
Financial Institutions              521.6                   18.9
Bonds                                 17.5                   0.6        IBRD Debt Outs. & Disbursed
Public Debt n.e.i.                      -                     -           "  as % Public Debt O&D   18.8    20.3    24.0            23.7
2765.7                 100.0           "  as % Public Debt
Services      12.5    11.3    12.6         22.5
Other M&LT Debts/3                 4379.8
Short-term Debt (disb. only)            -
1/ Includes direct foreign investment.
2/  Includes errors and omissions, short term loans, net export credits,  IMF account,
National Bank and Commercial Bank Credits.
3/  Estimate.
4/  Figures on debt service do not correspond with balance of payments figures due to
differences in coverage.
5/  Includes workers remittances.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
July 26, 1978



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at May 31, 1978)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)            Purpose          Bank  Undisbursed
Twenty-one Loans fully disbursed                                 567.7
777     1971   SFRY                          Multipurpose Water  45.0    15.5
782     1971   "Babin Kuk" Hotelsko
Turisticki Centar,
Dubrovnik                   Tourism               20.0     0.7
836     1972   Twelve Electric Power
Enterprises in Yugoslavia  Power                  75.0     5.2
894     1973   Stopanska Banka, Skopje       Agricultural
Industries          31.0     4.2
916     1973   Naftagas                      Gas Pipeline         59.4    21.4
990     1974   Bosnia-Herzegovina
Road Funds                  Roads                 30.0     0.4
1012    1974   Stopanska Banka, Skopje       Industrial Credit   28.0       2.9
1013    1974   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Industrial Credit   22.0         3.0
1026    1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                    Railways              93.0    35.8
1060    1974   Port of Bar                   Harbor Expansion    44.0    17.1
1066    1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik             Water Supply and
Wastewater           6.0     5.0
1129    1975   Vojvodjanska Banka            Agricultural
Credit              50.0    28.0
1143    1975   Republic Rtoad Organizations
in Slovenia, Montenegro
and Serbia                  Roads                40.0    16.2
1173    1975   Jugoslavenski Naftovod        Pipeline             48.5    36.4
1262    1976   Republick-i Fond Voda         Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources           20.0    16.8
1263    1976   Sarajevo W4ater Supply &      Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise          Sewerage            45.0    40.6
1264    1976   Sarajevo Gas Enterprise       Air Pollution
& Naftagas Gas Unit          Control              38.0    36.9
1277    1976   Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
Stopanska Banka Skopje,
Investiciona Banka
Titograd, Kosovska Banka    Second Industrial
Pristina                     Credit               50.0    30.4



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9 pages
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year              Borrower(s)             Purpose          Bank  Undisbursed
1360     1977   Management Organization   Multipurpose Water  54.0           53.7
"Metohija"
1370     1977   Investiciona Banka,          Agriculture
Titograd                    Industries           26.0      25.2
1371     1977   Stopanska Banka, Skopje   Agriculture
Industries          24.0      23.7
1377     1977   Republic Road Organiza-
tions in Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Serbia,
Macedonia, and Kosovo    Roads                   56.0      45.2
1469     1977   JUGEL and six Electric
Power Organizations in   Second Power
each Republic               Transmission         80.0      80.0
1477     1977   Vojvodjanska Banka           Second Agricul-
tural Credit        75.0      75.0
1534/a   1978   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                   Railways             100.0    100.0
1535/a   1978   Republic Road Organiza-
tions of Slovenia,
Croatia and Serbia         Roads                 80.0     80.0
1561/a   1978   Elektroprivreda
Bosne i Hercegovine        Hydro Power           73.0     73.0
Total (less cancellation)                             1,880.6/b  872.1
of which has been repaid                              200.3
Total now outstanding                                 1,680.3
Amount sold                              8.0
of which:  Amount repaid               6.8              1.2
Total now held by Bank                                1,679.1
Total undisbursed                                                 872.1
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   A loan of US$40.0 million to Kosovska Banka Pristina for a Third Indus-
trial Credit Project and three loans of US$20.0 million each to Privredna
Banka Sarajevo, Stopanska Banka Skopje, and Investiciona Banka Titograd
for a Fourth Industrial Credit Project were approved subsequent to the
above date of Statement A.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at May 31, 1978)
Type of        Amount in US$ million
Year              Obligor                      Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment               Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia            Corporation      -       2.0      2.0
1970   Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.P.A.   Automotive
Industry         5.0    8.0      13.0
1971   Tovarna Automobilov in Motorjev        Automotive
Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt    Industry            7.5    2.7      10.2
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972   FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler             Automotive
Benz A.G.                             Industry        13.4    3.4      16.9
1972/78 Sava/Semperit                         Tires             4.0    1.5        5.5
1973   Belisce/Bel                            Pulp and Paper  13.3       -       13.3
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO               Special Steel   10.0       -       10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                         Cement Plant    10.0       -       10.0
1975   Rudarsko Metalurski                    Steel            50.0      -       50.0
1977   Frikom ro Industrija Smrznute          Food and Food
Hrane                                 Processing       4.0    2.3       6.3
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin   Pulp and Paper
Products        15.4    2.5      17.9
Total Gross Commitments                                132.6   22.4    155.0
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                              72.2    2.6      74.8
Total commitments held by IFC                           60.4   19.8      80.2
Total Undisbursed                                       14.3    7.9      22.2



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The start of project work was delayed for one year. Construction
is now underway, the main dam is completed and the reservoir is now being
filled. A small part of the irrigation network has been completed with the
remainder expected to be completed by 1979. Project costs have been above
appraisal estimates, but the overrun financing is being provided by the
Province of Kosovo and from Federal sources. Delays have been encountered
in the arrangements for boundary adjustment. Consultants have been engaged
to help find solutions, and the Kosovo Government has enacted appropriate
legislation. After a delay of about five years, a draft law has been prepared
by the Kosovo Government and is expected to be enacted in the near future,
which will assist in the provision of agricultural extension services to the
private sector.
Loan 782 Babin Kuk Tourism: US$20.0 million Loan of July 21, 1971; Effective
Date: June 12, 1972; Closing Date: December 29, 1978.
There were initial delays in the implementation of the project due
to lateness in making the loan effective and in mobilizing consultants. Bids
for civil works and estimates for other components indicated that the project
would cost at least twice as much as originally estimated (US$49.9 million),
largely due to rapid inflation in construction costs. The Bank and the proj-
ect sponsors agreed to finance a reduced complex containing some 2,034 beds
(Amendment to Loan 782-YU, December 16, 1974, R74-259) at a total cost of
US$51.5 million, requiring additional financing of about US$1.6 million and
a change in sponsorship which has been approved by the Bank (Amendment to
Loan 782-YU, October 4, 1976, R76-237). The hotels were inaugurated and
opened for occupancy in June 1976. Occupancy rate for 1977 was below expecta-
tions notwithstanding 100 percent occupancy during high season. This gave
rise to financial liquidity problems which were overcome with the assistance
of the sponsoring Yugoslav banks. Advance bookings for 1978 represent a
considerable improvement over the corresponding 1977 period.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9 pages
Loan 836 Power Transmission: US$75.0 million Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective
Date: December 29, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The Project construction has progressed slowly and is expected to
be completed by mid-1978, about one and one-half years late. Its cost has
increased to about $415 million (up 84 percent) chiefly due to escalation in
prices. The resulting cost overrun is being financed from funds received
from the Federal Republic of Germany, local loans and from the Borrowers' own
internal sources. Appointment of management consultants was delayed until
mid-1976, but their recommendations have now been made and are being discussed
with JUGEL and the Borrowers with the objective of beginning implementation of
the recommendations by mid-1978. The promulgation of the new Constitution in
1974 and the consequent evolution of the legal and financial status of the
Borrowers, particularly in regard to the requirement of their policy of pool-
ing resources at the Republican levels required changes in the legal arrange-
ments including the application of financial covenants. These changes were
incorporated in the Second Power Transmission Project.
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia):  US$31.0 million Loan of May 25,
1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
All loan funds provided under the project have been committed by
subloan agreements through Stopanska Banka. Out of 43 subprojects financed
under the project, 36 are completed, seven are under construction. Progress
on the latter is satisfactory.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973; Effective
Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The costs of equipment and civil works increased so that project
costs were about 71 percent above the appraisal estimate. As a result of
this and of a reallocation of priorities in the use of natural gas, the proj-
ect has been redefined (Amendments to Loan 916-YU, May 13, 1976, R76-116).
Phase I is a reduced version of the original plan. Phase II provides for a
pipeline extension to link up with the pipeline to be constructed under the
Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project, for which additional Bank financing
was obtained. Naftagas has obtained additional local currency financing
required for Phases I and II. A delay of more than two and one-half years in
project implementation has occurred as a result of the increased project costs
and revision of the project. Construction started in late June 1976, and the
project is scheduled for completion by end-1979.
Loan 990 Sixth Highway: US$30.0 million Loan of May 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 10, :[974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
All road secitions are open to traffic. Two requests for changes
in road alignments have been agreed in order to provide better service to two
communities. Procurem,ent of engineering and laboratory equipment has been
contracted and payments are now being finalized. An EDI type training course
is also being arranged in Yugoslavia in October 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9 pages
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credit: US$28.0 million Loan of June
21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is fully committed. Loan
disbursements have been accelerating after a slow start and are expected to
soon catch up and even surpass appraisal estimates.
Loan 1013 Bosnia-Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit: US$22.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The note under Loan 1012 above applies also to this loan.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93.0 million Loan of July 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 12, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project consists of the 1974-76 slice of the Railways' 1973-77
Investment Plan. Government efforts to combat inflation caused railway tariffs
to lag behind inflation and gave rise to financial and administrative diffi-
culties which, in turn caused substantial delays in project implementation.
With tariff increases approved both in early 1977 and 1978 these problems have
largely been resolved. Meanwhile, institutional developments, including
improved investment planning and management, the formation of COIs and the
signing of Social Agreements on railway and transport policies have been most
encouraging.
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
In general the Project is progressing well. Except for railway
facilities outside the port area and the grain silos, the project is expected
to be completed by mid-1978, about six months behind schedule. The railway
facilities and grain silos are scheduled for completion by end-1978 and
end-1979, respectively.
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater: US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Delays in preparation of final designs and tender documents have put
construction about a year behind schedule. Services to the Bank financed
Babin Kuk Hotel Complex (Loan 782-YU) were, however, completed in time for
its initial operation and the remaining water supply component is nearing com-
pletion. Construction is progressing satisfactorily on the sewerage component.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9 pages
Loan 1129 Agricultural Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 20, 1975; Effec-
tive Date: Eebruary 12, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The Project Operations Unit of Vojvodjanska Banka, established in
March 1976, is working satisfactorily. Project operations have shown encour-
aging progress with respect to appraisal methodology and related aspects of
institution building. Ninety percent of the loan has been committed. Dis-
bursements are behind appraisal projections, given initial organizational and
learning curve problems, delays in procurement, unfamiliarity of participa-
ting banks with withdrawal applications, timetaking translations and the time
lag between commitments and disbursements. However, disbursements have
accelerated during the last year.
Loan 1143 Seventh Highway: US$40.0 million Loan of July 18, 1975;
Effective Date: March 30, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
With the award of the last two contracts in Montenegro, work is now
in progress on all the project roads of Serbia, Slovenia and Montenegro. The
Serbian road sections have been substantially completed and are open to traf-
fic. Work in Slovenia is on schedule but progress in Montenegro is somewhat
slow owing to contract delays. Nevertheless, all road works should be com-
pleted by the loan closing date.
Loan 1173 Naftovod Oil Pipeline: US$49.0 million Loan of November 19, 1975;
Effective Date: July 28, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Due to slower than anticipated progress of design and procurement
it is estimated that a seven-month slippage in the completion of Phase I will
occur, though it is expected that the balance of the Project will be completed
on schedule. The revised cost estimates of the project indicate that there
would be a cost overrun of about 27 percent because of required changes from
original project components and increases in local costs. The Borrower is
taking steps to obtain supplementary financing from various sources both
foreign and local. The economic viability of the project remains sound. Upon
review of the award of a site preparation contract, the Bank concluded that
the contract was not awarded in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement and the relevant portion ($470,000) that would have otherwise been
eligible for disbursement was cancelled from the Loan.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date: November 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The regional development study is finished and the report is being
finalized. The flood control and water quality studies are underway after
initial delays in selecting consultants. Construction of the Vrutci Dam has
begun.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9 pages
Construction is completed on the principal parts of the Cacak component, the
remainder is well advanced. Construction is also underway in Titovo Uzice.
Final designs of sewage treatment plants in Cacak are underway, and in Titovo
Uzice, are dependent upon the recruitment of suitable foreign assistance
to local consultants. The pilot irrigation components have been delayed
pending the establishment of suitable monitoring arrangements. The creation
of the Morava Region Water Community of Interest was delayed due to the longer
than anticipated process of seeking agreement among all the Yugoslav parties
concerned on the structure of the organization. Staffing has been strengthened
in the water authorities in Cacak and Titovo Uzice and in the Morava Region
Water Community of Interest.
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
Major contracts for supply and installation of water pipes and
sewers have been awarded and construction is underway. Prequalification
of contractors for the sewage treatment plant was completed and design work
is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan 1264 Sarajevo Air Pollution Control: US$38.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Consultants for final designs and tender documents have been
recruited and work on major tenders is underway. Contracts for supply and
installation of gas distribution network and high-pressure loop-line have
been awarded and mobilization is underway. Tendering for gas transmission
line, Sarajevo-Zvornik, is underway.
Loan 1277 Second Industrial Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976;
Effective Date: October 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The portions of the loans to the Bosnian, Macedonian and Montenegrin
banks have been progressing satisfactorily. The portion for the Kosovan
bank, while being committed more slowly, is forecast to be fully committed
by end-July 1978. Disbursements are slightly behind appraisal estimates.
Loan 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 million Loan of February 3,
1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Local consultants have been retained as project consultants and are
proceeding with final designs on the project components and preparation of
bidding documents. Two local construction contracts have been awarded and
invitations for international tenders for the dam will be issued shortly.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9 pages
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$26.0 million Loan
of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Institutional arrangements have been completed, and the implementa-
tion of the project is proceeding on schedule. Tendering for ICB procurement
for the winery and cold stores is in progress.
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries: US$24.0 million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Sub-loans for four out of eleven agro-industrial sub-projects have
been approved by the Borrower. Sub-projects in the individual sector are
being processed. The hiring of procurement consultants is expected soon.
Loan 1377 Eighth Highway: US$56.0 million Loan of April 13, 1977; Effective
Date: September 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
All road contracts have been awarded and work is satisfactorily in
progress. The contract for the Highway Master Plan for Kosovo has also been
awarded. The studies on Rload User Charges and Rail Costs are in progress.
Loan 1469 Second Power Transmission: US$80.0 million Loan of July 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 31, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Procurement for most project components is underway. The proposed
loan from the European Investment Bank was signed in November 1977 and local
loan agreements have been executed.
Loan 1477 Second Agricultural Credit:  US$75.0 million Loan of July 29, 1977;
Effective Date:  January 30, 1978; Closing Date:  June 30, 1981.
All participating banks have identified the main investors and
indicated that funds will be committed faster than under the first project.
Loan 1534 Fifth Railway: US$100 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: August 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is August 31, 1978.
Loan 1535 Ninth Highway: US$80 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: July 31, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is July 31, 1978.
Loan 1561 Middle Neretva Hydro Power: US$73 million of May 31, 1978;
Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is September 29, 1978.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YUGOSLAVIA
MACEDONIA STREZEVO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare
project:                                Three years (intermittently from
July 1972 to October 1977)
(b)  Agency which prepared project:           Consultants, FAO/Bank Cooperative
Program and Bank
(c)  Project first presented to Bank:         November 1975
(d) First Bank mission to review
project:                                December 1975
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:          October 1977
(f)  Completion of negotiations:              April 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:           November 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Advance contracting for expenditures of about US$700,000 undertaken
to avoid serious delays in project implementation and achieve one earlier crop
year (see paragraph 71).
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Bank would enter into two separate Project Agreements, one
with Vodostopanstvo and the Commune of Bitola and the other
with the Republic of Macedonia (Condition of Effectiveness,
paragraphs 54 and 55);
(b) Vodostopanstvo would establish a project unit (BOAL
Strezevo) with a qualified and experienced director
and appoint a financial director prior to the
effectiveness of the Bank loan, would appoint other
key staff to the project unit by December 31, 1978
(Condition of Effectiveness, paragraph 54) and submit
personnel training program for Bank review (paragraph 58);
(c) Vodostopanstvo would not undertake any other major invest-
ments that would interfere with the completion of the
project (paragraph 57);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) Specialist consultants to review with Vodostopanstvo final
design of irrigation pipe network (paragraph 56) and
assist Republic of Macedonia in preparation of irrigation
feasibility studies (paragraph 58);
(e) Appointment of independent advisory board on construction
(Condition of Effectiveness, paragraph 56) and periodic
inspections of dam and appurtenant structures after com-
pletion (paragraph 56);
(f) Vodostopanstvo to prepare annual implementation plans for
*                      operation of irrigation system and cropping patterns (para-
graphs 57 and 66);
(g) A subsidiary loan agreement between Stopanska Banka Skopje
(SBS) and Vodostopanstvo would be entered into and finan-
cing arrangements, including SBS cost overrun guarantee,
and water users agreements to be duly authorized or rati-
fied prior to the effectiveness of the loan (Condition of
Effectiveness, paragraph 61);
(h) Irrigation charges would be phased in by gradual increases,
to full rates as agricultural production approaches full
development andt Vodostopanstvo to undertake in consultation
with the Bank cost recovery analysis prior to first water
deliveries so that rate or other adjustments may be recom-
mended (paragraph 63);
(i) Republic of Macedonia and Commune of Bitola to undertake
to provide funds on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank to cover Vodostopanstvo's financial deficits which are
expected to occur during the period before irrigation
charges are fully phased (paragraph 65);
(j) Advanced contracting and retroactive financing of about
US$700,000 (paragraph 71);






REN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\   MAaDOT SEZEVO RRIGATO PROECT
,PROAdC LOCAM~N
\   <   a   \                                                                                                                                           - TITOV VELX X X 0 X BEROVOt / ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OELEV
-F-
I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SI
NOAM.,,






IBRD 13405
~~  // ~~~~YUGOSLAVIA
\ r MACEDONIA- STREZEVO IR IGATION PROJECT
0 _   \             X    j3                                                                                                                                       GENERAL LAYOUT
tSCi*40 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4/  4 ~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT
4    0 2   *t  'um''S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                                                                                      I e I on 0 n I
S-. .dor,  P.pe..lh-
Po-ed R.-,;- .X.h D.
FEWITINGC
/      Con-o, Line   Meler
- Inierrnt,ono-dEl ndard
G.Or,oon,  --* ~        ~          ~          ~         ~         R--
N.-i
t   vL.9iv    t>olsucsnilf X~5  6 
A L B A N  9 A   1 FA 04 >  Igg ;) x=It*rmow    sODnd  \   _ * _  * _
0  NI  AH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  7 I'   ~~~~~~~~~~-4 2:,      /            .      ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~            ' 
13                                                                     I4~~~~~~rao
r~~~~~~~~    /~~~~~~~~~~                                                                    G         R        E        E         C     E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0.TR
GREECE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ALBANI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,f~~~~3                                                                                                                                                                    ZT



