CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1616 YU
Loan Agreement
(Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STOPANSKA BANKA - ZDRUZENA BANKA - SKOPJE
Dated August 23, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1616 YU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 23, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and STOPANSKA BANKA - ZDRUZENA BANKA - SKOPJE (hereinafter called
the Borrower), it being specified that the Borrower, which is a
bank established and operating under the laws of the Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (hereinafter sometimes called the
Guarantor or Yugoslavia), is acting both on its own behalf and on
behalf of its member basic banks (as this term is hereinafter
defined).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the cost of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project (with the exception of Part I thereof) will
be carried out by Vodostopanstvo Pretuprijatie za Stopanisuvanje
so Vodi Skopje - OOZT Pelagbnija-Bitola (hereinafter called
Vodostopanstvo) with the Borrower's and the Socialist Republic of
Macedonia's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to Vodostopanstvo a portion of
the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided and an initial
contribution towards the financing of the Project made both out of
its own resources and out of the resources of other local banks;
(C) the Bank is willing to make the Loan available to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and
in agreements of even date herewith between, on the one hand,
the Bank and, on the other hand, the commune of Bitola (herein-
after called Bitola) and Vodostopanstvo (hereinafter called the
Strezevo Project Agreement) and the Bank and the Socialist
Republic of Macedonia (hereinafter called the Macedonia Agree-
ment); and
(D) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Guarantor and the Bank, which agreement is hereinafter called the
Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the
obligations of the Borrower;
WHEREAS, the Bank on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
has agreed to make a Loan to the Borrower upon the terms ane
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Macedonia" means the Socialist Republic of Macedonia.
(b) "Self-Management Agreement of the Borrower" means the
self-management agreement of the Borrower dated December 27, 1977,
as amended from time to time.
(c) "Borrower's Statutes" means the statutes of the Borrower
dated December 27, 1977, as amended from time to time.
(d) "Vodostopanstvo's Self-Management Agreement" means the
self-management agreement of Vodostopanstvo dated May 5, 1972,
as amended from time to time.
(e) "Vodostopanstvo's Statutes" means the statutes of
Vodostopanstvo dated December 14, 1973, as amended from time to
time.
(f) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and Vodostopanstvo, in accor-
dance with Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, for the purpose of
making available to Vodostopanstvo the amount of the Loan speci-
fied in such Section and the Borrower's initial contribution
towards the financing of the Project.
(g) "BOAL Strezevo" means the Basic Organization of Asso-
ciated Labor to be established, within Vodostopanstvo, pursuant to
Vodostopanstvo's decision and as provided in Section 2.01 (b)
of the Strezevo Project Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
(h) "Dinars" and the letters "Din." mean the currency of
the Guarantor.
(i) "Social Accounting Service" means the Slulba Drultvenog
Knjigovodstva referred to in Article 77 and in paragraph (5) oZ
Article 281 of the Guarantor's Constitution.
(j) "Macedonian Land Law" means Macedonia's "Law on the
Use of Agricultural Land" of November 23, 1976, and any decrees or
regulations issued thereunder, as such law, decrees or regulations
may have been amended at the date hereof or may, hereafter, be
amended.
(k) "Project Area" means the area referred to in the
preamble to Schedule 2 hereto.
(1) "Statement of Operations and Policies for the Project"
means the statement set out in Schedule 4 hereto, as such state-
ment may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Bank, the Borrower and Vodostopanstvo.
(m) "member basic bank" means any basic bank which is, or
shall become, a party to the Self-Management Agreement of the
Borrower, pursuant to Article 3 thereof.
(n) "water users agreement" means any water users agreement
referred to in Section 3.06 of the Strezevo Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
eighty-two million dollars ($82,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and tj
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of
interest and other charges on the Loan.


﻿(b) On each of the semiannual interest payment dates
specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest
and other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before
the date set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Strezevo Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.90%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause Vodostopanstvo to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Strezevo Project Agreement all the obliga-
tions therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and


﻿-5-
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Vodostopanstvo
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance; in particular, whenever there is reasonable cause
to believe that the funds available to Vodostopanstvo will be
inadequate to meet (i) the estimated expenditures for the carrying
out of the Project (except for Parts E, F (b) and I of the Proj-
ect), the Borrower unconditionally undertakes to make arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide Vodostopanstvo
with such funds in foreign or local currencies as needed to meet
said expenditures and (ii) the operating and financial obligations
undertaken by Vodostopanstvo for the same purpose, the Borrower
shall promptly request Bitola and/or Macedonia to make available
to Vodostopanstvo all the necessary funds, as provided in the
pertinent Sections of the Macedonia Agreement and/or the Strezevo
Project Agreement, respectively.
(b)   Without any limitation upon the generality of the
foregoing undertakings with respect to the provision of funds,
the Borrower shall make available to Vodostopanstvo an initial
contribution towards the financing of the Project which shall not
be less than Din 1,511,000,000 (such contribution to be made both
out of its own resources and out of the resources of other local
banks) and a portion of the proceeds of the Loan, under a sub-
sidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
Vodostopanstvo, under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank, it being understood that such terms and
conditions shall be consistent with the Statement of Operations
and Policies for the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d) In order to assist Macedonia in carrying out Part I of
the Project the Borrower shall make available to Macedonia, in
a timely manner and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, that portion of the proceeds of the Loan provided for under
Category 4 of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 hereto.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
quarterly and annual progress reports for the Project, such


﻿- 6 -
reports to be prepared according to a format acceptable to the
Bank.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall, in coordination with Vodosto-
panstvo (as provided in Section 2.05 of the Strezevo Project
Agreement), maintain records and procedures adequate to record and
monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost, the
benefits to be derived from it, the amount of financing provided
by the Borrower, Bitola, Macedonia and the users of water within
the territory of Bitola, disbursements, repayments, interest
and other charges on such financing, general information on
agriculture and economic policy affecting the implementation of
the Project), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall, if the Bank shall so reasonably request,
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and d,uments; and (iii) shall, in coordination
with Vodostopanstvo .e provided in Section 2.05 of the Strezevo
Project Agreement), furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than December 31, 1983 or such later date as may
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the
Borrower shall, in coordination with Vodostopanstvo (as provided
in Section 2.05 of the Strezevo Project Agreement), prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower, Bitola
Vodostopanstvo and the Bank of their respective obligations under
the Loan Agreement, the Strezevo Project Agreement and the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times continue to
conduct its operations and affairs, including the Project, in


﻿-7-
accrrdance with appropriate financial and investment standards
and practices, with qualified and experienced management and
staff, and in accordance with its Self-Management Agreement and
it.s Statutes.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the progress of the Project and its opera-
tions and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall establish and maintain
separate accounts for the Project and shall record in such
accounts all amounts disbursed or received for or in connection
with the Project.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by the Social Accounting Service or another competent and
experienced independent auditing organization acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as well as the structure of the Borrower's
loan portfolio and arrears together with reschedulings, as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets or on any
assets of any member basic bank of the Borrower as security for
any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any member basic bank of the Borrower, as
security for any debt, such lien will equally and ratably secure


﻿- 8 -
the payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan and that in the creation of any such lien express
provision will be made to that effect at no cost to the Bank; and
(ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets of the
Borrower or any member basic bank of the Borrower, as security for
any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an
equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan;
provided, however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time
of purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the
purchase price of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the
ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt
maturing not more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred. (
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any of its outstanding debt
which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially and adversely
affect the ability of the Borrower to meet its financial obliga-
tions.
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall establish and maintain
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to protect itself against
the risk of losses resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between the currencies (including Dinars) used in its lending and
borrowing operations for the purpose of carrying out the Project
and servicing the Loan.
Section 5.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
if Vodostopanstvo shall repay to the Borrower in advance of
maturity any part of its indebtedness under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, the Borrower shall promptly notify the Bank and shall
repay to the Bank on the next following interest payment date an
amount equivalent to the amount so repaid by Vodostopanstvo. All
the provisions of the General Conditions relating to repayment in
advance of maturity shall be applicable to any repayment by the
Borrower in accordance with this Section.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified:


﻿- 9 -
(a) Any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in
accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance
of maturity as provided in the relevant contractual instruments,
or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable.
(b) A change shall have been made in the respective
Self-Management Agreement or the Statutes of the Borrower or
Vodostopanstvo, which would materially and adversely affect
the financial condition or operations of the Borrower or of
Vodostopanstvo, respectively, or the carrying out of the Project.
(c) Bitola or Vodostopanstvo shall have (i) failed to
perform any of its respective obligations under the Strezevo
Project Agreement or, for Vodostopanstvo only, under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement or (ii) taken any action contrary to the
execution of such obligations.
(d) Macedonia shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Macedonia Agreement.
(e) The Macedonian Land Law shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, rescinded, repealed or waived in such a way
as to affect materially and adversely the carrying out of the
Project or the operation and maintenance of the facilities and
irrigation works included in the Project.
(f) The Guarantor, Macedonia, Bitola or any other authority
having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolu-
tion or disestablishment of Vodostopanstvo or for the suspension
of Vodostopanstvo's operations.
(g) Vodostopanstvo's decision establishing BOAL Strezevo,
or the water users agreements or the self-management agreements
referred to in Section 7.01 (f) hereof, shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, rescinded, repealed or waived without the
Bank's prior approval.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the events specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Guarantor and the Borrower; and


﻿- 10 -
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (b), (e), (f) or (g)
of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
Section 6.03. The Borrower: (i) represents that all obliga-
tions of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement and under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, which shall or may require for its
performance the approval, cooperation or financial assistance of
any governmental authorities having jurisdiction, are undertaken
with the consent and full support of such authorities; and (ii)
agrees that no action or failure to act by such authorities shall
excuse the performance of such obligations by the Borrower or
limit the remedies of the Bank under this Article in respect of
any default in the performance of such obligations.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) Macedonia and/or Vodostopanstvo shall have furnished
to the Bank all evidence satisfactory to the Bank showing that
the disbursement schedule referred to in Section 2.03 of the
Macedonia Agreement has been approved by all appropriate govern-
mental action.
(b) The execution of the Macedonia Agreement and the
Strezevo Project Agreement on behalf of Macedonia, Vodostopanstvo
and/or Bitola, as the case may be, have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate or governmental action.
(c) The execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and Vodostopanstvo, respectively, has been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate action.
(d) Vodostopanstvo shall have employed, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, a qualified and experienced
financial director who shall be responsible for its financial
matters and a qualified and experienced engineer who shall be, on
a full time basis, the head of BOAL Strezevo.
(e) BOAL Strezevo has been established as provided in
Section 2.01 (b) of the Strezevo Project Agreement and all appro-
priate amendments to the Self-Management Agreement and Statutes of


﻿- 11 -
Vodostopanstvo have come into full force and effect under the laws
of Yugoslavia and in form and substance acceptable to the Bank.
(f) Bitola and the users of water within its territory
have entered into self-management agreements pursuant to which
said parties shall undertake the obligations set out in Section
5.01 of the Strezevo Project Agreement.
(g) Vodostopanstvo shall have appointed the independent
experts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of the Strezevo Project
Agreement, as provided in said Section.
(h) The water users agreements shall have come into full
force and effect under the laws of Yugoslavia and in form and
substance acceptable to the Bank.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) That the Macedonia Agreement and Strezevo Project
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate or governmental action, and are legally binding upon
Macedonia, Bitola and/or Vodostopanstvo, as the case may be, in
accordance with their terms.
(b) That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Vodostopanstvo,
respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
Vodostopanstvo in accordance with its terms.
(c) That the disbursement schedule referred to in Section
7.01 (a) hereof has been duly approved pursuant to all appropriate
governmental action and is legally binding upon Macedonia.
(d) That Vodostopanstvo's decision ,stablishing BOAL
Strezevo has been duly taken and, if need be, duly approved by all
appropriate governmental action and is legally binding upon
Vodostopanstvo and the amendments referred to in 7.01 (e) hereof
have come into full force and effect as provided in such Section.
(e) That the self-management agreements referred to in Sec-
tion 7.01 (f) hereof have been duly entered into among all parties
concerned and, if need be, duly approved by all appropriate


﻿- 12 -
governmental action and are legally binding upon all parties
concerned.
(f) That the water users agreements have come into full
force and effect as provided in Section 7.01 (h) hereof.
Section 7.03. The date December 29, 1978, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Stopanska Banka - Zdrulena Banka - Skopje
Ul. 11 Oktombri Br. 7
91000 Skopje
Yugoslavia
Cable address:                    Telex:
Stopanska Banka Skopje             51140
Skopje                             Yusbank
Yugoslavia


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. David Knox
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
STOPANSKA BANKA - ZDRU2ENA BANKA - SKOPJE
By /s/ Alexander Misev
Authorized Representative


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Civil works, building         47,500,000     35%
construction, equip-
ment and vehicles
under Parts A, B, C,
D, F (a) and G of the
Project
(2) Sprinkler equipment           11,400000      100% of foreign
included in Part B                          expenditures and
of the Project                               100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory
(3) Consultants'                    200,000      100%
services under
Parts A, B, C, F (a)
and H of the
Project
(4) Consultants' services           600,000      40%
under Part I of
the Project
(5) Interest and other           12,300,000      Amounts due
charges on the Loan
accrued on or before
September 14, 1981
(6) Unallocated                  10,000,000
TOTAL         82,000,000


﻿- 15 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $700,000
may be made in respect of Category 1 on account of payments made
for such expenditures before that date but after April 30, 1978.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 16 -
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project covers about 20,300 hectares in the Strezevo
area located along the Crna River, about 120 kilometers south of
Skopje.
The main objectives of the Project are to increase crop pro-
duction, to raise labor productivity and incomes and to generate
employment in the social and individual sectors in the Project
Area and to substitute for food imports. The Project also includes
institution building such as the expansion and upgrading of
Vodostopanstvo, the strengthening of the Borrower's involvement
with the agricultural sector and increasing the social sector's
share of value added in the food production system.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:
(a) Construction of the Strezevo dam on the Semnica River
with about 84 meter height, about 112 Mm3 capacity,
made of rockf ill with a clay core and provided with a
downstream berm for added stability;
construction of the Alimentation Canal in a length of
about 62 km, for a discharge of 0.58 m3/sec at Kisevska
River and 5.04 m3/sec at Dragor River, with adequate
free-board, for tapping peak season flow from seven
streams on the Baba mountains; and
construction of the Main Canal in a length of about 45
km, to carry a discharge of 12.31 m3/sec at head with
adequate free-board, fitted with a minimum of nine
automatic upstream regulation gates with spillways,
serving the nine major offtakes through siltation
basins, with other small areas served through offtakes
from these nine pipes, and stabilization of the canal
embankment in unstable terrain.
(b) Provision of all necessary equipment for the appropriate
operation of the said dam and canals, including monitor-
ing equipment for the dam and upstream regulating gates
for the main canal.


﻿- 18 -
Part B:
(a) Construction of an underground pressure pipe network
for irrigating about 9,500 ha of social and about 10,800
ha of individual holdings, including pressure regulation
and anti-water hammer devices on the main and secondary
pipes, with individual sector hydrants provided with
automatic pressure regulation devices for variations
between five and ten atmospheres.
(b) Provision of mobile sprinkler equipment consisting of
quick-coupling pipes and sprinklers in the individual
sector and rotary self-propelled booms with minimum
intake pressure of five atmospheres, in the social
sector.
Part C:
Construction of office buildings to serve the personnel
which operates the facilities included in Parts A and B of
the Project in adequate numbers and on sites and according to
standards and designs satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:
Construction of about 63 kilometers of 5-meter wide
asphalt roads and 4-meter wide farm dirt roads, said con-
struction to be carried out according to standards and
designs satisfactory to the Bank.
Part E:
Construction and financing by Vodovod i Banji of all
the water conveyance structures required to ensure the
alimentation of said enterprise with up to 22 million m3 of
bulk water per annum tapped from the main and alimentation
canals of the Strezevo dam, said construction to be carried
out according to standards and designs satisfactory to the
Bank.
Part F:
(a) Construction, on or before December 31, 1979 (or such
other date as the Bank may agree) of all the water conveyance
structures, west of the Crna River, required to ensure the
alimentation of the thermal power plant under construction at


﻿- 19 -
Novaci with up to 12 million m3 of bulk water per annum
tapped from the main and alimentation canals of the Strezevo
dam, said construction to be carried out according to stan-
dards and designs satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) Construction, on or before December 31, 1979 (or
such other date as the Bank may agree) and financing by
Electrostopanstvo of all the water conveyance structures,
east of the Crna River, required to ensure the alimentation
of the thermal power plant under construction at Novaci with
up to 12 million m3 of bulk water per annum tapped from the
main and alimentation canals of the Strezevo dam, said
construction to be carried out according to standards and
designs satisfactory to Electrostopanstvo and the Bank.
Part G:
Provision of all vehicles and other equipment (including
telecommunications equipment) required for the operation and
maintenance of the Project works.
Part H:
A specialized training program for the personnel of
Vodostopanstvo as required by all aspects of Project opera-
tions and to be carried out through a succession of annual
plans.
Part I:
Preparation by Macedonia of three feasibility studies
for the development of land and water resources of Skopsko
Polie, Gevgelisko Pole and Pepelisko area, including, inter
alia, preliminary designs for irrigation and drainage facili-
ties, agricultural technical preparation, recommendation
on institutions and organizations, and technical, economic
and financial feasibility of the projects, according to
preparation levels acceptable to the Bank.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 1982
through   March 15, 1993                     3,415,000
On September 15, 1993                              3,455,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                            1.60%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                            3.15%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                            5.80%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen
years before maturity                      6.85%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                            7.90%


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Statement of Opera dions and
Policies for the Project
t.   Suyervision
The Borrower shall be responsible for fund nobilization from
local banks and the Guarantor, for on-lending to Vod(,stovanstvo,
for loan administration and for financial coordination. The
Borrower shall supervise the application of disbursements for the
investments included in the Project in accordance with sound
banking, financial, technical and agricultural practices.
2.   Subsidiary Loan Agreement
Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement shall provide inter alia that:
(A) Whereas the users of water within the commune of Bitola
have undertaken to contribute not less than 8% of the
aggregate estimated cost of the investments required for
the Project and Macedonia not less than 6% of such cost,
the Borrower hereby undertakes that it will contribute,
together with other local. banks, not less than 42% of
such cost and that the remainder of such cost will be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(B) The proceeds of the Loan made available to Vodosto-
panstvo shall carry: (i) interest at an annual rate of
not less than the interest rate referred to in Section
2.06 hereof and (ii) a fee at an annual rate of 0.5% for
guarantee and other operations performed by the Borrower
in connection with the Loan, on the principal amount
outstanding from time to time; the repayment terms of
the principal amount shall be substantially in con-
formity with Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreemento,
(C) The funds from the Borrower's contribution shall carry
interest on the principal amount outstanding from time
to time, at an annual rate of not less than the rate of
interest prevailing at the time such funds are con-
tributed in Macedonia, with repayment terms of not less
than 10 years (including a grace period of not less than
4 years) in the case of the Borrower's own funds and


﻿- 23 -
with repayment terms of not less than 20 years (includ-
ing a grace period of not less than 4 years) in the case
of the funds from the Guarantor channelled through
the Borrower.
Interest accruing on funds from the Guarantor during the
grace periods shall be capitalized.


