Report No. PIC828
Project Name                     Madagascar-Education Sector () N
Development Project (CRESED II)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Education
Project ID                       MGPE1559
Implementing Agency              Government of Madagascar
Ministry of Secondary and Primary
Education; Ministry of Higher
Education; public and private institutions
Bureau Projet Education
B.P. 331, Antananarivo, Madagascar
Tel.: (261-2) 264-64
Fax: (261-2) 292-13
Date PID Prepared                December 20, 1993
Date PID Revised                 July 31, 1997
Projected Board Date             March 1998
Project Background
After a long period in the 1970s and 1980s during which the
economy, standard of living, and education in Madagascar declined,
Madagascar is now beginning to achieve a fundamental turnaround.
From an emphasis on state-controlled, top-down approaches,
Government began to enlist the efforts of diverse partners in the
reform of its economy and its education system, recognizing the
contribution of the private sector, local communities, and non-
governmental organizations as indispensable to economic, social and
educational progress. Its priorities are firmly locked into those
of the Country Assistance Strategy, namely to stimulate balanced
economic growth, to reduce poverty and to provide the human
resources required to achieve its goals.
To produce the necessary human resources, the Government formulated
detailed plans for each of the sub-sectors of education and
training, as well an integrated master plan, building on the
experience of past plans and extensive consultation over the last
two years. An inter-ministerial committee and an inter-sectoral
working party have been established in order to ensure the
coherence of the commitments of all partners in the sector.
The objectives of the Second National Program for the Improvement
of Education, shared by all sub-sectors and donors are: (a) to
achieve as rapidly as possible universal access to a quality
primary education, (b) to support a gradual expansion and
improvement of secondary education, (c) to modernize and diversify
higher education, and (d) to continue the reforms in vocational
training initiated in 1992.
The proposed project would support the Program's development



objective which is to produce more and better trained students at
all levels of education at sustainable cost. The impact of the
Program would be measured through improvements in learning
outcomes, in internal and external efficiency of education, and in
access to primary and secondary education, particularly in rural
areas. The strategic orientation adopted is centered on the
devolution of responsibility to local and institutional levels,
supported by a set of coherent policies at the national level.
Project Description
The project would consist of the following three major components:
(A) Universalize quality primary education by supporting community-
based projects to improve access and learning outcomes through
provision of administrative and supervisory services to be provided
by MINESEB agencies, staff development services, and adequate
infrastructure, equipment, and teaching/learning materials; (B)
Improve quality of and access to secondary education, particularly
in rural areas through support to school-based pilot programs; and
(c) Support reform of higher education in assisting institutions to
modernize and to diversify through financing sub-projects under a
Fund for the Development of Higher Education (FDES).
Project Costs and Financing
The IDA credit (US$60.0 million) will finance about 50t of the
total program cost, with an estimated foreign cost of US$48 m, and
a local cost of US$12 m. The Government will finance about 20t of
the total project cost. The European Union has expressed interest
in cofinancing about 10t of the total costs, and other donors
showing interest are Japan, UNICEF, France, Germany, UK, the World
Food Program, and the AfDB.
Project Implementation
The project would be implemented from 1998-2003 by the ministries
of Primary and Secondary Education and of Higher Education.
Regarding the Program and Project coordination, the Program
Coordinator would preside over the work of the inter-ministerial
committee which comprises a wide representation of higher level
staff in the key ministries. Also the Program Coordinator would act
as Executive Secretary of the inter-ministerial working party
presided by a senior Minister.
At primary and secondary levels, the overall project coordination
would be undertaken by a small Project Management Unit.
Implementation of school- and community-based sub-projects would be
monitored by MINESEB staff at regional, district, and sub-district
levels. In higher education, the Fund for the Development of Higher
Education would be managed by an independent Council comprised of
representatives of Government, the private sector, institutions and
the business world.
The implementation arrangements and processes are outlined in an
Implementation Manual prepared by the Government in consultation
-2 -



with the Bank and other donors. An annual planning and budgeting
process will be critical to the effective implementation of the
project and is detailed in the Manual.
A detailed monitoring and evaluation system is also being
developed. With the guidance from the inter-ministerial committee
and the Program Coordinator, project monitoring and evaluation will
be a shared responsibility of the central MINESEB and School
District staffs. The monitoring system, which will be computerized,
will inform the management, policy makers and donors on the
progress of activities and outputs of the Program on the ground.
Impact on poverty reduction and participation of local communities
will be monitored through beneficiary assessments, and learning
achievement in core subjects at primary and secondary levels will
be evaluated bi-annually through achievement tests.
Project Sustainability
The project's strong commitment to community involvement in the
planning, implementation and evaluation of their own program should
ensure long-term viability and sustainability. The budgetary
approach adopted ensures that investment plans are compatible with
available resources. Production and ownership by Government and
educational institutions of their own program is likely to evoke
greater commitment, effectiveness and sustainability. Cost sharing
schemes in higher education imply a high level of commitment on the
part of stakeholders.
Lessons Learned
Some of the lessons learned in the past and reflected in the new
project design are as follows: (i) local communities, when given
the initiative and modest resources, can effectively identify their
own priorities, deliver a quality and sustainable primary
education, and increase participation; (ii) participatory
approaches at all levels have proved an effective instrument for
project planning and implementation, and for learning from
experience. The development of social capital at national and local
levels, the formation of teams, continuity and cross-fertilization
between regions and localities are additional benefits reaped from
the participatory approach; (iii) the devolution of responsibility
and resources to the local level must be achieved in a gradual,
planned, and phased manner, accompanied by appropriate capacity
building measures (e.g. contract arrangements, dialogue with
community representatives and school teachers, training for
acceptance of financial responsibility, different managerial
style); (iv) experience at the local level in previous projects has
added valuable information on which national policies have been
formulated; (v) a previous Training Fund and grant have shown that
the "fund" approach to the financing of educational activities is
successful; (vi) a diversity of specific initiatives is needed to
address the problem of the maldistribution and underemployment of
teaching and other staff; (vii) Government coordination of donor
responses to its program is vitally important.
- 3 -



Environmental Aspects and Project Objectives Categories (POCs)
The environmental impact of the proposed project is likely to be
neutral. There would be environmental disruption associated with
the construction of small primary and lower secondary schools.
However, the project would improve the sanitary environment of
about 7,000 existing schools which presently lack basic sanitary
facilities and provide such basic facilities for all new
construction. The project will finance teaching-learning materials
and teacher training to incorporate environmental education in the
existing curriculum at primary level. The project is strongly
related to IDA's other program categories insofar as it addresses
the need to produce high level human resources without which other
social sectors of the education and the economy cannot achieve
their development objectives.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending August 15, 1997.
- 4 -



