                                  Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                           Report No: 33345

                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (IDA-30460)

                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$65 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR

                                     FOR AN

                   EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                 October 24, 2005




Human Development Group III
Africa Region

                                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                  (Exchange Rate Effective July 2005)

                                        Currency Unit = Malagasy Ariary (MGA)
                                           MGA 1.00 = US$ 0.0005
                                              US$ 1.00 = MGA 1985.82

                                               FISCAL YEAR
                                         January 1     December 1

                               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD       Agence Française de Développement          ICB    International Competitive Bidding
          French Development Agency
BACC      Baccaulauréat (Baccalaureat)              IMF     International Monetary Fund
BEPC      Brevet d'Etudes du Premier Cycle          MENRS   Ministère de l'Education Nationale et
          Certificate of Lower Secondary                    de la Recherche Scientifique
          Education
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy                MGF    Malagasy Francs
CEG       Collège d'Enseignement Général            MTR     Mid-Term Review
          (General Education College)
CEPE      Certificat d'Etudes Primaires             NER     Net Enrollment Rate
          Elementaires (Primary and Elementary
          School Certificate)
CISCO     Circonscriptions scolaires(Educational    PAD     Project Appraisal Document
          Districts)
CONFEMEN  Conférence des Ministres de l'Education PASEC     Programme d'Analyse des Systèmes
          des pays ayant le français en partage             Educatifs(Education Systems Analysis
          Conference of French-Speaking Country             Programme)
          National Education Ministers
CRESED    Crédit de Renforcement du Secteur         PDO     Project Development Objective
          Education (Education Sector
          Reinforcement Credit)
DCA       Development Credit Agreement              PIU     Project Implementation Unit
DRESEB    Direction Régionale de l'Enseignement     PMU     Project Management Unit
          Secondaire et de l'Education de Base
          (Regional Direction of Secondary and
          Basic Education)
EFA-FTI   Education for All ­ Fast Track Initiative PREFTEC Projet de Renforcement de la
                                                            Formation Technique(Vocational
                                                            Training Reinforcement Project)
EPSM      Etude sur la Progression Scolaire et la   PRSC    Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
          Performance Académique à Madagascar
          (Study on Education Progress and
          Performance in Madagascar)
ESW       Economic and Sector Work                  PSR     Project Status Report
FADES     Fonds d'Appui au Développement de         QAG      Quality Assurance Group
          l'Enseignement Supérieur
          Fund for the Development of Higher
          Education
FID       Fonds d'Intervention pour le               SDR     Special Drawing Rights
          Développement
FRAM     Fikambanan'ny Ray Aman-drenin'ny            TTL    Task Team Leader
         Mpianatra Association of Parents of

        Students
GER     Gross Enrollment Rate                UERP      Unité d'Etudes et de Recherches
                                                       Pédagogiques (Curriculum and
                                                       Research Development Unit)
GDP     Gross Domestic Product               UNICEF   United Nations Children's Fund
HIPC    Heavily-Indebted Poor Country        ZAP       Zones d'Administration
                                                       Pédagogique (Sub-district Office
                                                       for Primary Education)



                                 Vice President:  Gobind Nankani
                              Country Director:   James Bond
                                Sector Manager:   Laura Frigenti
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Sajitha Bashir

                                       MADAGASCAR
                            Education Sector Development Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               20
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Borrower's contribution                                                 31

Project ID: P001559                                                  Project Name: Education Sector Development Project
Team Leader: Sajitha Bashir                                          TL Unit: AFTH3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: October 24, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Education Sector Development Project                     L/C/TF Number: IDA-30460
   Country/Department: MADAGASCAR                                                         Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (65%); Central government administration
                            (15%); Tertiary education (10%); Sub-national government
                            administration (6%); Secondary education (4%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P);
                            Improving labor markets (P); Participation and civic engagement
                            (P); Decentralization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/15/1995                                     Effective: 07/08/1998                01/07/1999
     Appraisal: 11/26/1997                                         MTR: 01/31/2001                  01/31/2001
      Approval: 03/10/1998                                      Closing: 10/31/2003                 03/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF MADAGASCAR/MINISTRY OF NATIONAL
                                           EDUCATION AND SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto Madavo
Country Director:               James P. Bond                                  Michael N. Sarris
Sector Manager:                 Laura Frigenti                                 Nicholas Burnett
Team Leader at ICR:             Sajitha Bashir                                 Daniel Viens
ICR Primary Author:             Sajitha Bashir


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Context: The project, CRESED 2 (Credit de Renforcement du Secteur de l' Enseignement ­ Education
Sector Development Credit) was prepared in 1997-98 to support the then government's National Education
Improvement Program ­ 2 (PNAE 2 ­ Programme Nationale pour l'Amelioration de l'Education 2)
covering all sub-sectors of the education. The project built on an earlier Bank project for primary
education, CRESED 1, in particular drawing on the lessons of new initiatives introduced at mid-term, in
community participation and devolving responsibilities to local levels, including schools. The PNAE-2 was
prepared by the government with Bank assistance under CRESED 1 and based itself on a decentralized,
school-based approach for primary and secondary education. As recorded in the PAD, the PNAE-2 was
supported by all donors, who were expected to finance various sub-sectors to varying degrees. Although
CRESED 2 covered all sub-sectors, except technical education (which was expected to be financed by a
follow-up project to the existing Bank technical education project, PREFTEC), its main focus was on
improving access and quality of primary education. At the time of preparation, Madagascar was under a
Structural Adjustment program that put a freeze on additional recruitment of civil servants, including
teachers.

The project was restructured after the mid-term review in 2001 due to slow disbursement and
implementation problems associated with the original design; coverage of primary schools was
substantially reduced, but most of the activities under the various components did not alter significantly.

A major change in the project's strategic approach occurred after the second restructuring in November
2002. This took place as part of the general portfolio restructuring in Madagascar, to respond to the
conditions emerging from the political crisis of January-July 2002 following the December 2001 elections.
During this period, the country operated with virtually two governments, GDP declined by about 15
percent in one year and there was much destruction of infrastructure. Increasing poverty and the lack of
security forced parents to withdraw children from school; teachers were also not able to attend schools due
to the disruption in transportation. After gaining international recognition, the new government presented
its economic and social program to the donor community. Education was one of the main priorities, with
the government seeking to establish its legitimacy vis-à-vis the population through immediate improvements
in the conditions of primary schools and reducing the financial burden on parents. The Bank broadly
endorsed this program and an Interim CAS, prepared in October 2002, outlined the Bank's intention to
restructure projects, including the CRESED 2, to accelerate implementation of activities and increase
disbursement to counteract the economic and social impacts of the crisis. The strategic focus of CRESED 2
changed to enable the government to carry out its immediate objectives vis-à-vis primary education in
particular, to ensure the provision of key inputs to schools, to eliminate fees and prevent a fall in
enrolment.

Original Objective: The overall objective of the project, as recorded in the Project Appraisal Document,
was to support the Education Sector Program in producing more and better trained students at all levels of
education at sustainable cost. The Development Credit Agreement stated the objective somewhat
differently: "the objective of the project is to assist the borrower in its efforts to achieve universal access to
primary education, support a gradual expansion and improvement of secondary education, and promote the
modernization and diversification of higher education."

The project objective of the PAD, which was used in the initial PSRs, was stated in general terms and did
not differentiate between the relative importance to be given to the three sub sectors corresponding to the
design. The objective in the DCA was more precisely formulated; however, it did not refer to improving



                                                        - 2 -

quality at the primary level, whereas as stated in the PAD and reflected in the project components, this was
clearly intended to be a result. The DCA formulation with respect to the higher education objective was
very broad as well.

The Project Development Objective (as stated in the DCA and used hereafter in this report) was consistent
with (a) the Government's National Education Improvement Program ­ PNAE 2 (b) and the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Madagascar which was to promote human capital development in
support of high growth and meaningful poverty reduction within a generation. However, the DO was not
realistic especially in relation to secondary and higher education (given the design, as discussed later);
moreover, the alternative formulations in the DCA and the PAD/PSRs reflected lack of clarity about
expected outcomes.

3.2 Revised Objective:
After the second Mid-Term Review (MTR) mission in May 2001, it was agreed that the DCA would be
amended in two phases, though without a formal change in DO. The first amendment, approved by the
Country Director, reduced the number of primary schools covered by almost 40 percent, which would have
substantially affected the extent to which the project contributed to the objective of universalizing access at
the primary level. Coverage was reduced due largely to the difficulties associated with the original strategy
for building classrooms and the higher costs of construction proposed under the revised approach. The
second amendment was to have taken place later in the year to include, after appraisal, a
vocational/technical education and training component, which had been requested by the Borrower as the
Bank had decided not to support vocational education with a follow-up project. Due to the political turmoil
that engulfed the country subsequently, this amendment did not take place.

After the November 2002 restructuring, which was approved by the Board, the objective of the amended
DCA read as follows: "The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in its efforts to achieve
universal access to primary education, support a gradual expansion and improvement of general and
technical secondary education, and contribute to the development of a strategy to modernize and diversify
the higher education sub-sector." The objective regarding primary education and more limited objective
regarding secondary education remained relevant in the existing crisis conditions. The inclusion of
vocational education was less justifiable given the implementation problems to date and the difficulties of
implementing new strategies in a new sub-sector in the conditions after the crisis. The re-formulation of the
objective regarding higher education was related to the fact that no additional donor financing had been
secured and was therefore appropriate.

For ease of reference, the following terms are used to distinguish between the various phases of the project:
Phase 1 (between January 1999 and April 2001 ­ implementation of original project design); Phase 2
(between May 2001 and November 2002 ­ post MTR) and Phase 3 (between December 2002 and March
2005 ­ generalization to whole country).

3.3 Original Components:

Component 1: universalize quality primary education by supporting community- and school-based
projects aimed at improving access and learning outcomes in about 4,100 public schools (US $37.0
million). This was the most critical component in terms of achieving
the development objective of the project, in decentralizing management and accountability to lower levels
and encouraging responsiveness to local conditions. The two sub-components were; (a) technical/advisory
services for recruitment, redeployment and professional development of teachers and (b) school
sub-projects. The latter was expected to support (i) the preparation of contrats programs (school



                                                      - 3 -

contracts) in 41 out of 112 CISCOs (Circonscriptions Scolaires or educational districts); (ii)
school-specific training of teachers based on local needs and (iii) construction/rehabilitation of rooms, using
a variety of materials and methods, and furniture. The contracts were signed by communities, who agreed
to contribute materials for construction and send children to schools, the government which would provide
adequate teachers and school heads, who agreed to improve teaching; the project supplied inputs to schools
with contracts. About 4,100 schools (out of 12,500) were expected to have contrats programs; 9,400
rooms were to be constructed/rehabilitated and furnished and 9,400 teachers and 4,100 heads trained.

Component 2: improve access to quality secondary education in rural areas (US $3.5 million). The
objective of this component was to support reform efforts by Government and to introduce innovations on a
small scale. The three sub-components were: (a) development of a school map; (b) sensitization program
for parents and policy measures to suppress double shift, increase the size of classes and partial
redeployment of educational personnel and (c) school-based sub-projects. The last sub-component, in turn,
comprised two activities: (i) provision of quality inputs to improve school management, teaching processes
and staff development and (ii) construction and rehabilitation of classrooms, furniture and equipment.
These were to be provided in 40 lower-secondary schools and 10 upper-secondary schools (out of 695 and
94, respectively), along the lines of the program planned for the primary schools. About 375 rooms were to
be constructed/rehabilitated and furnished and 600 teachers and 50 heads trained.

Component 3: improve access to quality textbooks and teaching-learning materials to all primary
schools (US $14 million). The coverage of this component was nationwide and it was the single most
important element contributing to the improvement of learning and primary education quality. The
textbook: pupil ratio was expected to improve to 1:1 in all primary schools, from a baseline of
approximately 1:2 This was to be done by: (i) preparation and distribution of new titles and teaching
guides (ii) re-printing, purchasing and distribution of existing titles (iii) distribution of basic learning
materials and (iv) in-service training to teachers. Two approaches were envisaged: the development of new
titles through private authors and field trials, with the aim of building national capacity in editing; and the
purchase and reprinting of existing textbooks. The PAD did not specify the language in which the books
would be printed.

Component 4: Institutional development for key functions in the Ministry of Secondary and Primary
Education (US $3 million). Improvements in teacher recruitment and deployment, building capacity for
conducting learning assessments, school mapping, annual reports, and workshops were to be a part of this
program, to strengthen institutional capacity at the central and decentralized levels.

Component 5: Support reform of higher education in assisting institutions to modernize and to
diversity through financing sub-projects under a Fund for the Development of Higher Education (US
$5 million). This component supported the creation of a Fund for Development of Higher Education (
Fonds d'Appui pour le Developpement de l'Enseignement Superieure - FADES) to provide funding to
projects submitted by institutions on a matching basis, with about 20 pre-projects (maximum: $20,000) and
50 sub-projects (maximum: $100,000). The Fund was expected to be financed by other donors as well.

Component 6: Support to Project management at central, provincial/regional and local levels (US
$2.5 million). This component comprised establishment of a project management unit to coordinate
implementation of project-financed activities with ministry staff, with regular reports and evaluation of
implementation progress. The PMU comprised a General Coordinator, assisted by heads of components
for primary, secondary and higher education (represented by the FADES Executive Secretary).




                                                       - 4 -

The project components exemplified a "sector development" approach and were appropriate in terms of the
sub-sectors covered in the DO, but the design was complex and the secondary and higher education
components were not aligned with the stated objectives. The project involved two Ministries at the outset
and all sub-sectors of education (except vocational); six components; new, participatory and demand-led
approaches in all sub-sectors; moving the locus of decision-making to individual schools resulting in
thousands of sub-projects; decentralized management by district authorities with no prior experience for
construction and training combined; building national capacity in developing textbooks; introduction of
difficult concomitant reforms in relation to the recruitment and deployment of teachers; and the need to
reconcile the participatory approaches with Bank procedures for procurement. The secondary education
component was clearly a pilot and could not have contributed significantly to expanding access. The design
of the higher education component, focusing on a large number of sub-projects prepared by individual
academics, was not linked to the realization of the stated objective of reforming the system. The concept of
the respective roles of the PMU and the Ministry were poorly defined with a lot of overlap between PMU
and the Ministry Line Staff. Taken together, these constituted significant risk factors added to which was
the weak implementation capacity of the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education, noted in the ICR
for CRESED 1, and the untested implementation capacity of the Ministry of Higher Education. Finally, the
expectation that the project would contribute to an overall program was unrealistic without firm donor
commitments.

3.4 Revised Components:
After Mid-Term Review (May 2001):

The project components did not change but targets were revised downwards in the DCA from the targets
listed above, as follows: in primary education ­ 2,500 schools with contrats programs ,
construction/rehabilitation of 5000 rooms and training of 5,000 teachers and 2,500 heads; in secondary
education ­ construction/rehabilitation of 350 rooms and training for 350 teachers and 50 heads; in
textbooks ­ to printing, purchasing and distribution of 6.2 million textbooks for primary and secondary
schools. Construction of primary classrooms affected by the 2000 cyclone (in schools without contrats
programs) was included and the community contribution eliminated. The reasons for reduced physical
targets were the implementation problems and higher unit costs of construction resulting from the decision
to eliminate beneficiary contributions and build all schools to anti-cyclonic standards. As part of the
textbook component, it was agreed to finance purchase of 9th grade secondary mathematics books (which
could not be completed under CRESED 1).

November 2002 restructuring:

Component 1: The original sub-components were retained but due to the nation wide coverage, references
to numbers were dropped. Two new activities were added with nationwide coverage under school
sub-projects: (a) provision of nutritional supplements to students in the three lowest grades of primary
school to improve learning by combating attention deficiency and (b) providing grants to channel funds to
primary schools against "contrats pedagogiques" signed by school administrators; these grants offset the
abolition of pupil fees and were to be used for school supplies. The decentralized approach of school
contracts was abandoned, and no further construction/rehabilitation or supply of furniture was envisaged.
The justifications for this new approach were to ensure nationwide coverage, improve access by eliminating
economic barriers for the poor, which comprised 75 percent of the population (Interim CAS) and allow
construction to be taken up by a specialized technical agency (Social Fund of the Bank ­ FID), given the
limited capacity of the Ministry of Education.

Component 2: A third sub-component on school pedagogic grants was introduced which were confined to


                                                     - 5 -

the original target schools; vocational education was not included as a separate activity but was meant to be
covered under the sub-projects. Vocational/technical schools were expected to provide proposals for
construction, rehabilitation, equipment and grants for new/modified courses based on "local employment
demand". The amendment also deleted the specific reference to redeployment of higher secondary teachers
to lower secondary schools etc, to a general "partial redeployment of educational personnel".

Component 3: References to specific figures were removed to enable the Ministry to provide the number of
books and guides as required by current enrolment. The project also financed the printing of and some
reference books to all secondary schools in Phase 3.

Component 4: Coverage was extended to all CISCOs in the country and to the Ministry of Higher
Education.; both the CISCOs and the lower level education offices (Zone dÁppui Pedagogique ­ ZAPs)
were to be strengthened.

Component 5: In addition to the sub-projects, which continued to be the main approach for higher
education, the amendment provided for technical advisory services, materials and equipment to support the
Master Plan for higher education.

The restructuring of components 1, 3 and 4 was consistent with the strategic focus on increasing access to
primary education, creating the basic conditions for learning in primary schools and strengthening the
capacity of the lower level administrative offices. While the name of component 1 (Universalizing Quality
Primary Education) was retained, the emphasis was clearly on universalizing access rather than improving
quality, which was appropriate given the conditions at the time. Although the inclusion of vocational
education was justified from an overall sector perspective, the design did not specifically take into account
the conclusions of the Bank's education sector study which had been completed in 2002 (Education and
Training in Madagascar). In higher education, although the objective had been correctly revised, the
approach of the component remained essentially the same as before and, as discussed later, could not have
led to the development of a strategy.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was not assessed by QAG. The quality at entry is rated as unsatisfactory using current criteria
and for the following reasons: (i) the Bank's ESW of 1995, focused on primary and secondary education
but there was no analytical work covering higher education; (ii) procedures for approving and financing
school sub-projects were not designed and tested in advance with the participation of implementing
agencies and beneficiaries (iii) the costing of construction/rehabilitation was based on untested
assumptions about expected community contributions (iv) capacity building needs at the CISCO level or at
the Ministry level of managing a large decentralized program were not identified, as is reflected in the lack
of clarity in the component relating to institutional development and (v) the economic analysis did not
inform the design of project components (vi) performance indicators used in the PSRs were different from
those in the PAD; both sets of indicators were designed for the national program and were not specifically
attributable to the project; in addition, there were no specific indicators for learning outcomes at the
primary level and (vii) a system of monitoring and evaluation was not set up; while learning asssessments
were mentioned, the PAD did not indicate when and by whom they would be done.

Lessons from earlier projects were not appropriately adapted to the project design. As stated in the PAD,
the contrat program reflected lessons learned from CRESED 1 in community participation and devolving
responsibilities to local levels through the PRAGAP (Programme de Renforcement et de lÁmerlioration de
la Gestion Administrative et Pedagogique), which was tried out in 20 CISCOs. However, this approach,



                                                      - 6 -

based on a traditional Malagasy concept of an agreement between various parties to contribute directly in
kind to a school, differed in essence from the approach adopted in CRESED 2: under PRAGAP, the project
supplied materials and the communities built rooms, whereas under CRESED 2, enterprises were hired by
the project and communities were expected to make contributions in kind or labor. Similarly, lessons learnt
from the IDA-financed vocational education project (PREFTEC) in administering a training fund provided
the basis for the design of the higher education component, but experience from other higher education
projects with competitive fund components was not taken account.

In particular, two aspects of the project design related to critical policy issues that were not adequately
addressed: (i) reform of teacher management - there was no commitment from the Ministry of Finance for
the recruitment of additional teachers, although it was included in the PNAE II and discussed with the IMF
and Bank macro-economic teams (according to the TTL responsible for appraisal). No plan for the
redeployment of teachers had been agreed with the Ministry of Education and given political realities, this
would have proved difficult; (ii) there was no effective dialogue on the issue of language of instruction at
the primary level, despite the fact that Malagasy was, and continues to be, the effective language of
instruction used in most classrooms and the wealth of evidence regarding the benefits of using instruction in
the maternal language. At the time of project preparation, the intention was to re-print existing Malagasy
textbooks for grades 1-2 and develop new books in Malagasy for grades 3-5. This was changed to include
new textbooks in French due to a last minute request by the government during negotiations (despite its
significance, the change was not noted in the minutes of negotiations). As explained to the ICR team by the
TTL at the time of appraisal, this was a politically sensitive issue; the official language of instruction was
French after grade 2, various donors had different perspectives, and the Bank took a neutral position,
focusing on the national technical capacity to develop books.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the achievement of the development outcome is considered moderately satisfactory. This rating is
based largely on the satisfactory outcomes of improving access to and ameliorating the teaching-learning
conditions in primary schools (which accounted for about 60% of the utilized credit) after the November
2002 restructuring (when 70 percent of the credit was disbursed). Since the project objective and key
associated outcome targets as well as the project approach were formally revised, the project outcome has
been assessed against both original and revised project targets to arrive at the overall rating.

Performance from January 1999 to November 2002:

With no indicators that were attributable to project performance in this period, only the level of project
activities provide a gauge of performance during this period. Only 12 percent of the credit had disbursed up
to MTR and 30% by end of 2002. In Phase 1, the number of contrat programs signed at both primary and
secondary level and rooms constructed were too small to contribute to access or build school level
management capacity. Policy goals regarding primary and secondary education were also not met, since
there was no redeployment of teachers at either level. Very few higher education sub-projects had been
approved. Performance is rated unsatisfactory in Phase 1. In Phase 2, there was an increase in the pace of
activities related to improving access and learning conditions in primary education: almost 1,200 schools
contracts were signed in about 10 months, though there were still delays in construction, and 1.8 million
Malagasy textbooks were re-printed and distributed. In addition, 33 higher education projects were
approved and under implementation against an MTR target of 35. Performance is rated moderately
unsatisfactory in Phase 2.




                                                      - 7 -

Overall, the assessment of performance against the PDO during this period is rated moderately
unsatisfactory.

Performance during the period December 2002 - March 2005

Performance in this period is judged on the basis of new agreed indicators (upper half of Annex 1).

The most significant change was in the vastly increased numbers of children who enrolled in primary
schools ­ from 2.4 million in 2001-02 to over 3.2 million in 2004-05. Children from poor families
contributed in large part to these increases. According to the official education statistics, the primary NER
rose to 97% in 2004-05, against a target of 75%. However, there are some doubts whether the NER is as
high as this and other survey data indicate lower figures (between 75-90 percent). The ICR mission noted
that about 25 percent of children were over-age in the schools visited. Government and project officials
have explained that many children aged 8-10 years had returned to school (or joined for the first time) since
2002 and this can contribute to instability in the NER estimates. These caveats notwithstanding, the target
NER of 75% seems to have been reached or surpassed.

The project target of reducing the primary repetition rate to below 5 percent was not achieved. Given the
high repetition rate in Madagascar of above 30 percent (one of the highest in sub-Saharan African which
had persisted for decades), this target was unrealistic for a time frame of 1-2 years. It was included in the
performance indicators in order to focus on one of the big sources of inefficiency in the system. Due to
continued policy dialogue undertaken by the Bank and donors, the repetition rate fell to 20 percent in
2003-04, as a result of government directives to introduce automatic promotion within cycles of the
primary stage; with continued adherence to this policy, the repetition rate is expected to gradually decline to
about 8 percent over the next few years, which would be a significant achievement.

The restructured project did not include an indicator for learning outcomes; although the project supplied a
significant amount of books and learning materials (accounting for 31 percent of the credit); almost all of
this happened after the restructuring and could not be expected to contribute to detectable improvements in
learning over the remaining project life. The project financed a survey in 2003 conducted by Cornell
University (Etude sur la Progression Scolaire et la Performance Academique en Madagascar ­ EPSM)
to enable a comparison with the results from the PASEC (Programme d'Analyse des Systemes Educatifs
de la CONFEMEN) survey conducted in 1998 for grade 2 and grade 5 children. These results show that
there was no improvement in average scores for French and mathematics in class 2, while there was
deterioration in performance in class 5, especially substantial in French; the reasons for this have not been
analyzed.

At the secondary level, there was no improvement in the GER (for colleges and lycees ­ lower and upper
secondary level, respectively ­ taken together): in 2003-04, it remained at the baseline figure of 19, against
a target of 25. The pass rate in the Baccalaureat examination was 33% in 2004 against a target of 35% and
baseline of 30%. The main difficulty with these indicators is that they cannot be attributed mainly to the
limited project activities.

No specific indicator was set for the revised higher education objective. In 2004, a Master Plan for higher
education was written by a small committee of the FADES; this is a fairly general document that does not
address the key structural and financing issues identified in the PAD, the Bank's 2002 ESW or other
studies. Some workshops and studies had been conducted, but up to the time of the ICR mission, there was
no evidence of systematic work, or effort to use the sub-projects, to develop a strategy for reform of higher
education.


                                                      - 8 -

In this phase, the achievement of project outcomes is considered moderately satisfactory, largely due to the
tremendous quantitative impact on primary enrolments and the improvement of teaching-learning
conditions, achieved in the very difficult circumstances after the crisis and within a relatively short time
frame.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Universalize quality primary education

Achievements in Phases 1 and 2

Recruitment, redeployment and professional development of teachers. Results were limited in Phases 1
and 2 due to the general ban on recruitment of civil servants that was in place as part of the structural
adjustment program. Recruitment (to be paid out of the government budget) and redeployment of teachers
was considered pivotal to the success of the contrats programs, but only 600 teachers had been hired until
April 2000 in the project CISCOs against a cumulative target of 8,000 additional teachers for the project
period. A more favorable environment was created with the HIPC process, initiated in 2001. Between
2001 and 2003, about 3,500 teachers were and another 8000 FRAM teachers (paid by parents'
associations) were provided subsidies. No redeployment or professional development of teachers took
place.

School-based sub-projects. The impact of the three interlinked activities of this sub-component on
improving access, quality, decentralized management and adaptation to local needs was relatively limited.
There is evidence, however, that the approach, where implemented by the CISCOs with considerable
mobilization efforts, elicited a positive response and high expectations among communities, with a large
number of proposals being submitted by schools in the first year. However, there were considerable delays
in signing contracts (especially at the Ministry level). The contracts did not become a tool for improving
school functioning but were used mainly as a method of accessing project funds for construction. There
has been no assessment or systematic classroom observation about the relatively limited teacher training
provided by local pedagogic teams during phase 1. Since training was expected to be school-specific, no
over-arching training strategy was developed. Construction activities were very slow to start because there
were few signed school contracts and therefore contributed little to improving access; in fact, about 40
percent of the rooms were completed only after 2002. The quality of the classrooms constructed is rated
satisfactory, resistant to all types of weather and even generally to cyclones, according to a recent study
completed for the ICR. Contrary to original project expectations, almost all classrooms built under the
contrats program were of the same type with little use of local materials, with an average unit cost of $
7000, whereas the PAD had envisaged the majority of rooms to be built with semi-durable or traditional
materials with an average cost of $ 5000 and $ 2500, respectively. The unit cost of rooms built after 2001
was significantly higher ­ closer to US $ 10,000. Quantitative achievements were limited: only 419
contrats programs were signed by the end of 2000 and a total of 1,605 contracts by the end of 2001; only
1,164 teachers were trained (less than 10 % of the target for teachers/heads). Under the contrats programs,
556 new rooms were built and 666 rehabilitations undertaken, against a target of 1,415 and 8,016
respectively. Construction of new rooms continued after the MTR, when management was taken up by the
Central Ministry, but no new rehabilitations were taken up, resulting in a total of 1406 new rooms were
built (close to the original target). 1,118 schools were equipped with furniture, about one-quarter of the
targets indicated in the PAD.

Achievements in Phase 3




                                                      - 9 -

Recruitment, redeployment and professional development of teachers: In 2004, about 1,900 new
primary teachers were recruited and 12,000 FRAM teachers received subsidies thanks to additional
budgetary support through the PRSC and from other donors. However, there has been very limited success
in redeploying teachers. Thus, despite the increase in the teaching force, the overall imbalances in
pupil-teacher ratio across regions and the average high pupil-teacher ratio noted at the beginning of the
project persist. Efforts are now being made to recruit new teachers to specific schools on a contractual
basis. The training of teachers in use of the new textbooks, originally included in Component 3, was
financed under the first sub-component (discussed later). The only other significant training was that given
to over 4,000 teachers of private schools. There is no evidence about the quality of this training.

School-based sub-projects. Of the two new sub-components added here, provision of school pedagogic
grants (caisses ecole) proved the most successful and one of the best achievements of the project. In
particular, it reduced the financial burden on the poor. The abolition of school fees was part of the policy
dialogue between the Bank and the government and the project contributed to it through the means of these
grants. These grants were provided to over 90 percent of primary schools (15,412 government and 4,738
private schools) in the academic year 2003-04. The grants were released against contrats pedagogiques,
which contained an undertaking by schools to use them for teaching-learning materials. An expenditure
tracking survey done by the Bank showed that over 90 percent of the funds had reached the schools. The
sub-component related to the provision of nutritional supplements did not move beyond a pilot stage. Initial
plans involved the supply of milk or, alternatively, nutritional biscuits to all primary schools, both of which
proved logistically and financially unviable. Two pilot activities ­ the first, through the provision of cooked
food in schools and second, through the provision of biscuits - were tried out in 2003 in 28 schools each for
two weeks. Difficulties associated with manufacture and distribution, as well as the costs of generalization
were identified. However, no decision was taken and there appears to have been no further discussion on
the strategy for school nutrition, regarding targeting and technical aspects.

Overall, the achievements under this component are rated moderately satisfactory, due to the success of the
school pedagogic grants in boosting enrolment and additional teacher recruitment.

 Improve access to quality secondary education in rural areas.

Development of a school map. No tangible results are visible from any phase. A strategy for the
expansion and development of secondary education has not been developed and there is no evidence that
school mapping has determined investment priorities or the allocation of resources.

Sensitization program for parents and policy measures to suppress double shift, increase the size of
classes and partial redeployment of educational personnel The activities under the second
sub-component were not clear; project officials told the ICR mission that double shift had not existed at the
secondary level. Systematic efforts to increase class sizes (in order to reduce costs and improve efficiency)
have not been undertaken, nor has there been redeployment of underqualified teachers from upper
secondary to lower secondary and from lower secondary to primary level.

School-based sub-projects. In Phases 1 and 2 of the project, the sub-component on school sub-projects
produced some results in terms of eliciting parental contributions, activating school managements and
participation and providing training to teachers in 58 schools with contrats programs. An innovative
approach was followed with the formation of subject-specific pedagogical teams (comprising 200 trainers)
which provided on-site training, using simple pedagogical materials and evaluation exercises, tailored to the
needs of each school and teachers who were teaching subjects outside their specialization. The construction
program was more successful than in primary education, perhaps because of the limited coverage and


                                                     - 10 -

because parents, being from richer sections, could make the required contributions: 163 new rooms were
constructed (target: 188) and 299 rehabilitated (target 108). Some laboratories were also constructed in
Phase 1. These turned out to be completely dysfunctional, both because of their lay out and because no
provision had been made for the recurrent expenditures associated with their utilization.

In Phase 3, the additional activities included did not produce results that were related to the project
objectives. School pedagogic grants were of limited coverage and provided only to the 58 schools with
contrats programs; since fees were not abolished at the secondary level, they did not directly contribute to
increasing access and were instead intended to improve school functioning. There has been no monitoring
of the use of the grants. Close to 2,000 teachers in private schools were also trained.

The results of activities related to vocational education are even less promising. About 20 institutions
(vocational schools and technical schools) received project financing, based on proposals developed after
consultation with local enterprises. Most of the equipment arrived after project closing (around June 2005)
and most of the new courses had not started at the time of the ICR mission. In many cases, the equipment
supplied did not match the original requests, as the lists supplied by institutions were later standardized at
the centre. For many of the new programs in continuing vocational training for the informal sector, there
would be insufficient trainees with the capacity to pay. The proposals do not suggest how to improve
institutional problems related to poor internal efficiency (many institutions graduate just 3-5 graduates each
year in each stream, with high rates of repetition and drop out), the fragmentation of courses, high unit
costs and outmoded courses.

Overall, the component is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

Improve access to quality textbooks and teaching-learning materials

In purely quantitative terms, the project achieved a tremendous increase in textbook availability, moving to
a ratio of 0.86 books per pupil (in each subject) in 2004-05 and making books available in all schools,
compared to a situation where many schools were without any books. The books were provided free and
hence, poor children in rural areas had access to a variety of textual materials for the first time. About 9.47
million primary textbooks were distributed. Thirteen new titles in French (mathematics, language,
geography and general knowledge) and fourteen accompanying teacher guides were produced; a total of 4.9
million pupil books and 240,000 guides were distributed in 2003-04. Twenty titles in Malagasy
(mathematics, language, geography and general knowledge) and one in French language were re-printed
and distributed at the end of 2001; a total of 2.17 million books were re-printed and distributed. The
current book: pupil ratio for French textbooks (0.9) is higher than for Malagasy textbooks (0.7) because
the latter were printed when enrolments were lower. The layout of most textbooks is clear, with attractive
illustrations. The physical quality of the textbooks is good and since they are kept at school, they can be
expected to last 5 years. An important achievement of the project is that the Ministry of Education has
exclusive copyrights of 20 titles (new and existing titles) and films are held at the Ministry for re-printing.
All teachers (57,000 in public and private schools) were provided two rounds of training.

The component did not realize the original objective of developing national capacity for editing and
publishing. In fact, the institution that existed to develop books, Unite d' Etudes et Recherches
Pedagogiques, UERP, and created under CRESED 1, did not play an active role in preparing new
textbooks and was disbanded by the new government in 2003. The task of development of curricula and
teaching-learning materials was entrusted to a newly created Direction de l'éducation fondamentale, but the
Direction has not played an active role so far.




                                                       - 11 -

The quality of the new French titles and guides and whether they are appropriate for classroom needs has
not been evaluated. The new books are considered by Malagasy educators to be much better than the earlier
French language textbooks. Private schools, which teach in French, are especially appreciative. The content
of the textbooks is in keeping with the curriculum, but given the limited proficiency of children in French in
public schools, much of the content of the books is not age-appropriate. According to the Ministry's
evaluation report, about 70 percent of teachers thought that students only partially understood or could not
comprehend at all the expressions used in the books. About two-thirds of teachers felt that the books
corresponded relatively little or not at all to the children's environment, especially in rural areas. The
mathematics series contains several conceptual errors, including an explanation that numbers can only be
subtracted from larger numbers. The methodological approaches in the teacher guides are frequently
inconsistent with the active learning methods espoused by the government--calling explicitly for recitation
and rote memory, for instance, rather than more active, child-friendly approaches to learning. Many of
these issues arise from the implementation problems in Phases 1 and 2 and the accelerated procedures in
Phase 3, which eliminated field trialing and compressed the time for development of books (discussed more
in the section on factors affecting implementation.

The training provided to teachers on the new books was more in the nature of a preliminary orientation and
did not focus sufficiently either on the content or the new pedagogical methods, due to the cascade model
adopted to ensure coverage in a short time. Despite the favorable national availability indicators, the actual
availability of textbooks in schools varies from 1:1 to 1:3, due to problems of estimating pupil numbers and
organizing timely distribution to CISCOs and within CISCOs. A computerized distribution and inventory
management system had been envisaged to ensure the stocking and tracking of books at CISCO/school
levels, but this is only partially operational due to the changes in project management at the start of the
project and the difficulty of obtaining accurate data from the schools and CISCOs.

The component is rated as moderately satisfactory despite these shortcomings, as it contributed to the
strategic objective of increasing primary enrolments at a critical time and created more favorable conditions
for pupil learning compared to a situation where most children were without any learning materials.

Institutional development for key functions in the Ministries of Education

In Phases 1 and 2, performance was unsatisfactory because there was lack of clarity about what was
intended and possible under this component. Intermittent, disconnected and, overall, relatively few activities
were undertaken between 1999-2002, covering studies, micro-planning, workshops and school mapping; of
these, the most important were a number of sub-sectoral studies in 2002 after the completion of the Bank's
ESW on education, but which do not seem to have been used subsequently.

A new orientation was given after the November 2002 restructuring with the decision to strengthen the
capacity of all CISCOS and ZAPs to better manage primary education. The most significant outputs were
(a) the equipping of 112 CISCOs with vehicles and computers and 1600 ZAPs with motorcycles and
typewriters (b) a large number of studies relating to planning and management done by international and
some local consultants and (c) recruitment of new CISCO chiefs in 2003 on the basis of contracts and their
regular evaluation and (d) development of a new EFA plan and strategies, which was presented to donors in
October 2003. The training of Ministry staff continued to be sporadic and not well planned. Ministry staff
were trained to conduct learning assessments and participated in the survey conducted by Cornell
mentioned earlier. CISCO staff were also trained in the use of computers, but many other training
programs were disparate. The ICR mission saw basic 3-year institutional development plans in CISCOs,
which indicated objectives and lists of activities without resources. Studies on human resource
management, financial management and the functional re-organisation of the Ministry (after the merger of


                                                       - 12 -

the three Ministries in early 2004) were undertaken right at the end of the project and could be utilized in
the future. Many of these activities occurred too late in the project for their impact to be visible by the
closing date. Overall, the component is rated moderately satisfactory due to the contributions it made to
strengthen the management of primary education and its new strategic orientation.

Support reform of higher education

Support for policies, measures and activities to modernize and diversify higher education. A few
studies were done but specific policies or measures were not developed. This sub-component could
conceivably have financed higher education regulatory or support institutions.

Establishment of Fund for the Development of Higher Education to finance sub-projects. The ICR
mission noted that there were a number of excellent individual sub-projects (of which there were 131, in
considerable excess of the target) and that many had made important contributions to capacity building at
the level of each institution, to student and staff training, development of research skills, and links between
institutions in Madagascar and with tertiary institutions abroad. An International Panel of experts was
expected to be financed by various donors; this met at least once a year until 2003, with members from
several different countries including Germany, Italy, France, Great Britain, and the US, and seems to have
been useful in giving advice, helping resolve early problems of project requirements and encouraging
modification of the project. It did not meet subsequently because of lack of commitment by other donors.

The sub-projects did not promote diversification of higher education in a meaningful way, for example, by
promoting private or non-university institutions, by introducing new types of courses, or by generating
alternatives for resources (private sector or reform of student finance). About 60% of the projects went to
the University of Antananarivo (in Phase 1, almost exclusively so); only 2% to private institutions. 40% of
the projects went for capacity building (equipment and materials for the institution), 34% for applied
research and 16% for training, the remainder for social and economic topics ­ but there was no focused
attention on modernizing curricula or introducing new courses. In Phase 3 of the project, the design of the
sub-component was not changed to deliberately contribute to the new objective of development of a strategy
for higher education. Only at the very end of the project were some efforts focused on more general themes
related to overall planning and change in higher education ­ one of which, Note sur les Orientations
Strategiques de la Reforme du sous secteur Enseignement Superieur, the ICR mission team saw
only in draft form. A final version including a budget was only received on 21 July 2005 after the ICR
mission, but has not been discussed with the Ministry. Another study on the labor market had not been
completed at the time of the ICR mission.

The performance of the component is considered moderately satisfactory because of the quality of the
sub-projects; however, due to the design and implementation mechanisms, it did not contribute to realizing
either the original or the revised purported objective.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Two components/sub-components were highly cost-effective in primary education: (i) the caisses ecoles
(school grants), which offset the fall in school receipts due to the abolition of pupil fees, involved an
expenditure of $ 1.46 per pupil, and contributed to the rise in enrolment of almost 0.8 million. (ii) textbooks
and learning materials, provided at a per pupil cost of approximately $ 6 resulting in a very low annualized
cost over life-time of 5 years. This assumes that the books were of appropriate quality and will contribute
to improving student outcomes (reducing repetition, improving learning). The sub-components relating to
construction and furniture in primary education were relatively expensive, with an estimated per pupil
investment of $ 96; the annualized cost would depend on the quality of construction.


                                                       - 13 -

While the average per pupil expenditure by the project on primary and secondary education was reasonable
compared to prevailing unit recurrent costs, that on vocational education was high ­ about $ 70 per pupil in
vocational, compared to $ 20 in primary and $ 22 in secondary education. This is questionable especially if
the project did not improve the efficiency of the vocational sub-sector, which already has high recurrent
costs (US $ 270 compared to $ 70 for general secondary education) and poor student outcomes.

The recurrent expenditures arising from rise in enrolments (mostly on salaries of additional teachers) are
expected to be fiscally sustainable if the government allocates a higher share of its budget to education and
there is continued donor commitment to primary education.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The CRESED 2 had a significant institutional impact in primary education and less so in secondary,
vocational and higher education. This is reflected mainly in the development of a coherent strategy for EFA
with a medium-term plan and expenditure framework, which is being monitored and updated regularly. On
the other hand, the project does not appear to have generated new strategic thinking or approaches for the
other sub-sectors. The impact on primary education is understandable given the emphasis of the project on
this sub-sector (components 1, 3 and 4). A small core of project managers and Ministry staff has been
created, with the capacity to plan and implement new strategies and approaches in primary education on a
country-wide basis. There is evidence of new thinking regarding the use of Malagasy as the language of
instruction to improve educational quality, although no policy decisions have been taken as yet. An
important contribution of the policy dialogue, conducted through the project with the new government, is
the merging of the three Ministries which has created the conditions for developing a more holistic sector
development perspective

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The political crisis brought implementation to a virtual halt for nine months, and together with delays in
completing construction activity initiated before the crisis, led to two extensions of the project closing date.
Two major cyclones (in 2000 and 2003) affected the construction program. The delivery of re-printed
Malagasy textbooks was delayed as the paper quality of the books supplied was inferior to that stipulated
in the contract.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The failure to deposit counterpart funds and to appoint teachers according to the national program were the
main reasons for twice postponing the effectiveness date, leading to a delay of almost one year in the launch
of the project. Although these conditions relate to the overall design and quality at entry, as discussed
earlier, the supervision reports do not suggest that there was urgency on the part of the government to
resolve these issues once they had been identified as stumbling blocks.

The project management unit was not fully staffed in the first year. At the end of the first year, the Ministry
of Primary and Secondary Education dismissed the Project Coordinator and the coordinator for Primary
Education. The project remained without leadership for one year because of disagreements between the
Ministry and the Bank. As described by the then TTL, the Bank did not give a non-objection for hiring civil
servants in the project management unit since this was against the rules; on the other hand, the Ministry
argued that it was unreasonable to expect civil servants to resign their jobs to take up their appointment. An



                                                      - 14 -

acceptable solution was found only at the MTR, after which new appointments were made.

Difficulties associated with decentralized management of construction in Phase 1 undermined the contrat
program as well as decentralized management by the CISCOs and, hence, the core of the design of the
original project. The envelope given by the CISCOs did not take into account differences in costs arising
from remoteness and the difficulty of the terrain, leading to paucity of funds for the enterprises. The small
size of the enterprises also led to delays due to lack of sufficient workers and working capital, according to
the study done for the ICR. Community contributions were particularly problematic: they often did not
match the technical specifications laid down by the contracted enterprise, were not delivered at the required
time and were onerous, representing 25-30% of the cost of construction according to estimates of some
CISCOs.

In Phases 1 and 2, government decisions regarding the process of textbook development underwent
arbitrary changes. The efforts to purchase existing titles of textbooks in French (from other francophone
African countries) did not succeed, mainly due to the difficulties of obtaining copyright for re-printing. An
alternative approach, to develop and publish new titles with technical specifications through ICB, was
agreed with the Bank after the MTR in 2001. Field trialing was also abandoned in order to reduce the time
for the development of books. The process of selecting the publishers was not found acceptable to the
Bank, since the Ministry appointed overruled the selection of a first committee, appointed a second
committee and accepted the recommendations of the latter. With the intervening political crisis, a decision
was delayed.

Under the new government, in 2002, an accelerated ICB process was agreed with the Bank in order to
fulfill the new President's declared priority of ensuring that books reached schools within two months. The
Ministry decided to take the average of the scores given by the two committees in 2001 and awarded the
contract accordingly. As the approach was the same as in 2001, no field trialing was envisaged but
publishers were required to use Malagasy authors and a few school teachers were also sent to Paris to
review the content; however, the time was clearly insufficient to ensure that the materials were
pedagogically appropriate. Despite the accelerated procedures, the books could not be delivered within two
months; they were flown in at a cost of half a million dollars at the request of the President, to ensure that
they arrived before the end of the academic year 2002-03.

Taken together, these factors (together with the delay in printing Malagasy textbooks) meant that the
outputs of one of the main project components, with the most significant impact on quality, arrived very
late and effective teacher training could not be conducted.

Although the new government speeded up procurement of textbooks, procurement delays continued in the
supply of equipment for vocational/technical schools, much of which arrived after the project closing date.
The ICR mission was told that the authorization from the Central Procurement Commission took up to one
year.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project management unit, BCP, was responsible for developing procedures for the contrats program
for primary and secondary education; in the case of higher education, the responsibility lay with the
FADES council. In the initial phase, the procedures developed for the primary, secondary and higher
education sub-projects were extremely cumbersome, contrary to the spirit of decentralization and the
demand-led approach.

The process of procuring equipment for technical and vocational schools developed by the Ministry and the



                                                      - 15 -

project management unit proved counterproductive. The approach was meant to be responsive to local
needs; however, requests from individual institutions were consolidated and, in many cases, standardized
for the purpose of procurement. Equipment finally delivered to the institutions did not match the original
requirements, as observed by the ICR mission and reported in the interviews. By contrast, the procurement
process for higher education was much more successful, because the individual researchers were involved
in both stipulating and receiving the equipment.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total program costs were estimated to be US $ 183 million, of which IDA financed US $ 65 million
through CRESED II, the government was to provide $ 23 million, other donors $ 85 million and
communities $ 10 million. Other donor financing was not channeled to the program. The PAD showed the
procurement arrangements for the total program and the IDA credit, but not for the project cost (Annex 2:
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements- appraisal estimate).

The latest estimates indicate that a total of US $ 70.63 million had been disbursed, with IDA disbursements
amounting to US $62.45 million (95 percent of the total Credit). This was achieved after two extensions of
the closing date which was two years later than anticipated. Disbursements were very slow in the first two
years and while they started picking up after the MTR, they became much more rapid after the December
2002 restructuring due to generalization of activities to the whole country and the inclusion of many new
activities. Depreciation of the Malagasy franc in 2002 -2004 partly explains the relatively small
undisbursed component.

The primary education component received only 51 % of the original IDA allocation at the time of closing
and this was due mainly to the elimination of construction after the November 2002 restructuring. Other
components related to primary education received proportionately more; the textbook component received
36 percent more mainly due to the provision of school kits to all primary pupils and the jump in primary
enrolment; institutional development received 164 percent more mainly due to the supply of jeeps, vehicles
and other equipment to all CISCOs and ZAPs. These changes were in line with the main focus of the
restructured project on supplying critical inputs. On the other hand, the components that did not contribute
significantly to the overall objectives also spent more than anticipated. Secondary education received 71
percent more than the original allocation due to the inclusion of vocational/technical education and the
higher cost of construction and the expenditure for higher education was almost 50 percent higher due to
the $ 2 million additional allocation agreed at the MTR.

These changes are reflected in the composition by category of expenditure. The expenditure from the credit
on civil works was only US $ 15 million against a target of US $ 24 million; on furniture, equipment and
vehicles, it was US $ 5 million against a target of US $ 8.4 million (the original allocation was meant
mostly for primary schools; the actual expenditure includes that for the CISCOs). Training also received
less than originally allocated. Expenditure on textbooks and learning materials and on higher education was
significantly higher than anticipated.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The gains in primary education are highly likely to be sustained as are those relating to the modest increase
in enrolment that could be attributed to project activities in secondary education; however, the achievements
with respect to quality improvement in secondary and vocational education, as well as in higher education
are unlikely to be sustained. Given the preponderance of primary education in the credit, overall
sustainability is considered likely.



                                                     - 16 -

Strong government commitment to primary education, continuing donor support through budgetary support
programs that have increased allocations for the sub-sector as well as the institutional development factors
mentioned earlier contribute to making the gains in primary enrolment largely irreversible. The continuity
of the project management staff in the EFA implementation structures also ensures that the capacity built
by the project will be utilized. The main threats to sustainability arises from (i) the still nascent technical
and management capacity of the Ministry and (ii) fiscal vulnerability which could jeopardize the hiring of
new teachers (civil servants and community teachers) or the continued provision of the school grants and
thus raise the burden for poor parents. Based on the experience of 2004-05, when the operating/incremental
non-personnel recurrent costs of the primary education component of the project were expected to be
absorbed by the budget, the availability of timely funds for textbooks, kits scolaires, school grants and
operating costs of vehicles is still an issue that can compromise the effectiveness of project investments.
Only half the schools were provided the grants through the government budget due to difficulties in
payments by the Treasury. These developments reflect the weaknesses in the general budget preparation
and execution procedures of the government and continued shortfalls in domestic revenues. However,
donor support for primary education has increased through the grant of US $10 million from the Catalytic
Fund of the EFA-Fast Track Initiative in 2005, and another US $25 million in 2006; other donors have also
indicated fresh commitments.

In secondary education, the gains in enrolment due to the construction and rehabilitation of schools are also
likely to be sustainable, with parents participating in hiring additional community-financed teachers; the
limited pedagogical innovations are less likely to be sustained. In vocational education, the intended
achievements are unlikely to be realized due to the financial unviability of many programs, especially in the
colleges professionels. Some of the higher education projects continue to function after project closing,
especially those involved in upgrading tertiary education programs: most of the research projects are
unlikely to continue due to lack of continued financing from other sources.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The responsibilities for management of the primary education component have been taken up by the
Ministry in the context of the normal budget. Immediately after project closing, as part of the efforts by the
government to join the EFA-Fast Track Initiative and access funds from the Catalytic Fund of the FTI, the
government prepared plans to put in place a technical support group for the Ministry which will provide
technical and management assistance. This group will enable the Ministry to utilize additional funds made
available from all donors and will be a mechanism for operationalising donor coordination and improving
synergies with the budget. UNICEF and AFD agreed to provide financing for this technical support group
for a 3 month interim period. All the goods acquired during the project life are being transferred to the
MENRS with a detailed inventory, along with the technical files relating to the sub-projects (of all
sub-sectors), studies, films of textbooks materials etc. Furniture, equipment and vehicles acquired for
project management will be used by the technical support group for primary education. While goods
acquired for other sub-sectors have also been transferred to the Ministry, the arrangements for managing
the projects in these sub-sectors have not been defined.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during the preparation phase is considered unsatisfactory and most of the design
flaws have been discussed in the section on Quality at Entry.

Preparation assistance did not focus sufficiently on ensuring that the project was ready for implementation.


                                                       - 17 -

Discussion with implementation agencies, such as the CISCOs, at the time of preparation by the appraisal
team seems to have been lacking. The work load and time associated with the processing of each contrat
program was not assessed nor the logistical difficulties of combining community contributions with the
enterprises. In higher education, the insistence on cumbersome procedures and a large number of prior
conditions - a high level of individual contributions, securing of international and private sector
partnerships, institutional networking - reflected lack of awareness of the operational difficulties of
administering a new program of small grants to individual researchers/departments in a system that had
deteriorated over several decades. More importantly, little effort seems to have been put into designing the
fund in such a way as to promote the objectives: improvements in internal efficiency and spill-over effects
of reforms across institutions were neither explicitly built into selection criteria for projects nor consciously
managed. The Bank should have provided more focused technical assistance in these areas where there was
limited capacity to manage innovations.

The lack of readiness for implementation is reflected in the 7 conditions for project effectiveness, which
included among others, the preparation of procedures manuals, the establishment of FADES, and
implementation of measures on recruitment and re-assignment of teachers in accordance with commitments
made in the Letter of Development Policy.

7.2 Supervision:
In Phase 1, the poor quality of supervision is reflected in lack of focus on the objectives and on concretely
addressing implementation problems. The first seven PSRs (until December 2000) continued to use the
objectives of the PAD (and not of the DCA). The initial aide-memoires and PSRs discussed at length the
problems with teacher management, but no specific solutions were found, largely due to the
macro-economic constraints and difficulties in introducing reforms in civil service regulations and,
eventually, the reforms got progressively less attention. Efforts to simplify the contracts (which ran into 50
pages initially) received attention only after one and a half years, when an implementation specialist was
included in the supervision. The aide-memoires also did not accurately reflect the delays in textbook
preparation, in secondary education and in FADES, which became evident during the mid-term review. The
Bank team did not pro-actively address the problem of staffing the project management team.

The rating for PDO continued to be satisfactory even though implementation progress was considered
unsatisfactory right until the MTR in 2001. This rating was based on the performance indicators, which
were national level indicators not related to project activities. This rating sent wrong signals to Bank
management about the performance of the project.

Task management changed at the time of the MTR and greater attention was paid to accelerating
disbursement, specifically through the simplification of procedures and eliminating/reducing the
contributions for primary school construction and higher education sub-projects; in the latter, the condition
regarding external partnerships was eliminated. The Bank team also encouraged the government to improve
communications to intended beneficiaries. Cancellation of part the credit was discussed with the
government in case the disbursement target of $12 million was not met by October 2001. Due to the
pro-active efforts of the Bank, the project management structures were staffed with appropriate people. By
October 2001, 20% of the credit had disbursed as a result of these measures. However, the larger reform
issues seem to have been dropped and learning processes and quality of instruction were not addressed at
this stage. The MTR could also have been the occasion of re-designing the components relating to
secondary education and, especially, higher education to align them better with the objectives (or
alternatively to change the objectives). Further, instead of trying to reduce the project complexity, there was
discussion about including a new distance education sub-component (for primary and secondary
education); it was also agreed to include a separate component for vocational training, since the original



                                                     - 18 -

idea of a new project was dropped.

The Bank was very responsive to the changed conditions after the political crisis, and the new government's
focus on getting all children back to primary school and showing tangible improvements in
teaching-learning conditions. 100% financing was provided in 2003 (as part of the portfolio restructuring).
The Bank re-oriented CRESED 2 from being a project with pre-defined activities to a "sector development
credit" with a nation wide coverage and a focus on ensuring universal access to primary education. Instead
of trying to increase access through constructing classrooms, the credit supported the abolition of fees
through the caisses ecoles and the supply of kits scolaires, which allowed Madagascar to avert the usual
problems of lack of school supplies associated with sudden surges in enrolment. The decision to remove
school construction from the project and have it implemented by the FID was a good response to the limited
technical capacity of the Ministry and the difficulties associated with the centralized management of
construction in Phase 2. While the components remained unchanged, various new activities, such as
capacity building for CISCOs and ZAPs and others, were financed as the dialogue proceeded. In this way,
"ownership" of the project was increasingly transferred to the government and this approach encouraged
the government to think of the policies of for primary education as a whole.

The November 2002 restructuring could, however, have been used better to prepare conditions for quality
improvement in primary education, to re-design the secondary and higher education components, and for a
better design of the vocational component. For example, the nutritional sub-component, proposed by the
government, could have benefited from prior technical and economic analysis, or even international
experience, that would have shown the infeasibility of the proposed approach. In the case of textbooks,
while the government's haste was understandable, adequate time to prepare appropriate books and train
teachers was advisable, given the cost of the investment and its long term impact on future learning. With a
highly responsive government, as recorded in the supervision missions, there was room for a more
pro-active approach on this.

During this final phase of the project, the Bank task team worked closely with the Country Director and the
President of Madagascar, which facilitated taking decisions. Towards the end of the project, as reflected in
the supervision aide-memoires, the project and the education component of PRSC were addressed together
and hence focused on issues of strategy, budget allocations and budget management apart from project
specific activities. The major reform issues ­ such as teacher redeployment and human resource
management ­ not addressed in the project began to be taken up in the PRSC dialogue. The Bank team
also led donor coordination in primary education, leading to joint missions as part of the supervision for
CRESED 2 and PRSC; this also led to UNICEF, in particular, closely aligning its technical assistance with
the CRESED 2. A sector strategy and EFA plan, to which the Bank and other donors contributed technical
assistance, was presented to an international donor forum in October 2003. The transition from a largely
Bank-led project to a government-led strategy and implementation plan for primary education is an
important result of the Bank's new approach. The Bank ensured continuity in task management during this
critical phase until December 2004.

The composition of Bank supervision teams throughout the project did not reflect the complexity and scope
of the project. Although the provision of textbooks and learning materials was a major part of the project,
no textbook specialist participated in supervision after the MTR (and only one before that, together with
one pedagogical consultant). Only two supervision missions benefited from a higher education specialist
and none had an expert on institutional development. This reflects the inadequacy of supervision budgets
and also the lack of Bank management attention to the implementation problems early in the project. In
Phase 3, the supervision missions benefited from the technical expertise of other donors, including
UNICEF, the French Cooperation and the Norwegian government.


                                                     - 19 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall performance is rated as moderately satisfactory due to the pro-active efforts by the Bank to staff
the project management team and simplify procedures in Phase 2, as well as to the Bank's responsiveness
to the crisis situation, re-orientation of the project to the new priorities of the government and
implementation progress in the final phase of the project.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Preparatory work done by the government to operationalise the complex approaches envisaged by the
project was inadequate. Delays in preparing the operational manuals and provision of counterpart funds, as
well as implementation of other policy measures, reflected this as well.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Until the 2002 restructuring, the government implementation performance was largely unsatisfactory. The
contrat program approach, though being central to the PNAE 2, was not owned by the Ministry of Primary
and Secondary Education. As told to the ICR mission, hundreds of school contracts languished in the
Ministry for months pending the signature of the Minister. The government failed to appoint senior project
management staff (including the Project Coordinator) for almost a year. The award of school construction
contracts in the Phase 2, when sites were selected and construction was managed centrally by the Ministry,
was problematic. In some cases, the sites selected for construction did not have a school at all. This partly
led to the eventual decision to remove construction from the project in Phase 3. The government's
performance was especially poor with respect to the textbook component, where critical decisions were
delayed.

After the 2002 restructuring, the new government was much more pro-active in supporting the project. The
involvement of the President in key decisions, as stated in several aide-memoires, facilitated decisions but
also put pressure on the implementing agency to implement activities without carefully evaluating the
consequences. The decision to procure books without any field trials, in order to meet the President's
request for getting books into schools in two months, is a case in point.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The BCP (project management unit for primary and secondary education) suffered from lack of staffing
during the second year of the project. After the MTR, management effectiveness improved tremendously
with the recruitment of qualified staff and the appointment of a qualified Project Coordinator. A new
person was recruited for handling the textbook component after it was decided to go for ICB. The project
management demonstrated its integrity and capability to manage contracts when it contested the quality of
the paper used by a supplier in the re-printing of textbooks; seeking recourse in the provisions of the
contract, the paper was tested in Malagasy and international laboratories. The supplier subsequently agreed
to a 40% reduction in price, resulting in considerable savings.

After November 2002, in the generalization phase of the project, the project management unit successfully
managed the procurement and supply of inputs to all the schools of the country. It also effectively serviced
the requests of the Ministry for studies and capacity building. Interaction between the project staff and the
Ministry units was much more successful. Financial management was excellent and audit reports were
submitted on time. One lacuna in its performance, however, was the lack of regular monitoring and
supervision in the field; this was partly due to the fact that the staffing had not increased despite the
changed orientation of the project and the stress on speeding up implementation.




                                                        - 20 -

The FADES Council and Executive Director, in the first two years, appear to have done little to stimulate
proposals from universities outside the capital. As a result, almost all project proposals received before the
MTR were from the University of Antananarivo. After the MTR, the FADES Council engaged in
systematic communication efforts and appointed local coordinators in each university to help academic
staff formulate proposals. Overall, the unit functioned efficiently. Unlike the project management unit for
primary and secondary education, the interaction of the FADES Council with the Ministry even after the
2002 restructuring was limited. This partly contributed to the failure to achieve the overall objective of the
project of developing a coherent strategy for reforming the higher education sub-sector.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance is rated as moderately satisfactory, based largely on improved performance
after the MTR and the performance since 2002 when most of the activities were undertaken.

8. Lessons Learned

Design and Implementation Phases 1 and 2

(i) Agree on clear development goals from the beginning, which are acceptable to all stakeholders. Agree
on a coherent results chain and choose appropriate performance indicators in line with objectives and use
them for systematic monitoring and regularly discuss implementation performance with the government.
(ii) Complex project design with many components and sub-components involving several Ministries and
innovations in each area requires a high degree of ownership and preparation by the government and
focused technical assistance by Bank. "Ownership" should be actively demanded as the pre-condition for
further advancement of the project at agreed milestones, especially for key reforms.
(iii)Innovations: If project components, sub-components are experimental / innovations, lessons should be
drawn early in project life to draw full benefits. For sub-sectors with small credit allocation, clearly
identify what is the objective (innovation/experimentation or improving access and quality).
 (iv) Textbooks and learning materials: a variety of materials adapted to actual classroom needs should be
prepared, especially when there is not sufficient agreement on key policy issues such as the language of
instruction. Field trialing is important to ensure that full benefits are captured.
(v) Decentralisation: make clear what decisions will be taken at each level; involve implementing units at an
early stage and trial innovations before large-scale investments begin. Decentralizing to school-level
projects is unrealistic - the numbers are too large to manage effectively.
(vi) Beneficiary participation: level and mode must be realistically assessed in the specific country context
and in relation to component objective.
(vii) Donor commitments should be formalized before they are included in the financing plan or else be
included in risk assessment in the event they do not materialize.
(viii) Procurement: ensure capacity is assessed for each component separately in complex projects; separate
community contributions from payment of work by enterprises; avoid linking up preparation of textbooks
with contracts for printing/distribution; develop capacity to use copyright laws.
(ix) Project restructuring: simplification of procedures and better communications can improve
implementation radically.

Restructured Project (Phase 3)

(i) Strong government leadership and commitment creates a positive environment for implementation
(ii) Adaptation of Bank projects to changing circumstances mid-stream is possible and good ­ but don't
lose sight of original objectives (or else modify them)
(iii) Monitoring and evaluation systems need to be set up early and should be supplemented by field



                                                      - 21 -

supervision by project management.
(iv) Policy and strategy development is difficult when the structures do not exist for reflection, analysis and
collaborative decision-making; implementation progress and studies alone do not automatically lead to a
development of a strategy.
(v) Complex projects require adequate supervision and appropriate skill mix.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                   - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
PRIMARY EDUCATION: Increased National 76%                                                   97% (2003-04)
Net Enrollment Rate
Decreased Repetition Rate                     < 5%                                          20% (2003-04)

SECONDARY SCHOOL EDUCATION --                 25%                                           19 % (2003-04)
Gross Enrollment Rate
Better Baccalaureat Results (Secondary        35%                                           33% (2004)
School Examination)


Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
PRIMARY EDUCATION - Increased                 All Primary Schools                           2003-04: 92 % of public (15,412) and 90 %
awareness of communities and improved                                                       of private schools (4,738)
partnership between teachers, administrators
and local communities: Targetted Primary
Schools with contract program


PRIMARY EDUCATION: Increased amounts 1.0 textbook per student per subject                   2004-05: 0.86 textbook per student per
of textbooks distributed in schools                                                         subject
PRIMARY EDUCATION: Schools equipped All Primary Schools                                     2003:04 - all public primary schools
with pedagogical kits                                                                       (students: 2,715,526) and in all private
                                                                                            schools ( students: 650,936); all teachers
                                                                                            (47,315);

                                                                                            2004-05: supplied to all newly admitted
                                                                                            children (993, 736) and all newly recruited
                                                                                            teachers recruited (1,996)


PRIMARY EDUCATION: Schools equipped All Primary Schools                                     2003-04: 92% of public and 90% of private
with Pedagogic School Grant                                                                 schools); half of the schools did not revceive
                                                                                            any in 2004-05 (june 2005)


PRIMARY EDUCATION: Students benefit           Students in Primary Grades 1-3 in all schools Two interventions piloted in 28 schools in 4
from nutritional supplements                                                                CISCOs for all primary grades (total of
                                                                                            10,800 student beneficiaries)


PRIMARY EDUCATION: Brochurres on              All students and teachers grades 5, 6 and 7   All students and teachers in grades 5, 6 and
AIDS distributed to students of 7th grade     have received information                     7 (453,000 booklets)


SECONDARY EDUCATION: Increased                40 CEG, 10 Lycées                             40 CEG, 10 Lycées
targetted schools with contract program


SECONDARY EDUCATION: Increased                >450                                          163 new classrooms; 299 rehabilitated
number of built or rehabilitated classrooms


SECONDARY EDUCATION (BEPC AND                 NA                                            In 2003:
LYCEE): Graduates at junior and senior                                                      35,236 for the BEPC
secondary cycles                                                                            19,087 for the BACCALAUREAT


HIGHER EDUCATION: Increased number of 85                                                    131 financed; 123 evaluated
financed sub-projects, fulfilled and evaluated


INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT: Definition and Action Plans available, and under                     Action Plans are available at central and
elaboration of action plans                   implementation                                decentralized levels




                                                                - 23 -

1End of project




                   - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                           Estimate     Estimate         Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Universalize Quality Primary Educaiton                      37.00          18.90                51
Improve access to Quality Secondary Education in Rural       3.50            5.98              171
Areas
Textbooks and Teaching Learning Materials                   14.00          19.04               136
Institutional Development                                    3.00            7.91              264
Support Reforms of Higher Education                          5.00            7.28              146
Support to Project Management                                2.50            3.34              134

Total Baseline Cost                                         65.00          62.45
                         Total Project Costs                65.00          62.45
                   Total Financing Required                 65.00          62.45


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                               Procurement  Method1
    Expenditure Category            ICB
                                                    NCB         Other2        N.B.F.     Total Cost

1. Civil Works                      0.00            15.00        15.00         38.50     68.50
                                   (0.00)          (12.00)     (12.00)         (0.00)    (24.00)
2. Furniture, equipments           3.40             3.40          2.40         7.80     17.00
and vehicles                       (3.40)          (3.00)        (2.00)        (0.00)   (8.40)
3. Textbooks and learning          10.10            1.30          1.30         7.30     20.00
materials                         (10.10)          (1.00)        (1.00)        (0.00)   (12.10)
4. Training                        0.00             0.00          6.00         6.00     12.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)        (5.50)        (0.00)   (5.50)
5. Consultancies                    0.00            0.00          4.00         5.00      9.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)        (4.00)        (0.00)    (4.00)
6. Operating Costs                 0.00             0.00          7.50         8.00     15.50
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)        (6.00)        (0.00)   (6.00)
7. FADES                           0.00             0.00          5.00          3.00    8.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)        (5.00)        (0.00)   (5.00)
    Total                          13.50            19.70        41.20         75.60     150.00
                                  (13.50)          (16.00)     (35.50)        (0.00)     (65.00)

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                               Procurement  Method1
    Expenditure Category            ICB
                                                    NCB        Other2         N.I.F.    Total Cost

                                                                           (Not IDA
                                                                           Financed)
1. Civil Works                     0.00             2.52        15.79         0.38      18.68
                                   (0.00)          (2.14)      (12.84)        (0.00)    (14.98)




                                                - 25 -

    2. Furniture, equipments            2.08            0.33           2.76           0.00       5.18
    and vehicles
                                        (1.98)         (0.27)         (2.76)         (0.00)      (5.02)

    3. Textbooks and learning           19.05           0.00           3.38           0.00      22.43
    materials                          (18.83)         (0.00)         (3.38)         (0.00)     (22.21)

   4. Training                          0.00            0.00           3.43           0.00      3.43
                                        (0.00)         (0.00)         (3.21)         (0.00)     (3.21)

    5. Consultancies                    1.11            0.00           2.26           0.00       3.37
                                        (1.11)         (0.00)         (2.26)         (0.00)      (3.37)
   6. Operating Costs                   0.00            0.08           1.71           0.00      1.79
                                        (0.00)         (0.06)         (1.67)         (0.00)     (1.73)
   7. FADES                             0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00      7.02
                                        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)     (7.02)
        Total                           22.24           2.93          29.33           0.38      61.90
                                       (21.93)         (2.47)        (26.12)         (0.38)     (57.55)
   Figures in brackets are the amounts for IDA
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                         Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
                             Bank       Govt.      CoF.      Bank      Govt.       CoF.    Bank    Govt. CoF.
Universalize Quality         37.00      7.40                 18.90      3.89               51.1    52.6
Primary Educaiton
Improve access to Quality    3.50       0.70                 5.98       0.58               170.9   82.9
Secondary Education in
Rural Areas
Textbooks and Teaching       14.00      0.70                 19.04      0.32               136.0   45.7
Learning Materials
Institutional Development    3.00       0.60                 7.91       0.67               263.7   111.7
Support Reforms of Higher    5.00       0.54                 7.28       2.13               145.6   394.4
Education
Support to Project           2.50       0.50                 3.34       0.59               133.6   118.0
Management
          Total cost         65.00      10.43                62.45      8.18               96.1    78.4




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The economic analysis in the PAD was very general; it included an assessment of fiscal sustainability but
did not assess the cost-effectiveness of specific interventions.

A complete ex-post analysis is difficult because of the differing coverage and approach of the project over
time. This examination looks at the unit cost of different interventions at primary and secondary level and
compares them qualitatively with the benefits.

Two components/sub-components were highly cost-effective in primary education: (i) the caisses écoles
(school grants) involved an expenditure of $ 1.46 per pupil, and to the extent they compensated for school
fees, the benefit was the rise in enrolment of almost 0.8 million. However, other measures paid by the
government, such as subsidies to teachers hired by parents also contributed to enrolment increase and
should be taken into account. (ii) textbooks and learning materials, provided at a per pupil cost of
approximately $ 6; with a life-time of 5 years, this translates into a very low annualized investment cost
with high benefits . An important caveat to this is that the quality of books is appropriate for learning
outcomes. The project achieved this through a relatively low cost per text book ($ 1.02); the cost of school
kits was higher ($ 2.53).

On the other hand, the sub-components relating to construction and furniture in primary education were
relatively expensive. Approximately US $ 15.8 million was spent on about 1,100 primary schools;
assuming an average enrolment of 150 students per schools, this yields a per pupil investment of $ 96. The
annualized per pupil cost would depend on the expected life of the building and furniture.

Overall, the average per pupil expenditure of the project on primary education was about US $ 20, which
compares with an annual recurrent cost borne by the budget of US $ 30 in 2004. The average per pupil
expenditure on secondary education was $ 22, compared with an annual recurrent cost of about $ 70.

In vocational education, the project spent $ 70 per pupil compared to an annual per pupil recurrent
expenditure of $ 240. The latter reflects the existing inefficiency of provision and the project intervention
was not cost-effective, given the fact that internal and external efficiency cannot be expected to improve
significantly.

The recurrent expenditures arising from rise in enrolments (mostly on salaries of additional teachers) are
expected to be fiscally sustainable if the government allocates a higher share of its budget to education. As
a share of GDP, public expenditures on education have risen from 1.5 percent in 1997 to 2.4 percent in
2004 (at appraisal, the incremental costs associated with the program were considered sustainable if the
share rose to 2 percent in 2000). According to its commitment to EFA-Fast Track Initiative, the
government plans to increase this share to 2.9 percent of GDP, with roughly half being allocated to primary
education. This will require continued donor commitment to bridge the gap in domestic resources; apart
from budgetary support programs that allocate additional resources to primary education, Madagascar has
received incremental grant financing from the EFA-FTI Catalytic Fund for 2005 and 2006 to sustain and
expand primary education.




                                                      - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/08/1996                6    MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); EDUCATION
                                             SPEC. (3); IMPL SPEC. (1)
              12/06/1996

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/16/1997                6    MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             TEXTBOOKS SPEC. (1);
                                             HIGHER ED. SPEC. (1);
                                             IMPL. & VOC. TRAIN.
                                             SPEC. (1); EDUCATION
                                             SPEC. (1)


 Supervision

              06/29/1998                3    MISSION LEADER (1); IMPL.        HS             HS
                                             & VOC. TRAIN. SP (1);
                                             HIGHER ED. SPECIALIST (1)
              10/30/1998                3    EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);        S               S
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPECIAL
                                             (1); TEXTBOOK SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              05/27/1999                3    MISSION LEADER, EDUCAT           S               S
                                             (1); IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIAL (1); HIGHER
                                             EDUCATION SPECI (1)
              05/31/2000                2    MISSION LEADER (1);              U               S
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPECIA.
                                             (1)
              10/27/2001                5    TTL (1); EDU ECONOMIST           S               S
                                             CONSULTA (1);
                                             PEDAGOGICAL SPEC. CONS
                                             (1); FMS SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              11/03/2002                2    EDUCATION/TTL (1);               S               S
                                             EDUCATION (1)
              06/03/2003                4    LEAD ED SP/TTL (1);              S               S
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROGRAM ASSISTANT (2)
              09/10/2003                4    EDUCATION/TTL (1);               S               S
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); PROGRAM
                                             ASSISTANT (1)



                                              - 28 -

               05/31/2004              3   LEAD ED SP/TTL (1);               HS    S
                                           EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                           PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1)
               12/18/2004              4   LEAD EDUCATION SPECIAL            HS    S
                                           (1); SR. EDUCATION
                                           ECONOMIST (1); SR
                                           EDUCATION SPECIALIS (1);
                                           ADMIN ASSISTANT (1)


 ICR
               06/13/2005             4     SR. EDUCATION
                                            ECONOMIST/TTL (1);
                                            LEAD EDUCATION
                                            SPECIALIST (1); HIGHER
                                            EDUCATION
                                            CONSULTANT (1); CIVIL
                                            WORKS CONSULTANT
                                            (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                        696,200
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                                       750,000
  ICR
  Total                                                           1,446,200




                                            - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Bank project documents
Aide-Memoire of Appraisal mission, World Bank, 1997
Agreed Minutes of Negotiation, World Bank, 18 December 1997
Project Appraisal Document, World Bank, Feburary 13,1998
Development Credit Agreement, World Bank, 9 April 1998
Amendment to Development Credit Agreement, World Bank, September 18, 2001
Interim Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Madagascar, October 23, 2002
Amendment to Development Credit Agreement, World Bank, Letter dated December 12, 2002
Project Status Reports (PSR), World Bank, 1998-2004
Aide-Memoires of Supervision missions, World Bank, 1998-2005

Other Bank documents

- Madagascar - Towards a School-Based Strategy for Improving Primary and Secondary Education, April
1995
- Education and Training in Madagascar - Towards a Policy Agenda for Economic Growth and Poverty
Reduction, 2002

Government documents

- Final Evaluation Report of the Mid-Term Review, 2001
- Etude Relative a l'Evaluation Finale du Project CRESED II, July 2005
- Madagascar EFA Plan, May 2005

Other documents

- Etude diagnostique des collèges et lycées publics, Galaxy Consulting, 2004-2005
- Etude sur la progression scolaire et la performance académique à Madagascar, Cornell University, 2005
- Amélioration de la gestion des effectifs et de la gestion des ressources humaines, Core Advice, 2005
- Etude pour le diagnostic organisationnel et proposition de restructuration, Academy of Educational
Development (AED), 2005
-




                                                     - 32 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

                                             ICR CRESED II
                                      Contribution by the Government


The present document, which was developed by the Malagasy Government, provides the Report on the
Completion of the Project that was the object of the Credit Agreement for Strengthening the Education
Sector (Accord de Crédit de Renforcement du Secteur Educatif--Phase II" (CRESED II). This Credit
Agreement 3046-MAG was signed on April 08, 1998, ratified on September 07, 1998, and enforced on
January 07, 1999. Contributions respectively by the World Bank and the Government under such
agreement consisted of what follows:

·       SDR 47.7 million (equivalent to US$65 million or MGF 429.5 billion during the negotiation) from
the World Bank, and
·       MGF 54 billion (equivalent to US$ 14.5 million during the negotiation) from the Malagasy
Government.

The purpose of the credit agreement was to take part in implementing the defined Malagasy educational
policy:

·       First, in the National Program II for Improving Education (Programme National d'Amélioration
de l'Education II - PNAE II),
·       Then, in the Strategic Plan for Reforming and Developing the Educational Sector (Plan Straté
gique de Réforme et de Développement du Secteur Educatif - PSRDSE) including the Education for All
Plan (Plan Education Pour Tous - EPT).

The credit was closed on March 31, 2005, that is about two years after the planned date (originally on June
30, 2003; then extended through October 31, 2004, and in the end, set to March 31, 2005).

1. CONTEXT

Following the Programme National d'Amélioration de l'Education I - PNAE I, the Ministries in charge of
Education developed a second program,PNAE II, the orientations of which were:

·       making primary education universal,
·       training agents,
·       success in learning and training and
·       efficiency of the education system
and the objectives of which consisted in:
·       ensuring access of all school age children to quality primary education,
·       enhancing access to, and quality of secondary education, particularly in rural areas,
·       supporting reform in higher education by assisting education institutions in modernizing and
diversifying their training curricula, and
·       pursuing reforms in vocational training.

The scope of the Program was defined in such a way as to include activities impacting the quality of
learning among pupils. Furthermore, PNAE II strategic orientation was centered on delegating


                                                    - 33 -

responsibilities to decentralized structures of the Ministry, and on a method based on collaboration with
communities. The impacts expected from the Program would be measured through improved school results,
through internal and external effectiveness of education and access to primary and secondary education,
namely in rural areas.

The total cost of the program for developing the education sector was estimated at US$ 183 million, of
which:
·       US$94.0 million for primary education,
·       US$25.6 million for secondary education,
·       US$23.2 million for higher education, and
·       US$30.0 million for technical training.

It has been planned that about 63% of such cost --not including the one related to technical training
--would be borne by external donors, of which 67% by the World Bank (US$65 million). Thus, it was
planned to pursue CRESED Project through a second phase, which is CRESED II.


2. DESCRIPTION OF CRESED II PROJECT

The objectives for the CRESED II Project consisted of:
·       providing all children with access to quality primary education,
·       supporting the gradual development and improvement of general secondary education, as well as of
technical education and vocational training, and
·       developing a quality training and research system for higher education so as to provide the
professional sectors in the Malagasy society with available human resources capable of responding to their
needs.

For achieving these objectives, the activities planned were as follows:
·       completing new construction and rehabilitation works for classrooms, as well as providing school
furniture so as to increase capacity,
·       training trainers, as well as purchasing and distributing school textbooks/ education books and
materials for improving the effectiveness of the education system,
·       providing technical advisory services, materials and equipment, as well as capacity building to
improve the management of the Ministry, both its central services and decentralized structures, and
·       Conducting studies and research in the area of education and society, on the one hand, and
implementing subprojects in training, applied research and institutional support, on the other hand.

The Project activities contributing to achieving these objectives have been classified into six (6)
Components:
·       Component 1 : Primary Education Component,
·       Component 2 : Secondary (general, technical and vocational) Education Component,
·       Component 3 : School Manuals and Pedagogical Aids Component,
·       Component 4 : Institutional Development Component,
·       Component 5 : Higher Education Component, and
·       Component 6: Project Management Component.



3. ACHIEVEMENTS


                                                     - 34 -

The objectives, which were readjusted according to evaluations and restructuring of the Project, were
achieved overall with a very high disbursement rate (95%).

        3.1. Activities completed

CRESED II Project activities affected all sub sectors as well as the administration of the system.

The diverse interventions for the "Primary Education" Component relied on the principle of contracting. In
that framework, 1,605 program contracts were arranged between schools, the local community and the
Ministry. 12,730 pedagogical contracts were developed and drawn up. 1,074 schools have benefited from
construction/ rehabilitation works, totaling 2,074 classrooms; 1,118 schools have been equipped with
school furniture and 247 schools with school kitchens, including 132 schools with cooking equipment.
Some 65,000 teachers took part in various training sessions. 17,486 school funds (small grants managed by
the local education community, meant for running the school) have been allocated. Experimentations in
nutritional support were also undertaken..

As regards Component 2, "General Secondary Education ", the achievements among 58 public schools were
also based on the principle of program contracts. 460 classrooms and one boarding school have been built
or rehabilitated; school or boarding school furniture and school funds (small grant managed by the local
education community) were also provided. Concerning overall interventions, 110 public high schools were
equipped with computer materials, 1,625 scientific equipment batches were received by public and private
junior secondary schools about 2,000 teachers and heads of school were trained, and specific support
experimentation (pedagogical and administrative management, pedagogical tools) was conducted in 18
small junior secondary schools (less than 80 pupils).

Interventions in Component 2, "Technical Education and Vocational Training", involved 20 public schools
and were based on developing program contracts. Their purpose was implementing new training curricula;
and 44 pathways have thus been identified. The Component also provided them with school funds,
rehabilitated 17 schools, and delivered about 2,500 pedagogical books. In addition, 19 training actions have
been conducted for the benefit of 180 teachers. Most training equipment/ materials (10 batches out of 12)
expected have been received. The two batches which were not delivered were materials, equipment,
accessories and tooling meant for the "Apparel & Clothing" and "General Mechanics" industries.

The object of Component 3, "Textbooks and Pedagogical Aids", was designed to equip public and private
schools, essentially primary ones, with school manuals, master's guides and pedagogical aids. More than 10
million textbooks and pedagogical guides have thus been distributed. To these were added various aids such
as dictionaries, maps, plates, collective pedagogical materials, scientific and computer equipment, and
especially school kits. In absolute value, the achievements match the figures planned. However, the ratio of
1 book per pupil as regards manuals in primary schools has not been achieved as the number of pupils
increased substantially. Such achievements, together with school funds, were considered to have
significantly contributed to very considerable enrolment increase
The original objective for Component 4, "Institutional Development", was to improve the management of
the Ministry so that it might effectively fulfill its mission. More specific objectives were to develop and
define the reform strategy and sub sector action plans. In addition to actions designed to achieve such
objectives, services and means required to implement the strategy were provided. As regards the second
focus of activities, ZAPs and CISCOs capacities were strengthened. At the central level, the Ministry now
has the elements needed to conduct its reorganization. The functions of planning and managing, as well as
of computerization, through to CISCO level, have been strengthened, The Ministry, down to DIRESEBs, is


                                                      - 35 -

from now on networked. The equipment and training sessions, which were brought in, were intended to put
in place the Ministry Information system (statistics, budget monitoring, etc.). As regards the quality of
education, various strategic studies have been conducted. The Component provided the means, but their
operationalization depends on the various structures involved.

In terms of achievement, Component 5 "Higher Education" funded 131 sub-projects. They were distributed
into 4 implementation areas: training, research, institutional support, and education and social studies and
research. The Component included 12 fields of activity of very diverse kinds. Education and information
technology, which represent 38% of total, were the fields which benefited most from FADES funding,
respectively with 27 and 16 sub projects.

With regard to Component 6, "Management of the Project", the Project experienced a difficult start up
during its first two years, with a very low disbursement rate (less than 10%). Staff number, combined with
inadequate resources, lack of manual of procedures for the overall operations involving the 6 components,
and cumbersome and complex procedures were all factors contributing to such slowness. Thereafter, the
Project made a considerable effort to build its institutional capacities: recruiting officials for the
Component, developing a management and implementation manual of procedures, and streamlining
procedures. The Disbursement rate thereafter increased from 2001 onward. Achievement rates for the
Component activities - respectively at about 100% or more in most cases - show that there were adequate
resources to implement their activities.

3.2. Financial achievements

The US$ 47.7 million funds allocated by IDA to CRESED II Project, originally evaluated at US$ 65
million, underwent US dollar depreciation against SDR and finally rose to US$ 71.9 million at the end of
the project. The disbursement rate over IDA Credit is therefore 96.2%. Furthermore, the Malagasy
counterpart, for its part, also increased to MGF 101 billion at project end, instead of MGF 54 billion that
were originally planned. The disbursement rate for the Project as a whole (IDA and Malagasy counterpart)
is thus evaluated at 94.9%.

After a fairly slow start (about 6% of disbursement for the first two years), resources began to be
significantly used only in 2001. Activities intensified--with namely the school grants, the distribution of
school kits and textbooks--reflected on the expenditures for the years 2002 and 2003. Nevertheless
cumulative disbursements accounted for 79% at the end of 2003: thus, more than a quarter of the IDA
credit would have been left unused if the original completion date (June 2003) had been observed. The
impetus of that period was maintained during the last two years (2004 and 2005), having thus mobilized
about 95% of the available resources by the final completion date.

Apart from the novelty of the participatory approach and from the fact that activities were focused on civil
works, one of the reasons for the initial slow          disbursement probably is the fact that the Project
Management Team was still in the process of being constituted. Putting in place the human resources
required translated into raising the number of executives from 21 in 2000 to 31 in 2001. Such an increase
seems to have reflected immediately on the pace of disbursement. The Project life (as understood through
annual disbursements) underwent four clearly distinct phases: Start up (1999 and 2000), slow advance
(2001 and 2002), cruising phase (2003-2004) and, last, finalizing (2005).

Textbooks, education materials and the "civil works" represented the largest expense items of the Project:
They accounted for more than half (54.2%) of the whole. They are followed by FADES and "furniture,



                                                      - 36 -

material and vehicles" (24.8%). The other 4 categories take up the remaining part (21.0%). Annual
disbursements actually started only in 2001, with 35.56% disbursement for "civil works". Regarding the
other categories, the maximum rates were achieved in 2002 for "school grants" (80.93%), in 2003 for
"textbooks and education materials" (52.85%), and in 2004 for FADES (55.12%). Expenses for "Training"
were concentrated in 2003 (31.50%) and 2004 (36.63%), as was also the case with "furniture, materials
and vehicles" respectively with 29.17% and 20.16% and "consultants" respectively with 14.75% and
21.94%.
Initial resource earmarking, both for the Project Components and by expense category, underwent
modifications during the implementation of the Project. The most significant reorientations especially
involved:

·         reducing parts of the primary education component, (due to transfer to other operators for the
building and rehabilitation of classrooms, but along with massive introduction of the « school grants »
linked to pedagogical contracts) and of the secondary education component (largely due to charging some
expenses to other Components) ;
·         increasing parts of textbooks and teaching aids, institutional development, higher education,
introducing a sub-component on technical education and vocational training, as well as generalizing the
activities to public and private schools.



4. BOTTOM LINE AND MAIN LESSONS TO BE LEARNT

The most tangible impact of the Project has been its contribution to large increases in access to primary
education thanks namely to relieving parent from charges, which was made possible through school grants,
providing all students from public and private schools with textbooks and pedagogical kits, and extending
school capacity. Such inputs which arrived to schools boosted enrolment, and restored parents' confidence.
Impacts at the secondary level are less visible given the restricted volume of the Project intervention in this
sub sector. However, all sub sectors were actually boosted, including higher education through sub
projects.

What also has to be underlined as a novelty for pupils, parents and teachers in primary schools was the
availability of textbooks for all subject matters and all forms for the first time in 30 years. However, such
textbooks were provided only several years after the curricula were developed (1997), and their adequacy
for present realities may be questioned. Such a gap should not occur in the future.

Positive results were achieved because of particular capacities and methods used in the implementation of
the project:

·         A common vision, shared and accepted by all the stakeholders
·         The Project willingness and ability to adjust its activities and working methods according to the
lessons learnt from its own experience,
·         Work discipline put in place with the various parties involved in the development of the education
sector
·         Capacity to generalize its interventions ( to all CISCOs and to public and private schools, etc.)
after it began to work on pilot schools
·         Faculty of adapting to the orientations of actions defined by the Ministry ; and
·         Adopting the program approach and the integrated approach to implementing the project activities.




                                                      - 37 -

They may also be attributed to the kind, means and scope of such interventions:

·        Unfrozen, unspecialized intervention areas
·        Relevance of interventions to the objectives of the education policy
·        Interventions having direct, concrete effects over beneficiaries
·        Widening the fields of sub projects and eligible expense categories
·        Availability of management tools, and
·        Significant amount of the Project credit.

Factors relative to the project environment are not to be neglected:

·        Willingness of the World Bank to amend the Credit Agreement in compliance with the orientations
of the Ministry,
·        Flexible and streamlined procedures in the organization.

Conversely, some aspects deserve more reflections and actions for improvement:

·        Informing beneficiaries and local administrators for better accountability, enhanced active
participation and better understanding of related activities and assignments as normal and natural ones, but
not as chores,
·        Enhancing actions aimed at quality improvement
·        Putting in place the principle of establishing contracts under a format that was better tailored to
individuals and that was not a standard one, which aimed at better performance of schools, taking account
of regional and local specificities
·        Planning in both assignment of teachers and capacity of schools facing the increase in enrollment
rates.
·        System for monitoring results of interventions
·        Developing technical specifications for materials, equipment and supplies
·        Planning all actions aiming at Education For All (EPT) with supporting measures to avoid all
negative consequences entailed by success of EPT, and
·        Encouraging partnership with the private sector

5. CONCLUSION

Designing the Project as a tool for supporting the implementation of the national education plan has
remained constant throughout its existence. In its implementation, its content evolved and was adapted to
changing conditions: working conditions, economic, social, political "environments", etc. The project's
relevance to the objectives has been saved thanks to successive adaptations.

The most important lesson to be learnt from the experience of the CRESED II Project relates to the actual
involvement of the Ministry of Education. Indeed, all activities were developed according to the education
policy adopted, as well as to the priorities of the Ministry. In addition, the mindset that the Manager (in a
collective manner: the Government, Donors, Project Implementation Unit) has brought to the project--that
is their philosophy / psychology / attitude towards the common enterprise--to a large extent explains the
fact that the Project has good results. An attitude made up of vigilance and of permanent "watch" allowed
it, on the one hand, to be able to seize opportunities and, on the other hand, to prevent probable threats.

The Project physical and financial achievements are very impressive. In addition, "capacities" and know



                                                     - 38 -

how have been created or strengthened: by CDAPs regarding distribution of manuals and other supplies to
schools, or "making projects" in higher education. And despite the fact that results are still mixed or
mitigated as regards the mindset or an approach oriented to "participation", the Project managed to have the
principle of working rigorously accepted, according to well defined standards and procedures.

However, the slow start up of the Project may be explained by several factors. Initially, the project was
focused on civil works, and completion relied primarily on communities: considering their limited means,
their obligations were beyond their capacities. In addition, the BCP team was fairly reduced regarding the
various assignments required for such works, and the relay structure (at the CISCO level) has not
performed well enough for various reasons, including the novelty of the approach proposed. In fact, the
"participatory approach ", the objective of which was ownership, does not seem to have been fully
"understood" or assimilated not only among beneficiaries but also at the level of the Ministry, at least in its
deconcentrated entities.

Monitoring activities has not been always completed in a satisfactory way and/ or as it should have been.
But the project team has been able to draw lessons from its own experience. Thus, in the last years,
evaluating the project has been conducted on an ongoing basis, through a "gliding" Annual Work Plan
(PTA) scheme, with in-year adjustments without waiting for the end of year or the end of PTA--namely on
the occasion of supervision missions.

The selected elements, which were recalled above, provide many improvements that would be useful to be
preserved. The education sector may take advantage of them and build upon the experience and/ or the
gains from CRESED-II Project. In fact, the "success" of the Project is leaving behind it a trail of "issues"
for the Ministry in charge of Education. It is still too early to be able to define with precision the impacts of
the Project on the quality of education and teaching, although such impacts are probably positive. The
impacts are clear in terms of training provided to teachers, and for making textbooks available to pupils and
their teachers.

Conversely, it is certain that, through its actions, the Project will largely have contributed to increasing
enrollment and the pupil numbers, requiring other future actions for developing capacity and for
strengthening the teaching corps (both in numbers and in qualification)--the more so as communities will
become increasingly demanding, having had a "taste" of what it is possible to do (in good), for obtaining a
"quality education for all" their children. Such is the challenge that will be handed over by the "Crédit de
Renforcement du Secteur Éducatif - Phase II" (CRESED-II) Project to the education system in
Madagascar.




                                                       - 39 -

- 40 -

