Report No. 1756-EGT
Egypt:  ARETO                                                                     to 1J T
Appraisal of
the Second Telecommunications Project
February 22, 1978
Energy, Water and Telecommunications Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 = LE 0.70
LE 1 = US$1.43
MEASURES EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer = 0.6214 miles
1 mile = 1.6094 kilometers
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIST OF DEFINITIONS, ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED IN THE REPORT
Arab Fund             : Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
ARETO                 : Arab Republic of Egypt Telecommunications Organization
CAO                   : Central Auditing Organization
Carrier               : A system providing a number of circuits (telegraph or
telephone) through one transmission bearer (radio,
cable or open wire)
Channel               : One circuit of a carrier system carrying speech or
telegraphic signals
Coaxial Cable         : A cable with a center conductor surrounded by a
coaxial outer conductor. It is used for high-
capacity transmission systems
Crossbar Switching    : An automatic telephone switching system utilizing a
connecting matrix with horizontal bars and vertical
bridges
CTC                   : Continental Telephone Corporation
;El.s                 : Direct exchange lines (connected)
Electronic Switching  : An automatic telephone or telex switching system
electronically controlled
("d7z                 : Gigahertz (1,000 megahertz)
HF/VHF/UHF            : High frequency radio up to 30 MHz/very high frequency
radio between 30-300 MHz/ultra high frequency radio
beyond 300 MHz
MHz                   : Megahertz
Microwave             : Radio system working at frequencies above 300 MHz
but normally applied to systems working at frequencies
above 1,000 MHz
PABX                  : Private Automatic Branch Exchange
PCM                   : Pulse Code Modulation
Rotary                : A type of centrally motor driven rotary telephone
switching system
SAS                   : Standardized Accounting System
Saudi Fund            : Saudi Fund for Development
STD                   : Subscriber Trunk Dialing
Telex                 : Teleprinter exchange system
TRC                   : Telecommunications Research Center
TTRI                  : Telecommunications Training and Research Intitute
UNDP                  : United Nations Development Program
USAID                 : United States Agency for International Development
Thb document hu a ratricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutiea. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ---------------------------------   i-ii
1.  INTRODUCTION --------------------------------------------          1
2.  THE SECTOR ----------------------------------------------          2
Background -------------------------------------------         2
Access to Telephone Service --------------------------          2
Quality of Telephone Service -------------------------         3
Users of Telephone Service ---------------------------          4
Sector Constraints -----------------------------------         4
Sector Objectives ------------------------------------         5
IDA's Role in Sector ---------------------------------         6
3.  THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT -----------------------------          7
The Program ------------------------------------------          7
The Project ------------------------------------------         7
Cost Estimates ---------------------------------------         8
Contingencies ----------------------------------------         9
Items Proposed for IDA Credit ------------------------    10
Procurement ------------------------------------------    10
Execution --------------------------------------------    10
Disbursement -----------------------------------------    11
4.  JUSTIFICATION -------------------------------------------    11
Development Through Communication --------------------    11
Demand Forecast --------------------------------------    12
Least Cost Solution ----------------------------------    12
Return on Investment ---------------------------------    13
Other Economic Aspects -------------------------------    14
5.  THE BENEFICIARY -----------------------------------------    15
Organization and Management --------------------------    15
Staff ------------------------------------------------    16
Training ---------------------------------------------    16
Accounts and Audit -----------------------------------    17
Billing and Collection -------------------------------    17
Insurance --------------------------------------------    18
Tariffs ----------------------------------------------    18
6.  FINANCES ------------------------------------------------    19
Background -------------------------------------------    19
Financial Performance --------------------------------    20
Financing Plan ---------------------------------------    21
Financial Outlook ------------------------------------    24
Fiscal Impact ----------------------------------------    26
Risks and Safeguards ---------------------------------    27
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ------------------    28
This report is based on information provided by ARETO and on the findings
of a mission composed of Messrs. S. Sathar, J. Acevedo-Navas and R. Saunders
which visited Egypt in May/June 1977.



List of Annexes and Charts
1.  Existing Telecommunications Facilities
2. Main Automatic Telephone Exchanges 1976
3. International Telephone Statistics
4. Growth of Local Telephone System - 1960-82
5. Growth of Local Telephone System - Chart 18572
6.  Summary of Scope of Work of CTC Consultants
7. Description of Works in ARETO's Program 1978-80
8. Main Automatic Telephone Exchange Installation Program 1977-81
9. Telex Exchange Installation Program 1976-80
10. Automatic Trunk Exchange Installation Program 1977-80
11. Telecommunications Investment Program
12. Project Construction Costs
13.  Contingency Provision in Project Cost Estimates
14.  Foreign Costs Financing of Second Telecommunications Project
15-  Construction Schedule of Major Works in Project - Chart 17942
16. Schedule of Disbursement
17.  Internal Rate of Return
18. Organization Chart 17911
19. Telecommunication Staff
20.  Staff Trained at the Telecommunications Training and
Research Institute
21. Telecommunications Tariffs
22. Revenue Improvement Measures
23. Income Statements, 1973-80
24.  Sources and Applications of Funds, 1973-80
25. Balance Sheets, 1973-80
26. Notes on Financial Statements and Main Forecast Assumptions
27. Performance Indicators
Map - High Capacity Transmission Systems and Trunk Automatic Exchanges -
IBRD 11323R1



EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report covers the appraisal of the second telecommunications
project in Egypt, for which an IDA Credit of US$53.0 million is proposed.
The borrower would be the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt and the
beneficiary would be the Arab Republic of Egypt Telecommunications Organi-
zation (ARETO), which has responsibility for the public telecommunications
services in the country.
ii.       Telecommunications services in Egypt are insufficient and the qual-
ity of service is poor. There is urgent need for rehabilitation of existing
equipment, removal of present congestion in traffic, and meeting the most
urgent and priority requirements for expansion of the services. These inad-
equacies have had an adverse effect on all sectors of the Egyptian economy,
which cannot develop with maximum efficiency without adequate telecommunica-
tions facilities.
iii.      The proposed IDA project follows up IDA Credit 548-EGT of 1975 in
support of the efforts by ARETO to improve services to existing subscribers
and expand facilities to meet some of the pending demand. IDA's participa-
tion is expected to consolidate measures initiated under the first project
for much needed improvement in ARETO's day-to-day operations. Early in 1977,
Government appointed Continental Telephone Corporation (CTC), USA, to (a)
carry out a comprehensive study of the telecommunications sector, its
developmental needs and constraints, (b) prepare a master plan for sector
development, and (c) propose remedial actions.
iv.       ARETO's internal organization, despite improvements since the
appraisal of the first project in 1975, still suffers from some weaknesses,
especially in the planning, accounting, tariffs and financial areas. ARETO's
civil works program has also been delayed in the past mainly due to diversion
of labor to other high priority works. Further measures to enhance ARETO's
operational efficiency and financial performance are part of the proposed
project and assurances have been obtained from Government and ARETO for their
implementation. In addition, ARETO's relationship with Government requires
improvement in several areas, e.g., financial arrangements between Government
and ARETO.  These arrangements, which are common to public sector corporations,
and some internal reorganization needs are the subject of in-depth review by the
CTC consultants. Government and ARETO have agreed to give IDA a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views with Government and ARETO on the recommendations
of the consultants.



- ii -
v.        The project identified for the second IDA credit to the telecom-
munications sector comprises the most urgent works to be undertaken by ARETO
in the 1978-80 period. These consist of installation of about 226,400 lines
for replacement (18%) and expansion of local telephone systems (82%) in the
country, relieving somewhat the very large outstanding demand, The long dis-
tance services will be improved with additions of about 5,000 lines of trunk
exchange equipment. Telex services will be expanded with an additional
3,000 lines telex exchange in Cairo.
vi.       The project is estimated to cost about LE 147 (US$210) million with
a foreign exchange component of about LE 90 (US$128) million. Of the US$128
million total foreign exchange cost of the project, US$69 million has been
secured under bilateral loans and suppliers' credits. The proposed IDA credit
would provide US$53 million, leaving a balance of US$6 million to be financed
by Government. In addition, Government and ARETO will provide the local costs
of the project estimated at LE57 (US$82) million. The project would be exe-
cuted by ARETO with assistance from the equipment suppliers. ARETO has agreed
to assign the preparation of tender documents and installation of electronic
telephone exchange equipment to qualified experts. Government agreed to give
priority for the construction of buildings required for project installations.
vii.      All procurement under the proposed IDA credit would be subject to
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank's guidelines for
procurement.
viii.     ARETO's financial performance through 1975 was below the results
anticipated in the appraisal of the first project, mainly because tariffs
were not adjusted to offset rising operating costs. In 1976 ARETO complied
with the minimum 11% return on assets and is expected to do likewise in 1977.
With the implementation of revenue improvement measures starting from July
1977, ARETO is expected to exceed, beginning in 1977, an 18% return on
historically-valued assets. Internal resources would represent an accept-
able portion (13%) of ARETOts large 1978-80 investment program, after servicing
all debt. The project is technically and financially sound and economically
justified. Its internal financial rate of return is estimated at 16% and
the economic rate of return is expected to be of the order of 23% on a
conservative basis.
ix.       The proposed project forms a suitable basis for an IDA credit of
US$53.0 million equivalent to Government for onlending to ARETO.



EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Egypt has requested IDA assistance in financing
the (1978-80) development program of the Arab Republic of Egypt Telecommuni-
cations Organization (ARETO), the Government Board responsible for public
telecommunications facilities in Egypt. If approved, this would be the
second IDA credit for telecommunications in Egypt.
1.02      In 1974, when IDA was invited to participate in the financing of
the telecommunications sector in Egypt, ARETO's physical and financial con-
dition was very poor and the objectives of the first IDA supported project
were quite modest under the circumstances. The US$30 million credit extended
in 1975 was to help finance ARETO's 1975-77 program aimed mainly at rehabili-
tation of existing telephone network and improvements of service to existing
subscribers. Along with these, IDA initiated measures with Government and
ARETO for some improvements in its organization. Project execution is about
two years behind appraisal expectations mainly because of initial delays in
civil works caused by diversion of labor and materials by Government to other
higher priority works. This has been overcome, and the project is now ex-
pected to be completed by the end of 1979. Some progress has also been
achieved in the organization of ARETO and some order has been achieved in
ARETO's finances.
1.03      The proposed second telecommunciations project will consolidate the
institution building measures initiated under the first project and support
ARETO's 1978-80 program. The program is designed to continue urgent re-
habilitation works and provide some of the much needed expansion of the local
and long distance telecommunications facilities during the 1978-80 period.
Government has appointed Continental Telephone Corporation (CTC), USA,
financed by USAID, to carry out a comprehensive study of the major constraints
affecting the telecommuniations sector and recommend measures to overcome
them. The results of this study are expected in mid-1978, IDA will have
opportunity to review the study and recommendations and continue to assist
ARETO with further steps towards making it a reasonably efficient and viable
entity.
1.04      This report is based on information provided by ARETO and on the
findings of a mission composed of Messrs. S. A. Sathar, J. Acevedo-Navas
and R. J. Saunders, which visited Egypt in May 1977.



2. THE SECTOR
Background
2.01      Public telecommunications facilities in Egypt are state-owned.
The Arab Republic of Egypt Telecommunications Organization (ARETO), attached
to the Ministry of Communications, is responsible for the operation, manage-
ment and development of all public telecommunications facilities in the
country. Basic data on existing facilities is given in Annexes 1 and 2.
The Suez Canal Authority, defense service, railways, and civil aviation
authorities do, however, maintain telecommunications facilities for their
own specialized needs.
2.02      Some items of telecommunications equipment and cables are manu-
factured in Egypt. The state-owned Egyptian Telephone Company attached to
the Ministry of Communications produces crossbar telephone switching equip-
ment and telephone instruments under license from L. M. Ericsson of Sweden.
The state-owned Electro Cable, Egypt, attached to the Ministry of Industry,
produces wires and underground cables for telecommunications and electric
power. Both factories are reasonably efficient. Production of the factories
does not however cover the full range of ARETO's needs and ARETO has to rely
on substantial imports of te:Lecommunications equipment and cables.
2.03      The population of Egypt is concentrated in cultivated areas of the
Nile Valley and Delta Region, and is becoming increasingly urbanized. In
fact, in relation to its very limited habitable area, Egypt has one of the
highest population densities in the world, with over 1,000 persons per square
kilometer. In 1916 over 27% of the population lived in the greater Cairo and
Alexandria areas, and overall about 44% resided in towns and cities with a
population greater than 20,000. It is estimated that in 1985 over 50% of
Egypt's population would live in urban areas. This concentration of popu-
lation particularly in the valley of the Nile, the Delta, and the Canal
area has brought considerable pressure on telecommunications facilities
to service its needs. In adidition, given its tourism potential, its large
market, relatively skilled population, low wages, varied raw materials and
a key geographical location .-- which makes it a natural base for industries
that wish to supply the growing domestic and regional markets -- Egypt's
inadequate telecommunications system is a significant constraint on the
development process.
Access to Telephone Service
2.04      Egypt's telephone density of 1.34 telephones per 100 population is
significantly lower than that of other Mideastern countries (Iran - 2.00;
Turkey - 2.52; Syria - 2.30; Iraq - 1.69) (see Annex 3). The telephone
density is about 5.0 in Cairo and 3.4 in Alexandria, compared with Algiers -
9.5; Teheran - 8.2 and Manila - 23.2. The overall average for the country
excluding Cairo and Alexandria is only 0.44. Even primary access to telephone
service, e.g., by a public call office, is still not available in as many as
1,000 village communities.



- 3 -
2.05      Telephone availability 1/ in Egypt has been deteriorating at a
rapid pace during the last decade because of a long period of stagnation in
investment. It declined from 96.9% in 1968 to 56.8% in 1976 (see Annexes 4
and 5). According to the registered telephone waiting list of ARETO, the
number of waiting applicants has risen during the same period from 15,500
to 268,000 2/ which is about 76% of the number of existing connections.
Actual unsatisfied demand, however, is likely to be higher since registered
telephone waiting lists tend to understate demand because they are not kept
in those towns and rural areas where telephone service does not exist and
because the long waiting periods discourage many potential subscribers from
registering. An ordinary applicant in some areas of Cairo has to wait for
as much as 14 years for a telephone. The situation is slightly better in
Alexandria and principal cities of Upper and Lower Egypt.
Quality of Telephone Service
2.06      The quality of existing telephone services is poor.  Because of
insufficient investment over many years, existing telecommunications facili-
ties are grossly inadequate in relation to usage, resulting in severe peak
period traffic congestion in local and long distance networks. In local
exchanges, because of the inadequate supply of direct exchange lines existing
telephones are used by a larger number of persons who keep lines busy a high
proportion of the time for relatively long periods. These busy lines in turn
lead to a high proportion of repeat calls, which worsens system congestion.
Adding to the reasons for call failures are worn out switching equipment
(about 16% of installed capacity) and faults on old and defective cables.
In some exchanges subscribers simply cannot establish connections during
peak traffic hours. The time required to clear technical faults is rela-
tively long and as a result the number of complaints is high.
2.07      Long distance services between Cairo, Alexandria, and five other
cities are provided with Subscriber Trunk Dialing (STD) facilities but
access is limited in Cairo and Alexandria, because of the large number of
subscribers still connected to the old rotary exchanges with technical
limitations. The quality of the STD service between these seven cities is
also poor due partly to problems in local networks, and to inadequacy of
trunk switching equipment at Cairo, which is the hub of the STD network.
The quality of the domestic manual long distance service is also poor with
delays in putting through calls which may vary from three to six hours.
2.08      The international telephone services from Egypt are routed via
a temporary earth station in Cario and via submarine cables from Alexandria
to Italy and Lebanon. The service is reasonable. The quality of present
international telex and telegraph services is satisfactory.
1/   Telephone availability is defined as a percentage of direct exchange
lines (DELs) to the sum of DELs and waiting applicants.
2/   This estimate does not include waiting applicants in small towns cur-
rently served by manual exchanges.



-4-
Users of Telephone Service
2.09      Overall statistics of usage of telephones in Egypt by classifica-
of user type are not available.  A breakdown by type of subscriber for
Cairo at end 1976 shows that, officially, business subscribers represent
47% of the total, Government 10% and residential subscribers 43%. ARETO's
present tariff structure allows for a substantial number of free calls for
residential subscribers. Subscribers other than proper residential get
classified under this category, to avail of this preference, (their exact
category determination being difficult for ARETO) resulting in a much larger
number than actual under this classification. As far as usage is concerned,
also as in other developing countries a sizeable portion of the telephones in
residential premises are for actual business of business related use. Many of
the residential telephones are used for business purposes during off peak
business hours. ARETO estimates that in Cairo approximately 95% of all calls
during peak traffic business hours -- this determines the system costs -- are
business related. The situation in Alexandria is similar to Cairo. In the
smaller towns and villages, the subscribers are almost entirely business or
Government related.
Sector Constraints
2.10      The single major constraint which has impeded progress in the tele-
communication sector has been the lack of adequate investment. 1/ As is man-
datory with all Government Boards in Egypt, ARETO turns over to the Ministry
of Finance any operating surplus in lieu of dividends and the Ministry of
Finance in turn provides AIRETO with budgetary funds for capital investment.
This year to year supply of investment funds however is inconsistent with long
term planning since the an;nual appropriations tend to be more dependent upon
the macroeconomic budget pressures on Government than upon the sector invest-
ment needs or its earnings. ARETO's investment programs and works have been
developed more or less on {an ad hoc basis mainly dictated by availability of
funds which has been far from adequate. In addition, this piecemeal arrange-
ment also distorts the capital structure of ARETO which in turn increases
ARETO's debt burden and delbt service (see para. 6.01). Compounding this is
the fact that ARETO's tariffs have not been changed since 1966 2/ despite
1/   In 1973, 1974 and 1975, Egypt invested respectively an estimated 0.19%,
0.18% and 0.39% of GDP in telecommunications through ARETO. In contrast,
a tabulation of 44 developing countries by the International Telecom-
munication Union revealed that in 1972 three-fourths of the countries
invested more than 0.4% of GDP in telecommunications, over one-half
more than 0.6%, and one-fourth more than 1.0%.  The two countries with
the highest 1972 telecommunications investment relative to GDP were
Philippines with 4.0% and Papua New Guinea with 1.74%.
2/   Only exception is annual rentals for telex which were increased in
July 1976.



domestic price inflation of more than 67% particularly in recent years. 1/
The unit revenue per Direct Exchange Lines (DEL) has also been low. User-
based resources amounted to 20% of the relatively modest investment program
during the 1974-76 period.
2.11      The investment situation has somewhat improved with IDA's support
to the 1975-77 program of ARETO particularly for urgently needed rehabili-
tation but due to the long period of stagnation, and the huge backlog of
demand, the needs for investment to meet demand are very substantial. The
first telecommunications operation recognized also the institutional and
organizational weakness of ARETO and initiated some measures for improve-
ment particularly in day-to-day operational efficiency in the accounting,
administrative and financial areas. Some progress has been achieved but
ARETO still suffers from organizational weakness in several areas. These
have been dealt with in detail in Chapter 5 (paras. 5.02 to 5.05 and 5.09).
Sector Objectives
2.12      Sector objectives have to be related to the nature of the sector
problems, the sector constraints and the pressures of demand for good quality
services on the one hand and to the practicability in the short and long-term
to provide relief. The short-term objectives relate mainly to the organiza-
tional improvements badly needed for efficient functioning in day-to-day
operations, with the undertaking of a modest development program with heavy
emphasis on rehabilitation and improvement of services to existing sub-
scribers. The long-term objectives of the sector are to overcome the very
high backlog in demand, and to develop a sound financial basis and policies
for ARETO to maintain sustained growth to provide satisfactory service at
economic prices. In addition, the sector relationships, e.g., unsatisfactory
financial relationship with Government, overstaffing and other undesirable
features require attention.
2.13      The short-term objectives of the sector specifically could be
stated to cover some basic essential and urgent steps for:
(a) improvement of the existing telephone services par-
ticularly in Cairo and meeting priority demand for
telephone connections in the country;
(b) improvement of the long distance and international
telephone services;
(c) expansion of the telex services; and
(d) consolidation of the steps initiated under the first
project for organizational improvements in the admin-
istrative, financial and accounting areas within ARETO.
I/   The consumer price index in Egypt increased from a base of 100 in
1966/67 to 167 in June 1976.



- 6 -
IDA's proposed credit to the project, forming part of ARETO's investment
program of 1978-80 and institution building measures incorporated in the
project, are intended to meet these objectives (see para. 2.16).
2.14      The longer term cbjectives of overall telecommunication develop-
ment to meet the demand and, reorganize the entire sector need detailed study,
particularly since implementation of some institutional improvements need
a change in the legislation of the country as applicable to all public sec-
tor corporations. Government have appointed Continental Telephone Corpora-
tion (CTC), USA, to deal with all the problems and constraints impeding
the sector's institutional framework, organization and development. This
in-depth study was started May 1, 1977, under a USAID grant of US$4.3 mil-
lion. The principal objectives of the study relating to long-term issues
are (a) reviewing the organization of ARETO and its relation to Government
and to Governmental and other agencies, (b) evaluating the performance of
all existing telecommunications services, and (c) preparing medium (5-year)
and long-term (15-year) master plan for sector development. A summary of
the specific consultant tasks is given in Annex 6. CTC's final report
is due by May 1978. Government and ARETO have agreed to inform IDA on
progress on this study and afford IDA a reasonable opportunity to comment
on the recommendations.
IDA's Role in Sector
2.15      The IDA credit fcr the first telecommunications project in 1975
in this sector was intended to help finance ARETO's 1975-77 program which
provided for some rehabilitation and expansion of the telecommmunications
service. Some improvements in the local and long distance and interna-
tional services is expected as a result of the ongoing works. IDA also
initiated some basic institutional reforms in ARETO's organization in the
planning, accounting and financial areas. Some progress has been achieved
with the introduction of a new headquarters organization (para. 5.03) and some
tariff revision (para. 5.14). IDA also assisted in the preparation of the
terms of reference of study by CTC (para. 2.14). IDA also assisted ARETO and
the Saudi Development Fund in achieving significant cost savings in the
purchase of goods needed for the project by suggesting technical changes to
the specifications for coaxial cables and in the choice of telephone switching
equipment.
2.16      Pending the results of the CTC study and its implementation, which
is not expected to affect ARETO's development program effectively before 1980,
IDA is supporting the efforts of ARETO in the near term objectives of (a) con-
tinued expansion and improvement of existing facilities, and (b) consolidation
of steps for institution building. The proposed second IDA credit will help
finance the most urgent works for rehabilitation and expansion of ARETO during
the 1978-80 period. This no doubt will also improve considerably the quality
of telephone service to existing subscribers and relieve somewhat the pending
demand as well. In additicn, IDA participation is expected to achieve (a)
more systematic planning activities, (b) improvements in the accounting and
financial organization, (c) valuation of assets, and (d) implementation



- 7 -
of tariff revisions to meet the prescribed rate of return and provide for
adequate internal cash generation. Further, IDA will during this period
keep in close touch with ARETO with a view to assisting ARETO in achieving
its long-term objectives following the study and recommendations of CTC.
Of particular interest to IDA on long-term measures are the master plan for
development, the general organization of ARETO, its financial relationship
with Government, the structure of tariffs and the causes for low revenues
per exchange line. Because of the basic sector constraints coupled with
massive investment needs, the effort needed to bring ARETO to a stable and
efficient organization will be arduous and take many years.
3. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
The Program
3.01      ARETO's development program for the period 1978-1980 has been set
out in detail in Annex 7 and includes the following:
(a) ongoing works carried over from the 1975-77 period
including certain items of the project financed under
Credit 548-EGT;
(b) new urgent and essential works constituting the pro-
posed second telecommunications project; and
(c) other new works included in the present program of
ARETO.
This program is estimated to cost about LE 315.9 million (US$452 million)
with a foreign component of about LE 148.9 (US$213) million, details at
Annex 11.  The program is modest in relation to needs, and will meet only
the urgent requirements fQr rehabilitation and expansion of telecommuni-
cations as set out in the short-term sector objectives (para. 2.13). In
addition to the above program, ARETO may undertake some new works as a result
of studies and recommendations of CTC (para. 2.14). Any substantial invest-
ments for these works is expected to fall beyond the 1978-80 period.
ARETO agreed to exchange views with IDA on any additions to the program
exceeding 10% of annual program expenditures.
The Project
3.02      The project consists of the most urgent new works to be carried
out during the 1978-80 period providing for the following installations:
(a) about 102,400 lines of main automatic telephone ex-
change equipment in Cairo, 78,000 lines in other



- 8 -
principal cities, 25,000 lines in small towns and
15,000 lines in. suburban Cairo; 1/
(b) about 6,000 lines of manual telephone systems in
the rural areas;
(c) about 35,000 lines of PABXs;
(d) local and junction cable networks for about 75,000
subscriber connections with accessories and cable
laying equipment;
(e) a coaxial cable Damiette-Mansura;
(f) automatic trunk exchanges of 5,000 lines additional
capacity; and
(g) a 3,000 line telex exchange at Cairo and 2,000 tele-
printers.
Cost Estimates
3.03      The estimated cost of the project is about LE 147.0 million (US$210.0
million) with a foreign exchange component of LE 89.6 million (US$128.0
million). The local costs include custom duties 2/ payable by ARETO on its
imported equipment of about LE 9 million (US$13 millionj. _!The c-ost details
are given in Annex 12 and summarized be7lIow:
1/   Out of these about 30,000 lines in Cairo and 5,900 lines in other
principal cities are for replacement of existing old and obsolete
equipment.
2/   Local taxes are not significant.



--- in LE Million ---    -- in US$ Million --
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Telephone exchanges          24.23   37.81   62.04   34.62   54.01   88.63
Subscriber equipment
(including PABXs)             6.20    6.01   12.21    8.86    8.59   17.45
Cairo city junction
microwave                   2.80    7.70   10.50    4.00   11.00   15.00
Cables and accessories       10.15   12.29   22.44   14.50   17.56   32.06
Buildings for telecom-
munications equipment       3.76    0.24    4.00    5.37    0.34    5.71
Long distance network
(including trunk
exchanges)                 0.20    9.97   10.17    0.29   14.24   14.53
Telegraphs and telex          2.70    5.95    8.65    3.85    8.50   12.35
Contingencies                 7,36    9,63   16,99   1Q,51   13,76   24.27
Total                  57.40   89.6Q l1470Q0   82.QQ  128,00  210.00
Contingencies
3.04      For a substantial part of the telephone exchange equipment which
is to be procured from the Egyptian Telephone Company, detailed designs
have been completed and no increase in quantities is expected. For the Cairo
City junction microwave equipment and a major part of the long distance
network also detailed engineering has been completed.  In the case of cable
networks, the dispersion of these networks between the various exchange areas
permit additional requirements in certain of these to be compensated by
reduction in others.  No physical contingency has been provided for the above
items.  A physical contingency of 4% has been provided in the foreign and
local costs of imported telephone exchanges, PABXs, telegraphs and telex
equipment.  Fixed price contracts have been entered into for some of the
local and long distance telephone equipment and networks.  Price contingencies
have been applied for all other items based on an annual price escalation
of (a) 7.5% in 1978-79 and 7% in 1980 in the foreign costs of equipment, and
(b) 10% in 1978-80 in local costs of labor and civil works. These are con-
sidered adequate. The resulting estimated overall price escalation amounts to
about 10.8% of the estimated base cost plus physical contingencies. Details
of the contingency provisions are given in Annex 13.



- 10 -
Items Proposed for IDA Credit
3.05      The items to be financed by the proposed IDA credit are:
US$ Million
(a) Automatic telephone exchange equipment
60,800 lines                                                  21.5
(b)  PABXs 15,000 lines                                             3.0
(c)  Telephone cables                                              10.0
(d) Accessories for telephone cables and
cable laying equipment                                         2.5
(e)  3,000 line telex exchange Cairo                                3.5
(f)  2,000 teleprinters                                             5.0
(g). Unallocated                                                    7.5
Total             53.0
The remaining foreign costs of about US$75 million for the project are
expected to be available from USAID, France, L. M. Ericsson (Sweden) and
from Government. The list of goods and sources of financing for the proj-
ect is given in Annex 14 and also reviewed in para. 6.11.
Procurement
3.06      ARETO will procure all material and equipment financed by the IDA
credit by international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA's Guide-
lines for Procurement. A 15% preference or the prevailing customs duty
whichever is lower will be applied to bids from local manufacturers.  (see
para. 3.08). Apart from the IDA financed items, ARETO has contracted for
20,000 lines for replacement of Ramses telephone exchange from LME Sweden
and ARETO will procure the rest of the telephone switching equipment mainly
for expansion of existing exchanges from the domestic Egyptian telephone
company which has an annua:L capacity of 30,000 to 35,000 lines per year.
ARETO also intends to procure the small sizes of cables from the domestic
Electro Cables. The price levels of these purchases from the domestic
factories are satisfactory.
Execution
3.07     ARETO's staff have the capability of planning, designing and
execution of most works under the project. Civil works execution by
contractors in the past for ARETO have been delayed due to the low
priority assigned by Government and Government agreed to give priority
to ARETO's civil works in the project (para. 5.02). The main



- 11 -
works concerned are the telephone exchange buildings at Kubba and Maadi in
Cairo and some locations in the provinces and construction of duct network for
cables in urban areas. For the 30,000 lines of electronic telephone switch-
ing equipment to be installed in Egypt, ARETO will need assistance to prepare
suitable specificationst and supervision of execution and commissioning, ARETO
has agreed to assign these to engineering experts with adequate qualifications
and experience. The installation of the new Cairo electronic telex exchange
will be done with assistance from the- suppliers. The PCM microwave junction
network for Cairo financed by USAID will be executed under a turnkey contract,
A schedule of construction for major works in the project is given in Annex 15.
The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.
Disbursement
3.08      The proposed credit will be disbursed for 100% of foreign expendi-
tures for imported equipment and 100% of ex-factory prices of locally manu-
factured items (cables-and accessories and some small quantities of telephone
switching equipment), which may possibly be awarded to local factories;
however, it is unlikely that the total value of such locally manufactured items
would be significant. The closing date for the credit is expected to be
December 31, 1981.
4. JUSTIFICATION
4.01      The justification of ARETO's total investment program is dealt with
in this chapter, the IDA project being an integral part of the program.
Development Through Communication
4.02      As economic activity increases, communication needs grow, and as
Egypt becomes increasingly developed and urbanized, the least cost means of
communication for an increasing proportion of the population becomes some
form of telecommunications. With rising urbanization and expanding private
and public sector economic development, the supply of telecommunications
facilities in Egypt has fallen far short of demand. This has been caused by
stagnation in telephone expansion over a decade; the average rate of growth
in telephone connections was only about 3.7% per year between 1967 and 1977
as compared with a normal 10 to 14% per year in most developing countries.
In Egypt, with rapidly expanding telephone waiting lists, connection waiting
periods of up to fourteen years, and call failure rates in some areas of over
75%, the production and distribution of goods, and the provision and adminis-
tration of services are being adversely constrained. 1/ This is creating a
major bottleneck in the development process and causing scarce resources to
be wasted on more costly means of communication, or wasted because adequate
communication does not take place.
1/  As in other developing countries telephones and telex in Egypt are
primarily used as intermediate inputs in the production of goods and
services (see para. 2.09).



- 12 -
4.03      The proposed project includes significant rehabilitation of exist-
ing facilities and the expansion of local and long distance facilities with
a significant increase of PABX equipment. The project will enable more in-
LLase usage of local lines, and additional lines for both automatic and
manual connections to (a) help slow the growth of telephone waiting lists
and eliminate telex waiting lists, (b) reduce loss of time caused by having
to make repeated call attempts, (c) reduce waste of resources consumed by
higher cost means of communications, (d) reduce losses of production and
marketing efficiency resulting from lack of communication, (e) satisfy part
of the specialized communications needs necessary to exploit the potential
for expansion of tourism, and (f) facilitate improvement in transport and
delivery service in both urban and rural areas. Furthermore, to the extent
that a more efficient and wider access to telephone service for Government
and business results in the substitution of telephone communication for
face-to-face communication, the growth of transport and energy costs will
be slowed, as well as automobile traffic congestion in the urban areas.
Demand Forecast
4.04      Given the rapid growth in local telephone waiting lists (from
15,500 in 1968 to 268,000 in 1976) and the poor quality of both local and
long distance service, it is impossible to forecast accurately the demand
for telecommunications in Egypt. Current and historic traffic totals are
of limited assistance since (a) experience in other countires, and an ob-
served immediate four-fold increase in long distance traffic in Egypt on
routes where limited STD have been introduced suggests that as quality of
service improves, usage increases rapidly since the telephone becomes the
least cost means of communication for an increasing variety of productive
uses, and (b) the official telephone waiting lists in Egypt with their asso-
ciated waiting periods of up to 14 years, undoubtedly do not reflect a con-
siderable amount of latent demand.
4.05      ARETO has estimated that the demand for local telephone lines,
which they define as the sum of direct exchange lines and official waiting
lists, will increase from 620,000 in early 1976 to 844,000 in 1980 (see
Annexes 4 and 5). While this is thought to be a conservative forecast,
its lack of accuracy is not a binding constraint on the 1978-1980 expansion
program since the planned increase in DELs over the period will not even
satisfy the demand shown on current waiting lists.
Least Cost Solution
4.06      The least cost solution to the provision of telecommunications
depends on (a) having made the correct technical and economic decisions,
initially when the networks were planned, and (b) following the optimum
path in the design, dimensioning and timing of the many installations which
comprise continuing system expansion.
4.07      The local telephone and telex network designs and plant follow
accepted practices to minimize costs. Continued use of locally manufactured



- 13 -
telephone switching equipment for a major part of the local exchange expan-
sion program is justified in the case of Egypt by the need for standardiza-
tion, savings in foreign exchange, lead time in supplies, and local employ-
ment potential. Import of substantial quantity of local exchange equipment
is required to meet the needs over and above the present production of the
factory and also to introduce electronic switching equipment in ARETO's net-
work.
4.08      The dimensioning and timing of the works under the program, of which
the project is an integral part, are based on individual engineering studies
by ARETO designed to determine the least cost means for improving services
to existing subscribers and meeting new demands.
Return on Investment
4.09      The internal financial rate of return on the investment program,
defined as the discount rate which equalizes the stream of expected reve-
nues (based upon existing tariffs, at constant 1977 prices) attributable to
the program with the stream of capital and operating costs (at 1977 price
levels), is 10% (Annex 17). Assuming consumers are willing to pay the in-
creased tariffs which ARETO proposes to charge during the program period,
the internal financial rate of return is 16%. Sensitivity analysis applied
to this calculation shows that under the most unfavorable combinations of main
parameters (increase of 10% each in capital and operating costs, 10% decrease
in revenue and two-year delay in project completion) the rate of return would
not be less than 12%.
4.10      With the increased tariffs, labor shadow priced at 75% of going wage
rates and local taxes and duties excluded, the economic rate of return becomes
20%. However, the estimate of benefits based on revealed willingness to pay
current tariff levels is a significant underestimate of total program bene-
fits, since it does not include the consumer surplus which callers or sub-
scribers receive. Attempts to measure some portion of the consumer surplus
were made by (a) observing the historical willingness of subscribers to pay
for telephone service, and (b) taking into account the apartment and office
rent differentials which some consumers now pay to have a telephone, and
estimating the value of time waste in Cairo and Alexandria on unsuccessful
calls. Using these alternative methods, the quantifiable economic rate of
return on the program is approximately 23% (Annex 17). This rate of return
is still, however, a significant understatement of true program benefits
since it does not include other elements of the consumer surplus, such as
the savings in time lost throughout the country through wasted call attempts,
nor benefits incurred by receivers of calls and by all other subscribers
when additional subscribers pay to join the system, nor by those who bene-
fit indirectly through the better administration of regional development,
health, transport, and agricultural programs, and increased urban and re-
gional business and Government efficiency.



- 14 -
4.11      The calculated economic rate of return is further understated be-
cause, while the costs are those for extending the network and providing
facilities in newly served areas now, the full benefits are not included
because the available capacity of various components of equipmeat instJs.
under the current program will be fully realized only when additional in-
vestment is made in the future.
Other Economic Aspects
4.12      Despite the foregoing, it is unlikely that optimal investment de-
cisions are being made in the sector; in particular, the methods currently
used to deal with the massive waiting lists probably preclude the maximiza-
tion of net benefits of sectoral development. While the internal economic
rate of return on the program of 23% sufficiently justifies the investment,
the problem remains that thie acceleration of investment by an amount suffi-
cient to meet the demand fcr new telephone connections in the foreseeable
future is not feasible. It is essential therefore, that pricing and tele-
phone allocation policies be directed toward maximizing the benefits of that
investment which is available. This is unlikely to be achieved as long as
services are primarily allocated by administrative means. While these means
can be improved, continuing efforts must be made to increase annual rentals
and connection charges, particularly in Cairo and Alexandria. Price does not
currently play a significant role in rationing telephone connections or in
assuring that telephones are available for the most productive purposes.
The tariff increases proposed by ARETO are a first step toward the goals of
compressing demand and increasing internal resource mobilization for tele-
communications expansion, but stronger measures need to be taken in order
to deal with this critical issue. When the findings of the CTC studies are
available, IDA will explore with Government and ARETO further pricing measures
aimed at influencing the allocation of services and increasing internal
resource mobilization for telecommunications expansion.
4.13      Regarding telephone allocation, ARETO's practice has been that in
exchanges where there is less than 10% of spare capacity available, tele-
phone connections are allocated to some priority users by a committee com-
posed of the Chairman and top officials of ARETO. Priority had been given
to categories for which benefits were felt to be greatest (hospitals, doctors,
schools, police, army, press, government offices, airlines and offices of
engineers, lawyers and accountants). Most business firms desiring a tele-
phone had to either (i) press for special consideration by the committee,
(ii) rent a furnished office or apartment already having a telephone (so
that the financial benefits of telephone shortages accrue to private land-
lords), or (iii) wait many years for telephone connection. This deficiency
was partially overcome recently by ARETO expanding its allocation policy to
give priority also to large business establishments. ARETO agreed to main-
tain this priority system wrhich ensures continued access to telephone service
to at least the largest business firms.



- 15 -
5. THE BENEFICIARY
Organization and Management
5.01      ARETO was established and is governed by Presidential Decree No. 709
of August, 1957, as amended by Decree No. 457 of February 1966. It is admin-
istered by a nine-member Board of Directors, consisting of the Chairman, who
is ARETO's Chief Executive Officer, two representatives of the Ministry of
Communications, three nominated by the Minister of Communications, one repre-
sentative of the Ministry of Finance and two senior officers of ARETO. The
Chairman is appointed by the President of the Republic. With the appointment
of a new chairman and three vice chairmen in 1977 (para. 5.03), top and middle-
management levels are staffed by competent and experienced officers.
5.02      As a Government Board, ARETO is empowered with adequate authority
for day-to-day administration and operations. However, ARETO has not had con-
trol over the execution of civil works. Under previous arrangements ARETO
indicated its requirements to the Government agency responsible for planning,
engineering and supervision of civil works for Government Boards, which in
turn entrusted the works to contractors for execution. Considerable delays
occurred in execution which were accentuated by the diversion of labor and
building materials to higher priority government works, e.g., Suez Canal area
rehabilitation. This situation has improved considerably. Beginning January 1,
1978, ARETO has been free to call directly for bids both from public and pri-
vate sector construction companies. In addition, Government has agreed that
ARETO's civil works in the project will be given priority by Government to
avoid the delays that occurred in the past. The question of adequate control
and organization within ARETO to deal with civil works from design to execution
is a long-term issue which will have to await the results of the study by
consultants (see para. 2.14).
5.03      ARETO's internal organizational structure has undergone some
change since the appraisal of the first project in 1975. The structure
of the new organization which became effective in July 1977 is shown in
Annex 18. One of the main changes is the creation of three posts of vice
chairmen in charge of projects, finance and administration, and operations.
This action conforms generally with our understanding with ARETO under the
first project and should enhance ARETO's operating efficiency. An initial
step in the organization for effective planning as required under the first
project has also been taken by placing in the new set-up, the planning for all
individual sectors such as local telephones, transmission and telex, etc., in
one division under the Vice Chairman, Projects. This is a substantial step
forward and in accordance with the agreement in the first project. The
planning unit within ARETO should be capable of identifying priority demand,
determining least cost solutions and undertaking works which together could
contribute most towards improvement and expansion of services and bring in
optimum benefits. It will need to continuously review the Master Plan under
preparation by CTC (see para. 2.14) and also prepare the annual development
programs. Progress in implementation of ARETO's undertaking under the first



- 16 -
project to strengthen its planning unit to provide for effective planning on a
continuous basis still needs periodical review by IDA to get this satisfac-
torily implemented by AREI0.
5.04      The new organization does not, however, provide for a division to
deal with all accounting matters which are at present performed by various
separate units. Finance has been treated as a minor function, delegated to
one of the sections under a Vice Chairman. There is need to coordinate and
consolidate the finance and accounting functions to ensure effective manage-
ment information for decision-making purposes. CTC is required to review
these matters and IDA will keep in touch with ARET0 to review the recommen-
dations to overcome this situation (para. 2.14).
Staff
5.05      ARETO's staff at year-end 1973 during appraisal of the first proj-
ect was about 41,000 with about 465,000 installed telephones, giving a ratio
of about 88 employees per 1,000 telephones. ARETO's staff had increased by
1976 to about 51,990 (Annex 19) but the number of telephones have increased
at a much lower pace to about 507,000 giving a ratio of about 103 employees
per 1,000 telephones. ARETO, like other Government Boards, is subject
to the Government policy of providing jobs for university graduates and
returning military personnel, whether they are needed or not. Management is
aware that present staff levels are in excess of requirements and is engaged
in the preparation of studies to rationalize the situation and increase
productivity. Pending the results of this in-house effort and of the study by
CTC who are also reviewing this matter, ARETO's policy is to freeze the number
of its staff at present levels and to limit its growth to that required by its
expanding operations. ARETO thus projects its staff to increase to 65,000 by
the end of 1980. Because of the substantial expansion in the number of tele-
phones in service which ARE3TO is expected to achieve by 1980, this should
result in the gradual lowering of the employee/telephone ratio to 92 employees
per 1,000 telephones, which is acceptable.
Training
5.06      ARET0 operates the Technical Training and Research Institute
(TTRI) with training facilities in Cairo and six regional branches. Ini-
tially assisted by UNDP experts and fellowships, TTRI is now fully staffed
by Egyptian instructors. Engineers, technicians and skilled workers are
trained in the Cairo facility, and telephone, telegraph and radio operators
are trained in the regional centers. TTRI also conducts refresher (on-the
job) courses in various disciplines. Annex 20 shows by category the staff
trained at the TTRI between 1972 and 1976.



- 17 -
5.07      There has been a great demand for Egyptian engineers, technicians
and skilled workers in other parts of the Arab world. As such, a substantial
number of ARETO-trained staff are attracted and take up jobs outside the
country with much higher salary and benefits. This is, however, a country-
wide problem affecting all sectors and skills. While the drain of trained
staff no doubt affects overall operational efficiency, ARETO's existing train-
ing facilities are considered adequate to deal with needed manpower withour
causing serious disruption.
Accounts and Audit
5.08      ARETO's accounting follows the Standardized Accounting System (SAS)
applicable to all Government Boards since 1967. This system is on the accrual
principle and is satisfactory.
5.09      Plant records are divided between the engineering and auditing depart-
ments without proper reconciliation. As a result, plant in service tends to be
understated in the accounting statements. Plant records and other accounts were
also incomplete. For example, some of ARETO's assets came as grants and were
carried on the books at LE 1. This asset under-valuation was only partly com-
pensated by other assets acquired at higher than normal costs. Under the terms
of the existing IDA credit, ARETO agreed to complete valuation of its assets.
Valuation through December 31, 1976, has been completed by an official and in-
dependent ad hoc committee (see para. 4 of Annex 26 for details). Arthur Young
& Company, sub-contractors of the CTC consultants, are reviewing the accounting
and financial management control systems, following which further significant
improvements in these areas can be expected.
5.10      In accordance with its enabling legislation and SAS procedures, ARETO's
accounts are pre-audited internally and post-audited on a continuing basis by
the Government's Central Auditing Organization (CAO). Under the existing IDA
credit, ARETO agreed annually to provide IDA audited financial statements together
with the auditor's report and recommendations.  These audits have been carried out
and ARETO has made the reports available to IDA, although late in respect of
audits through 1975. ARETO agreed to continue the existing audit covenant.
Billing and Collection
5.11      Despite inefficient billing and collection procedures and policies,
but perhaps reflecting fear of disconnections during the protracted period
of scarcity of new telephone connections, the overall level of receivables
from private subscribers has been reasonable relative to the established
billing cycle. Billing is done manually except in Cairo where there is both
manual and computerized billing. Also, a three-month billing cycle and allowing
accounts to age up to three months before they are considered delinquent
results in charges accumulating for up to six months before disconnection
is considered. Thus, there is lack of effective management control over
billing and collections and, as a result, the amount of billing adjustments
and write-offs, though not yet critical, has been increasing. Improvement,
however, calls for changes in management policies and accounting procedures
but implementation of the latter will take some time. The CTC consultants
are also expected to formulate remedial actions in these areas.



- 18 -
5.12      Receivables from Government subscribers had been deteriorating
through 1975. These arrears had been increasing gradually since 1957
(the time of ARETO's inception) as a result of (a) difference between
amounts billed and lesser amounts approved for telecommunications services
in the budgets of the various Government subscribers, and (b) uncon-
scionable delays in settling usually petty disputes over billings and which
on occasions have held up settlement of as much as a full year's billing.
Under the terms of the existing IDA credit, Government and ARETO agreed to
identifythe disputed arrears by June 30, 1976 and to settle the outstanding
balances by December 31, 1977. At the end of 1976, Government established a
blocked account in the Central Bank with the estimated total value of the
arrears (LE 10 million by then) pending resolution of the underlying disputes
by a Government committee. Thus far, ARETO has received payment from the
blocked account totalling LE 6.5 million. Service bills for the remaining
LE 3.5 million are still under the scrutiny of the Government committee whose
work is not expected to end before the end of 1978 because of the procedural
complexities involved. In addition, to reduce the amount of overdue receivables
from public sector entities, public sector consumers are now required to make
advance monthly payments of one-twelfth of their budget allocations for ARETO's
services. Moreover, with an improved budgeting system, ARETO's service bills
are now being paid on a timely manner. Government and ARETO agreed (i) that
all overdue debts by public agencies for services rendered by ARETO through
December 31, 1977 will be settled by December 31, 1978, and (ii) that all
future debts of Government subscribers for services rendered by ARETO will
be settled within three months from the date of billing.
Insurance
5.13      Except for motor vehicles, ARETO does not provide insurance coverage
on fixed assets for such risks as fire and theft. The cost of this coverage
is high and ARETO management feels that the wide geographical dispersion of
the assets provides a reasonable diversification of the risks. Moreover, as
a Government Board, ARETO would be assisted by Government if serious losses
occur. This is in line with the approach adopted by many state-owned tele-
communications entities and is acceptable.
Tariffs
5.14      A summary of the principal telecommunications tariffs in effect on
January 1, 1977 is given in Annex 21. They have been virtually unchanged
since 1967 1/. The appraisal mission for the existing IDA credit found:
(a) the income per DEL significantly lower than would be expected from a
broad examination of the tariffs and the reportedly high traffic which was
causing congestion in various parts of the network; (b) certain anomalies in
1/ The only exception during this period has been telex rentals, which
were increased from LE 200 to LE 600 effective July 1, 1976.



- 19 -
tariff structure which were not of major significance from the revenue-earning
point of view; and (c) some restrictions--technical and administrative--on
subscriber access to the STD network which in this sector is a significant
source of revenue. Accordingly, IDA required Government and ARETO to review
the tariffs and subscriber regulations, investigate causes for the low revenues,
and implement remedial measures. Government, after consulting with IDA, has
entrusted these studies to the CTC consultants, whose report is expected by
May 1978 (para. 2.14).
5.15      Raising the tariff levels of ARETO is required to ensure adequate
debt service coverage and a minimum acceptable contribution to capital invest-
ment. Therefore, under prodding by IDA in preparation for the substantially
increased level of capital investment called for by ARETO's urgent 1978-80
rehabilitation/expansion program, ARETO's Board of Directors in June 1977
recommended Government approval l/ of the revenue improvement measures de-
tailed in Annex 22. The change to the parallel market rate for billing inter-
national services (measure No. 1) was put into effect July 1, 1977. ARETO
advised IDA that the proposed doubling of telegraph service charges (No. 2)
and of telephone installation, transfer and other similar fees (No. 3) and
the increases in telephone trunk charges and trunk line leases (No. 4) will
become effective immediately after Government sanction, but that imple-
mentation of the remaining measures would have to wait until service in th
Cairo area has improved substantially, which is expected by the end of 1978.
These measures together will gradually increase ARETO's revenues, reaching
incremental revenues of 63% by 1980. Since implementation of all these measures
is required to ensure a minimum acceptable user-based contribution to expansion
(para. 6.10) and a satisfactory financial performance by ARETO, Government and
ARETO agreed to implement measures Nos. 2, 3 and 4 as a condition of effec-
tiveness of the proposed loan, thus allowing necessary time for the required
administrative approval procedure. Also, taking into account ARETO's plans
for improvements of telecommunications services, Government and ARETO have con-
firmed their intentions to implement the remaining tariff measures (or their
equivalent in terms of their impact on ARETO's revenues) by January 1, 1979.
6. FINANCES
Background
6.01      ARETO's financial performance reflects largely the institutional
framework under which it operates. As a Government Board it has no control
over tariffs and over the bulk of its operating expenses--personnel costs.
Its main financial problem--high indebtedness and hence debt service--stems
from governmental stipulations and policies, specifically from its financial
relationship with Government. Government is entitled to receive ARETO's net
1/ In Egypt, any revision of the telecommunications tariffs must first be
recommended by ARETO's Board of Directors, then approved by the Minister
of Communications and finally authorized by Presidential decree .



- 20 -
income in lieu of dividends regardless of its level relative to Government's
investment in ARETO, or ARPETO's investment needs. The Ministry of Finance in
turn provides ARETO with investment funds in the form of debt. Because of the
Ouiden of debt service on an ever increasing indebtedness, the level of ARETO's
net generation of funds available for financing investment is materially lower
than it would be under more conventional financing arrangements. These
institutional financial constraints of ARETO -- common to all Egyptian Govern-
ment-owned corporations -- are being reviewed by the CTC consultants but
their resolution requires legislative reform which will take time. Pending
such review and legislation, IDA's immediate objectives are limited to assuring
adequate financing for the urgent rehabilitation/expansion program (including
an acceptable level of user-based resource mob ilization) and the maintenance
of otherwise financially acceptable standards by the beneficiary.
6.02      Annexes 23 through 26 contains financial statements covering the
period 1973-80 together with details on ARETO's finances which supplement the
following summary analysis.
Financial Performance
6.03      ARETO's past financial performance has been mixed.  In 1973-75, its
financial rate of return on historically valued assets averaged 9%, (below
the 11% minimum agreed under the existing IDA credit 1/). ARETO's revenue
per DEL averaged only US$137 per year in the 1973-76 period while corresponding
revenues for countries at a similar stage of development were as follows
(in US$ equivalent).
Ghana    Pakistan    Ethiopia    India
211       224          236        253
The positive rates of return, however, indicate that ARETO's low unit
revenues are partly compensated by similarly low unit operating expenses.
6.04      The low returns attained in 1973-75 stemmed from imbalance between
the staffing and pricing practices. Increases in the number of employees 2/
were allowed to outpace by far increases in productive assets (DELs) 3/
while tariff levels were kept unchanged. By year-end 1976, ARETO's staff
1/   See para. 6.05.
2/   Averaging 8% per year.
3/   Averaging 2% per year.



- 21 -
exceeded the employee/telephone ratio attained at the beginning of 1973 by some
9,700 employees, or by about 23%. ARET0 explained that the disproportionate
staff increase resulted largely from Government employment policies (para. 5.05)
which accounted for an increase of an estimated 8,900 employees or 92% of the
excess staffing. It is estimated that the cost of the excess staff over the
1973-76 period amounted to 14% of the operating expenses and 8% of the operating
revenues. Without this expense ARETO's financial rate of return would have
ranged from 10 to 19% on the historically-valued assets, averaging a more
acceptable 12%.
6.05      ARETO's earnings improved substantially in 1977.  With the adoption,
effective July 1, 1977, of the parallel market rate of exchange (then LE 1
US$1.43) for purposes of billing in domestic currency its foreign currency
based international telecommunications services, rather than the much lower
official rate of exchange (LE 1 = US$2.56), which had been used up to that time,
ARETO's rate of return is expected to reach 18% in 1977 and not to fall below
14% during the project construction period.l/. Thus, ARETO is now in compliance
with the revenue covenant.
6.06      Debt service coverage has been adequate.  Conventional liquidity
(current ratio) has been ample. Immediate liquidity, however, had been poor
in 1973-75 as evidenced by negative or minimal cash balances. ARETO has coped
with this situation by withholding payments (issued checks subject to cash
availability). The action on Government arrears mentioned in para. 5.12,
restored ARETO's immediate liquidity to an adequate level by year-end 1976.
Financing Plan
6.07      A summary of ARETO's capital investment requirements during the
1978-80 project construction period and of the financing plan to meet them is
as follows:
1/ Without taking into account other revenue improvement measures to be
implemented during the project period, the rate of return, when these
are also implemented, are forecast to be higher (see para. 6.13).



- 22-
% of
LE          US$         Total
(millions)
INVESTMENT REQUIREMENTS
Ongoing works                              86.97        125          23
Proposed second IDA project               147.00        210          39
Other works                                81.91        117          22
Total construction                   315.88        452          84
Capitalized expenses                         7.23        10           2
Increase in net working capital            53-43         76 814
376.54         3         100
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Gross internal cash generation            193,38        276          51
Less debt service                        (143.70)      (205)        (38)
User-based resources                        49.68         71         13
Foreign financing:
Ongoing works                         34.70         50           9
Proposed second IDA project 1/        81.64        117          22
Other works                           20.64         29           5
Total foreign financing         136.98        196          36
Government financing:
Government loans                     196.11        280          52
Less net income transfer              (6.23)        (9)         (2)
Government financing 2/         189.88        271          50
376.54       538         100
6.08      The investment requirements for construction correspond to ARETO's
program as set forth in Chapter 3 and Annex 7. Though modest relative to the
unsatisfied demand, programomed investment is nevertheless substantial. It
1/   Excludes US$5.3 million of the proposed IDA credit which is expected to
be disbursed in 1981.
2/   Because of other inflows (debt service and customs duties), Government's
net financing of the sector amounts to LE 94 millions (para. 6.18), or
24% of the sector's investment requirements.



- 23 -
amounts to 1.5 times the estimated value of the gross fixed assets at year-
end 1977. More significantly, it represents a rapid and sizeable acceleration
in sector investment; it would average LE 108 million per year, compared with
LE 35 million in 1975-77 and LE 7 million in 1973-74. Capitalized expenses
reflect ARETO's practice of charging a portion of the operating costs (9% of
the staff expense) to construction.
6.09      The financing plan is based on:
(a) full implementation of the revenue improvement measures in
Annex 22 or their equivalent (para. 5.14);
(b) full foreign financing of those goods and services in the
program suitable for ICB or for bilateral, supplier and
regional fund financing; and
(c) Government meeting the financing shortfalls with long-term
funds.
6.10      Provided program execution develops as anticipated (Annex 15) and
expected productivity gains in unit revenues 1/ materialize, user-based
resources would be sufficient to provide funds from internal resources to
finance 13% of total investment. For purposes of this calculation, opera-
ting surpluses are not shown as a deduction in arriving at internal cash
generation in view of the special arrangements in Egypt where surpluses are
turned over to Government and returned to ARETO in the form of debt. Although
somewhat low in absolute terms, this level of self-financing is acceptable
considering: (a) the magnitude of the rehabilitation/expansion investment,
which is needed to compensate in part for a long period of stagnation in
sector investment; (b) that the benefits of the ongoing and project works only
begin to accrue in a significant way in 1979 and build up materially (more
than double 2/) after the project construction period; and (c) that the
gradual implementation of the revenue-improvement measures provided for in
the financing plan means a rise in the June 1977 overall tariff level of 63%
by 1979, resulting in increasing annual contributions to investment (para.
6.13).
6.11      The direct and indirect foreign exchange costs of the program
total US$213 million (LE 148.9 million equivalent, Annex 11). Of these,
US$201 million represent goods and services suitable for foreign financing
on acceptable terms. The remaining US$12 million represents the foreign
exchange costs of raw materials and component parts for the Government-
owned Electro Cable and Egyptian Telephone Company, Damiette-Mansura cable
and of buildings needed to meet ongoing works (US$6 million) and project
1/ See para. B.2 on page 2 of Annex 26.
2/ See para. 4 in page 1 of Annex 17.



- 24 -
requirements (US$6 millioin). During negotiations, Government agreed to
provide this financing. Financing for the foreign exchange costs of the
ongoing works (US$50 million) has been obtained. This includes US$15
million to be drawn down under the existing IDA credit. Planned foreign
exchange borrowings for the proposed second IDA project (US$122 million)
consist of the proposed US$53 million IDA credit (to be on-lent for a 20-
year term including a three and one-half year grace period and to bear
interest at the Bank rate), US$12 million from USAID, US$16.5 million in
bilateral credit from France and suppliers' credits totaling US$40.5
million from L. M. Ericsson of Sweden. The latter includes about US$21
million for power plant and ancillary equipment to be imported by ARETO to
complement supplies from the Egyptian Telephone Company, an L. M. Ericsson
licensee. These financing arrangements have been finalized. Financing for
the foreign exchange costs of the other works in the program (US$29 million)
while not yet assured is expected to become available.  Possible sources
thus far include the Arab Fund, the Saudi Fund and France. These works
will have to be reduced to the extent the required funds cannot be raised.
Such reduction in investment would not however affect ARETO's earning
capacity from the project works. Details of all the above-mentioned foreign
exchange borrowing are given in Annex 26.
6.12      The US$280 million in loans from Government represent the gross
residual financing required to carry out ARETO's full rehabilitation/ex-
pansion program. Of this, US$88 million would be required for the other
works leaving US$192 million needed for the ongoing and project works.
Government agreed to provide this financing. Of this total of US$280
million, US$150 million wcould be generated by the sector (US$9 million
representing conversion in,to debt of ARETO's net earnings, US$97 million
from debt service and US$40 million from customs duties, see Fiscal Impact,
para. 6.18) leaving US$134 million to be provided from other budgetary
resources. Government loans are expected to be available to ARETO as in
the past for an average 13-year term, including a one-year grace period
and bearing interest at 5% per year. The apparent element of subsidy
resulting from this interest rate would be more than offset by the arrange-
ment under which ARETO's surpluses are paid to Government and given back
to ARETO as debt on which interest is levied.
Financial Outlook
6.13      Revenues have been projected based on ARETO's experience and
taking into account plant additions and improvements, particularly of
long-distance services provided for in the program. Operating expense
projections include an inflation factor of 10% per year. A summary of the
expected results excluding the effect of tariff measures Nos. 2 through 7
discussed in para. 5.15 (Column A) and including it (Column B) follows:



- 25 -
1978            1979             1980
LAI     (B)     (A)      (B)      (A)    (B)
Operating revenues - LE million   56        58      71       92       93    120
Operating income - LE million      22       25      29       50       41      68
Operating ratio -                  60       57      59       45       56      43
Financial rate of return 1/ - %   17        20      14       25       14      24
Contribution to expansion - %       0        2      (2)      14        1      23
Debt service coverage - times       1.0      1.1     0.9      1.4      1.0    1.5
Debt/equity ratio                   3.5      3,3     4,2      3.0      4.5    2.6
6.14      The financial projections indicate that without the implementation
of the proposed tariff measures Nos. 2 through 7 in Annex 22, ARETOts pro-
spective financial performance would be unsatisfactory. While the financial
rate of return on historically-valued assets would not fall below 14%,
internal generation of funds for investment would average a negative 1% over
the period and debt service coverage would be inadequate.
6.15      The financial projections also indicate that implementation of
the proposed tariff measures would improve ARETOts prospective financial
performance considerably. Substantially increased revenues would result in
significant, progressive lowering of the operating ratio, considerably in-
creased rates of return on historically-valued assets, rapidly increasing
self-financing capability and adequate debt service coverage. The distortion
in ARETOts capital structure marked by unusually high levels of indebtedness
in either case of course reflects to a large extent the existing Government
financing arrangements.
6.16      The problem remains that ARETO's earning capacity is yet unclear.
Low unit revenues continue to be somewhat inconsistent with the prevailing
tariffs (para. 5.14). Earning capacity in relation to currently-valued
assets is not known because revaluation of assets to reflect price changes
has not been made. Finally, ARETO's overall financial performance is also
clouded by the existing Government/ARETO financial relationship. These
issues are being reviewed by Arthur Young & Company, subcontractors of the
CTC consultants. In these circumstances, it is difficult to accurately set
a rate of return which would provide ARETO with the 13% minimum acceptable
self-financing for the program (para. 6.10). Therefore, to achieve this
target reliance is being placed on specific tariff actions (para. 5.15) and
on ARETO's policy to limit staff growth (para. 5.05). During credit
1/ On historically-valued net assets.



- 26 -
negotiations ARETO agreed to continuing the undertaking in the first Credit
Agreement calling for tar:Lffs which will provide revenues sufficient to cover
(a) operating expenses, (b) debt service, (c) adequate working capital and
reserves for contingencies, and (d) finance a reasonable portion of the capital
expenditures. In addition, ARETO agreed to earn, as a minimum, a rate of
return on revalued assets of not less than 11%. For this purpose, ARETO will
establish by December 31, 1978, the net current value of its assets at
December 31, 1976, and at the same time agree with Government and the Associa-
tion on principles appropriate to the telecommunications sector to be applied
in subsequent periodic revaluations to reflect price changes.
6.17       Indicators thait will help monitor ARETO's performance are given in
Annex 27.
Fiscal Impact
6.18       ARETO's operations during the 1978-80 project construction period
are expected to require a net cash investment from Government of LE94 million,
as follows (in LE millions):
Total
1978   1979   1980   1978-80
Outflow
Loans                       71      65     60       196
Inflows
Interest                     7      11     15        33
Amortization of
principal                  6      12     17        35
Customs duties              14       9      5        28
Transfers of ARETO's
net income                 -       1      5         6
27     33     41       102
Net Outflow           44      32     19        94
Increased earnings from this investment should eliminate net outflows in
1981-82 and produce net inflows thereafter.



- 27 -
Risks and Safeguards
6.19      Despite tariff level increases of 63% and full foreign financing
of those goods and services in the program suitable for ICB or for
bilateral supplies and regional fund financing, there would be net demands
upon Government financial resources averaging US$44 million per year. In
view of this, there is a risk that construction might be curtailed or
extended in time. However, the high priority accorded by Government to
rehabilitation and development of the sector is expected to provide ade-
quate incentive for the timely provision of funds. Moreover, telecommu-
nications projects comprise a large number of technically independent
works and delay in completion of some works does not generally prevent
utilization of those that are completed.  Nevertheless, agreement was
reached on giving priority to the civil works for the project (para. 3.07).
6.20       Uncertainties also exist regarding timely implementation of the
tariff increases contemplated for 1979 in the financing plan.  On the other
hand, the gradual approach to such increases with timing acceptable to
Government, and the demands of the program upon Government financial resources
at a time of economic strain in Egypt, should mitigate this potential problem.
At any rate, assurances have been obtained on the timely implementation of
the tariff increases (para. 5.15).



- 28 -
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONMENDATIONS
7.01      During credit negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  ARETO agreed to:
(i)  exchange views with IDA on financially significant
additions to the program (para. 3.01);
(ii) assign to engineering experts with adequate quali-
ficiations and experience the preparation of tender
documents of 30,000 lines electronic exchanges and
the supervision of their installation (para. 3.07);
(iii)  provide IDA with audited financial statements to-
gether with auditors' reports within six months
from each fiscal year-end (para. 5.10);
(b) Government agreed to:
(i)  give priority to civil works for the project
(para. 5.02);
(ii) provide Egyptian suppliers and ARETO, as appro-
priate, with the foreign currency requirements
for the project (para. 6.11);
(iii) provide ARETO with the residual domestic currency
financing required for the project (para. 6.12);
(c) Government and ARETO agreed to:
(i)  provide IDA with a copy of the final report of the
CTC consultants and afford IDA a reasonable oppor-
tunity to exchange views on the recommendations
(paras. 2.14, 5.03, 5.05, 5.14 and 6.16);
(ii) maintain its present priority of access to tele-
phone connections for large business establish-
ments (para. 4.13);
(iii)  settle arrears from Government subscribers as of
December 31, 1977, by December 31, 1978, and cause
all future charges for services to Government sub-
scribers to be settled within three months from
date of billing (para. 5.12);



- 29 -
(iv) implement revenue improvement measures Numbers 4
to 7 in Annex 22, or their equivalent in terms of
incremental revenues (para. 5.15); and
(v) set and maintain ARETO's tariffs at levels suffi-
cient to earn at least an 11% return on revalued
net assets in operation. (For this purpose, ARETO
will establish the net current value of ARETO's
assets as at December 31, 1976, and agree on
principles to be applied for future periodic reval-
uations to reflect price changes.) (See para. 6.16.)
7.02      Implementation of revenue improvement measures Numbers 2, 3 and 4
in Annex 22, or their equivalent in terms of incremental revenues of ARETO
(para. 5.15) and execution of a subsidiary agreement between Government and
ARETO providing for the on-lending of the credit proceeds (para. 6.11) are
conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
7.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$53.0 million equivalent on the usual terms.






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2 pages
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
Existing Telecommunications Facilities
(as of December 31, 1976)
Cairo Zone  Alexandria Zone  Provinces   Total
A. Telephone Exchanges-l
Automatic                        16             12             26         54
Manual                           66             66          1,724      1,856
Total                     82             78         1,750       1,910
Equipped Capacity
Automatic                   203,400         66,070         53,761    323,231
Manual                        2,012          5,626         45,227     52,865
Total                205,412        71,696         98,988    376,096
Direct Exchange Lines (DELs)
Automatic                   196,953         62,725         51,760    311,438
Manual                        1,373          4,278         35,073     40,724
Total                198,326         67,003        86,833    352,162
Telephones
Automatic                   276,349         73,997         55,445    408,791
Manual                        1,400          6,891         42,797     51,088
Total                280,749        80,888         98,242    459,879
B.  Long Distance Transmission Systems
1. Coaxial Cable Systems
a.  Cairo-Benha-Tanta-Damanhour-Alexandria
6 tube standard, capacity 3 x 960 channels
b.  Cairo-Benha-Zagazig-Imailia
4 tube standard, capacity 2 x 960 channels
c.  Tanta-Mahalla-Mansura
4 tube standard, capacity 1,920 channels
d.  Beni Suef-Fayoum
4 tube small, capacity 600 channels
e.  Cairo-El Saff-Beni Suef-El Minya-Assyout-Sohag-Quena-Luxor-Asswan
(Quena-Asswan section under installation)
f   4 tube small, capacity 1,920 channels
2. Microwave Systems
a. Port Said-Mansura, capacity 960 channels
b. Cairo-Alexandria-Trpoli (Libya)
Alexandria-Trpoli, capacity 1,260 channels
Cairo-Alexandria, capacity 2,880 channels (under installation)
3. Open Wire Carrier Systems
46 systeus of 3 and 12 channel capacities
1/ Details of the main automatic exchanges given in Annex 2.



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2 pages
4. Trunk Switching Equipment
a. 7 automatic trunk exchanges, capacity 4,600 lines
b.  493, manual trunk boards
5. Long Distance Public Call Offices - 2,402
6. Telex Service
2 telex exchanges, capacity 1,120 lines
7. International Services
a. Submarine Cable Systems
1. Alexandria-Catanzaro (Italy)
single tube, capacity 480 channels
2. Alexandria-Beirut (Lebanon)
single tube, capacity 120 channels
b. Satellite Communication Systems
Standard B station, capacity 10 telephone circuits
c. HF Radio Systems
3 international circuits
d. Scatter System
10 circuits Aswan-Wadi Halfa (Sudan)



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2 pages
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
Main Automatic Telephone Exchanges 1976
Capacity as of   Year of   DELs Connected
Area             Exchange               Type      Dec. 31, 1976   Operation  as of June 1976
Cairo
1.  Central Cairo          Rotary          20,000      1931-1940         15,124
(Auto I, II)
2.  Gezira                    "           10,000       1948-1961          7,781
3.  Bab-El-Louk               "            14,000      1952-1956         13,553
4.  Heliopolis                "            29,000      1934-1963         26,946
5.  Giza                                    4,800      1936-1958          4,710
6.  Maadi                                   4,000      1952-1966          4,0]nL
7.  Helwan                    "             2,000      1952-1955          1,83k
8.  Zamalek                   "            20,000      1955-1962         19,763
9.  Abbasia                X-Bar2/         20,000      1962-1964         19,769
10.  Opera                     "            35,000      1963-1965         34,422
11.  Roda                      "            20,000      1965-1969         19,271
12.  Shoubra                   "            12,000      1965-1969         11,930
13.  Calyub                                    800         1965              682
14.  Barrage                   "               800         1965              662
15.  Pyramid                   "             6,000         1967           r5,898
16.  Dokki   .                 "             5,000         1976
Total                           203,4O0                       186,356
Alexandria        (City)
17.  Central                Rotary          20,000      1935-1952         18,508
18.  Ibrahimia                 "            10,000      1949-1962          9,794
19.  Gleem                                  10,000      1949-1962          9,684
20.  Manshia                   "           10,000       1969-1973          9,519
21.  Sidi Gaber                "            11,000      1965-1973        10,939
Total City                       61,000                            4 4
Alexandria Region
22.  Damanhur               X-Bar            3,000        1962
23.  Kafre Dawar               "               800         1/              1/
24.  Agami                     "               400         1/              1/
25.  Abo Qir                   "               200         1/              1
26.  Max                       "                70         1/              1/
27.  Honovil                   "               200         1/              li
28.  Matruh                                    400         1/              1/
29.       Sub-total Region                  5,070          1/              if
Alexandria Sub-total                         66,070
1/ Data on year of operation and DELs not available.
2/ X-Bar refers to Cross Bar type of switching equipment.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2 pages
Capacity as of   Year of   DELs Connected
Area             Exchange              Type       Dec. 31, 1976   Operation  As of June 1976
Lower Egypt Region
29.  Tanta                  X-Bar2/          6,000         1962            5,980
30.  Mehalla                   "             3,000
Al Kubra
31.  Kafrel Zayat              "             1,000
32.  Kafrel Sheikh                           1,200         1965            1,198
33.  Disug                                   1,200         1965            1,199
34.  Mansura                                 6,000         1962            5,967
35.  Damietta                S/S(ATE)3/      2,000       1953-1963         1,991
36.  Rasel Bar               S/S(ATE)          800         1964              674
37.  Shibin-El-Kom            It             1,100         1953            1,090
38.  Benha                  X-Bar            2,000         1964            1,929
39.  Zagazig                 S/S(ATE)        2,400         1952            2,395
40.  Fagus                  X-Bar            1,000          1/              1/
41.  Arsjas                                     70          1/              1/
42.  Mit Ghamr               X.Bar           2,000         1968            1,972
43.       Sub-total                         29,770
Upper Egypt Region
43.  Assyut                 X-Bar            4,000         1964            3,955
44.  Sohag                     "             1,600         1966            1,597
45.  Qena                                      800         1967              787
46.  Luxor                                     600         1965              599
47.  Aswan                                   1,800         1965            1,712
48.  Malawi                                  1,000         1967              953
49.  Fayum                                   2,000         1966            1,984
50.  Beni Suef                 "             1,600         1965            1,583
51.  Minya                                   3,000         1964            2,443
Sub-total                        16,400                        15,613
1/ Data on year of operation and DELs not available.
2/ X-Bar refers to Cross Bar type of switching equipment.
3/ S/S(ATE) refers to step by step switching equipment of Automatic Telephone Electric Co.



ANNEX 3
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECO(0NICATIONS ORG4NI2ATION (ARTO)
International Telephone Statistics
Telephones - January 1976                                     Percentage of National
Popu-      GNP - 1974                      National                        Citiee-           Rest of Country        Gitie/        Re/ t  f Coutry
lation    par     Growth              Tele-      A-. anna.      %       Tele,    idle-       rele-    Tel.-         Cie-          RstoCuny
1974    c-pita    Rate      Total    phone ,I growth rate   Auto-   phones    phone 1/ phones    phone 1    Pop'-   Tele-   Popu-   TeIe-
Country           (l00's)   US$    1965-74   (000')  DensitJ'  1966-76            Oatic   (000's)  Denity-   (000's)  Density-   lation  Dhones ltion  phonee
AFRICA
Algeria            15,215       730      4.5        250     1.46        6.0       81.6        148     8.25         102     0.06        1.1    59.2    98.9    40.8
Egypt               36.360      280      1.0        502     1.34        3.4       88.4        372     4.67         130      0.44      21.4    74.1    78.6    25.9
Ethiopia           27,240       100      1.5         69     0.25       10.8       88.5         44     3.55          25     0.10       14.5    63.7    95.5    36.3
Mlauritiss             871      580      1.9         25     2.87        6.2        79.3        10      7.02         15      2.08      16.0    39.2    84.0    60.8
Morocco            16,291       430      2.8        199     1.15        5.3       83.6         84     3.63         115     0.77       13.3    42.1    86.7    57.9
Nigeria-/           73,044      286      6.0        111     0.16        6.3       83.4         47      7.12         64     0.09        0.9    42.3    91.1    57.7
Rhodesia             6,100      520       3.5       183     2.84        6.1       93.4        134    14.69          49      0.35      14.1    73.1    85.9    26.9
Sooth Africa       24,940    1,210       2.5      2,072     8.10        5.6       84.4      1,507    25.47         565      2.88      23.1    72.7    76.9    27.3
Suda_3-             15,227      230      4.3         58     0.31        4.7       91.4         37     4.67          19      0.11       4.3    65.2    95.7    34.8
T..isia             5,460       650      5.4        127     2.26       13.7       92.9         40     4.36          87      1.85      16.3    31.4    83.7    68.6
Za,bis              4,781       520      1.0         77     1.69        8.4       98.2         17     4.32          60      1.44       8.8    22.4    91.2    77.6
AMERICAS
Argentina           24,646    1,520       2.9     2,469     9.66        5.1        86.0        NA        NA         NA        NA        NA       NA      NA       NA
Brazil            103,981       920      6.3      3,371     3.08        9.8       97.0      1,759    11.51       1,612      1.71      14.0    52.2    86.0    47.8
Canada              22,480    6,190      3.5    13,142    57.15         5.8       99.9      6,262    71.07       6,880    48.50       38.3    47.7    61.7    52.3
Mexico              57,889    1,090       2.8     2,915     4.76       13.5       95.8      1,743    12.53       1,172      2.48      22.7    59.8    77.3    40.2
USA                211,890    6,670      2.4   149,001    69.49         4.8       99.9    33,688    77.67    115,323    67.42         20.2    22.6    79.8    77.4
AS IA
BangIadesh          71,479      100   (-)1.9         66     0.09         NA       81.7         44     1.68          22     0.03        3.6    66.6    96.4    33.4
China, Rep. of      15,710      810       6.9     1,118     6.92       20.9       93.7        670    14.87         448      3.85      27.9    59.9    72.1    40.1
India             595,586       140      1.3      1,817     0.30        7.5       82.2        956     2.68         861      0.15       5.9    52.6    94.1    47.4
Indonesia         128,400       170      4.1        305     0.23        3.6       68.8        156     1.53         149     0.12        7.7    51.2    92.3    48.8
Iran               33,100    1,250       7.7        688     2.00       12.4       92.5        477     6.27         211     0.79       22.1    69.3    77.9    30.7
Iraq               10,770    1,110       4.8        185     1.69        7.8       94.7        126     2.87          59     0.93       40.9    68.1    59.1    31.9
Israel               3,359    3,460      5.8        796    22.80       12.1      100.0        578    33.85         218    12.23       48.9    72.6    51.1    27.4
Japan             109,670    4,070       8.5    45,515    40.47        12.5       98.4    20,676    49.18       24,839    35.27       37.4    45.4    62.6    54.6
Pakiatan            67,213      130       2.5       240     0.33        5.7       85.1        151      2.03         89      0.14      10.3    63.0    89.7    37.0
Philippin.s        41,433       330       2.7       490     1.17       11.5        95.5       381    14.81         109      0.28       6.1    77.8    93.4    22.2
Singapore            2,219    2,240     10.0        318    14.04       13.8      100.0        318    14.04          -         -      100.0   100.0      -        -
Sri Lanka           13,393      130      2.0         72     0.53        5.3       99.7         22     3.68          50      0.38       4.5    31.0    95.5    69.0
Syria                7,177      560      4.2        171     2.30        7.9        89.7       140      5.42         31      0.71      43.5    81.9    56.5    18.1
Thailand           40,780       310      4.3        312     0.74       15.0       99.4        249     4.60          63      0.17      12.8    79.8    87.2    20.2
EUROPE
Franme              52,510    5,440      4.8    13,833    26.20         8.5        96.5     5,471    50.23       8,362    19.95       20.6    39.5    79.4    60.5
Germany,Fed.Rep.of 62,040    6,260        3.9    19,603    31.70        8.3      100.0      8,012    47.29      11,591    25.82       27.4    40.9    72.6    59.1
Turkey              39,167      750      4.3      1,012     2.52        6.5        79.5       690     8.98         322      1.02      19.6    68.2    80.4    31.8
Sweden               8,160    7,240      2.8      5,423    66.07        4.3      100.0      1,291    95.30       4,132    60.29       16.5    23.8    83.5    76.2
Sbitzerland          6,440    7,870       2.9     3,913    61.09        5.7      100.0      1,316    87.75       2,597    52.92       23.4    33.6    76.6    66.4
UK                 55,970    3,590       2.2    21,036    37.51         7.0       99.9      6,959    49.49      14,077    33.50       25.1    33.4    74.9    66.9
USSR               252,060    2,380       3.4    16,129     6.63        7.4       100.0     4,475    18.25      11,654      5.33      10.1    27.7    89.9    72.3
OCEANIA
A.etralia           13,340    5,330       3.4     5,267    39.01        6.5        96.3     3,669    44.62       1,598    30.28        60.9    69.7    39.1    30.3
New Zealand          3,030    4,310       1.8     1,571    50.18        4.4        93.9       790    57.88         781    44.23       43.6    50.3    56.4    49.7
1/  Telephone Density: Nomber of telephones per 100 population (based on AT&T statistics).
2/ Theee statistics relate to cities with note than 10,000 telephones except for countries in Europe and Americas.  For the USA, statistice are for
citiee with euor than 500,000 telephones and for Europe and the rest of North and Sooth Americas for cities with more than 100,000 telephones.
3! Telephone statistica for theee countries are for 1975.
Notee: NA = not -ailable.
Grouping of countries in threes for added ese. in reading table only.
Sourrces Telephone stetistics- "The World's Telephones," 1976, AT&T.
Population and GNP statistics: "World 8ank Atlas," 1976.
August 30, 1977



EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
Growth of Local Telephone System - 1960-82
Exchange   Direct Exchange                                                                                        Ratio       Registered                      Increase in
December 31   Equipped          Lines                        Increase Over Previous Year (.)   Telephonj1   Exchange21    Telephones           Waiting      Total 3/   Demand Over Previous    Telephone  4/
of Year        Capacity         (DELs)         Telephones   Capacity   D.E.L.s   Telephones    Density-    Fill (7.)-           to DELs         List        Demand-            Yr                 Availabilitv
1             2              3                4             5           6           7             B            9              10            11             12                 13                   14
1960          170,630        144,661          203,105          -          -           -           0.78         84.8             1.40         N. A.-/        N. A.-/            N. A.-              N. A./
1961          173,880        151,021          213,024         1.9        4.4         4.7          0.80         86.8             1.41
1962          187,840        161,480          227,916         8.0        6.9         7.0          0.84         86.6             1.41           "
1963          219,780        179,535          248,790         1.0       11.2         9.2          0.89         81.7             1.39
1964          249,650        194,969          277,479        13.6        8.6        11.5          0.97          78.1            1.42           "
1965          270,640        228,579          321,299         8.4       17.2        15,7          1.08         84.5             1.41           "
1966          297,130        231,749          345,820         9.8        1.4         7.6          1.15          78.0            1.49
1967          307,160        255,712          360,344         3.4       10.4         4.2          1.17         83.3             1.41
1968          314,300        261,628          368,045         2.3        2.3         6.4          1.16         83.Z             1.41         15,500         277,128                                  96.9
1969          530,600        270,254          379,466         5.2        3.3         3.1          1.17          81.8            1.40         45,500         315,754             13.9                 85.6
1970          342,400        28 7, 765       404,302          3.6        6.5         6.6          1.21         84.0             1.41         66,500         354,265             12.2                81.2
1971          347,400        305 000          439,692         1.3        6.0         8.8          1.29          87.9            1.44         95,500         400,500             13.1                 76.2
1972          353,300        319,572          451,380         1.8        4.8         2.7          1.30          90.5            1.41        135,376         454,948             13.6                 70.2
1973          368,463        327,251          465,064         4.3        2.4         1.0          1.31          88.8            1.42        171,200         498,541              9.6                 65.6
1974          369,525        338,024          479,994         3.0        3.3         1.0          1.32          91.5            1.44        201,680         539,704              8.3                 62.6
1975          373,159        345,266          497,183         1.0        2.1         1.0          1.36          92.5            1.44        231,108         576,374              6.8                 59.9
Actual  1976           376.096        352,162          507,113         0.8        2.0         2.0          1.39          93.6            1.44        268,045         620, 207             7.6                 56.8
Fnrecast  1977           403,696        366,692          528,036         7.3        4.1         4.1           1.45         90.8            1.44         302,861        669 823              8.0                 53.7
1978          434,896        391,962          560,506         7.7        7.7         6.2          1.55          90.1            1.43        331,446         723,408              8.0                 52.2.
1979         488,505         429,962          614,846        12.3        9.7         9.7          1.68          88.0            1.43         351,318        781,280              8.0                 55.0
1980          569,805        484,962          693,496        16.6       12.8        12.8          1.85          85.0            1.43         358,820        843,782              8.0                 57.5
1981         649,405         544,962          762,947        13.9       12.3        10.0          2.07          83.9            1.40         366,322        911,284              8.0                 59.8
1982          741,405        610,962          855,347        14.1       12.1        12.1           2.28         82.4            1.40         373,224        984,186              8.0                 67.0
NOTE:  Figures for years up to 1976 are actuals.  Figures for years 1977 to 1982 are forecasts.
1/  Telephone Density:  Telephones (Col. 4) per 100 population (at 1974 levels beyond 1974).
2/  Exchange Fill:  DELs (Col. 3) -a-- capacity (Col. 2) x 100.
3/  Total Demand:  DELs (Col. 3) 4 waiting list (Col. 11).
4/  Telephone Availability:  DELs (GuI. 3) 4  total demand (Col. 12) x 100.
5/ N. A.: Not available.
Jenuary 20, 1978



ANNEX 5
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
GROWTH OF LOCAL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
1000                                                 -    -   --
ACTUALS                                   PROJECT ED
800                                   M-
TOTAL DEMAND l
160 -0978
z
LU
I-
aY
EQUIPPED CAPACITY                          B-nk-15
~~~~~~
.7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
DIRECT EXCHANGE LINES
200 -- -4                                                     . --
-    .~~~" tci?       21L ~~~~WAITING LIST
0.
1960    1962    1964    1966    1968    1970    1972    1974    1976    1978   1980    1982
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31
World Bank-i18572



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2 pages
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
Summary of Scope of Work of CTC Consultants
A.  1.    Investigate and review the existing ARE telecommunications system,
its networks and linkage, their extent, operating characteristics and
management aspects, review proposed ARETO and TRC research studies, all
existing network studies and plans of improvement projects underway or
scheduled for implementation in the ARE as a whole, and in Cairo as the
capital city. System integration with the Pan-African Telecommunications
Network should be considered.
2.    Investigate and review the performance and condition of the existing
telecommunications networks in the ARE as a whole and in Cairo as the
capital city, including such aspects as traffic loads, quality of service,
customer backlogs, condition-and maintenance of equipment, rate structure,
commercial and accounting practices, financial position, and system con-
straints. Specifically consultants will review (a) the organization of
ARETO, its management and staff, its relations with other organizations
such as TRC, and its relationship with the Ministry of Finance and other
Governmental agencies, (b) existing staff levels and needs, and prepare
an organizational and manpower program and identify training needs, and
(c) the accounting system and procedures used by ARETO to control financial
operations, including a review of capital and fixed assets, rate structure
financial position, procurement and inventory control.
3.    Investigate and perform measurements to assess the propagation
characteristics in ARE in the frequency band 1-30 GHZ.
B.  1.    Investigate and analyze the general economic demographic and social
factors, including rate of economic development, urbanization and indus-
trialization, affecting the magnitude growth rate of market demands
for telecommunications services and resultant traffic; prepare projections
of market demands and traffic forecasts for the next 5-year and 15-year
periods.
2.    Investigate and analyze those economic and technical factors and
considerations having an impact on schemes and strategies for system
development, such as rate structure, international rate-sharing arrange-
ments, customer priorities, subscriber regulations, types and levels of
service, which are amenable to Governmental decision and control; recommend
the most appropriate :Least-cost strategy.



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2 pages
3.    Prepare a comprehensive telecommunications system master plan for
the phased development of national and international services, including
telephone, telegraph, telex and other appropriate special services,
such as facsmile, data transmission leased lines, and ship-shore maritime
radio communications, all consistent with projected market and traffic
forecasts.
C.        Prepare a "quick-fix" remedial actions program to improve the
existing Cairo telecommunications network facilities in the light of
modern technologies and consistent with the master plan described in B
above.
D.        Prepare and submit reports as follows:
1.    The consultant shall submit a monthly letter report.  In addition,
at the end of every three months, the consultant and principals from
ARETO and TRC shall meet for a comprehensive, detailed review of study
status, progress and future performance.
2.    At the end of approximately nine months of fieldwork, principals
from ARETO and TRC and AID will meet with the consultant and undertake
a detailed review of the status of the work. It is anticipated that at
that stage of the work program, the consultant will be in a position to
provide a rough draft of conclusions and findings and the basis for such
conclusions.
3.    The consultant shall prepare and issue a final report of the
Telecommunications Sector Study which will include all pertinent data,
analyses, findings and recommendations as described above. This report
shall be submitted within 12 months after the effective date of the
contract (by May 1978).



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 4 pages
EGYPT
A-RAB REPUBLIC OF EGYP'T TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
Description of Works in ARETO's Program 1978-80
ARETO's 1978-80 program has the following components:
(a) the ongoing works carried over from the 1975-77 period
including the project financed under Credit 548-EGT;
(b) new works to be undertaken under the proposed second
telecommunications project; and
(c) other new works in the program of ARETO.
A brief description of the major works in the program follows:
a)   Ongoing works
1. Local telephone exchanges - ARETO is installing about 68,000 lines
of LME crossbar type automatic exchange equipment in Cairo out of which
11,800 lines are for replacement of existing old and obsolete equipment,
29,ooo for expansion of existing exchanges, and 27,200 for new exchanges.
The Alexandria system is being extended by a new installation of 6,000 lines.
The lower Egypt exchanges are being expanded by 400 lines and upper Egypt
by 800 lines. In the Suez Canal area 21,000 lines are contracted for and
18,000 of these are to be installed and 3,000 lines in reserve installation.
The total installation for Egypt in the ongoing program is about 97,200
lines. The program of installation and details are given in the table at
Annex 8. The 21,000 lines of equipment for the Canal area is Hitachi cross-
bar equipment imported froma Japan under Saudi Fund loan. The rest of the
equipment has been contracted with the Egyptian Telephone Company supplemented
by direct imports from L. M. Ericsson of Sweden of power plant and other
specialized equipment which the domestic factory does not produce.
2.   Junction and local cable network expansion - To complement the
exchange expansions in item 1 above, and to meet the demand for telephone
connections, adequate expansion to the outside plant network comprising the
junction and local cable ne!tworks and subscribers installations is in hand.
A major part of the requirement for cables for expansion along with acces-
sories and cable laying equipment has been provided under the first IDA
Credit 548-EGT. In addition, ARETO has entered into a contract with
AEG - TELEFUNKEN of Germany, for a turnkey contract for the replanning and
renewal of the outside plant network in the Ramses area of Cairo. This
work has been financed by an export credit with a HERMES insurance cover.
Work commenced in May 1977 and is expected to be completed by mid-1979.



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 4 pages
3.   Expansion of telex exchanges - The Cairo and Alexandria telex
exchanges of LME crossbar are being expanded by 800 and 400 lines respec-
tively during 1978. In addition for the Suez Canal area, contracts have
been made with LME for installation of 640 lines in the area; these are
expected to be installed in 1979. The details of the installation program
for telex exchanges is given in Annex 9. These works are financed under
LME supplier's credit.
4.   Expansion of automatic trunk exchanges - The ongoing program of
expansion of the L. M4. Ericssons crossbar trunk exchanges will be completed
at the beginning of 1978 with expansion of the Cairo exchange by 1,800
lines and Alexandria by 800 lines. The first stage of the LME ARE type
international trunk exchange with 160 lines is expected also to be completed
by the beginning of 1978 with further extension by 220 lines to 380 lines
by the beginning of 1979. The equipment has been financed under LME
supplier's credit. A contract for the installation of trunk exchanges in
the Canal area with 1,600 lines has been entered into with Hitachi Japan
along with the local exchanges in this area financed by Saudi Fund. These
exchanges are expected to be completed by 1979. The details and program
of installation of the trunk exchanges is given in Annex 10.
5.   Coaxial cables Cairo-Aswan and Cairo-Fayoum - A 4-tube small
diameter coaxial cable is under installation in upper Egypt between Cairo
and Aswan. The section Cairo to Sohag has been commissioned and it is
expected that the entire route will be completed by the end of 1978. A
2-tube small diameter coaxial cable also under installation between Cairo
and Fayoum is also expected to be completed at about the same time. These
works have been financed by an LME supplier's credit. The routes of the
cables are indicated in Map IBRD 11323R1-
6.   Coaxial cables Cairo-Suez and Suez-Ismailia-Port Said and
Alexandria-Sallom - ARET0 has entered, in early 1977, into contracts with
Standard Telephones and Cables, STC (UK) for a 4-tube small diameter coaxial
cable system between Cairo-Suez and Suez-Ismailia-Port Said and Alexandria-
Sallom. All these systems are expected to be completed by mid-1979. The
financing of these has been secured from the Saudi Fund. The routes are
indicated in Map IBRD 11323R1.
7. Microwave system Cairo-Libya - A 960-channel 6 GHZ microwave
system to link Egypt and Libya and to other Arab states on the North Africa
coast is under installation. Most of the equipment which is supplied by
Nippon Electric Company of Japan has been received and the delay in instal-
lation is mainly due to the civil works at the various sites on the route
between Cairo-Alexandria-Libyan border. ARETO expects to complete the
installation by mid-1978. The Government of Libya has financed the equipment
under a loan with special arrangements for repayment out of revenues from
the system when operational. The route of the system is indicated in
Map IBRD 11323R1.



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 4 pages
8.   Standard earth station in Cairo - ARETO_contracted with the Nippon
Electric Company of Japan in April 1975 for the installation of a standard
earth station in Maadi near Cairo with a 105-feet diameter antenna for the
Atlantic Ocean satellite with equipment for initial operation of 72 char--l-
The equipment has been delivered and the delay is in the civil works of
buildings and antenna foundations at Maadi. Special efforts are underway
to complete the civil works and installation with a view to commissioning
the station by April 1978.
b)   Works in IDA second project
1.   Local telephone exchanges - The installation of about 220,400 lines
of local automatic telephone exchange equipment is provided for in the project
out of which about 102,400 lines are in Cairo, 78,000 lines in other principal
cities and 25,000 in small towns in Egypt and 15,000 lines in suburban Cairo.
About 36,000 lines are to replace old and obsolete equipment. The extensions
to existing exchanges of about 138,600 lines will be procured from the domestic
telephone factory supplemented by direct imports from L. M. Ericsson of Sweden
if power plant and other specialized equipment which the factory does not
produce. 20,000 lines for Ramses III exchange has been contracted for direct
import and installation from L. M. Ericsson. The proposed IDA credit would
finance the new electronic exchanges, 30,000 lines (Maadi 10,000 and Kubba
20,000) and 30,800 lines of electro-mechanical exchanges at other locations. The
15,000 lines suburban exchanges at Cairo have been financed by a French credit.
The program of installation of the main automatic exchanges is given in Annex 8.
In addition to these, about 6,000 lines of manual exchange equipment will be
installed, mostly in the rural areas.
2.   Installation of 35,000 lines of PABXs - The installation of 35,000
lines of PABXs of various sizes is provided for in the project. Out of this,
about 20,000 lines are being financed by a French credit and 15,000 will be
provided by the second IDA credit.
3.   Junction and local cable network expansion - To complement the
exchange expansion in Item 1 above and to meet the demand for telephone
connections, adequate expansion of the outside plant network comprising the
local and junction cable networks and subscribers' installations is planned.
ARETO will need cables and accessories in addition to the available stock to
meet these needs. These requirements will be met from the proposed second
IDA credit.
4.   PCM microwave Cairo junction network - In order to relieve the
congestion in the urban exchange junction cable network and with a view to
permit rehabilitation and reinforcement of the network, ARETO had prepared
a scheme for the installation of a PCM microwave junction network in Cairo.
The existing underground cable network in most parts is more than 30 years
old and the microwave solution was considered as the most feasible under the
circumstances for a quick remedy. A contract has been entered into by
ARETO with Raytheon Company of USA for the supply of the system and this is
being financed by the USAID. The work is expected to be completed by end of
1978.



ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 4 pages
5.   Telex exchange and teleprinters - To meet the increasing demand
for telex connections in Cairo, ARETO has proposed the installation of a
3,000 line electronic telex exchange in Cairo. It is proposed to procure
about 2,000 teleprinters to provide the subscriber facilities. The pro-
posed second IDA credit will finance these procurements.
6.   Expansion of automatic trunk exchanges - The capacity of existing
trunk exchanges will be expanded from existing 7,200 lines by 1,600 lines
in the Suez Canal area to 8,800 lines by 1979. A further extension of the
trunk exchanges along with installation of new trunk exchanges with a total
capacity of 5,000 lines is provided for in the project. This will increase
the capacity to 13,800 lines by 1980. The details are at Annex 10. The
5,000 lines expansion is expected to be financed by a L. M. Ericsson
supplier's credit.
c)   Other new works in ARETO's 1978-80 program
1.   Installation of new telephone exchanges in Cairo - ARETO proposes
to install about 41,000 lines of new exchange equipment Cairo for the
Imbaba, Babal Khalq and Shubra Al Kheima areas. These proposals are in the
preliminary stages and these will be undertaken after further studies and
when financing could be arranged for.
2.   Computer controlled message center Cairo - ARETO proposes the
installation of a computer controlled message center to deal with all public
telegraph messages originating, transiting and terminating at Cairo. This
will also be integrated with the international public message switching
center which was proposed originally as a separate item. These proposals
are in the preliminary stages and ARETO has accepted the need for studies
before undertaking this scheme.
3.   Coaxial cable system Damiette-Rashid - ARETO proposes the instal-
lation of a 4-tube small diameter cable from Damiette-Rashid along the
Mediterranean Coast. The justification for this based on traffic needs and
least cost solution needs to be studied before undertaking this scheme.
4.   Coaxial cable Cairo-Alexandria-Tartous (Syria) - This coaxial cable
system with 6-tube small diameter is proposed to link Cairo with Alexandria
following a different route to the existing system, thereby connecting new
centers such as Shibinel Kom, Kafrelsheikh, Dessouk, etc. From Alexandria
a 480-channel submarine cable is proposed to link with Tartous (Syria).
The feasibility study has been financed by the Arab Fund and expected to
be available by October 1977. Eventually, Arab Fund financing for the
system is expected.
5.   Coaxial cable Qena-Safgi-Dheba (Saudi Arabia) - This is a proposed
land coaxial cable system to connect Qena to Safgi in Egypt with a submarine
cable system of 480-channel capacity between Safgi and Dheba in Saudi Arabia.
The technical feasibility and possible timing for execution of this link is
under study and Saudi Arabia is likely to finance this when its definite
implementation is decided upon.



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3 pages
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
Main Automatic Telephone Exchange Installation Program, 1977-81
Instal-  Extensions    New
Laionst- to existing  instal-  Replace-
Location             lations   exchanges   lations   ments          Remarks
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - -1977 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
CAIRO                                                            Replaces 7,000 lines
Almaza                  10,000*                3,000    7,000      Helliopolis
Ramses I                10,000*                         10,000   Replaces auto 1
Nasr I                  10,000                10,000               Central Cairo
Shoubra I                6,000                 6,000
Subtotal              36,000*               19,0Q    17,000
ALEXANDRIA
Sidi Beshr               6,000                 6,000
UPPER EGYPT
Gerga                      600*                  600             Replaces manual exchange
EGYPT GRAND TOTAL    42,600                 25.600   17,000
 --     -     -- --     - -   -1978 -  - - - - -  - 
CAIRO
Ramses II               10,000                10,000
Ramses lII and IV       20,000                          20,000   Replaces auto II & III
Subtotal              30,000                10,000   20,000
ALEXANDRIA
Sidi Beshr II            4,000                 4,000
Sidi Gaber               9,000    92000
Subtotal              13,000     9,000       4,000
LOWER EGYPT
Kafr El Sheikh             200*       200
Dessouk                    200        200
Subtotal                 400       400
UPPER EGYPT
Sohag                      200*      200
Qena                       200*       200
Luxor                      200*       200
Aswan                      200*       200
Subtotal                 800       800
EGYPT GRAND TOTAL    44,200    102200      14,000   202000
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - -1979 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
CAIRO
Dokky I                  5,000*    5,000
Dokky II                50,000*   50,000
Dokky II                10,000*   10,000
Giza I                   60 5,*                1,200    4,800   Replaces 4,800
Opera IV                 5,000     5,000                           lines existing
Shoubra II               4,000*    4,000       12_      40
Subtotal              30,000    24,000       1,200    4,800
SUEZ CANAL                                                       Replaces -
Port Said               10,000*                5,000    5,000   -existing 5,000 lines
Suez                     4,000*                2,000    2,000   -existing 2,000 lines
Ismailia                 4,000*                3,409      591   -existing 591 lines
Subtotal              18,000                10,409    7,59
EGYPT GRAND TOTAL    48,000    2            11M609   12,391
* Ongoing project items and the rest are proposed project items.



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3 pages
Total     Extensions     New
Location           instal-  to existing   instal-  Replace-
lations   exchanges    lations   ments        Remarks
 --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1980 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
CAIRO
Almaza II*             10,000    10,000
Helwan                  5,000*                  3,000   2,000
Tebine I                2,000*                  2,000
Tebine II               1,000                           1,000  Replaces existing
Guiza II                4,000      4,000                           100,000 lines
Nasr II                10,000    10,000
Subtotal             32,000    24,000         5,000   3,000
ALEXANDRIA
Menshia                10,000                  10,000
LOWER EGYPT
Badrashein              1,000                   ),000
Tala                    1,000                   1,000
Toukh                   1,000                   1,000
Menouf                  2,000                   2,000
Damietta                4 000                   2,000   2,000
Ras El Barr             2,000                   1,000   1,000
Shibinelkom             5,000                   4,100     900
Zagazig                 5,000                   3,000   2,000
Subtotal             21,000                  15,000   5,900
UPPER EGYPT
Sohag                   1,500      1,500
Fayoum                  1,000      1,000
Beni Soueff             1,500      1,500
Subtotal              4,000     4,000
EGYPT GRAND TOTAL    67,000    28,000        30,000   8,900
 -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    - 1981
CAIRO
Helwan II               3,000                   3,000
Maadi                  10,000                   6,000   4,000
Kubba                  20,000                  20,000
Shoubra al Kheima       1,000                   1,000
Abbasia                10,000    10,000
Kalyub                  1,200      1,200
Barrage                 1,200      1,200
Pyramid                 4,000      4,000
Subtotal             50,400    16,400        30,000   4,000
ALEXANDRIA
Mersa                   1,600      1,600
Subtotal              1,600     1,600
LOWER EGYPT
Manwoura                4,000      4,000
Tanta                   4,000     4,000
Benha                   2,000     2,000
Mehalla                 2,000      2,000
Kafrel Zayat            2,000      2,000
Dessouk                 1,800     1,800
Fagous                  3,000     3,000
Mit Ghamr               3,000      3,000
Subtotal             21,800    21,800
* Ongoing project items.



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3 pages
Total     Extensions      New
Location           instaL-  to existing   instal-                 Remarks
lations   exchanges    lations  ments
 - - - - - - - - - - - - -              1980
UPPER EGYPT
Assyut                   4,000      4,000
Luxor                    1,400      1,400
Aswan                    1,200      1,200
Qena                     1,200      1,200
Minia                    2,000      2,000
Subtotal               9,8)0     9,800
EGYPT GRAND TOTAL    83,600    49,600         30,000   4,000
SUMMARY
Extensions
Total       to existing        New
Year     Installations    exchanges    installations   Replacements
1977         42,600                          25,600          17,000
1978         44,200         10,200           14,000          20,000
1979         48,000         24,000           11,609          12,391
1980         67,000         28,000           30,100           8,900
1977-80
TOTAL       201,800         62,200           81,309          58,291
1981         83,600         49,600           30,000           4,000
1977-81
TOTAL       285,400        111,800          111,309          62,291
January 24, 1978



ANNEX 9
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
Telex Exchange Installation Program (1976-80)
Exist-          Additions during           Capacity
Locaion1/   ing in                                       at end
Location       1976    1977    1978    1979    1980         1980
Cairo           800      400      800     -      3,000Z2,  5,000
Alexandria       320     100      380     -        -         800
Port Said        -       -        320     -        -         320
Ismailia        -        -        -       160      -         160
Suez            -        -       -        160      -         160
Total    1,120      500   1,500      320   3,000      6,440
1/  Telex subscribers at locations other than indicated such
as Luxor, Assyut, Tanta, Mansoura, and Zagazig will be
connected to the Cairo exchange by voice frequency
telegraph (VFT) circuits.
2/ The 3,000-line extension will be an electronic exchange.
September 16, 1977



ANNEX 10
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
Automatic Trunk Exchange Installation Program (1977-1980)
Capacity      Addi-        Addi-           Total
as of         tions        tions         Capacity
Location      December       during       during          end of
Location              1976          1977         1979           1980
1.  Cairo                 1,400         1,800*         600            3,800
2.  Alexandria            1,000            800*        200            2,000
3.  Benha                    200                       400              600
4.  Damanhour                200                       400              600
5.  Mansura                  600                       400            1,000
6.  Mehalla                  200                       400              600
7.  Tanta                 1,000                                       1,000
8.  Port Said                                          400*             400
9.  Ismailia                                           800*             800
10.  Suez                                               400*             400
11.  Assyut                                             600              600
12.  Minya                                              400              400
13.  Sohag                                              400              400
14.  Aswan                                              200              200
15.  Beni Soueff                                        400              400
16.  Quena                                              200              200
17.  Fayoum                                            400               400
TOTAL            4,600         2,600       6,600           13,800
*  Ongoing project items and rest are proposed project items.
August 18, 1977



EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
Telecommunications Investment Program - 1978-80
(in Egyptian Pounds LE Millions)
---------1978----------          ---------1979----------           ---------1980-----------    -----1978-80 Period-------
Local   Foreign    Total         Local   Foreign    Total          Local   Foreign    Total          Local    Foreign    Total
Ongoing Program
(including IDA First Project)            27,223    23,139    50,362    16,266    13.370    29,636             4,851      2,120    6,971        48,340    38,629       86 969
IDA Second Project                         17,274    21,375      38,649    22,509    39,116    61,625    17,617           29,109   46,726        57,400     89,600   147,000
Other Works in ARETO's New Program    12,377             674    13,051    19,775         3,480    23,255       29,123     16,483   45,606        61,275      20,637     81,912
Total New Program
(including IDA Second Project)           29,651    22,049    51,700    42,284    42,596               84,880    46,740    45,592   92,332    118,675   110,237   228,912
Total Program         56,874    45,188   102,062        58,550    55,966   114,516    51,591    47,712   99,303            167,015   148,866   315.881
January 20, 1978



EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATION ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
Project Construction Costal/
(LE thousands)
--- 1978--------   ---------1979 ------    ---------1980              ---- Total 1978-80----
Items                Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Telephone ex-change
equipment                10,643  11,379  22,022   7,757  16,175  23,932   5,832  10,252   16,084  24,232  37,806 ,62,038
Subscriber equipment
(including PABXs)         2,150   1,750   3,900   2,250   2,700   4,950   1,800   1,560    3,360   6,200   6,010  12,210
Cairo city junction
microwave                 1,400   4,200   5,600   1,400   3,500   4,900        -        -        -      2,800   7,700  10,500
Cables and accessories        400      400     800   5,300   5,850  11,150   4,450   6,040   10,490  10,150  12,290  22,440
Buildings for telecom-
munications equipment    1,420        80   1,500   1,920       80   2,000      420       80      500   3,760      240   4,000
Long distance network
(including trunk
exchanges                 100   1,770   1,870      100   4,200   4,300       -     4,000    4,000       200   9,970  10,170
Telegraphs and telex          -        -       -     1,000   2,700   3,700   1,700   3,250    4,950   2,700   5,950   8,650
Contingencies               1,161   1,796   2,957   2,782   3,911   6,693   3,415   3,927    7,342   7,358   9,634  16,992
Total Cost          17,274  21,375  38,649  22,509  39,116  61,625  17,617  29,109   46,726  57,400  89,600 147,000
1/ Foreign and local costs include supply and installation; local costs
also include custom duties payable.
January 20, 1978



ANNEX 13
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECONMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
Contingency Provision in Project Cost Estimates
Total Project Costs
Local   Foreign    Total
------(LE Million)------
1. Base costs  /                                   50.04    79.96    130.00
2.  Physical contingency                            1.21     1.43       2.64
3.             Subtotal                            51.25    81.39    132.64
4.  Price contingency                               6.15     8.21      14.36
5.                 Total Projects Costs            57.40    89.60    147.00
6. Physical contingency as
percentage of base costs (%)                  2.42     1.79       2.03
7. Price contingency as percentage of
base costs plus physical contingency (%)   12.00    10.09        10.82
Year ending December 31,  1978      1979       1980
8. Assumption for annual
increase in costs 2/
(a)  for price increase in local costs        10%       10%       10%
(b)  for price increase in foreign costs    7.5%       7.5%        7%
1/ Local and foreign base bosts are primarily based on recent
contracts of ARETO.
2/ Annual price increase factor is compiled by comparing the rates
of price increase in previous years plus one-half the price
increase in the year concerned.
January 16, 1978



ANNEX 14
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
lForeign Cost Financing of
Second Telecommunications Project
(in millions)
LE        US$
IDA
1.  Cairo 30,000 lines Kuba/Madi                              8.41       12.02
2. Lower Egypt replacement and expansion
14,000 lines                                           2.73        3.90
3.  New small exchanges 17,800 lines                          3.74        5.34
Total Telephone Exchange Equipment                  14.88       21.26
4.  PABXs - 15,000 lines                                      2.10        3.00
5.  Telephone cables                                          7.00       10.01
6.  Cable accessories                                         1.75        2.50
7.  3,000 lines telex exchange Cairo                          2.46        3.51
8.  2,000 teleprinters                                        3.51        5.01
9.  Unallocated                                               5.40        7.71
37.10      53.00
FRANCE
10.  PABXs 20,000                                              3.15        4.50
11.  Suburban exchanges 15,000 lines and links                 8e40       12.00
11.55      16.50
USAID
12.  Cairo city PCM networ]k                                   8.40      12.00
LME
13.  Direct import of loca:L exchanges 20,000 lines            3.84       5.48
14.  Direct imports of trunk exchanges                         9.80      14.00
15. Imports from LME for power plant etc.
to complete exchange equipment from factory            1.23        1.76
16.  Material and componenlts for telephone factory           10.94      15.63
- Contingencies                                       2.54        3.63
28.35      40.50
GOVERNMENT
17. For building and Damiette
Mansura cable                                          0.70        1.00
18.  For cable factory imports                                 3.50       5.00
4.__       6.00
Total           89.60     128.00
January 20, 1978



ANNEX 15
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELE COMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULES OF MAJOR WORKS IN PROJECT
CALENDAR YEARS                        1977                 1978                  1979                 1980                  1981
QUARTERS                    1sn  2nd  3rd  4th  1st  2nd  3rd  4th  1a  2nd  3rd  4th  1st  2nd  3rd  4th  1sn  2nd  3rd  4th
LOCAL EXCHANGES
CAIRO CITY
NEW EXCHANGES (IDA FINANCED)
KUBBA EXCHANGE 20,000 LINES
BUILDING
BIDDING AND EVALUATION
CONTRACT
DELIVERY AND INSTALLATION                                                                _           _    _    _    _
MAADI EXCHANGE 10,000 LINES
BUILDING
BIDDING AND EVALUATION
CONTRACT
DELIVERY AND INSTALLATION                                                                _
EXPANSION OF EXCHANGES 42,400 LINES
BUILDING
BIDDING AND EVALUATION
CONTRACT
DELIVERY AND INSTALLATION                                                           _    _ 
REPLACEMENT OF EXCHANGES 30,000 LINES
BUILDING
BIDDING AND EVALUATION
CONTRACT
DELIVERY AND INSTALLATION                                                           _
ALEXANDRIA CITY
EXPANSION OF EXCHANGES 24,600 LINES
BUI LDINGS
BIDDING AND EVALUATION
CONTRACT
DELIVERY AND INSTALLATION                                                                      _          _     _
LOWER EGYP
EXPANSION OF EXCHANGES 25,600 LINES
BUILDINGS
BIDDING AND EVALUATION
CONTRACT
DELIVERY AND INSTALLATION                                                                                _          _    _
REPLACEMENT OF EXCHANGES 13,000 LINES
(IDA FINANCED)
BUI LDINGS--                                                                        -
BIDDING AND EVALUATION
CONTRACT
DELIVERY AND INSTALLATION                                                                                      -    -
UPPER EGYPT
EXPANSION OF EXCHANGES 137800 LINES
BUILDINGS
BIDDING AND EVALUATION
CONTRACT
DELIVERY AND INSTALLATION                                           _ 7
PROVINCIAL TOWNS
EXPANSION OF EXCHANGES 7,200 LINES
BUILDINGS              (
BIDDING AND EVALUATION
CONTRACT
DELIVERY AND INSTALLATION
NEW EXCHANGES 17A00 LINESI(IDA FINANCED)
BUILDINGS
BIDDING AND EVALUATION
CONTRACT
DELIVERY AND INSTALLATION
CAIRO MICROWAVE JUNCTION NETWORIK
BUI LDINGS
BIDDING AND EVALUATION
CONTRACT
DELIVERY AND INSTALLATION
CAIRO TELEX EXCHANGES 3,000 LINES
(IDA FINANCED)
BUILDINGS
BIDDING AND EVALUATION
CONTRACT
DELIVERY AND INSTALLATION-                                                                           
NOTE:
1. Construction schedules are not shown for buildings where they are ayailable.
2. Schedules for bidding and evaluation not shown, where contracts are to be placed with domestic telephone factory.
World Bank - 17942



ANNEX 16
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year       Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter            at end of Quarter
(US$ thousands)
1978-79
September 30, 1978              2,500
December 31, 1978                4,300
April 30, 1979                   8,000
June 30, 1979                  13,000
1979-80
September 30, 1979             20,000
December 31, 1979              25,700
April 30, 1980                  34,000
June 30, 1980                  39,000
1980-81
September 30, 19B0             43,000
December 31, 1981D             47,700
April 30, 1981                  50,000
June 30, 1981                   51,500
1981-82
September 30, 1981             52,500
December 31, 1981               53,000
February 11, 1978



ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 5
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
Return on Investment
1.        Benefit period.  The benefit period of the program extends from
1977 to 2000, when on average the equipment provided under the program is
expected to have substantially completed its useful life.
2.        Capital expenditures.  Pre-investments for the program of
LE 66.78 million in 1973-77 are included. All price contingencies for
1978-80 have been deducted from the estimated annual total capital expendi-
tures for the program.
3.        Operating costs and revenues for 1978-80 have been deflated with
expected local price increases of 10 percent per annum to bring them to
the 1977 price level and make them comparable with capital expenditures.
As from 1980, incremental operating costs and revenues are assumed to
remain constant in real terms. Incremental revenues assigned to the program
are primarily based on expected additional telephone and telex subscribers
and traffic brought about by the program. Incremental operational costs
exclude depreciation and interest and are based on the additional assets and
traffic expected from the program.
4.        Net benefits.  A summary of the program's cost and benefit streams
at 1977 price levels and assuming continuation of existing tariffs is as
follows (in LE millions):
Capital             Operating             Net
Year     Expenditures      Costs      Revenues      Benefits
1973        (3.47)                                   (3.47)
1974        (9.86)                                   (9.86)
1975       (20.86)                                  (20.86)
1976       (32.593                                  (32.59)
1977       (49.53)           (.85)      1.89        (48.59)
1978       (45.91)          (3.00)      6.95        (41.96)
1979       (24.14)          (5.55)     13.61        (16.08)
1980        (4.87)          (8.15)     21.65          8.63
1981                       (11.38)     29.61         18.23
1982                       (13.96)     36.54         22.58
1983                       (15.09)     42.09         27.00
1984                       (15.36)     45.33         29.97
1985-2000                      (15.36)     46.27         30.91



ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 5
The internal rate of return for the net benefit stream is 10 percent. Assum-
ing consumers willingly pay the increased tariffs which ARETO proposes to
charge during the program period, the rate of return is 16 percent. With
the increased tariffs, labor shadow priced at 25 percent and local taxes and
duties excluded, the internal rate of return is 20 percent.
5.        Sensitivity analysis.  A sensitivity analysis was performed with
the following results:
Rate of Return
Rate of return with proposed increase in tariffs           16%
10% increase in capital expenditures                       16%
10% increase in operating costs                            16%
10% decrease in revenues                                   14%
Two years' delay in program completion                     15%
Combination of all factors above                           12%
6.        Estimate of partial consumer surplus - historical willingness to
p,y. Any calculated economic rate of return based on existing ARETO tariffs
is a significant underestimate of total program benefits since it is based
only on the observed willingness of subscribers to pay current tariffs for
telecommunication services. In the past, however, consumers in Egypt have
been asked to pay higher prices for telecommunications services and have
demonstrated a willingness to do so. Thus, a partial estimate of the consumer
surplus can be made by tabulating the prices in real terms which existing
consumers actually demonstrated a willingness to pay at the time when they
acquired telephone service, and by assuming that new consumers will be
similar to the average iexisting consumer. Given the existing investment
program, the assumption that new telephone subscribers will have similar
characteristics to existing ones is considered by the mission to be reasonable.
7.        With one recent exceptioni/ telecommunications tariffs have not
changed since 1966. Over the 1966-1977 period, however, domestic consumer
price inflation of approximately 67 percent has taken place-2/. As a result,
connected subscribers in 1966 were demonstrating that they were willing to
pay in real terms more fEor a more limited access telephone service than cur-
rent subscribers are being asked to pay. To estimate the prices in real
terms which existing te:Lephone subscribers demonstrated a willingness to pay
during the period between 1966 and 19772 ; a discounted weighted average price
paid by existing consumers when they entered the network was calculated. Thus
if it is assumed that new subscribers also would be willing to pay (in
terms of 1977 prices) what present subscribers have in the past on average
demonstrated a willingness to pay, the quantifiable rate of return on the
1/ Telex annual rental charges were increased in July 1976.
2/ The consumer price index in Egypt increased from a base of 100 in
1966/67 to 167 as of June 1976.
3/ Estimates for average revenue per DEL are not as reliable prior to
1933 as-for recent years.



ANNEX 17
Page 3 of 5
program is 21 percent. This estimate does not explicitly take into account
the fact that new subscribers will be receiving a greater quantity of tele-
communications service since a much larger number of connected subscribers
can be contacted than was the case when existing subscribers joined the
network.
8.        Estimate of partial consumer surplus-rent differentials and wasted
call attempt time. A second approach to consumer surplus estimation is
based on the fact that present subscribers are currently incurring higher
costs (prices) for telephone service than is revealed in official ARETO
tariff schedules. These costs are of two types corresponding to call
charges and monthly rentals.
9.        Call charges underestimate the true costs of calls since, given
the high percentage of call failures, peak period delays waiting for dial
tones, the necessity to repeat sentences because of static on the line,
etc., a significant amount of otherwise productive time of employed persons
is wasted when attempting to make a telephone call. An estimate of the
value of that wasted time is made using the following assumptions. (i) The
average urban caller earned a wage equal to an estimated LE 6.00 per week
in 19761/, and assuming he works an average of 45 hours per week, his time
is worth approximately LE 0.00222 per working minute. (ii) The average
time spent during business hours waiting for a dial tone and trying to make
a call which for technical or traffic congestion reasons is unsuccessful
(or for recalling when the connection terminates in mid-conversation) is at
least 1.5 minutes per unsuccessful call attempt. (iii) Ninety-five percent
of all calls made during business hours are business or government related.
10.       Given these assumptions which are thought to reasonably reflect
the situation in Egypt at this time, and the facts that (i) unsuccessful
calls due to technical faults or traffic congestion during prime business
hours (during an approximate 5-1/2 day business week) have been estimated
as approximately 75 percent of all local call attempts made in Cairo and
55 percent in Alexandria; (ii) that an average of 1,819,845 and 558,880
calls are completed respectively in the two cities during the six peak hours
per day when networks are highly congested; and (iii) that an unsuccessful
call attempt rate during peak hours of 25 percent would be considered good;
an estimate was made of the value of time wasted through unsuccessful local
call attempts in Cairo and Alexandria. Given that reliable estimates were
not available for the percent of unsuccessful calls in other cities in Egypt,
or for the long distance network, no attempt could be made to quantify the
total consumer willingness to incur the costs of time wasted trying to make
calls.
/ This estimate was derived by adjusting the 1968 national average weekly
wage upward by cost of living changes. This is considered to be a con-
servative estimate since it is thought that wages generally grew more
rapidly than the cost of living over the period, that wages in the large
urban areas are higher than the national average, and that wages of tele-
phone users are on average higher than the average urban wage.



ANNEX 17
Page 4 of 5
11.       Some telephone consumers also reveal a willingness to incur a
telephone-related cost greater than that reflected in the official ARETO
tariff schedule by paying higher monthly rental charges, or incurring
higher costs each month just to have a telephone. Local businessmen, and
middle and upper income foreigners and Egyptian citizens, sometimes
obtain telephones by renting furnished offices or furnished residences in
which, legally, the telephone can be transferred as one of the furnishings.
It is common in local newspapers to see apartment or office advertisements
in which one of the few prominent attributes listed is the presence of a
telephone.
12.       Estimates made of the extent of the monthly rent differentials
which exists for represenitative offices and apartments which are identical
except for the existence of a telephone, are somewhat imprecise due partly
to the variety of other factors involved in finding "identical" facilities,
and partly due to the sma;Ll and necessarily ad hoc nature of the sample.
Nevertheless differentials of between LE 50 and LE 150 per month were
observed for facilities that were similar except for the presence of a
telephone. It was also found that rental facilities which had a telephone
that was only one of several extensions on one line, or rental facilities
located in areas with very high daytime telephone traffic congestion tended
to command less of a premium than facilities with private or semi-private
lines, or in exchange areas where congestion is less of a problem. It was
further observed that the larger and more luxurious apartments or business
offices tended to command the largest telephone premiums (LE 150 per month
and up) since presumably higher income businessmen and larger business
firms tend to categorize a telephone as more of a necessity.  Given these
findings, an estimate of consumer surplus for the monthly rental of a
telephone is made using the following assumptions:
(i)       the demand curve for telephone rentals is downward sloping and
is shaped in such a way that a relatively small proportion of
the total population are willing and able to pay high monthly
rentals for telephone service (LE 50), while the vast majority
of population would be willing and able to pay only much lower
telephone rental charges; as such the demand curve is represented
as being convex to the origin of the price and quantity axis'/;
/ Mathematically, the deimand curve is specified as a rectangular hyper-
bola with an elasticity of 1. This is thought to be a conservative
assumption since empirical estimates of the price elasticity of demand
for telephone services are generally significantly less than 1 (more
inelastic).



ANNEX 17
Page 5 of 5
(ii)      two points on that demand curve are -- 4,000 telephones (less
than 1 percent of the total) at a price of LE 51.50 per month
(the official rental fee for automatic message rate exchanges
of LE 1.50 per month plus LE 50 representing a typical rent
differential paymentl/ and 775,158 telephones (the number of
telephones at the end of 1976 plus the number of people on the
official waiting list requesting to be allowed to pay at
least LE 1.50 per month for the presence of a telephone) at
the most common official rental price of LE 1.50 per month.
13.       The area under the demand curve above a monthly price of LE 1.50
and below a monthly price of LE 51.50 and between the quantities zero and
775,158 telephones is equal to LE 3,135,533. This amounts to an average
of LE 4.21 per telephone per month, or LE 50.52 per telephone per year.
Thus for purposes of benefit estimation, the value of renting a telephone
may be taken to be an average of LE 50.52 per year more than the average
rental actually paid to ARET02/.
14.       Given the above (i) estimate of part of the costs incurred in
making a telephone call which consumers willingly pay (official call charge
plus time wasted), and (ii) estimate of the yearly value of having a tele-
phone connection (average monthly telephone rental charge plus estimate of
rent differential consumer surplus) based on the observed willingness of
consumers to pay, a new stream of project benefits is estimated. Using
this revised benefits stream and the stream of project costs appropriately
shadow priced, the rate of return on the project is 23 percent.
/ The LE 50 per month rent differential is considered to be a reasonably
representative for modest one or two-bedroom second or third floor
walk-up apartments or offices with three-party lines occupied by visit-
ing Arabs, expatriate Europeans and upper-middle income Egyptian
businessmen.
2/ If the demand curve for telephone rentals was assumed to be linear
instead of convex to the origin, the consumer surplus per telephone
would be LE 25.13 per month or LE 301.56 per year.






A.NNZI 18
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
ORGANIZATION CHART
VICDCAAIPRAN                                                   AN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MINISTRYOFOMNCTIONS                                              OPRHOE
>                   +                 tX                                  9                               1            L'   1 1                           X             AA t~~~~~. R.
I.r. ^ 8 L  LI                             -.A.           p1l      {        3{3. 03{    3  iN3{0 1W
1-3 P-    p 13. X3{        {;                                                                                                           H3S{                                                           X  X{   X
{AtI  {l                                                                             PL                               @3!}Wldo-T7A1
--T-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NENTONL                                                    MITNNE         ISETO           CIOAEC                        SE              OE
rELCARAC    LCLNTNAN       CCOCANE                         CNNlLNFAE                                                                  OMEOA             EECEN-         O OGLOA                         EINEI                         AP             G






ANNEX 19
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
Telecommunications Staff
Category                        1972     1973      1974      1975     1976
Managerial                             14        16        18       19        18
Administrative                        716       717      746       819       820
Engineers                             860       965    1,064    1,134    1,265
Wire Technicians                    3,438    4,086    4,800    5,595    5,520
Wireless Technicians                  599       641      644       632       773
Stores Technicians                    100       100      101       108      111
Telephone Operators                 6,634    6,811    6,908    7,070    7,224
Telegraph Operators                 1,881    1,943    1,950    2,059    2,064
Radio Telephone Operators             117       117      116       286       304
Radio Telegraph Operators             998    1,190    1,203    1,276    1,351
Clerks                              3,487    3,725    4,069    4,812    5,213
Skilled Workers                    11,097   11693    12,333   13,684   14,548
Laborers                            8,309    8,896   10,640   10,788   12,606
Contract Appointments                 143       129      180       225      173
Total                   38,393   41,029   44,772   48,507   51,990
August 17, 1977



ANNEX 20
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
Staff Trained at the Telecommunications Training
and Research Institute (TTRI), Cairo
Category                          1972     1973      1974     1975      1976
Engineers                              33        43       43        -        22
Technicians 1/                        541      409       594       592      388
Skilled Workers -/                    135      287       187       411      274
Operators /                           287      320       223       397      337
Administrative                        14
and Clerical Staff4-                186      248       382       571      293
Refresher Courses-/                    -         -     1,163       806    2,187
l#  Some of these technicians are trained by TTRI to meet the requirements
of the Ministry of Education for employment in agencies other than ARETO.
2/  Skilled workers are trained for working on telephone instruments, manual
switchboards, cables, open-wire lines, test equipment, exchanges and
coaxial equipment.
3/  Includes telephone, telegraph and teleprinter operators.
4/  Includes clerks, typists, store clerks and office assistants.
5/  Refresher courses are held in technical, traffic and administrative
disciplines and were started in 1974.
August 17, 1977



ANNEX 21
Page 1 of 2 pages
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
Summary of Telecommunication Tariffs
(as on January 1, 1977)
A. RENTAL AND CALL CHARGES - TELEPHONE CONNECTIONS
Type of         Annual    Charge    Free Calls
Type of Exchanges             Subscriber        Rental   Per Call   Per Annum
LE       LE
1.  Automatic - Message Rate           Residential         18      0.015         1,500
2.  Automatic - Message Rate           Business            18      0.015           300
3.  Automatic - Message Rate       Mixed (Bus./Res.)      18       0.015         1,000
4.  Automatic - Message Rate           Government          18      0.015         1,000
5.  Public Telephones                                      18      0.015           300
6.  Automatic - Flat Rate                  All             27        -         Unlimited
(Cairo and Alexandria Zones
Outside Metropolitan Area)
7.  Automatic - Flat Rate                  All             21        -         Unlimited
(Provinces)
8.  Manual Working                         All             21        -         Unlimited
14 hours per day and over
9.  Manual - Working                       All             15        -        Unlimited
under 14 hours per day
B. RENTAL CHARGE - EXTENSION
Type of Extension
1.  Internal                                                6
2.  External up to 500 meters                               8
3.  External over 500 meters                               8 plus
1.5 for every
additional 500
meters



ANNEX 21
Page 2 of 2 pages
LE
CONNECTION/SHIFTING CHARGE
1.  Exchange Lines                                         10
2.  Extension - Internal                                    3
3.  Extension - External                                   10
TRUNK CALLS - MANUAL AND STD
Charge for 3 minutes
Day 1/      Night1
Mil;-        Mils-/
Up to  25 kms                                              15           15
Over   25 kms but under    50 kms                          30           15
Over   50 kms but under    75 kms                          45           30
Over   75 kms but under   100 kms                          75           45
Over  100 kms but under   125 kas                        100            60
Over  125 kms but under   150 kms                         120           75
Over  150 kas but under   175 kms                        140            90
Over  175 kms but under   200 kms                         160          100
Over  200 kms but under   250 kms                         180          110
Over  250 kms but under   300 kis                         200          120
Over  300 kms but under   500 kms                         250          150
Over  500 kms but under 1,400 kms                        350           200
1/  LE 1 = Mils 1,000
2/ Night tariffs apply between 1900 hours and 0700 hours
on all days.
E. TELEX
LE
Rental per line per annum               600 1/
Call charge (per minute)
Local (Cairo and AlexandLria)           0.01
Between Cairo and Alexandria            0.04
TELEGRAPHS
LE 0.1 per word
/ Effective July 1, 1976.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANlZATION (ARETO)
Revenue Improvement Measures
(Assumed)    Estimated Incremental Revenues
Measure                                               Effective               (LE millions)
Date         1977    1978    1979    1980
1.  Changing the exchange rate for billing international
services from the official rate (LE 1 = US$2.56)                      July 1,
to the parallel market rate (LE 1 = US$1.43)                           1977
Telephone                                                                         1.94    4.78    6.31    8.81
Telegraph                                                                         1.85    4.12    4.57    5.08
Telex                                                                              .79    2.59    3.67    4.82
2.  Increasing domestic telegraph service charges by 100 percent,    (July 1,            .58   11.49   14.55   T8.71
from LE 0.01/word to LE 0.02/word                                      1978)          -       .80    1.70    1.80
3.  Increasing telephone installation, transfer and other                (July 1,
similar fees by 100 percent                                            1978)          -       .20      .80      .90
4.  Increasing telephone trunk call charges and trunk                    (July 1,
line leases by 75 percent to 50 percent                                1978)          -      2.89    5.21    8.82
5.  Increasing telephone rentals (including extensions) by 50 percent(Jan. 1,
6.  Eliminating/reducing telephone free call allowances, as follows:   1979)               -       -      6.55    7.41
From               To
Residential                       1,500/year        1,000/year
Mixed (business/residential)    1,000/year              0
Government                        1,000/year            0
Commercial                          300/year            0          (Jan. 1,
Public telephones                   300/year            0            1979)          -        -      2.80    3.06
7. Increasing telephone call charges, as follows:
From               To
Residential                   LE 0.015            LE 0.02
Mixed (business/residential)    0.015                0.03
Government                        0.015              0.03
Commercial                        0.015              0.03          (Jan. 1,
Public telephones                 0.015              0.03            1979)          -        -      3.89    5.17
Total Estimated Incremental Revenues                                         4.58   14.58   35.50   45.87
February 11, 1978



ANNEX 23
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOKMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
Income Statements - 1973-80
(LE thousands)
Actuals                  Estimated             Forecast
Year ending December 31:  1973       1974      1975       1976      1977       1978      1979      1980
Average number of direct exchange lines (DELs)   323,412   332,638   341,645   348,714   359,427   379,327   410,962   457,562
Average telephone revenue per DEL:
-  excluding tariff increases - LE                   58        58         61        69         73        83       100        121
-  including tariff increases - LE                                                             78       108       162        197
-------------------------------------..------------------------------__------__----------------------------------
Operating Revenues
Telephone                                        18,809    19,333    20,726    24,155    26,238    31,484    41,095    55,357
Telegraph                                         3,120     3,547      4,636     6,184     6,802      7,482     8,230      9,053
Telex                                               681     1,017      1,361     1,753     3,090      5,040     7,140      9,390
Miscellaneous                                         9          7        12        62         70        79         89       101
Prior years' adjustment                            (251)      (108)     (696)   (2,151)      -         -         -          -
From tariff increasesl-                                            -                        4_580    14,580    35,500    45,870
Total Operating Revenues                      22,368    23,796    26,039    30,003    40,780    58,665    92,054   119,771
Operating Expenses
Salaries                                         12,080    12,846    14,988    15,311    17,789    20,764    24,200    28,209
Materials                                         1,280      1,590     1,934     1,901      2,190     2,540      3,020     3,650
Other                                               760       877        944     1,178     1,340      1,570     1,900      2,260
Prior year's adjustment                             189        320       189        47       -         -         -          -
Depreciation                                      3,350     3.520      3,385     4,800      5,760     8,561    12,528    17,288
Total Operating Expenses                      17,659    19,153    21,440    23,237    27,079    33,435                 51,407
Operating Income                                    4,709      4,643     4,599     6,766    13,701    25,230    50,406    68,364
Other income (net)                                    392        581       724     1,517      1,500     1,500     1,500      1,500
Net Income (before financial expense)               5,101      5,224     5,323     8,283    15,201    26,730    51,906    69,864
Financial Expense (int. & comm.)                    1,194        503     1,927     2,542      6,532    11,575    17,553    22,631
Net Income                                          3,907      3,721     3,396     5.741      8,669    15,155    34,353    47,233
Rate of Return-/ - %                              9.3        9.1       9.1      12.4       18.1      19.7      24.9       23.7
Operating Ratio  - %                               79        80         82        77         66        57        45         43
1/ See Annex 22 for details
2/ On historically-valued assets
February 11, 1978



ANNEX 24
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
Sources and Applications of Funds - 1973-80
(LE thousands)
Actualsl'             Estimated              Forecast
Year ending December 31:  1973        1974     1975      1976      1977       1978      1979       1980
SOURCES
Net income (before financial expense)   5,101    5,224    5,323    8,283   15,201    26,730    51,906    69,864
Depreciation                               3,350    3,520    3,385    4,800    5,760         8,561    12,528    17,288
Subscriber's deposits                        265       356      203       836       190      1,470     2,260      2,780
Asset valuation adjustment                   -        -        -       (9,834)    -           -         -          -
8,716    9,100    8,911    4,085   21,151    36,761    66,694    89,932
Debt service
Financial expense                        1,194    1,503    1,927    2,542    6,532    11,575    17,553    22,631
Amortization                             2,066    2,697    3,163    3,828   12,272    23,077    29,873    38,994
3,260    4,200    5,090   .6,370   18,804    34,652    47,426    61,625
Net available                              5,456    4,900    3,821   (2,285)   2,347         2,109    19,268    28,307
Foreign loans and credits
Existing (ongoing works)                   337    1,260    6,878   30,893   27,030    21,800    12,300            600
Proposed IDA credit                        -       -         -         -         -         3,000    15,000    15,390
France                                     -       -         -         -         -        5,060      5,500        940
USAID                                      -       -         -         -         -        4,200      3,500        700
LME                                        -       -         -         -         -        8,000    12,450       7,900
Other (other works)                        -       -         -         -         -           680     3,480    16,480
337    1,260    6,878   30,893   27,030    42,740    52,230    42,010
Government financing
Capital investment                       3,139     -         -         -         -         -          -          -
Loans                                    1,690    7,430   10,650   20,063   24,260    71,349    64,676    60,083
Less:  Income transfers                 (3,907)  (2,163)  (3,396)  (2,905)   (541)         -            (77)   (6,151)
922    5,267    7,254   17,158   23,719    71,349    64,599    53,932
Total Sources                           6,715   11,427   17,953   45,766   53,096   116,198   136,097   124 249
APPLICATIONS
Ongoing works                              6,457    6,860   16,856   34,090   49,530    50,362    29,636          6,971
Proposed second IDA project                  -        -        -         -         -       38,649    61,625    46,726
Other works                                  -       -         -         -         -       13,051    23,255    45,606
Total construction                      6,457    6,860   16,856   34,090   49,530   102,062   114,516    99,303
Capitalized expenses                         550       660      890    1,360    1,760       2,050      2,390      2,790
Long-term investments                        -       -         -        1,615      -          -         -          -
Net working capital                         (292)   3,907       207    8,701    1,806    12,Q86    19,191    22,156
Total Applications                      6,715   11,427   17,953   45,766   53096   116,19    136,097   124,249
Debt Service Coverage (times)               2.7     2.2       1.8       2.21/    1.1       1.1        1.4        1.5
Contribution to investment (M)                87        43       21        (5)        4          2       14          23
1/ Excludes asset valuation adjustment
February 22, 1978



ANNEX 25
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC: OF EGYPT TELECONHUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
Balance Sheets, 1973-80
(in LE thousands)
----------- ActualsI/-----------   Estimated    ------ Forecast --------
As of December 31:   1973        1974       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980
ASSETS
Plant in operation                            85,631    88,665    91,630   102,202   142,202   222,102   311,012   424,662
Less:  Accumulated depreciation               34,294    37,814    41,199    43,833    49,593    58,154    70,682    87,970
51,337    50,851    50,431    59,059    92,609   163,948   243,330   T73669
Work in progress                               17,084    21,570    36,351    60,539    72.519    96.731   124,727   113.170
Net Fixed Assets                      68,421    72,421    86,782   119,598   165,128   260,679   365,057   449,862
Long-term investments                            -          -          -        1,615      1,615      1,615      1,615      1,615
Cash and banks                                   -           790        932     4,681      7,131    12,083    13,723    13,113
Accounts receivable - trade                   12,372    13,337    15,652    15,537    13,592    17,928    25,573    33,272
"1       ".       - other                     752      1,492      1,876      4,741      5,689      6,827      8,192      9,831
Inventories                                    4,772      6,895      9,160    10,363    12.255    18,215    26,656    36,784
Other assets                                    9,839    11,749    15,923    22,039    22,900    23,900    25,300    27,100
Total Assets                          96,156   106,684   130,325   178,574   228.310   341,247   466,116   571.577
LIABILITIES
Capital                                       18,717    18,717    18,717    18,717    18,717    18,717    18,717    18,717
Asset valuation reserve                        20,735    20,735    20,735    10,901    10.901    10,901    10,901    10,901
Retained earnings                               9,934    11,492    11,492    16,494    24,622    39-777    74.053   115,135
49,386    50,944    50,944    46,112    54,240    69.395   1Q3-671   144,753
Subscriber deposits                            3,739      4,095      4,298      5,134      5,324      6,794      9,054    11,834
Long-term debt
Domestic                                 25,198    31,249    39,978    57,831    78,429   144,094   196,682   239,287
Foreign                                   4,831      4,773    10,409    39,684    58,104    83,451   117,896   138,390
Total                                 30,029    36,022    50,387    97,515   136,533   227,545   314,578   377,677
Accounts payable                                9,965    13,525    22,509    28,516    30,916    36,216    37,516    36,016
Provisions                                      1,888      1,925     2,014      1,124      1,124      1,124      1,124       1,124
Overdrafts                                      1,149        173        173        173        173        173        173        173
Total Liabilities                     96,156   106,684   130,235   178,574   228.310   341.247   466,116   571,577
Current Ratio                                   2.1       2.2        1.8        1.9        1.9        2.1        2.6        3.2
Long-term debt/equity Ratio                     0.6       0.7        1.0        2.1        2.5        3.3        3.0         2.6
1/  Reflect asset valuation adjustments and account reclassification as                                          February 13, 1978
detailed in Annex 26.



ANNEX 26
Page 1 of 7
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
Notes on Financial Statements and Main Forecast Assumptions
A. Notes on Financial Statements
1.        While the financial statements in Annexes 23, 24 and 25 correspond-
ing to actual years 1972-76 are based on ARETOWs audited accounts, they do
however reflect some account reclassification and adjustment necessary for
appraisal and supervision purposes as suimmarized below.
2.        ARETO's accounting statements do not necessarily present ARETO's financial
performance and situation in accordance with norrial international telecommuni-
cations accounting practices. For example, cash in banks is shown Rross rather
than net of bank overdrafts, checks deposited but not yet cleared and outstanding
checks; the latter are included in different accounts either as a separate lia-
bility (bank overdrafts) or aggregated in sundry credit or debit accounts. The
reason for this is that as a Government Board ARETO follows the Egyptian
Standardized Accounting System (SAS)I/, whose main objective is to provide com-
parable basic data through standardized accounting statements for macroeconomic
planning and control purposes.
3.        ARETO's accounting statements include certain items -- such as work
performed for others, both as an asset and a liability in the balance sheet --
which are normally excluded from financial statements.
4.        The financial statements in Annexes 24 and 25 have been adjusted to
reflect (a) asset valuations covering the period from 1957 (the time of ARETO's
inception) through 1972 and 1973-76 and (b) the effect of the shift in 1976
from the official exchange rate to the parallel market rate as follows
(LE millions):
ASSETS                                   Total        Through 1972         1973-76
Plant in operation                    51,969          50,165             1,804
Accumulated depreciation             (15,928)         (18,094)           2,166
Work in progress                     ( 5,909)         (12,208)           6,299
Long term investments                  1,615             -               1,615
Accounts receivable-Trade                206              206              -
"1        if    -Other              2,319            -                2,319
Inventories                          (   223)        (    15)           (  208)
Other assets                           3,395          (   937)           4,332
37,444          19,117            18,327
LIABILITIES
Asset valuation reserve              10,901          20,735             (9,834)
Retained earnings                   (   740)             -              (  740)
Subscriber deposits                     124              124               -
Long-term debt-Domestic              10,596              413            10,183
-Foreign              17,504             -               17,504
Accounts payable                         302          (3,791)            4,093
Provisions                          ( 1,243)          1,636             (2,879)
37,444          19,117            18,327
The unrealized foreign exchange loss arising from the shift in the exchange rate
applicable to ARETO's operations amounted to LE 7,831 thousand equivalent and was
charged to work in progress.  The appraisals of the assets were made by an official
and independent ad hoc committee, who followed SAS guidelines and CAO procedures.
1/ Presidential Decree No. 4723 dated December 10, 1966.



ANNEX 26
Page 2 of 7
5.        ARETO's accounting statements through 1975 also understate plant
in service (and overstate work in progress by equal amounts) reflecting lack
ou CLiQuiduationi between the engineering and auditing departments in reporting
and accounting of completed works. Plant in service (and work in progress)
in Annex 25 have also been adjusted to reflect the plant records of the
engineering department which controls this account.
6.        The financial statements in Annexes 23, 24 and 25 reflect the above-
mentioned reclassification and adjustments. They were prepared by IDA staff
based on ARETO's corresponding accounting statements and on supplementary
information received during, and subsequent to, appraisal, as well as during,
and subsequent to, credit negotiations. The forecast was also developed by
IDA staff based on a preliminary forecast prepared by ARETO.
B. Main Forecast Assumptions
Income Statements (Annex 23)
1.        The number of direct exchange lines (DELs) presumes implementation
of ARETO's development program described in para. 3.01 of the text in
accordance with the construction schedule in Annex 15, and as reflected in
Annex 4, Growth of Local Telephone System.
2.        Telephone revenues reflect the expected increases in (a) the
average number of DELs and (b) the average revenue per DEL arising from the
plant additions and improvements, particularly of domestic and international
long-distance services provided for in the development program. Expected
annual overall increases in revenues per DEL of 14% in 1978, 20% in 1979
and 21% in 1980 are attainable and reasonable. A summary of the telephone
revenue forecast follows:
Actual               Forecast
1976     1977    1978    1979    1980
Ave. number of DELs - 10                348.7    359.4   379.3   411.0   457.6
Annual increase                          2%        47%     7%     10%      13%
Average revenue/DEL: Domestic-LE         55        57      65       78      93
Annual increase   1%        4%      14%     20%      19%
International-LE  14        16       18      22       28
Annual increase  119%       14%      13%     22%      27%
Total Telephone-LE                       69        73      83     100      121
Annual increase - %                      14%       6%      14%     20%      21%
Total revenue -/ - LE x 106             24.16    26.24   31.48   41.10   55.36
1/ Excluding tariff increases.



ANNEX 26
Page 3 of 7
3.        Telegraph revenues have been conservatively estimated to increase
at an annual rate of 10% which compares with average annual growth of 25%
in 1973-76. The expected lower growth rate allows for the expected increases
in long-distance telephone and telex communication which will limit telegraph
traffic.
4.        Telex revenues reflect the expected increase in telex lines at
the average revenue of LE 3,000 per year observed in 1975-76.
5.        Revenues from tariff increases correspond to the incremental
revenues arising from the adoption of the revenue improvement measures dis-
cussed in para. 5.15 of the text and detailed in Annex 22.
6.        Staff expense has been calculated based on (a) staff projections
of ARETO which allow for moderate increases in productivity beginning in
1978 and (b) average annual salary increases of 10%. ARETO expects that
the number of staff will increase at an annual rate of 6% which compares
with an average annual growth rate of 8% in 1972-76 (7% in 1976). As in
the past, 9% of the staff expense would be charged to construction. A sum-
mary of the staff cost projection follows.
Actual              Forecast
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
Number of staff - year-end        51,990  55,109  58,416  61,921  65,636
- average       50,249  53,550  56,763  60,169  63,779
Annual increase                     7%      6%       6%      6Z       6%
Average remuneration - LE          332     365      402     442      486
Annual increase                     2%     10%     10%      10%      10%
Staff expense - LE x 106           16.67   19.55   22.81   26.59   31.00
Less:  Charged to construction    1.36    1.76    2.05    2.39    2.79
15.31   17.79   20.76   24.20   28.21
7.        Materials and other expense are projected to increase at the
system's growth rate.
8.        Depreciation charges are projected at an annual rate of 4.7% of
the average gross plant in service. This is consistent with ARETO practice
which is governed by SAS regulation; depreciation charges have averaged 5%
of depreciable assets. Difference reflects presence of non-depreciable
assets.
9.        Non-operating income is forecast constant at the 1976 level.
10.       Financial expenses (interest and commissions) has been calculated
based on the borrowing terms listed in Attachment A to this Annex and the
disbursement and amortization schedules in Attachment B. Details are given
in Attachment C.



ANNEX 26
Page 4 of 7
Sources and Applications of Funds (Annex 24)
11.       Net working capital (increase)/decrease represents the differer--
between annual increases in assets other than fixed assets and the correspon-
ding increase in other liabilities, both from the balance sheets (Annex 25).
12.       Foreign loans and credits correspond to the disbursement from
these sources in Attachment: B to this Annex which have been calculated from
the investment program in Annex 11.
13.       Government loans represent the residual financing required to carry
out the full investment program.
Balance Sheets (Annex 25)
14.       Cash and banks haLs been calculated as a function of operating
expenses before depreciation plus domestic currency construction expenditure.
15.       Accounts receivable (telecommunications) have been calculated at
33% in 1977, 31% in 1978 and 28% thereafter of the year's operating revenues,
to allow for the settlement of Government agency arrears (para. 5.12 of the
text).
16.       Other accounts receivable have been forecast to increase 20%
annually which compares with average growth of 44% in 1972-76.
17.       Inventories have been forecast to increase proportionately to
gross plant in service.
18.       Other liabilities have been calculated as a function of operating
expenses before depreciation plus total construction expenditure.



ANNEX 26
ATTACHMENT A
Page 5 of 7
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
Borrowing Terms
Term          Grace      Interest        Other
(years)      (years)        Rate          Fees
Foreign Loans and Credits
Ongoing Works         1
IDA Credit #548-EGT--         20             3          7% p/a       1-1/2% p/a
Other                      Various2/    Various3/    Various4/
Second IDA Project   51
Propose4 IDA Credit-           20          3-1/2       7.45% p/a
Fran  6                        7/          2-1/2          8/
USAID-9                      10/           None         5%/ p/a
LME                             7          None        8-1/2% p/a
Other Works                  Various -/   Various -1/   Various --/
Government Loans                 13             1         5% p/a
1/  Onlending terms
2/  Ranging from 5 to 18 years
3/  Ranging from none to 3 years
4/  Ranging from 3-1/2% to 9% p/a
5/  Onlending terms
6/  Mixed treasury (1/4) and commercial bank (3/4) funds
7/  Twenty five years, including 2-1/2 years' grace on Treasury funds, and
12-1/2 years, including 2-1/2 yearst grace on commercial bank funds
8/ 3.5% p/a on Treasury funds and "usual" commercial bank rate (assumed to
be 9% p/a) plus COFACE credit commission (assumed to be 1% p/a) on
commercial bank funds
9/  Onlending terms
10/  Ten years for equipment purchases and three years for spare parts
11/  Ranging from 5 to 20 years (tentative)
12/  Ranging from none to 3 years (tentative)
13/  Ranging from 3-1/2% to 9% p/a (tentative)
February 11, 1978



EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
Disbursement and Amortization Schedules
(in LE thousands)
Disbursement                                 Amortization
Total                                      Total
1977     1978      1979      1980    1978-80  1977    1978    1979    1980   1978-80
A. Foreign Loans and Credits
Existing (ongoing works)   27,030   21,800   12,300          600   34,700   8,610  10,530  12,790  13,340  36,660
Second IDA Project   1/
Proposed IDA Credit-        -        3,000   15,000   15,390   33,390    -           -       -        -        -
France                      -        5,060    5,500        940   11,500    -        -        -         497      497
USAID                       -        4,200    3,500        700    8,400    -       1,134   1,134   1,134   3,402
LME                         -        8,000   12,450    7,900   28,350    -         5,670   3,686   4,536  13,892
-      20,260   36,450   24,930   81,640    -          6,804   4,820   6,167  17,791
Other (other works)           -          680    3,480   16,480   20,640    -             59     175   2,009   2,243
27,030   42,740   52,230   42,010  136,980   8,610  17,393  17,785  21,516  56,694
2/                                                      2/
B.  Government Loans-            24260   70,749   64,676   60,083  195,508-  3,662   5,684  12,088  17,478  35,250
51,290  113,489  116,906  102,093  332,488  12,272  23,077  29,873  38,994  91,944
1/ Disbursements of LE 3,710 (US$5,305) thousand are expected in 1981
2/ Include LE 4,200 thousand equivalent to cover the foreign exchange costs of raw materials and component parts
of Egyptian suppliers needed to meet project requirements
m x
Ch
_,.



ANNEX 26
ATTACHMENT C
Page 7 of 7
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
Interest and Commissions Schedule
(in LE thousands)
Total
1977     1978      1979     1980    1978-80
A. Foreign Loans and Credits
Existing (ongoing works)    3,401    5,853    7,017    6,784    19,654
Second IDA Project
Proposed IDA Credit           -         56       782    1,914      2,752
France                        -        212       656       907     1,775
USAID                         -         77       212       261       550
LME                           -         99       570    1,086      1,755
-        444    2,220    4,168       6,832
Other (other works)             -         11       112    1,096      1,219
3,401    6-,308    9,349   12,048    27,705
B.  Government Loans              3,131    5,267    8,204   10,583    24,054
Total Financial Expense  -6,532   11,575   17,553   22,631    51,759



ANNEX 27
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARETO)
Performance Indicators
A set of indic,ators which would assist in monitoring ARETO's
performance during the 1978-80 period is given in the statement below.
ARETO through periodical progress reports will indicate actual performance
relating to these items.
1977     1978      1979     1980
(a) Additional telephones exchange
lines equipment installed        27,600   31,200   53,609   81,300
(b) Additional telephone con-
nections installed               14,530   25,270   38,000   55,000
(c) Number of employees!Y per
1,000 telephones                    104       103      101        92
(d)  Gross revenue (LE million)          40.8      58.7     92.1    119.8
(e)  Telephone revenue per DEL (LE)        78      108      162       197
(f)  Rate of return (%)                    18       20        25       24
(g)  Operating ratio (%)                   66       57        45       43
(h)  Debt service coverage (times)         1.1      1.1       1.4      1.5
(i)  Long-term debt/equity ratio (times) 2.5        3.3       3.0      2.6
(j)  Receivables (telecommuni-
cations) in days                  120       110      100       100
1/  This includes personnel engaged in telegraph and radio operations and
construction, but excludes personnel on deputation,
February 167 1978



BRD -11323R1
29*  30 Er 35                                                                                                                                             33^                                          Ae3AUST S)7)
Me diterra ne an                                         Sea
AIDUQir  g
ELMAH                  EL      SU
A 2 AB   REPlJBLI I C   OR F     CYRT                          i Y \ m            K   .                             El S                                            >Gill.,Ne,,,
ARAIB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICPTION ORGANiIZATION   wu d XggAES el M                                                                                                           .ESASs.a
HIGH  CAPACITY  THANSMISSION   SYSTEMS  ANU  THUNK  AUTOMATIC  EXCHANGES                              TET    AMAGEL        r      EAl  os; 
30   EYISTINC OR                                                         X    G   ZX    7;1RO                                                      t               \   l ~~~~~~~~~~~~l 5 ..
LYDER CONSTRLUCTION    EMFARDASD-LIh
__         T_      E CATTEA TICALSYT-SLEE                                       / 5A                     UOPotD                                                            thf
.A     .                 MSLST-J l TASNWV SYTTST/Y/r                                                             HleD                
HARD~~~~~~~W EUFAE                                                                            NED      //  
3.- REPUB  L AILCAYS DDJB TRACO SETLEO                     O/GIIZATON\
I        ISSI RATIE YS       S ADREKATROMTT CAIE    TA                                            A
+0  +   EX RIWAS_ATINGL DAVAE fR S  
_ ETE    NAV A LE   SYAN A   IA     C                                                    AYUM            D            
__ __ _~~~~TOI              A TD ATICA LXC'ANGEL                                                           ETLR   O:RTID ,zBeeI 
MflA,,~LA,.     WE B  RANA E,,5   R3D
AIVLR1AS    -DhdOnT\\ C 
AA +     INTF    - RNATIDAL l A -RE\
29- -    CINEATIIS        A - DVA T   SO-1E                                                                          UF                                                                                        e ine2
/9   SAUDI                                                                                                                                                                         EL 
NAIG>L  ANRIT
I  _ =          II_   MNh                                                           / -0
ChETe   w ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R S                                                                                                   Z .f/. - 1/ 
N-BAUTC-' 111S                                                         4bd   5                                                          /                                                                  (
|A R             }    -   ABIA                                                           )                                                                                                                               S
,           EBTS,,                                  T',L  ,  |    T0                                                                               2?5L5,oLAS                                                                          S     S                      \
2 ,9 -                                                                                                                                                 N I  L 2.
j Lrb Nrrt t l ~~~~~~n        .   D/,',1...  1.1  o,  f  55 ?MLS< 
e r-_,T-J l             >  ;y;  -<7/  (
-UAN   ,Y                    nL 111azar 3                                                                                                                2                                                                             R



