Document of
FILE COPY                              The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-2176a-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
February 22, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)               -                US$2.56 or SDR 2.118
1 US Dollar                                          LE 0.391
Parallel Market Rate
Until February 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                US$1.70
1 US Dollar                                          LE 0.59
From February to May 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                US$1.56
1 US Dollar                                          LE 0.64
From May 21, 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                US$1.47
1 US Dollar                                          LE 0.68
From December 1, 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                US$1.43
1 US Dollar                                          LE 0.70
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEFINITIONS, ABBREVIATIONS, AND ACRONYMS
ARETO                :Arab Republic of Egypt Telecommunications Organization
Coaxial Cable        : A cable with a center conductor surrounded by a coaxial
outer conductor.  It is used for high-capacity
transmission systems
Crossbar Switching   :An automatic telephone switching system utilizing a
connecting matrix with horizontal bars and vertical bridges
CTC                  :Continental Telephone Corporation/US
DELs                 :Direct exchange lines (telephone connections)
Electronic Switching   An automatic telephone or telex switching system
electronically controlled
GODE                   Gulf Organization for Development of Egypt
MHz                    Megahertz
Microwave              Radio system working at frequencies above 300 MHz but
normally applied to systems working at frequencies
above 1,000 MHz
M and LT               Medium and Long Term
PABX                   Private Automatic Branch Exchange
Rotary                 A type of centrally motor driven rotary telephone
switching system
STD                    Subscriber trunk dialing (Long distance self-dialing)
Telex                  Teleprinter exchange system
UNDP                   United Nations Development Program
USAID                : United States Agency for International Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Arab Republic of Egypt.
Beneficiary:         Arab Republic of Egypt Telecommunications Organization
(ARETO).
Amount:              US$53 million.
Terms:               Standard.
Relending Terms:    The proceeds of the Credit will be relent to ARETO for
a term of 20 years, including three and one half years
of grace, at interest of 7.45 percent per annum. ARETO
will bear the foreign exchange risk on the subsidiary loan.
Project              The project will support the most urgent new works of
Description:        ARETO's 1978-80 program for rehabilitation and improvement
of Egypt's inadequate telecommunications system which is
creating a major bottleneck in the country's development
process. The project will (i) provide some relief to the
huge backlog in demand for telephones through the installa-
tion of about 226,000 local exchange lines; (ii) improve
long distance telephone services through about 5,000 addi-
tional trunk exchange lines; and (iii) expand telex
services through an additional 3,000 line telex exchange
in Cairo. With the project, system congestion will
decrease and existing telecommunications facilities
will be used more efficiently. User resources presently
wasted on higher cost means of communication will be
saved. Further, losses of production and marketing
efficiency, caused by the present lack of communication,
will be reduced and expansion of industries and activities
which rely on good comiunications will be faciliated.
The project faces no special risk although the timely
implementation of the project and of the other components
of ARETO's program will depend heavily on the Government's
ability to meet a sizeable portion of the financing
requirements.



Project Cost                             Local      Foreign      Total       IDA
and IDA Financing:                     Cost        Cost        Cost    Financing
--------------US$ million----------
Telephone exchanges                      34.6        54.0        88.6        21.5
Subscriber equipment                      8.9         8.6        17.5         3.0
Cairo city junction microwave             4.0        11.0        15.0          -
Cables and accessories                   14.5        17.6        32.1        12.5
Buildings for telecommunica-
tions equipment                         5.4         0.3         5.7          -
Long distance network
(including trunk exchanges)             0.3        14.2       14.5          _
Telegraphs and telex                      3.8         8.5        12.3         8.5
Contingencies                            10.5        13.8        24.3         7.5
Total                                  82.0       128.0      210.0        53.0
Financing Plan:
IDA credit                                 -         53.0        53.0
Other foreign loans and
suppliers' credit                        -        69.0        69.0
Government                               82.0         6.0        88.0
Total                                  82.0       128.0      210.0
Estimated
Disbursements
of IDA Credit:                             ---------- US$ million ---------
Fiscal Year            79         80         81         82
Annual                13.0       26.0       12.5        1.5
Cumulative             13.0      39.0       51.5       53.0
Economic Rate        23 percent for ARETO's 1978-80 program of which the
of Return:          project is part.
Appraisal Report:   Appraisal Report, Egypt, Second Telecommunications Project
(No. 1756-EGT of February 22, 1978).



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit for the equivalent of $53.0 million on standard IDA terms
to the Arab Republic of Egypt to help finance the foreign exchange cost of a
Second Telecommunications Project. The proceeds of the Credit would be relent
to the Arab Republic of Egypt Telecommunications Organization (ARETO) for
a term of 20 years, including three and one half years of grace, with interest
at 7.45 percent per annum. ARETO would bear the foreign exchange risk on the
subsidiary loan. Financing of a total amount equivalent to $69.0 million for
the Project has been secured from the United States Agency for International
Development, the Government of France and the Company L.M. Ericsson/Sweden.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Report on the Arab Republic of Egypt (No. 870a-EGT),
dated January 5, 1976, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. An
updating economic report dated March 22, 1977 was distributed to the Executive
Directors on June 8, 1977. A basic economic mission visited Egypt in May/June
1976 and its report is under preparation. A number of updating missions have
visited Egypt, the latest in January 1978; the findings of these missions are
incorporated in this report. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        From 1960 to 1966 Egypt experienced rapid growth (around 6 percent a
year in real terms) under fairly rigid centralized planning and control. This
system came under increasing pressure in the second half of the decade follow-
ing bad harvests and increased defense expenditures, particularly as a result
of the civil war in Yemen. It deteriorated further after the war of 1967,
with the loss of the Sinai oil fields, the closure of the Suez Canal, the
abandonment of the Canal cities and the cost of resettling the population of
about a million, and the virtual cessation of Western economic assistance.
With the continuing military confrontation in the Middle East, Egypt further
increased defense spending at the expense of other types of consumption and
of its development program. Thus, in 1973 the economic picture was one of
rigorously curtailed private consumption and inadequate investment, with a
deteriorating capital stock of infrastructure and productive facilities.
Real GDP growth for 1967-73 averaged only 3.5 percent a year.
4.        The changed political situation after October 1973 laid the ground-
work for a new "open-door" policy enunciated by President Sadat and approved
in a national referendum in May 1974. This policy reflects a major effort to
accelerate economic development through modernization and making Egypt's



- 2 -
largely publicly owned and centrally controlled economy more market-oriented.
Specifically, the policy envisages (i) decentralization of decision-making in
state-owned enterprises; (ii) liberalization of the private sector; (iii) in-
centives for private, foreign invesitment; and (iv) expanded economic coopera-
tion with Arab countries. Since 1974 Egypt has initiated a number of steps
towards restructuring the economy. In particular, steps have been taken to
remove some of the restrictions on private business activities, to decentralize
public enterprise management, to encourage foreign private investment, to
expand foreign exchange transactions outside the official rate, and to loosen
many of the restraints on banking activities.
5.        Substantial inflows of external assistance from both Arab countries
and Western aid donors and institultions have eased some of the problems of the
Egyptian economy in making the tralnsition. However, major structural diffi-
culties remain, largely due to the continuing tension in the region and the
neglect of investment. These structural difficulties are linked to the major
weaknesses of the economy: the rapid increase in the population, slow growth
in agriculture, the large deficit Ln the balance of payments, the low level of
government savings, low efficiency in public sector.
6.        A new government was formed in November 1976 following elections to
the People's Assembly, which were ithe first in which a choice of candidates
representing diverse political views was offered to the voters. The Cabinet
was strengthened on the economic siLde, a Deputy Prime Minister for Financial
and Economic Affairs was appointed to coordinate economic policy-making, and
President Sadat directed that economic questions should be in the forefront of
the new Cabinet's tasks. Since then two minor cabinet reshuffles have taken
place.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        Growth in National Income.  Real growth in GDP (1975 prices) in-
creased from 3.2 percent in 1974, to 9.8 percent in 1975, and 6.1 percent in
1976. The growth rate in 1977 is not yet available, but preliminary indica-
tions are that it was high. The more rapid growth after 1974 is attributed
largely to the recovery of industrial activity through the provision of
greater aid-financed inputs, increased petroleum production and construction
(particularly in the Canal Zone), and growth of trade and services.
8.        Investment.  Egypt was able to sustain a higher level of investment
during 1974 and 1975, largely as a result of generous external assistance from
Arab countries. Gross investment increased from $1,373 million in 1973 to
$2,867 million in 1975 (in 1975 pr:Lces). This included a considerable replen-
ishment of stocks, which had been drawn down in the pre-October 1973 period.
During 1976, as a result of shortages of both domestic and foreign resources,
investment is estimated at only about $2,300 million (1975 prices).
9.        Income Distribution.  It is estimated that in 1974/75, the lowest
40 percent of households in both rural and urban areas accounted for about
16 percent of income originating in the respective sector. The income distri-
bution per person was more egalitarian, with the distribution in rural areas



being somewhat more equitable than its urban counterpart, but at a lower
average income level. In the rural areas, the lowest 40 percent of the per-
sonal distribution accounted for about 25 percent of total incomes in that
sector, compared with about 21 percent for the urban areas; however, the
average annual income in the rural areas was about $166, while in urban
areas it was $327.
10.       Public Finance.  Because of the size of the public sector, the bulk
of Egypt's domestic financial resources for development is mobilized through
the state budget and public sector corporations. Considerable efforts have
been made in the past to increase such resources, largely by way of taxation;
for example in 1976, tax revenues were 22 percent of GNP. Total public reve-
nues reached 41 percent of GNP, a major effort for a country of Egypt's low
per capita income.
11.       The high level of Government current expenditures, however, absorbed
most of these resources. This was almost entirely due to the level of defense
expenditures, and, more recently, to the growth of subsidies, which increased
from $480 million (about 5 percent of GNP) it 1973 to $1,415 1/ million (about
10 percent of GNP) in 1976, as the Government endeavored to protect consumers
from the sharp increases in the import prices of foodstuffs and other essential
commodities. Exact data on defense spending are not available, since a large
portion is channelled through a separate account, partly foreign financed--the
Emergency Fund.
12.       Credit expansion in 1976 was 19 percent, a much smaller increase
than the 44 percent registered in 1975. Credit policy was more restrictive
and the credit needs of public sector companies were reduced because of a
running down of inventories and a decline in import commitments. Money and
quasi-money expanded by 26 percent compared with 21 percent in 1975. The
official consumer price index for the urban population estimated the price
rise in 1976 at 10 percent, but the real rate was probably much higher.
Indications are that the rate of inflation in 1976 remained high.
13.       Balance of Payments.  Despite an increase in the value of commodity
exports from $1,003 million to $1,612 million between 1973 and 1976, export
earnings fell well short of imports, which rose from $1,664 million to $4,214
million.  Indeed the country's import bill almost tripled in this period due
to increases in quantities imported, and soaring food and other prices. The
imbalance in Egypt's trade was compensated to some extent by fast-growing
earnings from services and from workers' remittances; the latter rose from
$20, million in 1974 to $757 million 2/ in 1976. Nevertheless, the overall
deficit on the trade and services account reached $1,518 million in 1976,
increasing from $654 million in 1973.
1/   Including direct subsidies and public economic sector deficits.
2/   Including the financing for "own exchange" imports.



- 4 -
14.       Balance of Payments estimates for 1977 are still provisional.
The indications are that imports will be about $5.4 billion, while exports
are put at around $2.2 billion. A surplus of $1.6 billion is expected
on the services account (where the main contributor is workers remittances,
estimated at $1.4 billion); the current account deficit is thus estimated
at about $1.6 billion.
15.       The large deficits on the goods and services account in 1973-1977
were met mainly through assistance from Arab countries, Iran and the United
States. The Arab support comprised grants as well as loans, and deposits in
the Central Bank of Egypt. However, in 1973 and 1974 the deficit was also
met by substantial short-term borrowing, including the use of banking facili-
ties. The Government has taken action in 1977 to drastically reduce reliance
on such financing (see also paragraph 29).
Development Problems and Prospects
16.       Egypt's rapidly growing population, widespread poverty and dilapi-
dated infrastructure require the generation of more resources for investment
and a more rigorous determination of the priorities into which they are
channelled. In turn, this implies: (i) greater restraint on the growth of
consumption; (ii) the removal of constraints created by inadequate infrastruc-
ture (particulary ports, power, transport and telecommunications); (iii)
greater emphasis on quick-yielding projects; (iv) more emphasis on completing
ongoing projects than on starting new ones; (v) more active use of prices
(including the price of foreign exchange) as indicators of relative scarcities;
(vi) streamlining bureaucratic processes; (vii) a vigorous move towards
increasing industry's efficiency and making it more export-oriented and
employment-generating (which would involve using existing industrial capacity
more fully, paying more attention to considerations of quality, and encourag-
ing small-scale industry); and (viii) a strengthened program to curb the
growth of population and the articulation of urban and rural strategies
which would decentralize the growth of the urban population away from Cairo
and Alexandria and create more productive opportunities in smaller towns and
the rural areas. These issues will be addressed in the context of a medium-
term plan, which has been presented to the National Assembly. The first year
of the Plan has been approved and approval of the entire Plan is expected
during the current Parliamentary session.
17.       Over the long-run, Egypt's economic potential is considerable.  The
reasons for this are, in brief: (i) the country has a large domestic market, a
proficient population, low wages, varied raw materials, and a key geographical
location, which makes it a natural base for industries that wish to supply the
growing regional market; (ii) Suez Canal revenues are estimated to continue to
rise gradually until the Canal expansion program is completed in about 1980--
there is then likely to be a substantial increase; (iii) prospects for oil
production, which are put at one million barrels a day by 1982, substantially
exceed domestic requirements; (iv) considerably increased earnings from



tourism--these reached an estimated $398 million in 1976; and (v) an increas-
ing flow of remittances ($757 million in 1976) from Egyptians working abroad.l/
18.       However, Egypt's long-term potential also hinges upon a number of
factors outside its own control. The most important is a movement towards an
equitable and definitive peace settlement in the Middle East. Moreover, Egypt
*          requires the transfer of large amounts of capital from abroad; this, in turn,
must be preceded by preparation of a suitable portfolio of projects to which
potential investors, whether private or official, foreign or domestic, can
contribute.  Finally, it requires fundamental changes in economic policies
and institutions. Hence, it will probably take at least 5-10 years to achieve
a significant restructuring of the economy.
19.       Recent Policy Actions.  Beginning in 1976, the Government, in close
consultation with the Bank and the IMF, began to undertake a series of policy
actions aimed at making more effective use of foreign resources, curbing excess
consumption, and improving allocative efficiency. Thus (i) a Deputy Prime
Minister was appointed with the special responsibility to coordinate economic
and financial policies and planning; (ii) the parallel exchange market has
been successively widened to comprise all exports except raw cotton, rice and
petroleum and Suez Canal revenues, and all imports except basic mass consumption
commodities; (iii) the parallel market rate itself was further depreciated to
about 56 percent of the official rate; (iv) the attractiveness of the parallel
market was increased by establishing a list of items which may be imported
through it without exchange restrictions; (v) parallel market imports were
valued for customs duties at the parallel market exchange rate (a measure
equivalent to an increase of about 80 percent in the tariff on applicable
imports); (vi) ceilings on interest rates were removed and interest rates
increased; (vii) the "general organizations" that exercised rigid control over
public industrial enterprises were dissolved and replaced by "higher councils,"
which permit somewhat more initiative to the individual enterprises; and
(viii) in April 1977 the IMF approved a Standby arrangement for an amount
of SDR 125 million (about $145 million) over a 12-month period. Discussions
are in progress on what arrangements should follow the current Stand-by.
20.       The Five-Year Plan (1978-82).  The 1978-82 Plan advocates a high
growth strategy spearheaded by an industrialization drive and supported by
increasing income from petroleum, the Suez Canal, and remittances from
Egyptians working abroad. In the context of the "open-door policy", the
domestic and foreign private sectors are expected to play an increasing role
in the development effort, although the public sector will retain its dominent
position.
21.       Real output is projected to grow at 12 percent per annum.  This is
based both on a high level of investment and its increased efficiency of the
investment ratio is expected to increase from 20 percent in 1976 to 28 per-
cent in 1982, and the incremental capital-output ratio is expected to average
2.5 percent during the Plan period.
1/ A substantial amount of remittances ($399 million in 1976) came in the
form of "own-exchange" imports, i.e. commodities financed by Egyptians
working abroad, and hence not involving a transfer of foreign exchange
from Egypt.



- 6 -
22.       The Plan's investment allocations give primary emphasis to infra-
structure and industry. Thus, more than 50 percent of public investment is
designated for the various components of infrastructure, and around 30 per-
cent for industry and petroleum. Agriculture and irrigation are allocated
only 8.6 percent.
23.       The Five-Year Plan will be implemented through the mechanism of
Annual Plans, which will take account of the actual circumstances prevailing
at the time and modify the targets and the strategy in an appropriate manner.
The first such annual plan--that for 1978--has been approved. It aims at
a lower growth rate than implied by the 1978-82 Plan, and adopts a more
optimal strategy by allocating nearly 80 percent of investment to completing
or rehabilitating existing projects. However, the main targets of the Five-
Year Plan--for investment, growth, and the marginal rate of savings--remain
ambitious, and will probably require continued modification by subsequent
Annual Plans.
External Assistance
24.       In 1967 the substantial amounts of Western external aid which Egypt
had been receiving practically ceased, and up to 1974 service payments gen-
erally exceeded disbursements. During the period 1968-1973, non-military
aid from Eastern countries, estimated to have been in excess of $800 million,
financed the bulk of Egypt's development.
25.       Since 1973 the substantial deficits on the goods and services ac-
count have been financed primarily by official Arab grants, loans and deposits
with the Central Bank of Egypt. Commitments of Western medium- and long-term
(M&LT) capital assistance began to grow after October 1973, but because of the
slow disbursements inherent in the aid process, actual transfers began to
become substantial only from 1976.
26.       Among western aid donors, the US Government is currently committing
about $700 million of project and commodity aid per annum (in addition to about
$200 million of food assistance under US Law PL 480). Aid from the other OECD
countries, especially France, Germany and Japan, has remained at the increased
levels of 1974/75 (i.e., about $235 million per year). The European Community
is providing increasing amounts of food aid; moreover, in January 1977 the
Community signed a financial protocol with Egypt committing, over a five-year
period, $70 million in grants and $119 million in concessional loans.
27.       Consultative Group.  In July 1976, Egypt requested the Bank to set
up a Consultative Group comprising a number of oil-producing Arab countries,
Iran, major western countries and Japan, and leading international and regional
institutions, including the IMF. The first meeting of the Consultative Group
was held in Paris on May 11 and 12, 1977. At the meeting, the major aid-giving
countries and institutions discussed the most important problems confronting
the Egyptian economy, its prospects over the next few years, and its needs for
external assistance. The delegates recognized that the structural changes
undertaken by the Government would take a number of years to complete. They



-7-
felt that the Government was taking energetic steps towards accelerating
growth and expressed their support of the Government's statement on its
development strategy and of its efforts to direct future development within
the framework of an integrated plan. Another meeting of the Consultative
Group has been scheduled for June 1978. Estimates of the aid requirements
for 1978 are still very tentative (in part because the final outcome for 1977
is not yet available). The indications are that if Egypt succeeds in imple-
menting a substantial development effort in 1978 and continues to reduce the
use of banking facilities, it will require gross external inflow in the
neighborhood of $3.3 billion. Bscause of the already reduced use of banking
facilities and the greater effort expected from Egypt to mobilize its own
foreign exchange resources (e.g. through the use of development bonds) it
is likely that the cash aid requirements will decrease. However, commodity
aid requirements will remain important, both to meet the balance of payments
gap and to generate domestic resources.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
28.       Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term debt outstanding and dis-
bursed at December 31, 1977 was estimated at about $8 billion as compared with
$5,858 million at December 31, 1976. A large part of this increase represented
the replacing of short-term (180 days) banking facilities, which had led to
serious liquidity problem, with loans of maturity of 10 years of more. Of the
total of about $8 billion, medium and long-term loans amounted to $5,458
million (of which $730 million was in clearing currencies), medium- and
long-term deposits with the Central Bank to $1,938 million, and suppliers
credits to $640 million.  Major creditors were Kuwait and Saudi Arabia,
followed by the USA, USSR and the Federal Republic of Germany. IBRD/IDA debt
comprised about 3 percent of the total debt disbursed and outstanding. Debt
service on medium- and long-term debt was estimated to amount to $897 million
in 1976, giving a debt service ratio of 25 percent. 1/ No reliable estimates
of military debt are available; Egypt is still making efforts to obtain
rescheduling of service payments on such debt.
29.       Commercial bankers' credit facilities outstanding at December 31,
1977 were $1,131 million of which $556 million were disbursed as compared to
$2,123 million, of which $1,396 million were disbursed at December 31, 1976.
This type of external indebtedness created severe liquidity problems for Egypt
in 1976 when payments arrears were building up. These increased substan-
tially during the first half of 1977 but by the beginning of September 1977
had all been cleared through receipt of $1,075 million under a cash loan from
1/   Ratio of amortization and interest on medium- and long-term (M and LT)
debt to foreign exchange earnings.



8
GODE and the mobilization of additional foreign exchange resources by Egypt, 1/
specifically $200 million in 5-7 year Development Bonds.
30.       The Government's recent policy actions (discussed in paragraph
19 above) have initiated the structural adjustments required by Egypt's
economic situation and international environment. The situation however,
requires continuing review and further action. At the Government's request,
the Bank has arranged to continue reviewing developments in the economy by
economic missions three or four times a year.
31.       If progress towards curbing the increase of both consumption expend-
itures and imports is maintained and the country's export earnings potential
realized, the deficit on the current account is estimated at about $2-2.4
billion per annum for the remainder of the decade. The required capital
inflows are large--but if they are available on the terms expected, Egypt
would have the debt servicing capacity to borrow the amounts envisaged,
including a limited amount on harder terms. The burden of servicing medium-
and long-term debt as a percentage of total foreign exchange earnings is
estimated at 25 percent in 1976 and is expected to decline to 16 percent in
1980. It is then expected to rise -again to about 20 percent in 1983, before
starting to decline to about 17 percent in 1986. In these circumstances Egypt
may be considered creditworthy for -a limited amount of Bank lending in addition
to the IDA assistance which Egypt merits on the ground of its poverty and
difficult balance of payments position.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
32.       The proposed credit would be the World Bank's thirty-third lending
operation in Egypt. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments made since 1970
to $1,022 million. Annex II contains a Summary of Bank loans and IDA credits
as of January 31, 1978, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
33.       The principal objective of the Bank/IDA lending program in Egypt
is tQ support its development program through lending for (i) increasing
utilization of available productive capacity; (ii) projects which would
increase production and foreign exchange earnings or substitute for imports,
particularly in the key industrial and agricultural sectors; (iii) projects
aimed at rehabilitation and expanding infrastructure necessary to facilitate
development; and (iv) selected soci,al sectors, namely population and education.
The impact of Bank/IDA participation in projects has been widened by attracting
additional foreign exchange required for most of these projects from other
donors. Besides the technical assistance included under the Bank/IDA projects,
the Bank is Executing Agency for a UNDP-financed National Power Sector Survey
and for a Master Plan for Water Resource Development and Use. The Ban'k also
1/   The remaining tranche of $650 million from the Gulf Organization for
Development of Egypt (GODE) was diverted largely into financing the
import of an agreed list of commodities. By December 31, 1977
approximately $150 million had been disbursed.



- 9 -
extended limited technical assistance in the preparation of a five-year devel-
opment plan and in October 1977 in the establishment of an investment monitoring
system.
34.       The projects financed to date have been in support of the strategy
outlined in the preceding paragraph. Preparation of projects for future
lending is following the same line. A development finance company, a second
textile, an agricultural development and an urban development project have
been appraised, a second population project is being appraised while a second
education project and a tourism project are to be appraised soon. A pipeline
of projects for possible future lending is also being developed, including
additional projects in water supply and sewerage, population, education,
power, rural development, transportation, agriculture (including drainage) and
industry.
35.       Bank Group disbursements continued in 1977 to represent less than
4 percent of Egypt's overall capital inflow requirements. The Bank and IDA
shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed were about 1 percent
and 2 percent, respectively at the end of 1977. For the future, the Bank and
IDA shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed (excluding military
debts) are estimated to reach about 4 and 2.5 percent respectively in 1980.
It is estimated that in 1980, debt service payments due to the Bank and IDA
will represent about 3.5 percent and 0.2 percent, respectively of service
payments due on Egypt's external debt.
36.       The first IFC participation and lending, for a ceramics project,
was approved by the Executive Directors in 1976 and the second, for a ready-
made garment project, in 1977. IFC is also discussing several other private
sector and joint venture projects.
PART III - THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR 1/
The Telecommunication System
37.       Egypt's telephone density of 1.34 per 100 inhabitants is significantly
lower than of other mid-eastern countries. Within Egypt, the figure is about 5.0
in Cairo, 3.4 in Alexandria (compared with 9.5 in Algiers and 8.2 in Teheran)
and only 0.44 in the rest of the country. Even primary access to telephone
service, e.g. by a public call office, is not yet available in as many as 1,000
village communities. While the number of telephone connections has been growing
at an average annual rate of about 4 percent p.a. between 1968 and 1976, demand
for telephone services (conservatively defined as the total of available con-
nections plus the number of registered waiting applicants) expanded at over
10 percent p.a. during the same period. At the end of 1976, there were 352,000
connections (serving 507,000 telephones) and 268,000 registered applicants.
1/   All currency conversions are at the parallel market exchange rate of
June 1977 of $1.43 = LE 1.



- 10 -
38.       The quality of telephone services is poor because existing telephone
facilities are grossly inadequate in relation to usage. In local exchanges,
since there are too few direct exchange lines (DELs), existing telephones are
used by a disproportionately large number of people who keep lines busy most
of the time. The busy lines in turn lead to repeat calls which worsen system
congestion. Additionally, worn-out switching equipment (about 16 percent of
installed capacity) and faults on old and defective cables cause frequent call
failures. In some exchanges, subscribers cannot establish connection during
peak traffic hours. Long distance services between Cairo, Alexandria, and
five other cities are provided with self-dialing (Subscriber Trunk Dialing-STD)
facilities, but access to the system in Cairo and Alexandria is limited, as
large numbers of subscribers there are still connected to old rotary exchanges
with technical limitations. The quality of the STD service is poor because
of the above problems in the local networks and inadequate trunk switching
equipment at the hub of the system in Cairo. Similarly, domestic operator-
assisted long distance service is of low quality, normally requiring waiting
times between three and six hours. To the extent they are not affected by the
problems in the domestic system, international telephone services through a
temporary earth station in Cairo and one submarine cable each from Alexandria
to Italy and Lebanon are relatively good at present. Also, the quality of
international telex and telegraph services is reasonable.
Sector Organization
39.       Public telecommunications facilities in Egypt are state-owned.  The
Arab Republic of Egypt Telecommunications Organization (ARETO), under the
general supervision of the Ministry of Communications, is responsible for
operation, management and development of all public telecommunications facili-
ties in the country. ARETO was established in 1957 and reconstituted in 1966.
It is administered by a nine member Board consisting of the Chairman who is
ARETO's Chief Executive Officer appointed by the President of the Republic,
three members nominated by the Minister of Communications, two representatives
of the Ministry of Communications, a representative of the Minister of Finance
and two senior officers of ARETO. ARETO is a semi-autonomous entity with
adequate authority for day to day administration and operations. However,
ARETO's internal organization and policies need to be strengthened and some
of its relations with the government to be reviewed to enable it to carry out
its tasks effectively.
40.       Some items of telecommunications equipment and cables are manufac-
tured in Egypt. The state-owned Egyptian Telephone Company produces crossbar
telephone switching equipment and telephone instruments under licence from
L.M. Ericsson of Sweden; the state-owned Electro Cable Company of Egypt pro-
duces wires and underground cables for telecommunications and electric power.
Both factories are reasonably efficient, but their production does not cover
the full range of ARETO's needs and substantial imports of telecommunication
equipment and cables are needed.



- 11 -
Development Strategy
41.       The single major constraint which has impeded sector development has
been insufficient investment over many years, in large part a consequence of
the country's general shortage of resources and the lack of foreign exchange.
The Government recognizes that present inadequate telecommunication services
represent an important constraint for business and administration and thus
impede economic recovery (para. 16). Under a USAID grant of $4.3 million and
in accordance with terms of reference in the preparation of which IDA assisted,
the Continental Telephone Corporation (CTC)/US, in association with others,
commenced in May 1977 a comprehensive study of the telecommunications sector,
including its institutional framework, organization, finances, operational
policies, and a master plan for sector development. The study will make
recommendations for overcoming the huge backlog in demand and for improving
services through accelerated investment and prepare both medium (5-year) and
long-term (15-year) development plans. The study is to be completed by May
1978 but implementation of investment recommendations is not expected to
effectively start before 1980. Meanwhile, ARETO is carrying out a program
for system rehabilitation and expansion to meet clearly identified, immediate
needs. Both the ongoing telecommunications project for which IDA made a
credit of $30 million in 1975 (Cr. 548) and this project are to assist ARETO
in this effort. In view of the importance of the CTC study for the develop-
ment of the sector, the Government would agree to afford IDA a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views with ARETO on the Consultants' recommendations
(Section 4.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Ongoing Telecommunication's Project (Cr. 548)
42.       IDA's association with the telecommunications sector started in
1972, when Government and ARETO first requested Bank Group assistance for the
rehabilitation of telecommunications facilities. The ongoing telecommunica-
tions project is part of ARETO's 1975-77 program and aims (i) at physical
improvements through expansion of local telephone exchanges and substantial
replacement of old and obsolete equipment, provision of telephone instruments
and subscriber equipment and expansion of the Cairo telex exchange; and (ii)
at basic institutional reforms in planning, accounting and finance. Progress
of project implementation now is generally satisfactory, although modifications
of target dates have become necessary in some instances.
43.       Implementation of the physical part of the project is about two years
behind schedule, mainly because of initial delays in the civil works, which
were contracted through the Government's public works agency. The delays were
beyond ARETO's control and caused by a diversion of labor and construction
materials to vital Government projects in the Suez Canal Zone. The situation
has improved and execution of civil works is no longer a problem. In order
to facilitate timely execution of civil works in the future, contracting
procedures have been changed and, under the Second Telecommunications proj-
ect, special assurances would be obtained from Government (para. 60). Project
facilities are now scheduled to become available progressively up to 1980
and to contribute to improvements of local, long distance and international
services.



- 12 -
44.       Overall, the beneficiary's performance has been good.  ARETO made a
genuine effort to honor its undertakings under the existing agreement or pro-
posed acceptable alternatives to achieve the objectives. Also, ARETO was
most receptive to IDA's advice on technical matters. Because of the generally
good results under the first project, the second project would follow along
similar lines. While assisting ARETO in carrying out urgent investments, the
institution building measures under the first project would be continued and
expanded as discussed below.
Management, Staff and Training
45.       Top and middle level management of ARETO is staffed by competent
and experienced officers. In order to enhance internal operating efficiency,
ARETO introduced a new organizational structure in July 1977 by creating
the posts of three vice chairmen to be in charge of projects, finance and
administration, and operations respectively. As an initial step to improve
planning and to ensure adequate coordination of investments in the different
parts of the system, the planning functions were placed in a single planning
unit under the Vice Chairman Projects. The organizational reforms fully meet
the requirements under IDA's first telecommunications credit and provide a
good framework for improved planning in the future. With the guidance which
future project supervision missions will provide, the planning unit should be
capable of fulfilling its tasks satisfactorily and of preparing annual devel-
opment programs. Other organizational reforms needed to coordinate and
consolidate the finance and accounting functions are being studied by CTC
in order to ensure effective supply of key financial data for management
information and decision making.
46.       ARETO's staff increased from about 41,000 (or about 88 employees
per 1,000 installed telephones) at the end of 1973 to about 52,000 (or about
103 per 1,000 telephones) at the end of 1976. This increase was mainly
due to the Government's policy of providing employment to war veterans and
university graduates by allocating them to public enterprises. ARETO's
management is aware that present staff levels are in excess of requirements
and has initiated a study to rationalize the staffing policies and to increase
productivity. Pending the results of this in-house effort and of the Telecom-
munication Sector Study which is also reviewing the matter, ARETO's policy is
to freeze the number of its staff at present levels unless there is a short-
age of manpower for its operations. The Government fully recognizes the need
for this policy. Accordingly, and taking into account its plans for expansion
of operations, ARETO projects its staff to increase to 65,600 at the end of
1980 (or about 92 employees per 1,000 telephones).
47.       ARETO operates a Technical Training and Research Institute with
training facilities in Cairo and six regional centers. The institute was
built up with technical assistance from the UNDP and is adequate to meet ARETO
training requirements. Training requirements are substantial because of a
high turnover of engineers, technicians and skilled workers. However, ARETO's
training facilities have been able to produce the needed replacements and
prevented any serious disruption.



- 13 -
Financial Performance
48.       ARETO's financial performance has to be judged against the institu-
tional ft-mework under which ARETO is operating. Its main financial problem
is high indebtedness caused by a government policy requiring ARETO, as other
public sector enterprises, to turn over its entire net income to the Ministry
of Finance which in turn provides ARETO with investment funds in the form of
loans. As a result, ARETO's equity capital remains constant while debt
increases steadily. Because of the burden of debt service on an ever increas-
ing indebtedness, the level of ARETO's net cash surplus available for financing
investment is materially lower than under more conventional financing arrange-
ment. Excessive staff cost in recent years has further reduced ARETO's
internal cash generation. User-based resources amounted to about 15 percent
of its modest capital investment expenditure during the 1973-1976 period.
Also, financial rates of return were relatively low. Based on historical
asset values, they ranged between 9 percent and 12 percent during these years,
averaging 10 percent.
49.       In order to mobilize additional user-based resources for its large
investment requirements, ARETO's Board endorsed in June 1977 several revenue
improvement measures for Government approval which would increase ARETO's
operating revenues by 13 percent in 1977 and by over 60 percent in 1979. The
first of these, the application of the parallel market rate of exchange for
billing international services was put into effect on July 1, 1977. As a
result, the rate of return on the historical value of ARETO's assets will
exceed 18 percent in 1977. The rate of return on ARETO's revalued assets
is also likely to be higher than the 11 percent required under the existing
credit, although the exact rate will only be known at the end of 1978 when
the asset revaluation will have been completed (para. 52). To ensure an
adequate internal cash generation during the project period during which
investments will increase substantially, implementation of further revenue
measures as proposed by ARETO is needed. Therefore, the Government would
give assurances that prior to effectiveness of the proposed credit, it will
have put into effect increase in ARETO's telephone installation and telegraph
charges by 100 percent and in its domestic long distance call charges by not
less than 50 percent or such other increases in ARETO's telecommunication
charges as would provide ARETO with equal additional revenues (Section 6.01(c)
of draft Development Credit Agreement). The Government would also confirm its
intention of a further tariff increase which, taking into account ARETO's
plans for improvement of telecommunication services, would be made effective
on January 1, 1979 and which at least would have the same revenue impact as
increases in local call charges proposed by ARETO.
50.       During the appraisal of the ongoing project, a discrepancy between
che levels of telephone tariffs which are relatively high and of dispropor-
tionately low revenues per direct exchange line (DEL) was identified. As
agreed under that project, the Telecommunication Sector Study includes a
review of the matter to determine the reasons therefor.
51.       Progress of ARETO toward the objective of ultimately becoming an
autonomous and financially self-supporting entity depends critically on its



- 14 -
future financial relationships with the Ministry of Finance. The present
system (para. 48) not only distorts ARETO's capital structure, but also
impairs management's ability of long term planning because of the insecure
year-by-year supply of investment funds through the government budget.  While
the Government has initiated studies to improve the position of public sector
industrial enterprises, appropriate reforms for the telecommunications sector
are being examined in the Telecommunications Sector Study.
Accounts and Audit
52.       Under the existing credit, ARETO is required to provide IDA annually
certified audited financial statements together with the auditors' reports
and recommendations. The audits have been carried out (including that in
respect of the 1976 accounts) by the Government's Central Audit Organization
and been made available to IDA. Under the proposed credit, ARETO would agree
to continue to provide IDA annually with its audited financial statements
(Section 4.02 of draft Project Agreement). In compliance with its obliga-
tions, ARETO completed a valuation (based on historical costs) of its fixed
assets as of December 31, 1976. The revaluation of assets to take account of
price changes over the years will be completed by December 31, 1978. Also,
at that time, ARETO would agree with IDA on principles appropriate to the
telecommunications sector to be applied in subsequent years for the periodic
revaluation of ARETO's assets. To strengthen accounting, ARETO was to prepare
and subsequently implement a training program for its senior accounting staff.
Because of the substantial counterpart training effort under the Sector Study,
the need for such formal training no longer exists and this requirement is
being waived (Section 7.01 of draft Project Agreement).
53.       At the time of the first telecommunications project, substantial
arrears in payments for telecommunications services due to ARETO from Govern-
ment subscribers had accumulated, and IDA obtained assurances from Government
and ARETO (i) that all debt up to I)ecember 31, 1974 would be identified by
June 30, 1976 and paid by December 31, 1977; and (ii) that all future debt
from Government agencies would be paid within 3 months of the date of billing.
Action on (i) is well underway but could not be completed as scheduled since
both the amount of the arrears and their complexities had been underestimated.
So far, ARETO received payment of LE 6.5 million but a further LE 3.5 million
worth of bills is still under scrutiny by a Government Committee, which is
expected to take till the end of 1978. Meanwhile, the budget system which
caused the arrears in the past has been improved and bills are being paid
within the time limit under (ii) above. Moreover, in order to reduce the
amounts of receivables of ARETO ancd other public utilities, public sector
consumers are now being required to make monthly down payments on their
bills at a level of one twelfth of the budget allocations for these purposes.
Under the proposed credit, the Government and ARETO would renew their assur-
ances to take all necessary action to ensure that (i) all debt owed to ARETO
by public agencies for services rendered up to December 31, 1977 will be
settled by December 31, 1978; and (ii) all their future debt for such services
be paid within 3 months of the billing date (Section 4.02 of draft Development
Credit Agreement and Section 4.04 of draft Project Agreement). The relevant
covenants under the existing agreements would be rescinded (Section 7.01 of
draft I)evelopment Credit Agreement and 7.01(ii) of draft Project Agreement).



- 15 -
Telephone Allocation Policies
54.       Despite rapidly increasing investment by ARETO, demand for telephone
connections will continue to exceed supply in the foreseeable future. Prudent
demand management and telephone allocation policies are therefore essential to
ensure maximum benefits from existing facilities as well as from new investment.
With the planned doubling of telephone installation charges, a first step toward
economic pricing and compressing demand will be made, but significant excess
demand will persist and ARETO will have to continue to allocate telephones to
priority applicants. Till August 1977, only applications of public and social
interest were given priority, but now also those of large business firms have
designated priority. The Government and ARETO would agree to maintain the
priority provided for such business establishments under its present system of
priority for telephone installation (Section 4.02 of draft Delopment Credit
Agreement and Section 2.09 of draft Project Agreement). In addition, once the
findings of the Sector Study are available, further pricing measures aimed at
influencing the allocation of services and increasing internal resource
mobilization for telecommunication expansion will be explored with Government
and ARETO.
PART IV - THE 1978-80 PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT I/
Project History
55.       The project covers the most urgent part of ARETO's 1978-80 invest-
ment program and was identified during a Bank mission which visited Egypt
in February 1977. It was prepared by staff of ARETO and appraised by IDA
in June 1977. Negotiations were held in Washington from December 19 to 28,
1977. The Government was represented by Mr. Samir Koraiem of the Ministry of
Economy and Economic Cooperation and ARETO by Mr. Tadros Akdawi. A report
entitled "Appraisal Report, Egypt, Second Telecommunications Project" (No.
1756-EGT) dated February 22, 1978,is being distributed separately. Supplemen-
tary project data are provided in Annex III.
The 1978-80 Investment Program
56.       ARETO's 1978-1980 program reflects the short-term sector development
objectives, emphasizing rehabilitation and improvement of services to existing
subscribers (26 percent), but allowing for expansion (74 percent) to meet ur-
gent needs. Specifically, the objectives are: (i) improvement of existing
telephone services, particularly in Cairo, and provision of new connections
to meet urgent and priority needs in the country; (ii) improvement of long
distance STD facilities; (iii) expansion of telex services; and (iv) improve-
ment of international services. The program includes (i) ongoing works
carried over from the 1975-77 period including certain items of the project
financed under Credit 548-EGT; (ii) new urgent works constituting the second
IDA telecommunications project as described below; and (iii) other new works
1/   All currency conversions are at the parallel market exchange rate of June
1977 of $1.43 = LE 1.



- 16 -
such as additional new telephone exchanges and a computer controlled message
center in Cairo and extension of the long distance coaxial cable system. The
program is estimated to cost about US$452 million with a foreign component of
about US$213 million. In addition to the above program, ARETO may undertake
some new works as a result 6f the onigoing Telecommunications Sector Study,
possibly for execution in the 1979-82 period, but all substantial investments
for these works are expected to fal]L beyond the 1978-80 period. Even so,
ARETO would agree to exchange views with Government and IDA on any financially
significant changes proposed to the program (Section 2.10 of draft Project
Agreement).
The Project
57.       The project proposed for IDA financing consists of the most urgent
new works to be carried out during the 1978-80 period, providing for the
following installations:
(a)  about 220,400 lines of maiLn automatic telephone exchange
equipment (of which 35,900 are for replacement of existing
obsolete equipment) in CaiLro, other principal cities and in
small towns;
(b)  about 6,000 lines of manual telephone systems in the rural
areas;
(c)  about 35,000 lines of private automatic branch exchanges
(PABXs);
(d)  local and junction cable networks (including a microwave junc-
tion system in Cairo) for about 75,000 subscriber connections
with accessories and cable laying equipment;
(e)  a coaxial cable between Dumyat and El-Mansura;
(f)  automatic trunk exchanges of 5,000 lines additional capacity;
and
(g)  a 3,000 line telex exchange in Cairo and 2,000 teleprinters.
As mentioned in Part III above, the project also will consolidate and expand
the institution building measures initiated under the first telecommunication
project with a view to strengthen ARlETO's internal organization, introduce
effective planning procedures, improve its financial viability, and reassess
its relations with Government.
Project Cost and Financing
58.       The total cost of the proJect (see below) is estimated at $210
million of which the foreign exchange component would be $128 million (61
percent). The local costs include customs duties payable by ARETO of $13
million equivalent. The proposed IDA credit of $53 million would finance



- 17 -
the foreign exchange cost of automatic telephone exchange equipment (60,800
lines), subscriber equipment (PABXs - 15,000 lines), telephone cables and
accessories, a new electronic telex exchange in Cairo (3,000 lines) and
teleprinters (2,000). In parallel to the IDA credit, USAID and France have
agreed to provide, under existing import loans, $12 million 1/ and $16.5
million equivalent 2/ respectively for a microwave junction system in Cairo
city and for telephone exchanges and subscriber equipment; L.M. Ericsson/Sweden
has agreed to provide suppliers' credits of $40.5 million (for a period of 7
years at 8-1/2 percent p.a. interest) for direct imports of trunk exchanges
and for power plant and ancillary equipment to complement the supplies of the
Egyptian Telephone Factory. All these cofinancing arrangements are effective.
To cover the remaining foreign exchange cost of about $6 million for raw
material and component imports of the Electro Cable Company of Egypt and for
foreign exchange cost of buildings and cable installation, the Government
would agree to make appropriate foreign currency allocations to the organiza-
tions concerned (Section 3.03 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
--------------US$ million--------------
Local      Foreign      Total       IDA
Cost       Cost         Cost    Financing
Telephone exchanges                      34.6        54.0        88.6        21.5
Subscriber equipment                      8.9         8.6        17.5         3.0
Cairo city junction microwave             4.0        11.0        15.0          -
Cables and accessories                   14.5        17.6        32.1        12.5
Buildings for telecommunica-
tions equipment                         5.4         0.3         5.7          -
Long distance network
(including trunk exchanges)             0.3        14.2        14.5          -
Telegraphs and telex                      3.8         8.5        12.3         8.5
Contingencies
(i) Physical                           1.7         2.0         3.8 )75
(ii) Price                              8.8        11.8        20.5 )    _
Total                                  82.0       128.0       210.0        53.0
1/   The USAID imports loan of March 6, 1977 is for $440 million for a term
of 40 years, including 10 years of grace, at 2 percent interest during
the grace period and 3 percent thereafter; $12 million of the loan are
made available to ARETO for 10 years including 1 year of grace, at 5
percent interest.
2/   The French imports loan of November 22, 1975 is for FF 350 million, one
quarter of which is in the form of a treasury loan for 25 years including
2.5 years of grace at 3.5 percent interest and the remainder in the form
of government guaranteed private loans for 12.5 years, including 2.5
years of grace, at commercial rates of interest (10 percent p.a.).



- 18 -
199       The proposed IDA credit would be made to the Government which would
Se<S its proceeds to ARETO for a term of 20 years, including 3 1/2 years
of grace, at the Bank's lending rate. ARETO would bear the foreign exchange
.saz0ldiary loan (Section 3.01(b) of draf, Development Agreement).
Execution of a subsidiary loan agreements between Government and ARETO would
he a -ondition of credit effectiveness; (Section 6.01(b) of draft Credit
Agreement).
Project Execution
60.       ARETO's staff have the capability of planning, designing and super-
vising execution of the works under the project, except for the 30,000 lines
of electronic telephone switching equipment. For these, ARETO would agree to
entrust preparation of suitable specifications, and supervision of execution
Lo experts with adequate qualifications and experience (Section 2.02 of draft
Project Agreement).  Civil works execution by public sector contractors for
ARETO have been delayed in the past due to the low priority assigned by
Government. To improve the situation, ARETO has recently been authorized to
invite bids both from public sector companies and private companies for its
work. To ensure further the timely and efficient execution of this project,
Government would agree to give in its regulations of material allocation and
directives to public sector construction companies priorities, as and when
needed, to ARETO's civil works under the project (Section 3.02 of draft
Development Agreement). The installation of the new Cairo electronic telex
exchange will be done with assistance :from the suppliers. The microwave
junction network for Cairo financed by USAID will be executed under a turnkey
contract. A schedule of construction for major works in the project was
reviewed and updated during negotiations. The project is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1980.
Procurement and Disbursement
61.       ARETO  will procure all material and equipment financed by the IDA
credit in accordance with IDA's Guidelines for Procurement on the basis of
international competitive bidding. Participation of local manufacturers in
the IDA financed procurement is nol: expected. Should, however, local manufac-
turers who have capability to supp:Ly some of the telephone exchange equipment
and of the cables and accessories submit bids, a 15 percent preference or the
prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, would be applied in bid evalua-
tion. The proposed credit will be disbursed on the basis of 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for imported equipment, and of local expenditures ex-
factory for automatic telephone exchange equipment, PBAXs, and telephone
cables and accessories manufacturecd in Egypt. The proposed credit is estimated
to be disbursed as follows:
-.        US$ million ---
Fiscal Year            79         80        81         82
Annual                13.0       26.0      12.5        1.5
Cumulative            13.0      39.0       51.5       53.0



- 19 -
Financial Forecasts
62.       ARETO's total investment requirements, including capitalized expenses
(of $10 million) and increases in net working capital (of $76 million), during
the 1978-80 program period amount to $538 million, with annual investments of
more than double the level of 1977. $71 million or 13 percent of the require-
ments could be met from user-based resources (para. 63). Foreign financing is
expected for $196 million or about 36 percent of total requirements. Foreign
financing arrangements for the ongoing works ($50 million) are secure, those
for the project ($117 million) would be completed with the proposed credit 1/
and those for the other works category ($29 million) have yet to be made.
Should not all foreign financing for the last category be forthcoming, these
works could be deferred without affecting the project. The remainder of
ARETO's investment requirements would be covered by Government loans in a
gross amount of $280 million equivalent, of which $9 million equivalent would
represent conversion of ARETO net earnings into debt. If these and debt
service and customs duty payments by ARETO are deducted from the Government's
contribution, the net claim of the program on Government resources is $134
million equivalent.
63.       The financial projections indicate that as a result of the revenue
improvement measures (para. 49) and of the substantial increases in traffic
made possible by the improvements of facilities and operations under the pro-
gram, ARETO's prospective financial performance will improve substantially.
Substantially increased revenues would result in considerably higher rates
of return on historically-valued assets (about 25 percent in 1980), and user-
based contributions to investment eventually reaching about 23 percent in
1980 from an initially very low level. The Government and ARETO, in order
to ensure that the satisfactory performance continues, would reiterate the
assurances that ARETO will take all measures (i) to cover its operating cost,
meet interest and amortization of its debt, maintain adequate working capital
and reserves for contingencies, and finance a reasonable portion of its
capital expenditures; and (ii) to ensure a financial rate of return of at
least 11 percent on its revalued current net fixed assets (Section 4.02 of
draft Development Credit Agreement and Section 4.03 of draft Project Agreement).
Justification
64.       As economic activity increases, communication needs grow.  Egypt is
becoming increasingly developed and urbanized. Therefore, some form of tele-
communications will be the least cost means of communication for an increasing
proportion of its population. With rising urbanization and expanding private
and public sector economic development, the supply of telecommunications
facilities in Egypt has fallen far short of the predominantly business-oriented
1/   $48 million of the pruposed IDA credit and all of the $69 million of
other foreign loans and the suppliers' credit are expected to be dis-
bursed through CY1980.



- 20 -
demand for such services. The present inadequate telecommunication system is
creating a major bottleneck in the development process and causing scarce
resources to be wasted on more costly means of communication, or wasted
because adequate communication does not take place.
65.       The project, through extensive rehabilitation of existing facili-
ties, the expansion of local and long distance facilities, and a significant
increase of PABX equipment will enable more intense usage of local lines,
and provide additional lines for both automatic and manual connections to (a)
help slow the growth of telephone waiting lists and eliminate telex waiting
lists, (b) reduce loss of time caused by having to make repeated call attempts,
(c) reduce waste of resources consumed by higher cost means of communications,
(d) reduce losses of production and marketing efficiency resulting from lack
of communication; and (e) satisfy part of the specialized communications needs
necessary to exploit the potential for expansion of tourism.
66.       The dimensioning and timiLng of the works under the program, of which
the project is an integral part, are based on individual engineering studies
by ARETO, designed to determine the least cost means for improving service to
existing subscribers and meeting new demands. The internal financial rate of
return on the 1978-80 investment program, based on expected revenues taking
into account the increased tariffs which ARETO proposes to charge during the
program period, is 16 percent. Sensitivity analysis shows that under the most
unfavorable combinations of main parameters (increase of 10 percent each in
capital and operating costs, 10 percent decrease in revenue and two-year delay
in project completion) the rate of return would not be less than 12 percent.
Estimates of economic benefits based on financial revenues significantly
understate total program benefits since they do not include those benefits
which callers or subscribers receive over and above their costs for telecom-
munication services.  Attempts to measure some portion of these additional
benefits were made by (a) observing the historical willingness of subscribers
to pay for telephone services, and (b) taking into account the apartment and
office rent differentials which some consumers willingly pay to have a tele-
phone, and estimating the value of time wasted in Cairo and Alexandria on
unsuccessful calls. Using these alternative methods, and with labor shadow-
priced at 75 percent of going wage rates and taxes and duties excluded, the
quantifiable economic rate of return on the program is approximately 23
percent.
Risks
67.       The Government is to contribute a sizeable portion of ARETO's
1978-80 investment requirements. ]:n view of the overall constraints of and
the competing claims on its resourc:es, there is a risk that the Government
might not be able to meet this requirement in full and the program might have
to be curtailed or extended over time. However, the Government is giving high
priority to rehabilitation and development of the sector and is likely to make
every effort to provide these funds in a timely manner. Should, nevertheless,
delays occur, their effect would be limited since the program components are
largely independent from each other and delay in completion of one would not



- 21 -
generally prevent utilization of other components that are completed. Another
risk is that implementation of the tariff increases scheduled for 1979 would
be delayed and that consequently the user-based contribution to the investment
program would be less than expected. The implementation of these increases in
parallel to system improvements and the Government's interest not to further
increase the drain on its own resources, should mitigate this risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Credit Agreement between the Arab Republic of Egypt and
the Association, and the draft Project Agreement between the Association and
ARETO, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section
I(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
69.       Sections of the draft Credit and Project Agreements of particular
interest are referred to in paras. 41, 49, 52 through 54, 56 through 60 and
63 and are listed in Section III of Annex III.
70.       Additional conditions of credit effectiveness are (i) the execution
of a subsidiary credit agreement between Government and ARETO (Section 6.01(b)
of draft Development Credit Agreement) and (ii) the implementation of increases
in ARETO's telephone installation and telegraph charges by 100 percent and in
its domestic long distance call charges by at least 50 percent or such other
increases as would provide ARETO with equal additional revenue (Section
6.01(c) of Draft Development Credit Agreement).
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
February 22, 1978
Washington, D.C.






ANNEX I
TABLE 3APae1o4pgs
EGYPT                  SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                   Page 1 of 4 pages
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                  ------------------------------------        ---------
EGYPT                                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      1001.4                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      29.9                         1960      197T   ESTIMATE            PHILIPPINES   TURKEY           SPAIN **
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     110.0*    170.0*    280.0*/a               230.0*      500.o*    1580.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            25.8       33.3       38.1/a               36.9        35.6        33.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        26.0       33.0       38.0/a             123.0         46.0        67.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        982.0      1125.0   1273.0/a              375.0        65.0        105.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          44.5       42.1       37.8                44.2         40.6        21.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           20.7       17.0       14.0                13.2         14.4         8.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        109.0      116.0    100-115                81.0       153.o/a       27.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        44.9       49.9       52.4                55.6        54.4         70.5
GROSS REPRJDUCTION RATE                2.8/a      3.0        3.0                 3.3          26           1.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  2.4        2.6        2.3                 3.0          2.5         1.1
URBAN                                  6.0        3.6        3.4                 4.0          4.9/d       2 0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           38.0       42.1       44.6                 27.6        38.7        59.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        43.0       42.1          ..               45.6        41.7         27.8
15 TO 64 YEARS                        54.0       54.7         ..                51.6        54.0         62.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                      3.0        3.2          ,,                2.8          4.3         9.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.9        0.8          ..                0.9          0.9         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.8       1.8/a        --                 1.5         1.1/e       1.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)             ..     488.0    1239.0                320.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..         .       21.1                 2.0          8.2
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          7800.0 /b  8300.0/b 9600.0/a             12400.0    14500.0/f  11900.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          57.07ff    53.07W    43.971?s.oa                       6.0         2.
SUNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)            5.0        3.0        1.47F               7.6         4.0j        1 1 /a
I COME DISTRIBUTION
rrcu----------------
A OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             19.2/C        ,       21.0/c                 ,,            /h
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             48.47E        .       46.07'                           6 30.678
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              4.67w       .         5.27w                            2.9 7        ,,
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             14.1/c 7      -       160/c9
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS               ..         ..         ..                  ..        53.0
% OWNED BY SM'ALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..         ..         ..                  ..         0.9
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              2500.o/d  1910.o    1820 0/b d                        2250.0        740.0/b
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         2730.07 1e1640.0/c  1520.07ff                          1770.0/i
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            500.0ot   460.0       460.0               850.0        500.0       220.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          95.0      106.0      113.0                86.0       112.0        107.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               66.0       68.0       70.7                45.0        78.0         81.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          17.0/f    16.0        16.0                22.0        2.           40.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              393          ..         ..                 6.6        14.7/k       0.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        66.0       69.0       72.0               113.0       109.0        123.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      16.0       33.0       40.0                49.0         28.0        57.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              12.0       12.0       12.0                10.0        11.0         11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                      22.0       19.0       19.0                 6.0/b      14.0        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 20.0          ..      40.0                   ..        55.0/1      94.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  1.6         ..         ..                  ..         1.9
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                       60.0 &        ..         ..               76.0        64.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  38.0 /       ..       40.o/a,f            23.0        41.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                       ..        ..       20.0/a,f             7.0        16.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          58.0      132.0      140.0                72.0         89.0      214.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            3.0        4.0        6.0                 8.0          4.0        71.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           102.0      228.0      280.n               235.0       247.0      1634.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 1.3        1.0       l1                   2.0         0.7         5.8
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
.OTES
Unles otherwiae  noted  data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 end 1961, for 1970 between 1968 ond 1970. and for Moot Ro-ent Esti-te betoeen
1973 end 1975.
GNP pe- capita data are baaed on the World Bank Atlaa methodology (1974-76 bhof).
Spain'a anreeefol diveraifiration of its econonic atractare, degree of indootriilieatioo and                            --i-ssco- kvs macla rl   It an appropriate
"objeotive" coustry.
ECYPT           1960    Is  1950-55;    /b  Figores relate to peraona ai  years and ever, excludtng costsd population;    Ic  1964-65;    /d  1962;
/e  incinding a-siatart norasa and midwive';   /f  1960-62;    Us Urban  -ely.
1970    /a  Ratis of popolation order 15 and 65 and over to toteT  labor for-e tge 12-64 years             ,'  Relot-s to 12-64 y-.ra  ot age, 1966;
/c Regaitered, not .11 practioig in the country.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE       Ia  1976;    /b  1972;    /n  RBtel only, baaed on e-pe-dit-re snre- of ':ouo coolds;    /2  Legisorred, nor olI
practicing in the coontry;    /s  1971;    /f  Percontage  of            Iscror
Pd7nIPPlNEs    1970    Io  Ac percentage of employment;    lb  Not  including private notational achooia
TWAEY           1970    !a  1967;    /b  Excludea 17 eastern pre2inema;    /c  1965-67;    ld  1965-70f   /I  RBtic of popiocltio- oder Ii ond 65 and
over to labor force 15 year.  end ever;    /f  15 years and over .ecludes ouneployed;   /I   Rgioterod only;    /h  DIsposohil
ine;    lt   b1luds    eetstee  nuree  sad mdivew         ;    Li  1964-66;    /k  [967-68;    /I  Persons cit years asd over
.hk  sell the   _a trers BRat they -se  reed   d wit.
SPAIN           1970   t/   Eopleant office estimate;    /b  Registered, sot a11 practicing in  ho country.
R8, Febouary 72, t978
DEF ILNITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Area (thou kb  )                                                                   Population per nurring person - Population divided by comber of procticiig
Total - Torts  su-foce area comprising lard area end inland waters,                       male and female gradoote  -orset, "trained' or "certified" curser, and
Agric.  - !oot recent estinate of ageiculturel area used tempor-rily or                   auxiliary personnel with training or ecperiece.
perconently fo  crops, pastures, merket & kitchen gardens or to lie                  Population per hospital bed - Populatioc dioided by   rh,ver of hoopitol beds
fallosw                                                                                 available in public and privoct  general -td opecialized hospital and
rehabilitation center; esclod-s nursing hones and estahblltshnts for
GNP per capita fUS$) - GNP per capita eseimates at current market prices,                 custodial and preventive car.
calculated  by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);           Pee caPita supply of calories (% of requir emts) - fanputed fees energy
1960  1970 and 1975 dta.                                                                equivalent of ret food supplies availablr ic coutrry per copito pe  day;
available aupplies comprise d-oestie production, inporta less e-p-rto
Pooplatioss and vital statistics                                                          and changes in stork; st supplies aexlode actual feed, seeds, quartities
Population (nid-vr. million) - As of July first:  if not available,                       used in food processing  and losses In diotributio-  reqoirementa were
average of two end-year stimates; 1960, 1970 and 1975 data.                             esti-ated by FAO based sn phyoiologicol reeds for normal activity and
health oonsiderisg  oi-rormental teope-at,re, bodv ocights, age and se-
populaOtion deasity - per nqoare kI   - Mid-year popelation pee square kilo-              disrtibotiono  of population, and allowing 10R for waste at household level.
naeter (10 bs hctrees) of totel ares.
Ptpulatian desaity - per sucare kma of agric.  Iand - Computed as above for             Per capita supply of protein (-geos per doy) - Protein convect of per
agrieulroral laod only.                                                                 capita ret supply of fond per day; net  upply of food is defined us
sbove; requiremerts for all countries established by USDA Econonfi
Vital atatiotics                                                                          Rearebch Services provide for a ninimsu  allowasce of 60 gra_o of
Crode birch rate per tho"aed. avraeg  - Annual live births per thobsard                   total peotein pee day, and 20 gers of untiul ord pulse protoin,of
of rid-year  population; ten .eer arithestic  averages ending in 1960 and              which 10 grons should be actual proteir; these stacdord-  are saner
1970.  and five-year average ending in 1975 for east recent estimate.                   then those of 75 gramo of total protein ord 23 gc-ru of oninal proteSi
Erode death rate per thouasad,  -vereac - Ansual deaths per thowsamd of mid-              a      -son average for the  -oeld, proposed by FAO in tho Third Wot1d Food
soar population; ten-yeae arith_etic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and               Surey.
five-yeor average ending in 1975 for cost resent estimate.                           Pee capita protein supply fees animal and pulse - Prorti  supply of food
Infast nortality oats f/thao) - Anrual deaths of infests order one year                   derived from anisals ard poSses It lramt pe. dau.          n
of age per thousand live births.                                                     Death rate (/thos) ages 1-4 - Anoual deotha per thousaod In age groop
I.f- eupectancy at birth (yes) - Overage romber of years of life remain-                  1-4 years, to ehildre-  in this age g-cop;  -rggosted as at fndicator of
itg at birth; nsally five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and                        malnutrition.
975 for developing countries.
Leusa  reproduction eats - Aoerage number of live daughters a woman will                Education
hear in her normal reproductive period if she emperieneas preaenr age-               Adjusted enrollment artie - pri-erv ochool - -rurllmeni of all agas as
spacific fertility rates;  sually  five-year  averages ending in 1960,                  prter  rtage of pri-ary shool-ogr populatio; includes child-rn aged
1970 and 1975 for developing countriea.                                                 6-11 years but adjusted for diff-rect lengths of pei-urs education;
Population growth rate (7,) -          total - Compound annual growth rates of nid-       for countries with universal education., enrollent nay ascend 100/
year population for 1950-60, 1960-70 end 1970-75.                                       since some pupils are below or abve the official school ogs.
Population g-rwth rate (7.5 - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                Adluted enerlloent  ratio - seco.d.rv school - Copoted as sboo;
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect comps-a-                    secondary edu-ati-n requires at least four years of approved pri-,e;
hility  of data among countries.                                                        instruction; provides genersl, vorai.o. al or teaetor training
Urhan popslatipn (2. of total) - Ratio of urban to total population;                      instruction  far pupils of 12 to 17 yeses of ag; corecs ponde-ce
differeot definitions of urban areas may affect compar-bility of data                   courses are generally eexlded.
anong -cantries.                                                                     Years of schooling provided (first  and scncd levels)  - Total yvars of
Sgr structure (sercent) - Children (0-14 yours), working-age (15-64 ysars),               schooling; at  Iecondsey  level, vocational ins ruton ri      y he psr-
and retired  (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-year populatiem.                 tially or completely cecluded.
Aee dependencv ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and aver to                  Vocational Inrollnmet (% If secondary) - Vocctional ir-tjtutiins
rhose of ageu 15 through 64.                                                            include technical, industrial or oth-r prugrams whith opetate
iconomic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over                  independently or as depseoets of reco-darv insciturlour.
so the labor farce is age group of 15-64 years.                                      Adult literacy ratej            t - titresre adults (eble to read atd utite) us
Family planning - acceptors (cumulative, thou) - Csaulative nubher of                     percent of of totsl adul   population egcd 15 years ond over.
ocneptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family
planning pragr-m since inception.                                                     Houing
Family planning - wers ( f oP married women) - Percentages of marrLed                   Persona per room (urban) - Average number of peesons pee roes to
Itn of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control devices                    otoupied  conventional dwellings inurbon areas; doslilogs ouclude
to all carried  women in saec age group.                                               nan-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.
Occspied dwellings without pimed wateri (/). - Peu-pied covenrianal
Employment                                                                                dwellings in  urban and rural oreaa wirohLt Inside or outside piped
total labo_r forc  (thouand) - Economiselly active persona, includlng                     wat  f-ilitles us percentage of oIl occupied dwellings.
arced forces and  ne-mployed but excluding houseyivea, atudenta, etc.;                Access to electricity (% of all dwellings) - Coowentional dwellings
definitions in various countries are net comparable.                                    with eleetrieity in living quarters as percent of tefsl dwell7ins  in
Labor force in agriculture (%) - Agricultural labor forre (is fiass:lg,                   urban end rural areas.
forestry, hunting and fishing) as per-eetage of total laebr force.                   Rural dwellinga conneoted to eleteicitv  (D  - * D pctnd a               for
Uemplayed /(h of labor farce) - Unemployed are usually defined aa                         rural dwellings only.                                 .     e  u e av
parsons -,ho se able and willing to take a job, out of a job on I
given day, remained out of a job, and seeking work for a specified                    Cons-mption
ninimum period not e-ceeding one week; -ay not be comparable best-een                 Radio ree.ivers (Per that oPI) - All types of receivers for radio broad-
countries  due to different definitions of unemployed and source of                     casts to general public per thou-a-d of population- secludes
data,, e. , employsment office statistics, aemple surveys, compulsory                   unlicensed receivers io con-tri-s and in yesrs when registration of
unemployment insurance,                                                                 radio sets was in effe-t; data for ronant yeses say not be comparable
since cost countries abolished licersing.
Income dla criburtn e- Perenorage of privass income (both in cash aud                   Passenger ears (pee thou pop) - Passenger cars c-o-pg-ise  our rats
kind) received by richest 5Z, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest                     seating less than eight peesons; oxtludes ambulances, hearses ord
40/. of houeholds.                                                                      military vehicles.
Distributium of land  w-hership - Peroentagea  of land owned by s.ealthieat               nerciat publfo and private eierteiciry is o klowat Ibn           pee apia;
107% and poorest 107. of land  -uners.                                                  generally based on peodue-ion data, witbout allow'nIe  for  osses-  In
grids but allown  foIuot   n  sPorsoI,               e iiy
Pop b atnd Ntri nhyciac                                                                 Newsprint (kgyr per nap) - Per capita  nnual cons- ptior in kilograms
Papolation pee physicias - Populatiar divided by fmr of prcticing satttd item do tic Production Pus not tportt  of sewupin.t
pyatI_se quaified fees a nedical  -eh-1 at  siv-rity leve.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
EGYPT
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Amiouts in millions of US dollars)
Actual                             Projected        1973-  1975-
1973       1974      1975      1976           1980           1975   1980            1973  1975  1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                                  (Constant 1975 Prices)                   Average Annual
Growth Rates       As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product                        10,517     10,849   11,912  12,636                16,288      6.3      6.4             s9   100    99
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)                     57        365    ..           82                 113       .         ,             +1      .    +1
Gross Domestic Income                         10,574    11,214   11,912  12,718                 16,401      6.1      6.6            100   100   100
Imports(iocl. coo-factor services)           -2,864    -4,052   -4,989  -3,904                  -5,970    32.0       3.6             27    42    36
Exporto  (-Iol. coo-factor services)           1.950      2.230    2.198   2.512                 4,226      6.2    14.0              18    19    26
Resource Gap                                    -914    -1,822   -2,791  -1,392                 -1,744     75.0    -9.0               9    23    10
*                   Conosmption Expenditures                      10,115    10,887   11,836  11,806                 14,179      8.2      3.7             96    99    86
lnvestment Espenditures (1od. stocks)    1,373            2,149    2,867   2,304                 3,966    44.0       6.7             13    24    24
Domestic Savings                                 459        327        76      912               2,222   -60.0    95.0                4      1    14
MERCHANDISE TRADE                             Annual Data at Current Prices                                                    As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital Goods                                 291        480        728      840                                                   17    16
Fuals and intermediate goods                   633      1.655    2.057   1,208                                                     38    46
oo-Qo    ..rion Goods                          740     1,356     1,712   2,166                                                    45    38
Total Merchandise Imports (c.i.f.)          1,664      3,491    4,497   4,214                                                     100   100
Exports
Agricultural Products                         423         857       522      544                                                   42    33
Industrial Goods                              580         817    1.046   1,068                                                    58    67
Total Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)          1,003      1,674    1,568   1,612                                                     100   100
Travel                                         156        266       332      465
Sueo Canal                                     -          -          85     312
Merchandise Trade Indices                             Average 1975 = 100
Export Price Index                              68        122       100      109
Import Price Index                             67          95       100      105
Terms of Trade Index                           101        128       100      103
Exports Volume Inde-                            94         88       100      114
VALUE ADDED BEY SECTOR                                As Percent of Total
Agriculture                                     33         34        33       31
Industry, Electricity 4 Construction           24          26        28       28
Services                                       43          40        39       41
Total                                        100         100      1OO        0
1977
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                        Rev.
Current Prices              Budget                                   As Percent of GDP
Current Receipts                           3,180      3,658    4,549   5,914    7,641                                          34      38
Current Expenditures                       2,818      3.623    5.246   6.072    6.748                                          30      44
Budgetary Savings                            362         35      -697    -158        893                                        4      -6
Public Sector Investment                   1,155      1,469    2,209   2,509       3,471                                       12      19
US $ million
DETAIL ON                    At 1975 P and ER
PUBLIC SECTOR            Draft Plan
INVESTMENT PROGRAM         (1978-92)       E of Total
Agricolture                2,240            9
Industry and Mining        7,085           27
Services                   2,501           10
Transport and com-
msudications (Inc. Suez)  7,111            27
Other                       7,111          27
SELECTED INDICATORS                                                 1973-    1975-                          Total Expenditures         26,048          10
1975      1980
Average ICOR                                                        2.08      3.66
I. port Elasticity                                                  3.81      0.756
LAOUR FORCE AND
OlU-2lT PER WORKER                                                 Total Labor Force                        Value Added Per Worker (Current Prices)
In Millions            % of Total                        In US Dollars    % of Averape
1973      1975        1973    1975                        1973        1975   1973     1975
riculture                                              4.2       4.2           47       44                        624      858        67       69
-d-ctry                                                  1.2       1.2           13       13                     1,557   2,087         167      167
.ror-ce 2/                                                3.6       4.1          40       43                        615   1.374         66      110
1c-al                                                    9.0       9.5          100     IDI                         932   1,247        100      100
Import elasticity for 1975-80 low because of decrease in imports experienced in 1976.  For the period 1977-80,
i.port elasticity is estimated at 1.00.
3  Ir-ludes distribution, electricicy and construction sectors.
February 16, 1978



EGYPT                                         ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT                    Page 4 of 4
(amounts in millions of US dollars at current prices)
Actual
1973       1974       1975    1976
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Export of Goods, f.o.b.                                      1,003      1,674       1,568   1,612
Import of Goods, c.i.f.                                     -1,664    -3.491    -4.497  -4,214
Trade Balance                                               -661    -1,817    -2,929  -2,602
Service Receipts                                               421        726      1,250   1,980
Service Payments                                              -414       -541       -801    -896
Service Balance                                                7        185        449   1,084
A.   Deficit on Goods and Services                                -654    -1,632    -2,480  -1,518
B.   Amortization of LMT Debt                                     -407       -631       -476    -717
(of which suppliers' credits)                               (277)    (-285)    (-280)  (-414)
C.   Reductions of Balances on Bilateral Accounts                 -113        -28       -241       --
D.   Foreign Exchange Requirements                              -1,174    -2,291    -3,197  -2,235
E.   Supply of Funds                                             1,290      2,119      3,217   2,208
Private unrequited transfers                                   6         42         91       87
Official grants                                              725      1,264        988      625
Gulf Organization for Development in Egypt                   --         --         --
Other MLT loans                                              170        199        583      7oC
Suppliers' credits                                           160        273        363      501
MLT deposits/loans CBE                                       --            5     1,580      550
Foreign investment                                           --            7        20       60
Net increase in short-term commercial bank credits           352        585       -264       -5
Other monetary movements, net 1/                            -123       -256       -144    -370
F.  Changes in Reserves                                           116      -172    ___20         -27
GRANT AND LOAN COMITMENTS
Official Grants and Grant-like                                  725     1,264         988     625
Public MLT Loans
IBRD                                                         -_          85         77      157
IDA                                                          75          55         55       40
Other Multilateral                                           --           6        100       95
Governments                                                 290         595      2,507      934
Suppliers/Commercial                                        160         273        363      501
Total Public MLT Loans                                      525       1,014      3,102   1,727
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE, MLT
(Public Debt Outstanding & Disbursed)
Interest on Public Debt                                      79          95        111      180
Repayments on Public Debt                                   407         631        476      717
Total Public Debt Service                                   486         726        587      897
Burden on Exchange Earnings (%)
Public Debt Service                                         34.1        30.3       20.8    25.0
EXTERNAL DEBT                                  Actual Debt Outstanding on 0ecember 31, 1977
Disbursed Only           Percent
Loans                                                5,458.3                    67.9
(of which: IBRD)                                     ( 86.6)                   (1.1)
IDA)                                    (167.9)                   (2.1)
Deposits in CBE                                      1,938.3                    24.1
Suppliers Credits                                      640.7                     8.0
Total Public MLT Debt                                8                         100.0
Short-term Debt (disb. only)                            556
1/  Includes errors and omissions                                             February 16, 1978



ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT                       Page 1 of 7
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of January 31, 1978)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit      Approved                                                                     less cancellations
Numbers           FE      Borrower          Purpose                              Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
Ln 243-UAR          60         SCA             Suez Canal Expansion                56.5        --        --
Cr 181-UAR          70        UAR              Nile Delta Drainage                  --        26.0       6.3
Cr 284-UAR          72        ARE              Railways                             --        30.0       1.7
Cr S-13-UAR 1/      73        ARE              Cotton Ginning Engineering           --         0.2       --
Cr 393-UAR          73        ARE              Upper Egypt Drainage                 --        36.0      15.7
Cr 412-UAR          73        ARE             Development Industrial Bank 2/        -         15.0       1.7
Cr 423-UAR          74        ARE              Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation        --        18.5       5.3
Cr 437-UAR          74        ARE              Population                           5- 5.C               2.3
Cr S-15-UAR 3/      74        ARE              Talkha Engineering                   --         0.4       --
Cr 484-UAR          74        ARE              Talkha Fertilizer                    --        20.0       4.7
Cr 524-EGT          75        ARE             Ag/Ind Imports                        --        35.0       1.9
Ln 1062-EGT         75        ARE             Ag/lnd Imports                       35.0        --        1.4
Ln 1064-EGT         75         SCA             Suez Canal Rehabilitation           50.0        --       41.6
Ln 1085-EGT         75        ARE              Tourah Cement                       40.0        --       12.1
Ln 1098-EGT         75         ER              Railways II                         37.0        --       20.3
Cr 548-EGT          75        ARE              Telecommunications                   --        30.0      21.0
Cr 576-EGT          76        ARE             DIB II 2/                             --        25.0      12.2
Ln 1239-EGT         76        APA             Alexandria Port                      45.0        --       44.9
Ln 1276-EGT 4/      76        ARE              Fruit and Vegetable Dev.            50.0        --       49.6
Cr 637-EGT          76        ARE              Upper Egypt Drainage II              --        40.0      36.4
Ln 1285-EGT         76         ARE             Upper Egypt Drainage II             10.0        --       10.0
Ln 1292-EGT         76        ARE              Textile Rehabilitation              52.0        --       51.8
Ln 1369-EGT         77        AWA              Alexandria Water Supply             56.0        --       55.9
Cr 681-EGT          77        ARE              Education                            --        25.0      24.6
Cr 719-EGT 5/       77        ARE             Nile Delta Drainage II                --        27.0      27.0
Ln 1339-EGT5/       77        ARE              Nile Delta Drainage II              27.0        --       27.0
Ln 1440-EGT 4/5/   77          ARE             Nile Delta Drainage II              12.0        --       12.0
Ln 1453-EGT         77         EEA             Regional Electrification            48.0        --       48.0
Ln 1456-ECT         77        ARE              Industrial Imports                  70.0        --       70.0
Cr S-005-EGT        77        ARE              Iron Ore Beneficiation and           2.5        --        2.5
Engineering
Ln 1482-EGT         78         SCA             Suez Canal Expansion               100.0        --      100.0
Cr S-20-EGT 5/      78        ARE             Water Supply Engineering              _          2.C       2.0
Totals                                                                         691.0      335.1
Of which has been repaid                                                        56.5        0.6
Total now outstanding                                                          634.5      334.5
Amount sold                                                        7.5
Of which has been repaid                                           6.5           1.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                 633.0      334.5    709.9
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(Amount in US$ million)
Year         Obligor                 Type of Business                       Loan     Equity       Total
1976        Arab Ceramic Company   Ceramic Industry                         4.25         .75        5.0
(plus .635
contingency        (5.635)
commitment)
1977        Nile Clothing Company  Ready Made Garment Industry              0.40       0.20        0.60
1/ Refinanced under Credit 423-UAR
2/ Formerly Bank of Alexandria
3/ Refinanced under Credit 484-UAR
4/ Third Window Loan
5/ Not yet effective



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage I Project; US$26 million Credit
of April 17, 1970; Effective Date: December 22, 1970; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Full completion of the project is expected by mid-1980, nearly 3
years behind schedule. However, procurement is proceeding satisfactorily. It
is expected that the whole of the credit will be committed in the near future,
and that disbursement will be completed during 1978. Due to inflation, the
local cost of the project has increased by 90 percent, from $116 million to
$220 million. There is no foreign exchange cost overrun. Progress in project
implementation during 1976 was satisfactory and, for the first time, the
project reached the established annual target. During 1977 there were manage-
ment changes in the Drainage Authority, and the project again fell behind
schedule though achievements in the fourth quarter of 1977 were substantial.
Government allocated the required local funds for the year 1977 for the
implementation of the ongoing Bank/IDA financed drainage projects. Local
funds required for 1978 are included in the approved budget.
Cr. No. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway Project; US$30 million Credit of February
9, 1972; Effective Date: July 17, 1972; Closing Date: Mlarch 31, 1979.
The project generally is being implemented satisfactorily. All
procurement contracts have been awarded, and the credit has been fully com-
mitted. To allow the remaining balance to be utilized, the closing date
for the parts of the credit allocated to signalling and telecommunications
items, originally September 30, 1976, has been postponed twice to March 31,
1979; the credit account for the parts allocated to other items was closed on
December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. S-13-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Engineering Project;
US$175,000 Credit of November 17, 1972; Effective Date: June 15, 1973;
Closing Date: November 30, 1973.
This credit was fully disbursed and subsequently refinanced under
Cr. 423 below.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of June
8, 1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Over 30 percent of the project is complete; full completion is
expected by end-1980, i.e., 6 months behind schedule. About 50 percent of the
contracts for equipment have been awarded. Foreign exchange costs have risen
by about 14 percent almost entirely due to price increases of chemicals for
bilharzia control. The foreign cost overrun of the bilharzia control program
is being financed under the Upper Egypt Drainage II project (Loan No. 1285-EGT
and Credit No. 637-EGT).
Cr. No. 412-UAR - Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of Alexandria)
Project; US$15 million Credit of June 29, 1973; Effective Date: November 29,
1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
The entire amount of the credit has been committed to subprojects.
As of January 31, 1978, $13.3 million had been disbursed. The transfer of
responsibility for this project to the newly established Development Indus-
trial Bank became effective on March 28, 1977.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effective Date: February 15, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978.
The scaled-down project financed by IDA is estimated to be completed
in mid-1980 and the remainder of the full project financed by a loan from the
Saudi Fund for Development, which became effective in July 1976, is expected
to be completed by June 1981. The foreign cost of the project ($34.3 million)
is now firm as all procurement has been completed, but the local component
continues to escalate mainly due to steady increase in the cost of civil works.
By Presidential Decree of 1977 the Project Implementation Unit was upgraded to
the status of a General Authority for Rehabilitation of Ginneries which should
give the management more freedom regarding financial and administrative
matters.
Cr. No. 437-UAR - Population Project; US$5.0 million Credit of November 6,
1973; Effective Date: March 25, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project had been greatly delayed by a shortage of local funds
and by administrative problems. It is now being carried out with a reduced
scope but substantially in accordance with a revised schedule.
Cr. No. S-15-UAR - Talkha Urea Fertilizer Engineering Project; US$400,000
Credit of November 20. 1973; Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date:
March 31, 1975.
The credit was refinanced under Cr. 484 below.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of June
24, 1974; Effective Date: January 22, 1975; Closing Date: April 1, 1979.
Procurement has been completed except for some small items. In May
1977 the El Nasr Company for Fertilizers and Chemical Industries together
with the engineering contractor estimated the new mechanical completion date
as August 31, 1978, or ten months later than estimated at appraisal time.
Latest progress reports, however, indicate further slippage caused by short-
age of skilled labor and delays in the completion of civil works drawings by
local consultants.
Cr. No. 524-EGT and Ln. No. 1062-EGT - Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project; US$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Effective Date: March 19, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The bulk of the procurement actions has been completed and dis-
bursements are well advanced. One of the six surveys of industrial sub-
sectors financed under the project has been completed and the five others are
expected to be completed shortly. To allow utilization of the undisbursed
funds, the closing date, originally, December 31, was postponed to June 30,
1978.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan
of December 20, 1974; Effective Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1978.
Progress to date on project implementation has been good, although
the implementation of the reconstruction project proved to be much more
complex than originally estimated by the appraisal team. The financial
situation of the Borrower is sound; canal traffic and revenues are both
higher than expected at appraisal.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1979.
Contracts have been awarded for all equipment packages, and dis-
bursements are proceeding almost on schedule. More than 90 percent of
equipment have been delivered on site. Slow progress in civil works causes
significant delays which will result in a delay in the start-up of commercial
operations by about two years. Consultants which assisted in bid evaluation
are now assisting in supervision of project execution and improvement of the
existing plant.
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Progress on physical investment items under the project is generally
satisfactory. However, the Egyptian Railways (ER) experienced operational
difficulties with a large number of locomotives out of service because of in-
adequate maintenance largely due to lack of spare parts. Spare parts are now



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
being delivered and new locomotives have been obtained from bilateral sources.
Therefore, a gradual improvement of the traction and traffic situation is
expected. Also, declining traffic and rising costs resulted in a worsening of
ER's financial position. Government is considering increases in rail tariffs
proposed by ER.
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May 16,
1975; Effective Date: August 14, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
Project works are about two years behind schedule, primarily because
of initial delays in building construction. However, construction has recently
accelerated and is expected to proceed satisfactorily. Contract awards for
cables have been largely completed: Telex equipment has been obtained with
financing from other sources and installation of the Cairo telex exchange was
deferred to the proposed second project. The part of the credit originally
allocated for the telex exchange will be used for the purchase of additional
cables.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of
Alexandria) Project; US$25 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effective Date:
February 19, 1976; Closing Date:  October 31, 1979.
As of October 31, 1977, about $22.8 million or 91 percent of the
credit had been committed under the project. The transfer of responsibility
for this project to the newly established Development Industrial Bank became
effective on March 28, 1977.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation was initially slower than expected and is now
entering an active phase. Civil engineering consultants have completed the
design of the four berth extensions. Prequalification of contractors for
dredging and construction works has started. Bids for floating cranes were
opened on October 17, 1977. Management consultants have been selected.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effective Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project start-up has been slower than expected. Civil engineering
consultants are at work on the drainage and irrigation components of the proj-
ect although the necessary counterpart staff have not always been present.
The newly established Agricultural Development Lending Unit in Bank Misr is
attempting, with the help of a consultant, to ensure that the various agro-
industries sub-borrowers proceed with their respective investments, but there
may be need for some revision in this component.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976. Effective
Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation has been slower than expected following man-
agement changes.
Ln. No. 1292-ECT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20, 1976.
Effective Date: February 20, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is proceeding with a four-month delay caused by a later
and slower than anticipated start of the civil works. The project is now es-
timated to cost about US$11 million equivalent (all in local currency) more
than appraised, due mostly to increased scope of civil works; no difficulties
are foreseen in financing this.  Early management problems have now been over-
come and both companies have developed effective Project Implementation Units.
Disbursements are slower than anticipated reflecting delays in procurement.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The tariff increase required under the project is in effect and
has been reflected on the water bills beginning August 1, 1977. Consultants
for the final design of the project: and the procurement of goods and ser-
vices have started work. In designing the project the consultants will
review and take into account the results of a USAID financed interim Water
Master Plan presented in September 1977.
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Projec:; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effective Date: August 19, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project implementation is; proceeding satisfactorily. Project units
have been set up in all Ministries concerned. Over 90 percent of the equip-
ment furniture under the project isf being bid. Technical problems have been
encountered with the construction of the two Technical institutes which now
need to be redesigned resulting in a two year delay. Technical assistance
contracts have been signed.
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440T-EGT - Nile Delta Drainage
II Project; $27 Million Credit, $27 Million Loan and $12 Million Third Window
Loan of July 15, 1977: Effective Date: March 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The effectiveness date of- this project has been twice delayed from
November 15, 1977, the original date, to March 16, 1978 to allow for additional
time to meet the special condition of effectiveness calling for establishment
of a special fund for local currency payments for all drainage projects.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Ln. No. 1453-EGT - Regional Electrification Project; US$48 Million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Effective Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Engineering consultants started work in June 1977. Consultants for
the extension of the UNDP Power Sector Survey and for the Tariff Study have
been appointed.
Ln. No. 1456-EGT - Industrial Imports Project; US$70.0 Million Loan of July 15,
1977; Effective Date: November 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Allocation of loan funds is almost completed. Procurement action has
commenced.
Ln No. 5-5 EGT - Iron Ore Engineering and Beneficiation Project; US$2.5 Million
Loan of July 15, 1977. Effective Date: February 2, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Consultants to prepare both iron ore beneficiation and diagnostic
studies have been appointed and are working.
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 Million Loan of
September 28, 1977: Effective Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
One dredging contract to be financed by the Bank has been awarded
and the other is expected to be awarded soon; tender documents for equipment
are being drawn up.
Cr. No. S-20-EGT - Water Supply Engienering Project; US$2.0 Million Engineering
Credit of December 29, 1977; Effectiveness Date: May 2, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Action on effectiveness conditions is under way.






ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Second Telecommunications Project
Supplementary Project Data sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project first identified:                     February 1977
(b)  Time taken by ARETO to prepare project:    Three months (February to
May 1977)
(c)  Date of first IDA mission to consider
project (appraisal mission):                  June 2, 1977
(d)  Date of completion of negotiations:           December 28, 1977
(e)  Planned date of Board presentation:           March 7, 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                July, 1978
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   Special conditions of credit effectiveness are that:
(i) Government and ARETO would execute a subsidiary agreement
(para. 59); and
(ii) Government would put into effect increases in ARETO's tele-
phone installation and telegraph charges by 100 percent and
in its long distance call charges by at least 50 percent, or
such other increases as would provide ARETO with equal revenue
(para. 49).
2.   Other special conditions are:
(i) Government would afford IDA a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with ARETO on the recommendations of the telecommunica-
tions Sector Study (para. 41);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(ii)  Government and ARETO would take the necessary action to ensure
that (i) all debt owed to ARETO by public agencies will be
settled by December 31, 1978 and (ii) all their future debt
be paid within 3 months of the billing date (para. 53);
(iii)  Government and ARETO would maintain the priority provided for
large business firms under its present system of priority for
telephone installation (para. 54);
(iv) ARETO would exchange views with IDA on financially significant
changes to its 1978-1980 development program (para. 56);
(v) Government would make adequate foreign exchange allocations to
ARETO and to Egyptian suppliers to cover the foreign cost of
cable installation, buildings, and imports of raw materials and
component parts for the project (para. 58);
(vi)  ARETO would entrust the preparation of specifications and the
supervision of insta:Llation of electronic telephone switching
equipment to exports with adequate qualifications and expe-
rience (para. 60);
(vii)  Government give ARETO's civil works under the project priorities
as and when needed (para. 60);
(viii)  Government and ARETO would take all steps to ensure an 11
percent financial rate of return on ARETO's current net fixed
assets (para. 63).



IBRD - 11323IR1
Mediterranean                                            Sea
ALgX                                          El Oasobi                                                                                $AID
El~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R
L3 :
/. ./ \~~~~~~~~~~~Abu Mc                                                                  Kofel  r  Smilwr/S/
\,4>  Itol el Borud > @ ; SiGhom;giX X~i                          I    .1 B ...I    Q                                                                                      to m tr E ast 
Fogos                 ~~~~~I F.,dd.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGY-ont
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATION ORGANIZATION                                                   Wrd          o               bIS    A,SfC,                                                        A,Yto, coke
HliH  CAPACITY  TRANSMISSION  SYSTEMS AND  TRUNK AUTOMATIC  EXCHANGES                                 DTA  RA QEg I o=
30              EXISTING OR                                                                                                                                                                                        EYLYAAT,.X
UNBER ONRSTRRITIO.N  PROPOSEDIh
_         CCAMAL CAMLE SYSTEM                                                                                                                        P.,          t
.....              ..... MlMCCRC AVE                               SYTEYSTUG   ElrmD7  
* L - ~~~TRUNI AUTrMAT      -GF                                                                          ElCANE T cDigbee1,
HARD SURFACED RDDS// .                                         
OTHE  ARLAES AND DERERT TLS'CT                                                                                  I SSff
111  AILWAY8-DDUBLE TRACK ,  j  
I IIRTAILWAYS_SINRLE TRACK                                                     SYE\
+++-R A         WAYESFARTIALLYDAMIAGED
900        GITIESAPOTGWS-  G   .............1 
-AVI-AMLE GANALS q,vYM/rvso.............\  
_  ___NAVIG-FL C-NA UNDER -DSTRUCTIO N                                              L    h o l                              
+    INTER-1rl-AL AIRPRNTS                                               Abe   uoo<               E ISUFgZ^L
-    INT-RATICNAL KD)UNDARES                                                                         Ni SUE                                                                                     Z a90
-29                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           29R
2,9'~~                                                                                                                           N S                                    ,s1
WTSt ER   ,T S N                                                                                 f\
RENA Y~RRR7   ENR REPUBLIC
~~~> J jSdnl ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mozor    
El Tur
.(    .\|  g|   SAUDI
ARAB RERLIC SF                                                                                    N YA                         o            25           50            75           100  KMS.
|     EYrT               U                                                                                                        _______y________2e_
0                    25                   50                    75  MILES
5UDAN ANC~)    ,,IE   \       YVTEAL.JNAIAILSS/T,d!                     7 S1                                                                       23,



