CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 774 EGT
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Telecommunication Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 21, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 774 EGT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 21, 1978, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Project will be carried out by the Arab Republic
of Egypt Telecommunication Organization (hereinafter called ARETO)
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to ARETO the proceeds of the
Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C) The Association is willing to make the Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a
project agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and ARETO; and
(D) The Borrower has made arrangements for obtaining addi-
tional financing from the United States Agency for International
Development, the Government of France and the Company L.M.
Ericsson of Sweden in an amount equivalent to $69,000,000 to
assist in financing Parts A, C, D and F of the Project;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the


﻿-2-
preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and ARETO of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ARETO pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c) "First Development Credit Agreement" means the develop-
ment credit agreement (Telecommunications Project), dated May 16,
1975 between the Borrower and the Association; and
(d) The sign and letter "ZE" mean pounds in the currency of
the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to fifty-three million dollars ($53,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of goods and services to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing April 15, 1988, and ending October 15,
2027, each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 15, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Chairman of the Board of ARETO and such
other person or persons as he shall designate in writing are
designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purpose of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Articl'e V of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower
shall cause ARETO to perform in accordance with the provisions of
the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ARETO to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.


﻿-4-
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
ARETO under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and ARETO under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association. Except as the Asseciation shall
otherwise agree, such terms and conditions shall include the
following:
(i) the principal amount of the subsidiary loan repay-
able by ARETO will be the equivalent in Egyptian
Pounds (determined as of the date, or the respec-
tive dates, of repayment) of the value of the
currency or currencies withdrawn from the Credit
Account expressed in terms of United States dollars
at the time of withdrawal;
(ii) the subsidiary loan will be repaid by ARETO to the
Borrower in thirty-three semi-annual installments
over twenty years (including three and one-half
years of grace); and
(iii) interest on the subsidiary loan will be charged at
the rate of 7.45% per annum on the outstanding
balance of the subsidiary loan.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall ensure, through its regula-
tions on material allocation and directives to public construc-
tion companies, that priorities will be given as and when needed
to the civil works included in the Project to ensure their timely
and efficient execution and completion.
Section 3.03. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
make available: (i) to the Egyptian suppliers such amounts in for-
eign exchange as shall be required to meet their supply contract
obligations under the Project; and (ii) to ARETO such amounts in
foreign exchange as shall be required for the procurement and
installation of goods under Part E of the Project.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall cause each of its minis-
tries, departments and agencies to pay within three months from
the date of billing its future debts to ARETO for services ren-
dered or to be rendered by ARETO.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
from time to time all such measures as shall be necessary to
enable ARETO to comply with the provisions of Sections 2.09, 4.03
and 4.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower is currently employing the Conti-
nental Telephone Corporation (CTC) of the United States of America
to carry out a comprehensive study on the telecommunication sector
in Egypt. Under tie terms and conditions of said employment, CTC
is required to submit to the Borrower a final report setting forth
all pertinent data, analysis, findings and recommendations of said
study. The Borrower, acting through ARETO, undertakes: (a) to
provide the Association with a copy of said final report and (b)
to afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with ARETO on the recommendations of said final report.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) ARETO shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of ARETO under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that ARETO will be able to perform its obli-
gations under the Project Agreement;
(c) Presidential Decree No. 709 of the year 1957 as amended
by Decree No. 457 of the year 1966 of the Borrower shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as
to materially and adversely affect the ability of ARETO to carry
out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the
Project Agreement;


﻿-6-
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ARETO or for the suspension of its operations; and
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any of the Loans providing
the additional financing for the Project shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
any of such loans, or
(B) Any of the Loans providing for the additional
financing for the Project shall have become
due and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if:
(A) Such   suspension,  cancellation,   termination
or prematuring is not caused by the failure
of the Borrower to perform any of its obliga-
tions under such agreement, and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
(b) any of the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d)
or (e) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of ARETO have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b) the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and ARETO, respectively, have
been duly authori:Led or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action; and
(c) the Borrower shall have put into effect (i) increases in
ARETO's telephone installation and telegraph charges by 100%, and
in ARETO's domestic long distance call charges by not less than
50%, or (ii) such other increases in ARETO's telecommunication
charges as shall provide ARETO with equal additional revenues.
Section 6.02. The following events are specified as addi-
tional matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the
General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to
be furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, ARETO, and
is legally binding upon ARETO in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
Borrower and ARETO, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
ARETO in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date July 19, 1978 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.02 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the


﻿-8-
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Amendments to the
First Development Credit Agreement
Section 7.01. The First Development Credit Agreement between
the Borrower and the Association is hereby amended by deleting
Section 4.02 thereof.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Economy and Economic Coopera-
tion or the Undersecretary for International and -Regional Finan-
cial Institutions of the Borrower are designated as representa-
tives of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Economic Cooperation
8 Adly Street
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                      Telex:
Ministry of Economy and             348-GAFEC-UN
Economic Cooperation
Cairo, Egypt
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-9-
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By Is/ Ashraf Ghorbal
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Martijn J.W.M. Paijmans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Automatic telephone          21,500,000      100% of foreign
exchange equipment                          expenditures and
(60,800 lines)                              of local expendi-
tures ex-factory
(2) PABXs (15,000 lines)          3,000,000      100% of foreign
expenditures and
of local expendi-
tures ex-factory
(3) Telephone cables             10,000,000      100% of foreign
expenditures
and of local
expenditures
ex-factory
(4) Accessories for telephone     2,500,000      100% of foreign
cables and cable laying                     expenditures
equipment                                   and of local
expenditures
ex-factory
(5) Cairo telex exchange          3,500,000      100% of foreign
(3,000 lines)                               expenditures
(6) Teleprinters (2,000)          5,000,000      100% of foreign
expenditures
(7) Unallocated                   7,500,000
TOTAL        53,000,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of
the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such item as required to be
consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentage set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procuremert of any item in any Category is inconsistent with


﻿- 12 -
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way re-
stricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project provides for the most essential new works to be
carried out under ARETO's 1978-1980 development program described
in the Annex to this Schedule.
The Project consists of:
Part A:   Installation of about 220,400 lines of main automatic
exchange equipment in Cairo, other principal cities, and
small towns. (These installations include replacement of
about 35,900 lines).
Part B:   Installation of about 6,000 lines of manual telephone
systems in rural centers.
Part C:   Installation of about 35,000 lines of PABXs.
Part D:   Installation of cable networks for about 75,000
subscriber connections with accessories and cable laying
equipment and junction micro-wave network for Cairo.
Part E:   Installation of a Damietta-Mansura coaxial cable.
Part F:   Installation of about 5,000 additional lines of auto-
matic trunk exchange equipment.
Part G:   Installation of about 3,000 lines of telex exchange and
about 2,000 teleprinters in Cairo.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿- 14 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
ARETO's Telecommunication Program
1978-1980
A.   ARETO's 1978-80 program consists of the following components:
1.   the ongoing works carried over from the 1975-77 period
including the project financed under the First Development
Credit Agreement;
2.   new works comprising the Second Telecommunication
Project, which are described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
and
3.   other new works in the program.
The major works included in the program other than those
included in (2) above are:
B.   Ongoing Works
1.   installation of telephone exchange with about 68,000
lines in Cairo, 6,000 lines in Alexandria, 1,200 lines in
upper and lower Egypt and 21,000 lines in the Suez Canal
area;
2.   installation of local and junction cables and sub-
scribers installations complementing the exchange installa-
tions under (1) above;
3.   expansion of telex exchanges in Cairo and Alexandria by
1,200 lines;
4.   expansion of the trunk exchanges in Cairo and Alexandria
by 2,600 lines;
5.   expansion of the long distance systems with installation
of coaxial cables Cairo-Aswan, Cairo-Fayoum, Cairo-Suez and
Suez-Ismailia-Port Said and Alexandria-Salloum and microwave
system Egypt-Libya; and
6.   installation of a standard earth satellite station for
international services.


﻿- 15 -
C.   Other New Works in ARETO's 1978-80 Program
1.   Installation of about 41,000 lines of new exchange
equipment in Cairo;
2.   a computer controlled message center in Cairo;
3.   long distance coaxial cable systems between:
(a) Damietta-Rashid;
(b) Cairo-Alexandria-Tartous (Syria); and
(c) Qena-Safaga-Douba (Saudi Arabia).


