Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20148
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(LOAN 25430)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF 3.90 SDR (US$5.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
FOR A SOCIAL SAFETY NET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 24, 2000
Albania and Croatia Country Unit
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = Lek
315.625=US$ 1
US$ 1 = 314.625
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GASS         -       General Administration of Social Services
IDA           -      International Development Association
MOLSA         -      Ministry of Labor and Social Assistance
NE            -      Ndihma Ekonomike
NES           -      National Employment Service
PCU           -      Project Coordination Unit
SDR          -       Special Drawing Rights
SIF           -      Social Insurance Fund
SII           -      Social Insurance Institute
SIN          -       Social Insurance Identification Number
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Armtraud Hartmann
Sector Manager/Director:    Annette Dixon
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Virginia H. Jackson



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   8
6. Sustainability                                                                       9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     11
9. Partner Comments                                                                    13
10. Additional Information                                                            18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008265                                        Project Name: SOCIAL SAFETY NET
Team Leader: Virginia H. Jackson                           TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR yvpe: Core ICR                                         Report Date: Febriary 8, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: SOCIAL SAFETY NTET                                 L/C Numnber: 25430
Country/Department: ALBANIA                                               Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: SA - Social Funds & Social Assistance
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/25/92                                 Effective: 01/26/94
Appraisal:  12/01/93                                   MTR:  10/20/96
Approval:  09/14/93                                 Closing: 06/30/98             08/31/99
Borrower/lmplementing Agency:  REPUTBLIC OF ALBANIA/MOLSP; REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA/Social Insurance
Institute
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn
Country Manager:     Arntraud Hartmann                           Andrew Rogerson and Ralph Harbison
Sector Manager:       Annette Dixon                              Ralph Harbison
Team Leader at ICR:   Virginia H. Jackson
ICR Primar-v A uthor:   Arvo Kuddo
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUlN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainabilitv: L
Instituitional Development HS
Impact:
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                       S
Project at Risk at An!. Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the project was to provide technical assistance to the Government in
reforming its systems of social protection in order to alleviate the disruption resulting from the



economic transition, while at the same time configuring these systems to be compatible with a
market-oriented economy. Specific project objectives were to:
(a) implement reform of social insurance and social assistance programs through policy
development based on an approved new legal framework;
(b) strengthen the institutions responsible for planning, management and administration of cash
benefits, principally the Social Insurance Institute (SII), the Ministry of Labor and Social
Assistance (MOLSA), and local governments responsible for social assistance; and
(c) strengthen and develop training, research and statistical institutions and public information
functions which could support social policy formation and implementation and
monitoring/evaluation, such as the statistical training and public information units of MOLSA, SII
and the University of Tirana.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
Component I: Social Insurance Reform
The aim of this component was to help the autonomous SII to carry out fundamental changes in
the way it defines its principal tasks in setting, together with MOLSA, social policies, and its
responsibility for the Social Insurance Fund (SIF), including ensuring the financial viability of the
SIF.
To accomplish the main objective of this component, the project aimed at providing assistance for
the following four subcomponents:
A. Financial Management and Policy Development: designed to continue policy development
activities within the framework of the new Social Insurance Act; to provide assistance to
introduce actuarial methods for assessment of contributions needed to meet the financial
obligations of the scheme and to establish an Actuarial Service in the SII;
B. Development of Collection and Benefit Delivery Mechanism: designed to develop new
systems for: (i) collection and recording of contributions at the individual level; (ii) monitoring
and collection of debt, and control of collective fraud; (iii) deternination and payment of benefits;
and (iv) control of recipient fraud and abuse;
C. Information Management and Automation: designed to establish a Social Insurance
Register for personal identification and eligibility recording and to develop a system for
processing and recording transactions, using a unique social security number;
D. National and Regional Administration: designed to assist SII in adjusting its organizational
-2 -



structure and to provide to SII management on-the-job training in social insurance policy and
administration.
Component II: Social Assistance Program Development
This component aimed at assisting development of a new social assistance program along the lines
of Ndihma Ekonomike to provide a sustainable safety net.
In particular, the project had the following three social assistance-related subcomponents:
A. Policy and Program Development: designed to focus on: (i) implementing the new
legislation on social assistance; (ii) financial analysis of the social assistance scheme in light of the
budgetary objectives and actual trends in the long-term poor; and (iii) defining criteria for
budgetary allocation of social assistance payments among regions and defining eligibility criteria at
the level of the individual family.
B. Developing Social Welfare Institutions: designed to strengthen the main institutions involved
in the social assistance program, including the MOLSA and the local government administrations
involved in benefit delivery.
C. Poverty Monitoring: designed to develop a statistical database in the following areas: (i) the
development of poverty assessments; (ii) short-term pilot surveys on poverty and labor force; and
(iii) improvement of administrative statistics.
3.4 Revised C'omponents:
NA
3.5 Quality at Entrv:
QAG review not due at the time of this project preparation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.] Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, achievement of the project's objectives is judged to be satisfactory. The project
has met its original development objectives, namely to assist the Government in reforming its
social protection systems to alleviate disruptions caused by the economic transition, while at the
same time, configuring those systems to be compatible with a market-oriented economy. The
project provided support in policy development to two of the most urgent priorities of the
government in the social protection sector: social insurance reform and reform in the social
assistance scheme, Ndihma Ekonomike (NE).
Importantly, given the impact of several political and financial crises and accompanying
strains on the society, the support which the project provided to develop and strengthen the social
safety net has continued to ensure that social insurance contributions are collected and benefits
paid, thereby contributing to the maintenance of public order and stability. On the social insurance
part of the project, the original objectives have been achieved at the end of third year of
-3 -



implementation, and savings of more than one million US$ have been utilized to expand the
project outcomes.
4.2 OZltpZuts by c0omnponents:
Component I: Social Insurance Reform: This Component supported modernization of the legal
framework for social insurance, as well as development of the central and regional institutional
framework responsible for delivering social benefits.
A. Financial Management and Policy Development: With technical assistance provided
through the project, this sub-component helped the SII to develop a countrywide legal and
institutional framework for provision of social protection. The basis for provision of social
protection is currently the Social Insurance Act adopted in May 1993, and amended in 1995 and
1998. Beginning in 1993, twelve Acts and Decrees submitted to Parliament were adopted and
there were, as well, thirty-three Decisions of the Council of Ministers. The SII is a fully functional
social insurance institution providing services to more than 600,000 Albanian citizens.
This sub-component assisted in establishing a Social Insurance Fund (SIF). In 1996, SIF was
separated from the State budget. SIF provides benefits for short-term incapacity due to sickness,
maternity benefits, grants in respect of childbirth and death, as well as pensions for aged persons,
disabled persons and survivors, and it is financed on a pay-as-you-go basis.
The sub-component provided assistance for introducing actuarial methods for assessment of the
contributions needed to meet the financial obligations of the social insurance scheme, operated by
the autonomous Social Insurance Institute (SII). Long term (25 years), medium term (5 years)
and short term (one year) actuarial models have been developed and used by SII. Basic
accounting software for SII has been purchased on the local market. The Actuarial Service
established in the SII allows monitoring of the dynamics of revenues and expenditures and
assessing of the contributions needed to meet the financial obligations of the scheme.
A financial management system has been introduced in the Regional Offices, including monitoring
of the liabilities of social insurance subjects. Now that the Regional Offices have basic computer
equipment and software, periodic staff training in use of the software programs is taking place at
Headquarters.
A public information unit has been established. It produces statistical summaries for SII, as well as
more general information concerning policies and financial data of the institute. Computers and
desktop publishing software have been purchased and installed, and staff have received respective
training.
SIl has begun to establish local agencies ("front desks") in the large urban areas to provide more
convenient and efficient services to the population. The plan is to set up 340 of these agencies
throughout the country.
In 1994, social insurance was extended to the employees of former state agricultural farms and
their family members. However, the current rural pension program is financially insolvent and
-4 -



requires Government transfers. The rural pension scheme was modified on the basis of approved
legislation that allows rural pensioners to pay their contributions without a late fine. Related to
this change, SII has launched a public information campaign, including meetings in villages,
distribution of leaflets and posters. This publicity reached the rural people and, as a result,
payment of workers' contributions to the pension system increased. The new legislation should
help close the gap between rural and urban pensions, with both achieving the same level by the
year 2008.
B. Development of Collection and Benefit Delivery Mechanism: The core function of the SII
is the collection of contributions and the delivery of social insurance benefits. This subcomponent
has helped to build up from scratch the entire system for collection of social insurance
contributions, and particularly the collection and recording of contributions at the individual level.
Contributions are currently collected through Savings Bank branches, although the SII and its
branches in the regions keep the accounts and determine requirements and transfers to and from
individual regions.
The system for delivery of benefits was also completely reformed. Notably, all SII Regional
Offices are currently equipped with computers, and a Local Area Network has been set up at
Headquarters with data linkage extended to about half the Regional Offices. At the end of Project
implementation, 133 PCs, 7 portable computers, 14 PC servers, 1 mid-range server, 22 printers
and 155 UPSs have been purchased which much exceeds the initial target of 18 PCs, 2 portable
computers, 12 printers and 18 UPS. An optical archive has been created in SII, where the images
of the Registration Forms will be stored. Administrators from regional offices have been trained
for data entry.
Additionally, a system was developed to monitor and collect arrears in contributions, contain
collection fraud, determine and pay benefits, and restrain recipient fraud and abuse. Furthermore,
the regional SII office in Elbasani was used as a pilot center for payment of benefits, and the Fieri
regional office, for collection of contributions. These pilots for computerization have been
successfully completed and these systems have already been extended to about half the Regional
Offices.
C. Information Management and Automation: Under this sub-component, the individual
Social Insurance Identification Number (SIN), to be used for all purposes, including taxation, was
approved by Government, and is in the process of being issued to all citizens. A National Register
was established at the SII based on this number, and local Civil Status Offices at the regional level
are working with SII Headquarters in completing the registration process. At project closing, all
relevant individual data had been collected, except for Tropoja (Bajram Curi), and about
two-thirds of this information had been processed. It is anticipated that most data entry will be
completed by the end of 1999, except for SIN information registered on paper forms that were
being used for entering data and that were burned during the recent unrest. In October 1998, SII
offices began registering births and deaths.
D. National and Regional Administration: This sub-component contributed to organizational
and administrative improvements in the SII, at national and regional levels. At SII Headquarters, a
- 5 -



new institutional structure was developed and is currently operational (Annex 7). The project
assisted in construction and setting up of 8 regional SII offices throughout the country (in total
out of 12 offices). The pilot tests for computerization of Regional Offices concerning tax
collections and benefits, implemented as part of the project, were extended to over half of the
Regional Offices. Additionally, the construction of the new Tirana Regional SII Office was
completed and is fully operational.
As another activity of this sub-component, the SII staff received extensive training, both abroad
and through various training courses organized in Albania: 24 senior staff of SII have taken a
one-month training in social insurance institutions abroad, and more than 100 people have
participated in short-term study trips abroad. This training strengthened policy-making skills and
the capacity for implementing the new Social Insurance Act.
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been set up in the Office of the General Director of the
SII to manage and monitor implementation of activities under the auspices of Component I.
Overall, the design of this subproject was appropriate for achieving the initial objectives, and
outcomes of this component far exceeded initial expectations. Social insurance reform had a
major development impact on the institutional framework of social insurance system in Albania.
The project's achievements on Component I are assessed as highly satisfactory.
Component II: Social Assistance Program Development. The purpose of this second
component was to organize a system of income support targeted to the most vulnerable segments
of the population.
A. Policy and Program Development: This sub-component provided policy and institutional
development initially to the Social Assistance Department of MOLSA, and later in the project to
the newly established General Administration of the Social Services (GASS). The Social
Assistance Act was approved in May 1993, and amended in 1994 and 1995. A Social Assistance
Inspectorate has been established at GASS. Support was also provided under the project to the
University of Tirana in establishing a program for social workers.
Prior to the reforms, there were three separate schemes of social assistance: (i) assistance to the
unemployed; (ii) land based rural income support; and (iii) local economic aid (Ndihma
Ekonomike - NE). Through this project, the NE became the main program of cash social
assistance. In 1998, NE benefited more than 150,000 families, which is over twice the number of
families that were being covered at the time the program was instituted in 1993. Since a major
part of the current unemployment is long-term joblessness, unemployment is a principal cause of
the need for social assistance.
The NE operates as a full or partial income replacement program. As a full replacement program,
it pays households in urban areas an amount sufficient to raise their income to a pre-specified
level. As partial assistance, it mostly benefits households in rural areas, on the basis of (among
other criteria) the size and quality of the land-holding. The aim is to provide an element of cash
support to households with small or inadequate land holdings.
- 6 -



The NE program is administered by local governments, but is funded through a central block
grant. The size of the block grant is determined by the MOLSA, based on criteria such as the size
and economic circumstances of the population in the locality, urban/rural shares, and size and
distribution of land. Families apply for NE at the local social assistance offices, furnishing various
documents to establish eligibility. Essentially, families need to establish that they do not have
adequate incomes, either from employment or from public transfers and, for rural households, that
their land-holdings are small or of poor quality.
B. Developing Social Welfare Institutions: This subcomponent provided institutional
development support to transfer the former Department of Social Assistance of MOLSA to the
General Administration of Social Services (GASS), as a semi-autonomous agency within
MOLSA. With the support of the project, 12 regional social assistance offices have been
established. The project supported upgrading of GASS Headquarters building. In addition, it
upgraded GASS central computer equipment and provided vehicles to facilitate the agencys work
outside of Tirana. GASS has established an administrative database for social assistance block
grants and improved block grant distribution criteria.
C. Poverty Monitoring: A Poverty and Social Policy Monitoring Household Survey and the
Poverty Assessment were conducted in 1995-96 which confirmed that the delivery of social
assistance in the country was well targeted. Nearly 50 percent of households in the bottom decile,
and over 25 percent in the second decile received some assistance from the NE program, while
less than 5 percent of the families in the top three deciles were in the program. Things look even
better in terms of share of program expenditures going to the poor: over half of program
expenditures go to the bottom two deciles. This figure compares very favorably with most
programs of targeted price-subsidies or food-related transfers in developing countries and is a
noteworthy achievement. The main problems encountered are related to abuses of the program,
rather than targeting. However, MOLSA is concerned that the civil disturbances of 1997 may
have resulted in escalated abuse and, consequently, a higher leakage to the non-poor.
During Project implementation, it was decided to drop a second GASS-directed poverty
assessment initially planned. Partially, this is due to the fact that in 1998, a household survey has
been conducted by the Institute of Statistics with the support of EUROSTAT and INSEE France.
GASS is also regularly collecting statistical data from 375 administrative units (communes and
bashki). Data provision is a precondition for an allocation of block grants to regions for the
purpose of social assistance.
In sum, the design of Component II of the project was appropriate for achieving its initial
objectives, and outcomes are assessed by this ICR as satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Econo,nic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
-7 -



4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project resulted in substantial development impact. A new legal framework in the
provision of social safety net has been developed. The institutions responsible for planning,
management, and administration of cash benefits have been significantly enhanced. The project
provided the network of social insurance and social assistance at national and regional level with
state-of-art facilities and equipment. The project also sought improvements in related training,
research, evaluation and public information functions and institutions. The project also helped in
development of a statistical database to monitor social change.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agencn:
The project was implemented during a period of ongoing vigorous stabilization and major
structural economic reforms. Moreover, the collapse of the financial pyramid scheme triggered
widespread civil disturbances in early 1997. The country was virtually split into numerous zones
of local power or anarchy, and the government framework was disrupted. Many government
buildings, including offices involved in social insurance and assistance programs, were damaged or
destroyed. The social protection system suffered from destruction of records and files, essential
for the control of tax contributions and delivery of benefits. The damage to IT equipment
sustained during the looting was relatively mild (only 13 PCs and the last month of data were
lost). Most PCs were saved by the vigilance of the staff who brought the IT equipment home.
Also all travel to Albania was suspended which impacted on the ongoing supervision of SSND (a
year of supervision was lost due to this crisis). In September 1998, a government reshuffling led
to further social unrest. All these events slowed the pace of implementation. The value of stolen
computers as a result of the 1997 crisis was estimated by MOLSA at US$ 20,000. Because of this
civil crisis, all travel to Albania was suspended, which impacted on the ongoing supervision of
SSND (a year of full supervision was lost as a result), although limited supervision, confined
almost exclusively to the Tirana region, continued. In September 1998, a government reshuffling
led to further social unrest. All these events slowed the pace of implementation.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
A more effective information strategy on the part of SII and MOLSA would have facilitated
the application of new policies and the implementation of changes and pilot tests in the social
insurance and social assistance programs. In the context, however, the concept of a public
information strategy was new, and it took some time for the implementing agencies - SII,
MOLSA, and later GASS - to establish this function. Also, weak governance and modest
capacity of public institutions to implement new policies, particularly at the local level, delayed in
many instances the progress of the project. There were delays in purchasing of land for the new
SII office, related to land ownership issues. However, the leadership of SII remained the same
from preparation of the project until present, with key management continuing in place. This
especially contributed to the success of the social insurance part of the project.
5.3 Factors generallv subject to implementing agency control:
-8 -



The project was designed in two parts, and project management was split between the
PCU in SII handling this social insurance part of the project, and the PCU in the Ministry of
Labor handling the social assistance component. Agreement was reached on this arrangement
during project preparation because of unwillingness of SII to manage Component II of the
project. SII-PCU was much better managed, whereas MOLSA-PCU became caught up in the
increasing politicization and re-organization of the Ministry. Therefore, in particular, the social
assistance component of the project was hindered by the PCU's weak management and
administration. As a result, disbursement of funds for technical assistance and training were
behind the schedule. The rehabilitation of GASS Headquarters building had significant delays in
start-up. Management of the project improved in 1998 as a result of the appointment of a new
PCU Director at MOLSA. This facilitated successful accomplishment of the project's objectives.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The appraisal estimated a total project cost of US$ 6.2 million equivalent, with an IDA
Credit of US$ 5.5 million, and a Government contribution of US$ 0.7 million. An IDA Credit in
the amount of SDR 3.9 million equivalent was approved on September 14, 1993 by the Bank's
Board of Directors. The Credit became effective on January 26, 1994.
The appraisal plan was to implement the project in 4 years. Actually, the Credit closed on
June 30, 1999, after a one-year extension from the original closing date of June 30, 1998, in order
to enable completion of several project activities that had been delayed due to government
restructuring and civil unrest. Indeed, the extension made it possible to conclude several
significant activities, particularly regarding capacity building for the general Administration of
Social Services (GASS) on financial management and development of social welfare institutions,
construction of the Tirana SII Regional Office, and the rehabilitation and further equipping of
GASS offices.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainabilitv rating:
Overall, the sustainability of the project is considered as likely. The project benefits are
expected to persist and expand. The MOLSA is committed to project sustainability as evidenced
by its agreement to a follow-up Social Service Delivery Project. A strong legal and institutional
framework has been established for SII and GASS during the project implementation.
SII is committed to continue introducing reforms in the social safety net at the community
level. Political commitment in support of the reform of social insurance and social assistance is
likely to remain high at all levels of social program administration. Although some equipment in
both SII and GASS offices was damaged and/or stolen during the civil unrest, replacement
computers have been procured and delivered to Headquarters, and have been distributed to those
local offices which have sufficient security in place.
-9-



The Government sees further policy development on social assistance in three main areas:
(i) improved targeting of Ndihma with the savings used to provide higher benefit levels; (ii) a
greater use of public works programs to provide assistance to those among the needy who are
able to work: and (iii) a reduction in the leakage and misuse of the benefit system that was
associated with the recent civil disturbances. The development of policies and programs along
these lines could ensure financial sustainability in the long term.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N/A
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank staff played a proactive role in identifying key structural and institutional
weaknesses in the existing social safety net which played an important role in increasing
confidence in democratic institutions and maintaining a social consensus for a particularly difficult
economic transition. The project benefited from 64 staff-weeks spent on project identification and
preparation. The project objectives are consistent with IDA's Country Assistance Strategy.
7.2 Supervision:
The project benefited from 120 staff-weeks of supervision, which included participation by
senior social policy advisors from the region and helped support development of a long-term
social welfare strategy in the country. The Bank correctly highlighted sector policy issues,
properly addressed the serious constraints, and paid attention to the need for training programs,
particularly, in management training. There was also Bank staff continuity, in that the majority of
staff that carried out the appraisal also supervised the project, and a strong commitment to the
project which contributed to a high supervision performance.
7.3 Overall Bank perfornzance:
Overall, Bank performance is assessed as satisfactory. The project has assisted in establishing
qualitatively a new institutional framework for social insurance and social assistance policies in the
country.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
In the early 1990s, establishing a new social safety net was identified by the Government as
one of the priorities for policy attention and resource allocation. This was related to the drastic
increase in prices following price liberalization and the ensuing fall of real incomes, and the
emergence and rapid growth of open unemployment. Dedication of the Government to the project
was confirmed by a commitment of a significant share of funds to finance the project costs.
7.5 Government implementation perybrn2ance:
- 10-



The implementation record of this project should be assessed in the light of the dramatic
events that took place during the project period. The project had many accomplishments, but in
some cases, the difficult environment hindered the achievement of optimal results. This applies
particularly to delays in the full application of new policies, and worsening of the problem of
incomplete records for individual contributions, due to damage and destruction in social insurance
and social assistance offices. The extension of one year in the closing date, to June 30, 1999 was
fully justified under the prevailing harsh conditions.  This extension enabled completion of
significant project activities.
At project closing, public institutions had not yet fully recovered from the unrest, the
destruction of public buildings and curtailment of many state functions. However, precisely
because of the crisis situation, the social protection system became essential to safeguard
communities and families. The Government remains firmly committed to continue with its reform
program. A sustained resumption of growth and employment in the economy would provide a
further impulse to continue reforms in the social safety net.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
On project administration, while the two PCUs were adequately staffed and provided
proper support to the implementing agencies, initial problems were confronted due to a lack of
proper training and commitment or understanding of the project process. The situation was
further aggravated in MOLSA by a high turnover of management staff at the state level. PCU
staff at MOLSA were used for other tasks, and were changed several times during the course of
the project. During the last year of the project, a new PCU Director at MOLSA took charge of
the social assistance part of the project which was successfully completed within reasonable
expectations.
7.7 Overall Borrower per/brmance:
Overall, Borrower performance can be assessed as satisfactory. The executing agency met all
the targets specified under the project proposals and expenditures followed closely the original
plans.
8. Lessons Learned
There were many lessons learned from this project, some of which could be applied in
future projects:
1.    Project management: The project management structure has to be adapted to the
Government structure. In this project, two separate PCUs handled two different parts of the
project and this structure proved reasonably effective. This structure, however, might not be
appropriate in other cases. Also, it was found that by clarifying in advance the duties and
responsibilities of each of the implementing agencies, many problems were prevented.
Coordination among the implementing agencies (i.e., SII, MOLSA and later GASS) and agencies
conducting related programs (e.g., MOLSA and the National Employment Service (NES) that
implemented the Labor Market Development Project) proved crucial in avoiding duplication.
- 11 -



2.    Project Management Support: In first phase projects and/or in contexts with weak
institutional capacity, it is important to have strong, continuous technical support in project
management, in particular in the initial phases of the project life.
3.    Project Management Continuity: Continuity in project management can provide needed
stability in implementing project activities. Key incentives need to be built into project design to
help maintain project management staff.
4.    Financing of project costs: Different rules and regulations regarding the release of
Government counterpart finds produced confusion and delays in the transfer of project funds
from the State budget. In order to facilitate smooth financing of operations, procedures should be
studied and clarified from the very beginning of the project. In addition, it is important to take into
account during appraisal the timing of the Government budget approval in relation to the date of
project initiation and project requirements in order to avoid unavailability of Borrower financing.
5.    Institutional capacity building: In designing social safety net policies, it is important to
anticipate that policies should be adjusted to historical and cultural traditions, including the
extended family network. Also, policies should be congruent with the institutional capacity
available in the country. Training among the employees of central and local offices (municipal and
commune) responsible for the implementation of the social protection program is very important
to reach the target population.
6.    Proper public information campaign: Public information should be an important
component of any social protection program. Public information campaigns were introduced by
the SII in the later phases of the project, to educate pensioners and contributors about new and
proposed changes in legislation; the information furnished prompted many rural workers to pay
their contributions to the pension system.
7.    Adequate policy incentives: One drawback of the Ndihma Ekonomike social assistance
program in Albania is that it involves no local co-financing. Moreover, the local council takes the
final decision on who should receive benefits. Under this framework, there is little incentive for
the local councils to restrict the number of potential claimants. The program may also act as a
disincentive to seeking employment, especially among low-skilled and low-paid workers in urban
areas, and may be a deterrent to job-search and employment at low wages, because the right to
the benefit is lost if a family member holds a paid job. Therefore, local financing should be a
requirement in social assistance, local authorities should assume responsibility for correctly
applying eligibility criteria, and policies should contain proper incentives to beneficiaries seeking
employment.
8.    Program evaluation: The efficiency of the social assistance scheme is affected by the lack
of continuous evaluation. To design a well-targeted poverty alleviation program, regular poverty
assessment is needed to allow adjustments in policies, including a clear definition of eligibility
criteria based on regional poverty characteristics. A poverty assessment conducted in 1996
confirmed that the delivery of social assistance in the country was well-targeted. However, there
- 12-



is a concern that the civil disturbances of 1997 and 1998 may have resulted in escalated abuse
and, consequently, a higher leakage to the non-poor, or the distribution of the benefits to the
population en masse.
9.     Financing of social programs: Recently, the SII has become almost fiscally independent
from budgetary transfers. However, this relative independence has been achieved at the expense
of very high payroll tax rates. Indeed, a payroll tax rate of 31.7 percent is collected for pensions;
in addition, a 6.0 percent tax is applied to unemployment benefits; 2.8 percent to maternity leave;
1.5 percent to sickness leave and 0.5 percent to cover occupational injury. Such high tax rates are
creating distortions in the labor market and contribute to the growing informalization of the
economy. Therefore, in designing social programs, aspects of equity, affordability and efficiency
should be properly addressed.
10.    Project Supervision: Frequent missions, i.e., more than twice a year, of shorter duration
are effective in supporting forward progress in implementation, especially in challenging
environments like Albania.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
ICR REPORT
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
SSND Project. Loan No. 2543-ALB
The Albanian Social Insurance Institute (SII) has been responsible to implement the Component
A of above mentioned Project. The SII disbursed approx. 3,7 million USD (IDA contribution) and
500,000 USD equivalent (Albanian Government contribution). This represents 67% of the total of
Project funds.
*  The Project aimed to support the SII in the social insurance reform covering these fields:
(i) Financial management and policy development;
(ii) Contribution collection and benefit delivery systems;
(iii) Information manazement and automation;
(iv) Central and regional administration and coordination.
*  The main achievements of the project are the following:
(i) In Financial Management and Policy Development
The policy development included the definition of the basic principles of the reform and drafting
of the new Social Insurance Legislation package, starting with the new Social Insurance Law.
At new social insurance system the financing keeps very important position. The previous scheme
- 13-



was totally financed out of state budget, while the new one had to be financed jointly by the
employers, employees and state. The way this scheme operates, as a balance between collected
contributions and delivered benefits on pay-as-you-go basis, requires a powerful directory with trained
staff.
On summer 1993 this Directory was created and completed with staff. International experts
provided assistance to establish and manage the new unemployment benefit and employment injuries
branches and to build up and operate the reserve fund. This fund is in place as from 4 years. During
events on March-April 1997 the reserve fund played a crucial role safeguarding the social peace of the
country.
The project provided assistance introducing actuarial methods for assessment of contribution
needed to meet the financial obligations of the scheme and to monitor revenue-expenditure
development and forecast contribution needs.
(ii) In development of Collection and Benefit Delivery Svstems
The project enhanced the following operations: a) collection and recording of contributions at
individual level; b) monitoring and collection of debt and control of collection fraud; c) determination
and payment of benefits; d) control of recipients fraud and abuse. New manuals have been put on
operation and, consequently, the efficiency has notably been increased.
Determination and the payment of benefits has been improved by the introduction of
computerised system. The SII before starting the SSND Project had not in use computers and the job
performance was hand based.
(iu) In Information Management and Automation
Successful implementation of the social insurance reform depends on how effectively benefit
payment can be linked with individual contributions. This implies that the SII and its local offices
need to have in place the system of computers and, the population - the social insurance numbers.
The SII started to deal with the issuing of social insurance number as from 1994. Actually the SII
issued the first social insurance numbers and, beginning 2000, will issue the numbers in massive way.
(iv) In National and Regional Administration
The project assisted SII in adjusting its organisational structure to meet the challenges presented
by its establishment as a self-governing, financially autonomous institution. In the SII have been
created new units: Voluntary Insurance Sector, Supplementary Insurance Sector, Information
Resources and Management Directory, Actuarial & Statistical Analyses Directorate, Contribution
Collection Directorate, Public Relations Directorate, etc. All these units are in full operation since
entering in force of new social insurance law.
The project enhanced the setting up of 8 regional offices throughout the country (out of a total of
12 offices). With the project funds have been financed construction of new regional offices and
renovation of some existing offices; out of project reallocations has been funded the construction of
Tirana regional office, the biggest in the country.
Very important objective has been considered the training of SII staff in the country and abroad.
- 14-



24 senior staff and more than 100 employees of SII have taken solid training in the most advanced
social insurance institutions of USA, UK, Germany, Italy, etc.
*  From the implementation of the Project have been drawn some important conclusions and
lessons.
The most important conclusion is the fact that in Albania as from 6 years is in full operation the
Social Insurance Institute, an independent modern public institution which covers with its services
about 600,000 people (the fifth of total population). The so far operation demonstrated that the new
social insurance scheme worked and, consequently, the SSND Project has been completely successful.
Another conclusion is that the implementing capacity of Albanian staff is already increased the
way that they are able to implement other projects with less foreign technical assistance. These are
very important changes in human resources of this country.
DIRECTOR GENERAL
NAIM HASA
-15 -



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
SOCIAL SAFETY NET DEVELOPMENT (PART B)
(2543 ALB IDA Credit)
Achievement of Objectives
I. Develop policies for a new social assistance scheme to be based on Ndihma Ekonomike, and
existing community-managed program for the neediest; enact the Social Assistance Act
1. The project has provided policy and institutional development support to the former Social
Assistance Department. MOLSA, which has now become the MOLSA-GASS. GASS plays a key
role in managing ndihma ekonomike and provides coordination among various elements of the social
welfare system.
2. For the first time a law for social assistance was approved in May 1993. It is improved with Law
NR 7886 dated 08.12.1994 and Law NR. 80008 dated 05.10.1995.
3. GASS see further policy development in three main areas. First, improved targeting of ndihma
with the savings used to provide higher benefit levels; second, a greater use of public works programs
to provide assistance to those among the needy who are able to work and third a reduction in the
leakage and misuse of the benefit system that was associated with the civil disturbances last year.
-I. Define the appropriate institutional framework for program administration
4. The project has provided policy and institutional development support to the former Social
Assistance department in MOLSA, which has now become the GASS. GASS plays a key role in
managing the ndihma ekonomike and provides coordination among various elements of the social
welfare system.
5. There exist 12 regional offices which manage the program of social assistance in whole country.
In total 75 specialists work for the program. And the number of beneficiaries is about 150 thousand
families.
III. Strengthen the capacity of institutions to manage and implement the social assistance pro
gram
6. The 12 regional offices which manage the program of social assistance in whole country treat
about 150 thousand families which are beneficiaries of the program. They have to check the matching
of families of the ndihma ekonomike schema with the criteria of eligibility to be treated under these
schema.
7. Technical assistance of foreign consultants helped in improving of legislation on ndihma
ekonomike and in its managing. Also staff from GASS and its regional offices have attended training
courses on financial managing of GASS and methods of block grant allocations.
IV. Develop a statistical data base to monitor social change
8. Statistical department near GASS has implemented the project of development of statistical data
base. The periodical information is provided from 375 administrative units (communes and bashkis).
- 16-



9. Technical assistance on financial development of GASS and its Management introduced the new
variable systems in block grant allocations and gave the recommendations for improvements in the
low of ndihma ekonomike.
V. Minimize reliance on the state budget for financing of the autonomous SIF in order to
achieve a balanced actuarial system
10. The reliance on the state budget for financing of the autonomous SIF is relieved because of the
contributions of NGOs and other donators to service delivery. The final status as to the provision of
services to SEIs improves considerably if the assistance delivered by NGOs that are under contract
with GASS is taken into account.
11. Some institutions in different cities are totally rehabilitated by different NGOs. Such as elderly
home in Shkodra. Development Center in Korea. Orphanage in Durres.
VI. Initiate Poverty Monitoring
12. A poverty study of a representative sample of the Albanian population is carried out in 1996. The
stud covered a wide range of most relevant topics, including the consumption of ndihma ekonomike
benefit. It provides a systematic overview of the social and economic situation of those who receive
ndihma ekonomike. Extensive information was collected on expenditures. In addition, data were
collected on labor force participation, employment search, public and private transfers, housing,
consumer durable, land livestock, and other productive assets. The study disclosed the ndihma
ekonomike program does in fact address the poorer section of the population.
Risk of the projection during implementation
13. The project has been implemented successfully and have met its original development objectives.
In order to complete the remaining project activities, mainly because of civil unrest during spring
1997, have been granted on year extension to June 30, 1999.
Evaluation of the performance of the Bank
14. The Bank had a positive impact on the design and implementation of the project. The close
collaboration between the parties helped in the good utilization of the experiences of WB practices.
15. The World Bank missions assisted in regular bases the implementation of the projects and were a
big help for PCU, MOLSA, and GASS in order to make more effective the use of funds. The presence
of the Task Manager and Procurement specialist in mission helped the implementation of the project.
These were additional to all usual correspondence on project matters.
Sustainability and plans for future projects
16. It is identified the need to have community-based social service available to assist many different
vulnerable groups, including the elderly, the disabled and youth. Currently no such services are
provided by national, regional or local government.
17. The main objective of government policy for the social safety net is to provide affordable levels of
support to the most vulnerable groups. This will be achieved through:
- providing a simple and affordable package of social assistance benefits that are targeted at the most
vulnerable groups:
- developing efficient systems backed up by appropriate facilities for the administration of the benefit
- 17-



system:
- improving care services emphasizing, where feasible community based provision rather than
institutional care.
Kadri RRAPI
Minister
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
NA
- 18-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
IndlcatorlMatrix                     Projected in tast.PSR                   ActuatlLatest Estimate
I. Social Insurance Reform
A. Financial Management and Policy
Development
(i) Strengthen national and regional                                            Achieved. The Sll is a fully functional social
administration of the Social Insurance                                          insurance institution providing services to
Institute (Sll)                                                                 more than 600,000 Albanian citizens. The
basis for provision of social protection is the
Law on Social Insurance in the Republic of
Albania adopted in May 1993, and amended
in 1995 and 1998. Since 1993, 12 Acts and
Decrees   submitted to the Parliament have
been passed, as well as 33 Decisions of the
Council of Ministers regarding the
functioning and operations of the Sil.
A financial management system has been
introduced in the Sll Regional Offices,
including on monitoring of the liabilities of
social insurance subjects. A Public
Information Unit has been established at Sll
Headquarters.
(ii) Establish a Social Insurance Fund, and                                     Achieved. As from January 1, 1996, the
autonomous social insurance administration                                      Social Insurance Fund (SIF) was separated
and funding                                                                     from the State budget. SIF provides benefits
for short-term incapacity due to sickness,
matemity benefits, grants in respect of
childbirth and death, pensions for aged,
disabled persons and survivors. SIF benefits
and pensions are financed on a
pay-as-you-go basis based on a payroll tax of
31.7 percent collected for pensions; 6.0
percent for unemployment benefits; 2.8
percent for matemity leave; 1.5 percent for
sickness leave and 0.5 percent to cover
occupational injury
(iii) Minimize reliance on the state budget for                                 Achieved. A Directorate of Actuarial &
financing of the autonomous SIF in order to                                     Statistical Analysis has been established in
achieve a balanced actuarial system                                             the SlI. Actuarial models have been
developed for assessment of contributions to
meet the financial obligations of the scheme.
Most recently, the reliance of the Sll from the
state budget has sharply reduced.
(iv) Abolish social privileges of certain groups                                Achieved. In the Law on Social Insurance
of insured, redesign the criteria for eligibility                               adopted in May 1993, and amended in 1995
to improve targeting and efficiency of                                          and 1998, a system of social benefits was
benefits delivery; eliminate non-social                                         flattened and simplified. In 1994, social
insurance elements                                                              insurance was extended to the employees of
former state agricultural farms and their
family members.
- 19-



B. Development of Collection and Benefit
Delivery Systems
(i) Develop new systems for collection of                                       Achieved. The pilots for computerization of
individual contributions, monitoring and                                        Regional Offices in the area of collections
collection of debt, control of collection fraud,                                and benefits have been successfully
determination and payment of benefits, and                                      completed in Fieri (a pilot center for collection
control of recipient fraud and abuse                                            of contributions) and Elbasan (a pilot for
payment of benefits), and these systems
have already been extended to over half of
the Regional Offices. New manuals have
been put on operation on monitoring and
collection of debt and control of collection
and recipient fraud and abuse. New methods
on determining the eligibility for benefits have
been approved. Periodic staff training has
been provided.
C. Information Management and Automation
(i) Develop an automated Social Insurance
System of information management                                                Achieved. The individual Social Insurance
Identification Number (SIN) for all purposes,
including taxation, has been approved by the
Government, and is in the process of being
issued to all citizens. A National Register
has been established at the Sil based on this
number. SI] has developed an information
technology basis that is essential both for
policy development and the administration of
benefits and other services. LAN has been
established in Headquarters with data
linkage extended to about half the Regional
Offices. In October 1998, SIl offices began
registering births and deaths.
D. Central and Regional Administration
(i) Strengthen the Social Insurance Institute                                   Achieved. A new organizational structure of
organizational structure, including staff                                       the SI] is now operational. (Annex 7). An
training                                                                        extensive training of the Sll staff both abroad
and through various training courses in
Albania has been provided. 24 senior staff of
Sit have taken a one-month training in
advanced social insurance institutions
abroad, and more than 100 people have been
participated in short-term study trips abroad.
Construction of the new Tirana Regional SII
Office is completed and is fully operational.
The project financed construction of new
regional offices in Viora, Berati, Lezha,
Kukesi, Durresi, and Social Insurance
Directorates in Permeti, Malesi and Madhe,
as well as refurbishing of exiting offices in
Fieri, Saranda and Gjirokastra. The project
supported the establishment of 8 regional
offices out of total of 12 offices throughout
the country. A small unit (PCU) to manage
(ii) Establishment of a Project Coordination                                    the project activities has been set up in the
Unit (PCU)                                                                      Office of the General Director of SIl.
- 20 -



tl. Social Assistance Program Development
A. Policy and Program Development
(i) Develop policies for a new social
assistance scheme to be based on Ndihma                                       Achieved. The Social Assistance Act was
Ekonomike, an existing community-managed                                      first time approved in May 1993, and
program for the neediest; enact the Social                                     amended in 1994 and 1995. The
Assistance Act                                                                 Govemment introduced social assistance, a
new social safety net of last resort, based on
Ndihma Ekonomike which is provided to
more than 150,000 families annually, or twice
the number of families covered in 1993. A
Social Assistance Inspectorate has been
established at GASS. Support was provided
to University of Tirana in establishing a
program for social workers.
B. Developing Social Welfare Institutions
(i) Define the appropriate institutional                                      Achieved. The project provided institutional
framework for program administration,                                          development support to transfer the former
Strengthen the capacity of the institutions to                                 Department of the Social Assistance into the
manage and implement the social assistance                                     General Administration of Social Services
program                                                                        (GASS) as a semi-autonomous agency
within MOLSA. 12 regional social assistance
offices have been established.
The project has supported upgrading of
GASS Headquarters offices and office
equipment/software, as well as providing
vehicles to facilitate the agency's work
outside of Tirana. GASS has established an
administrative database for social assistance
block grants and improved block grant
distribution criteria.
C. Poverty Monitoring                                                          Partly achieved. In 1995-96, a Poverty and
Social Policy Monitoring Household Survey
(i) Develop a statistical database to monitor                                  and the Poverty Assessment were
social change                                                                  conducted. In 1998, a household survey was
conducted by INSTAT with the support of
EUROSTAT and INSEE France, and thus
the second poverty assessment has been
dropped. GASS is regularly collecting
statistical data from 375 administrative units
(communes and bashkis). Data provision is a
precondition and a basis for an allocation of
block grants to regions for the purpose of
social assistance.
Output Indicators:
, f~diQ~tbMftr(            ll                    ~Pr,d inW     PnR   -Actual/La*st Estimate
End of project
- 21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage
Estimate       Estimate    of Appraisal
Project Cost By Component               US$ million    US$ million
A. Social Insurance
1. Financial Management/Policy Development             0.70            0.50          71
2. Collection/Benefit Delivery System                  1.70            1.60          94
3. Information Management/Automation                   0.40            0.60         150
4. Central/Regional Administration                     1.00            1.60          160
B. Social Assistance
1. Policy/Program Development                          0.30           0.30          100
2. Social Welfare lnstitutions                         1.10            1.10         100
3. Poverty Monitoring                                  0.50            0.60         120
Total Baseline Cost                                      5.70           6.30
Physical Contingencies                                  0.40
Price Contingencies                                     0.30
Total Project Costs                 6.40           6.30
Total Financing Required                 6.40            6.30
Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement MethodI
Expenditure Category      [CB          2CB            h  '        N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          0.00          0.40         0.00          0.40
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.20)        (0.00)        (0.20)
2. Goods                      1.40         0.00          0.40         0.10          1.90
(1.40)       (0.00)       (0.40)        (0.00)        (1.80)
3. Services                   0.00         0.00          3.40         0.10          3.50
(0.00)       (0.00)       (3.40)        (0.00)        (3.40)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00          0.10         0.30          0.40
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      1.40          0.00         4.30          0.50         6.20
(1.40)       (0.00)       (4.00)        (0.00)        (5.40)
Figures may not total exactly due to rounding
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement MethodI
Expenditure Category      ICB           NCB         Other2        N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          0.10    }   0.50           0.30          0.90
- 22 -



(0.00)         (0.10)         (0.50)         (0.00)          (0.60)
2. Goods                         0.50            0.20           1.40           0.00            2.10
(0.50)         (0.20)         (1.40)         (0.00)          (2.10)
3. Services                      0.10            0.00           1.10           0.10            1.30
(0.10)         (0.00)         (1.10)         (0.00)          (1.20)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  1.40           0.00           0.30           0.20            1.90
(1.40)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (1.40)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                         2.00            0.30           3.30           0.60            6.20
__ _ _ _   (2.00)   (0.30)          (3.00)         (0.00)         (5.30)
Figures may not total exactly due to rounding
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
l  l                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage of Appraisal
Component               Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate     Pecntg oApria
Bank      Govt.      CoF.      Bank       Govt.     CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
A. Social Insurance       3.80       0.50      0.00       3.80      0.50       0.00    100.0  100.0   0.0
1. Fin. Mgt./Policy Dev.  0.70       0.00      0.00       0.50      0.00       0.00     71.4    0.0    0.0
2. Collect.[Ben. Deliv.Sys.  1.70    0.10      0.00       1.50      0.10       0.00     88.2   100.0   0.0
3. Info.Mgt./Automation   0.40       0.10      0.00       0.50      0.10       0.00    125.0  100.0   0.0
4. Central/Reg. Admin.    1.00       0.30      0.00       1.30      0.30       0.00    130.0  100.0   0.0
B. Social Assistance      1.80       0.00      0.00       1.90      0.10       0.00    105.6   0.0    0.0
1. Policy/Program Dev.    0.30       0.00      0.00       0.30      0.00       0.00    100.0   0.0    0.0
2. Social Welfare Inst.   1.00       0.10      0.00       1.00      0.10       0.00    100.0  100.0   0.0
3. Poverty Monitoring     0.50       0.00      0.00       0.60      0.00       0.00    120.0   0.0    0.0
Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
- 23 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation      Development
Mont/Year    COunt         Specilty                          Progress          Objcctive
Identification/Preparation                                                     S                  s
4   Mission Leader
FY 1992 -                     Operations Officer
Implementation Specialist
Labor and Employment
Specialist
March 1992
Appraisal/Negotiation
S                 S
FY 1993                  3   Mission Leader
Operations Officer
Legal Counsel
December 1993
Supervision
S                 S
FY 1994 - FY              4  Mission Leader
1999                          Operations Officer
Projects Officer
Procurement Specialist
Labor and Employment
Specialist
February 1994 -
June 1999
ICR
FY 1999                  1   Labor Economist                        S                  S
June 1999
(b) Staff:
Stagc of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
______   _____    ___-           No. Staff weeks     !         USS (,000)
Identification/Preparation                64.2                         292.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                     33.4                         110.4
Supervision                               120.2                        399.4
ICR                                       5.16                           2.0
Total                                   222.96                         804.2
- 25 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
ZMacro policies                            O H  *SUOM  ON  O NA
Z Sector Policies                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
17 Physical                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Financial                                O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Z Institutional Development                * H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
I Poverty Reduction                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
E Gender                            O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)
? Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
I Public sector management                 0 H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)
- 26 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
O Lending                                            OHS*S OU OHU
O Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
O Overall                                            OHS *S O U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
3 Preparation                                        O HS * S   K U  O HU
O Government implementation performance              O HS * S  0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
K Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
- 27 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
ORGANISATIONAL CHART OF SII HEADQUARTERS
Staff Appraisal Report No. 1 1443-ALB
World Bank Mission Aide-Memoires: April 1998-June 1999
- 28 -



- 29 -






IBRD 28467R
18,30 J                  1900T                   19r30                     20 00'                   20                        21 00
*-/_!  4---'    FED.    REP.                          YUGOSLAVIA
cRoAzIA !            \                                          ,.ftw:tx    _srt(SERBIA / MO  TENEGRO)
4230'                                                                                     4t2 30
A4AL9~$t NTNLPT  LeTAR n    OJE    .             4 Er  f k           I
ALBANIA                                         DSTArre*
ALBAITENAIOAL 30NARE                                                                                   ES      * E                      42001~.,,,,Ff
412'00'                                                                                      11
O    SELECTED CITIES                                                                    'ZoIIRZ           *       /
0   DISTRICT CENTERS
*  NATIONAL CAPITAL                                   L         R e'Krbeh
NATIONAL ROADS
RAILROADS                                                                           \     j ieCkpi. W
RIVERS                                         - K_ e .f
-- DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                          ,e
-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Ahoi0     uoELEVATIONS IN METERS:                                                                                                     F.Y. R. \        311 1
(<C       - ~. SBULQIZr\   MACED ONIA
4 P00 ~ ~ ~ 20
b  . c
V  k8. ...  p  40 o50                                          pC""n    .             .        .... ,  :  ....... 
41      I 22 9 x R00'                                                                                                                                   41 000,\*     ?n-. t 
KILOMETERS                                                               B
The b04e4o,as coOn, denom4ofiov, ordonyc4~~~.AOnF Lm 0od
LITH,gvB0LANIA                                                         PEcaLEgSRNDEf 
,, g_ ,AUBAI p ,> o -),} ,/  i.,                                                                        P,ME    .' j 
2~s,u~uucby,oMpNgnn4dhoo$BoE                                                             ,,  ..i<- t,URE            KOC /7 v#< . 
?E20   -:uS                        tW2O             190                            t \"C 20000  'r2 30. 2   030
SWEDEN' /   K.~      ~ BARUSAN4
FLAND TLAI
CZC                   UKRAIN                                                           ROKAEsek.,
'00TH.                           RELARUEP
/SW'   - .                    -           ,_.'c   - 40'00'                                                                                             0  -
,.,  ' -~  AUOR>HUNGARY          *ODV
F--  Sfl'~~0yN~'    ROMANIA                                                                   I. 
,11   8'O~ Y   BUGAIA  t'                                       ood   >          ttO\GREECE
'}4a44                                             }SX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RANDE I-.,.
<0"-
-    7--"   K   <'0                          ~~~~~         ~         ~~~~~~         ~~~~~~~~~19300'2'0  20230 
TI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U 4



