Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2543 ALB
Project Agreement
(Technical Assistance for Social Safety Net)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIAL INSURANCE INSTITUTE
Dated September 30, 1993
CREDIT NUMBER 2543 ALB
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 30, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and SOCIAL INSURANCE INSTITUTE (SII).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Albania (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million 
nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,900,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
SII agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
SII, a portion of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to SII on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS SII, in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part A of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SII declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and engineering practices, and 
shall provide, as promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and SII shall otherwise agree, SII shall carry out Part 
A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for Part A of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. SII shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
aquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part A of the 
Project.
Section 2.04. SII shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SII shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) SII shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
SII shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by SII of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SII
Section 3.01. SII shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, and financial practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SII shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and social safety practices.
Section 3.03. SII shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SII shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
Page  3
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
SII shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
SII thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify SII of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
Page  4
For SII:
Social Insurance Institute
Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Kombit" No. 3
Tirana, Albania
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SII, or by SII 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the General Director of SII or such other person or persons as the General 
Director of SII shall designate in writing, and SII shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ K. Dervis
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SOCIAL INSURANCE INSTITUTE
By /s/ G. Ruli
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
for Part A of the Project
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one 
to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency 
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in bid 
evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A, the 
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank,  with 
such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for 
the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been 
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
Page  5
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Albania may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $85,000, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of at least three price 
quotations obtained from at least three different countries eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.
Goods of a proprietary nature, such as books, technical journals, training 
materials, audio-visual materials, computer software, including annual upgrading and 
licensing arrangements, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$60,000 may be purchased from suppliers on the basis of negotiated contracts pursuant 
to procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Local sundry items, not exceeding US$5,000 per contract up to an aggregate 
amount of US$25,000 equivalent, may be purchased on the basis of prudent local 
shopping by comparing prices obtained from three independent suppliers, in accordance 
with local shopping procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.
Works estimated to cost between $8,000 and $15,000 per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $200,000 may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of local shopping procedures based on the comparison of 
quotations obtained from at least three qualified local construction companies. 
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to all contracts awarded in accordance with procedures under 
Part A, and the first two contracts which are awarded in accordance with paragraph 1 
under Part C, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the 
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of 
contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as 
shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract 
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms 
Page  6
agreed with the Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent 
each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of 
reference for such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single source 
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by 
the Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $30,000 
equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
for Part A of the Project
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 2.01 (b) 
of this Agreement.
1.
The coordination and management of Project activities under Part A of the 
Project shall be vested in a Project Coordination Unit within SII which shall be 
maintained and shall operate with staff and resources and terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association and supervise the carrying out of the Project and the 
procurement of the goods and services thereunder.
2.
The Project Coordination Unit shall, in particular: (a) develop a detailed 
implementation plan for the fulfillment of Project activities under Part A of the 
Project satisfactory to the Association; (b) monitor the timely carrying out of the 
Project activities; and (c) prepare regular Project progress reports including the 
implementation status, issues and actions recommended, and performance targets for the 
next period. 
3.
SII shall:
 
(a)
by June 30, 1995, undertake jointly with the Association a mid-term 
review of the Project; and
(b)
by March 31 and September 30 of each project year, submit to the 
Association consolidated report of the status of project implementation.
