Dacumont of
The World Bank
FOR OThiACUL USE ONLY
Repoi No. 6946
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
THIRD HIGHWAY (EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE) PROJECT
CREDIT 1029-GH
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
September 18, 1987
Western Africa Region
Transportation Division
Ts doemu bas a 1side dhbtomt  sad may be eod by XvWpu  omy in the p"*gagm   of
dwk ff        duik  tse ewatmbb may ad  thu w be dbsolosed witou Wodd Stik authorata.
l                  . .                             ..       .,.              .  .  



FOR OMCIL US. OnY
THE WORLD BANK
Washngton, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
September 18, 1987
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Republic of Ghana Third Highway
(Emergency Maintenance) ProJect Credit 1029-GE
Attached, for iLformation, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Republ'.c of Ghana Third Highway (Emergency Maintenance)
Project (Credit 1029-GH)" prepared by the Western Africa Regional Office.
Under the modified system for project performance auditing, further evaluation
of this project by the Operations Evaluatiou Department has not been made.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distributon and may be used by recipients only in the perfonrance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dtscised without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
THIRD HIGHWAY (EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE) PROJECT
CREDIT 1029-GH
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Basic Data  ieets .................... ............ * ..       ii
Highlights ............................................        iv
I I .............................  ...............                   1
II.  PROJECT IDENTIFICATION AlD APPRAISAL ..................          3
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .......................                   8
IV.  ECONOMIC REEVALUATION         .................. .              16
V.  CONSULTANTS' PERFORMANCE          .......        .... ....      17
VI.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE  ................00000000000 099      18
VII.  ASSOCIATEON'S PERFORMANCE .........                 *00 **... 20
VIII.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .......................         21
TABLES
1.  Final Cost     imates ............                         23
2.  Actual Schedule of Disbursements.*................         24
3. Total Output of Road Maintenance Program During
Project Period, 1981-86.........................        25
4. Output of Periodic Maintenance Program Compared
to Targets ......................................       26
5. Value in Constant Prices (1985) of Road Mainte-
nance Output and Project Disbursements During
Project Period (1981-86)........................        27
ANNEX   Borrower Counents ............................... .        28
MAP       IBRD 14888R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
THIRD HIGHWAY (EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE) PROJECT
CREDIT 1029-GH
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.        This report presents a completion evaluation of the Third
Highway (Emer,ency Maintenance) Project financed under Credit 1029-GH
for US$25.0 m. The credit was approved on May 27, 1980.
2.        The report was prepared by the Western Africa Region.
3.        In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this Project Completion Report was read by the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED) but the project was not audited by OED staff.
The draft report was sent to the Borrower for comments; their replies are
shown as an annex to the PCR.



- ii -
,REPUBLIC OF GHANA
THIRD HIGHWAY (EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE) PROJECT
CREDIT i029-GH
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEETS
KEY PROJECT DATA
Original            Actual or
Item                                       Expectation      Current Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ million) La                                 38.6                 38.6
Cost Over/Underrun (%)                                               --                     0
Financing (US$ million)
IBRD Credit Amount                                                 25.0                 25.0
Disbursed                                                                  24.9
Cancelled                                                                   0.1 /b
Repaid                                                                      0
Outstanding                                                                24.9
Completion of Physical Components (date)                          12/31/82             12/31/85
Proportion Actually Completed by above date (%)                      60                  100
Economic Rate of Return (%)                                        > 100%               > 60%
CUMULATIVE ESTIMAIED AND ACTUAL DISBbRSEMENTS
(US$ million)
FY81      FY82      FY83     FY84      FY85      PY86         FY87
Appraisal Estimate                 9.0      23.5       25.0
Actual                             0.9      12.6      16.5      19.3     22.0      24.4         24.9
Actual or % of Estimate            10       54        66        77       88        98           99.6
OTHER PROJECT DATA
ia.tual or
Item                                 Original        Amended        Current Estimate
Conception Date                                                                    11/13/79
Negotiations /c                                                                   04/3-4/80
Board Approval of the Credit                                                       05/27/80
Credit Agreement Date                                                              08/27/80
Effectiveness Date                                                                 11/04/80
Closing Date                                    06/30/83        06/30/84           06/30/86
06/30/85
Borrower                                                                           Republic of Ghana
Executing Agencies                    Ghana Highway Authority and Bank for Housinx and Construction
Follow-on Project                     Road  Rehabilitation  and Maintenance Project, Credit 1601-GH
_a Excluding duties and taxes of US$8.6 m.
Jb The undisbursed balance of approximately US$100,000 will be cancelled shortly.
Le Took place in London.



- iii -
MISSION DATA La
No. of       Mission                          Date of
Item                      Mo./Year   Persons    Composition /b        Man Weeks      Report
Identification                  10/79                                                       11/13/79
Preparation Le
Appraisal                       11-12/79         4      E, H, 0 (2)            7.0          05/05/80
Supervision  1                  06/80            2      E, H                   1.0          07/29/80
Supervision  2                  11/80            3      E, H (2)               2.0          12/15/80
Supervision  3                  03-04/81         4      E, H (2), 0            4.0          05/21/81
Supervision  4                  06/81            1      H                      0.5          07/16/81
Supervision  5                  07/81            1      E                      0.5          09/09/81
Supervision  6                  10/81            1      0                      0.5 t       11/16/81
Supervision  7                  12/81            1      H                      0.5         01/13/82
Supervision  8                  05/82            3      5, H, 0                1.5         )07/01/82
)07/16/82
Supervision  9                  09/82            1      H                      0.5         10/22/82
Supervision 10                  01/83            2      g, H                   0.5         02/15/83
Supervision 11                  03/83            1      E                      0.1         04/08/83
Supervision 12                  04/83            1      H                      0.5          05/05/83
Supervision 13                  03/83            1      0                      0.1         05/12/83
Supervision 14                  07/83            2      E, H                   2.0          09/23/83
Supervision 15                  10/83            1      M                      3.0          11/08/83
Supervision 16                  11/83            2      E, H                   2.0         12/21/83
Supervision 17                  03/84            3      H, F, M                3.0         04/09/83
Supervision 18                  06/84           4       Hi F, M, E             4.0         07/11/84
Supervision 19                  09/84            4      H, F, M, E             2.0         10/26/84
Supervision 20                  11/85            3      H (2), F               1.0         11/27/85
Supervision 21                  02/86            1      F                      0.5         04/28/66
Supervision 22                  05/86            4      1 (2)* M, E            1.0         06/20/86
Supervision 23                  11/86            1      5                      J.1             /d
Supervision 24                  01/87            1      H                      0.2         03/10/87
/i Excludes brief visits for which supervision reports were not written.
E - Project Economist; F - Financial Analyst; H - Highway Engineer; 0 - Operations Officer;
M = Mechanical Engineer
Ic The project was prepared and appraised by a four-man mission from the Highways
and Industrial and Finance divisions.
/d To obtain information for PCR.
March 1987



- iv -
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
THIRD HIGHWAY (EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE) PROJECT
(CREDIT 1029-GH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
By the start of the 19709 road maintenance in Ghana had become an
urgent priority due to the continued deterioration of the country's road
system.   In response  to this need, the Second Highway Project (which immedi-
ately preceded this Third Highway Project) had been designed to establish an
effective road maintenance organization and to provide equipment to the high-
way authority and local contractors for the first (four-year) phase of an
eight-year (1975-1983)  road maintenance  program.   The Third Highway Project
was intended to continue the work of the Second Highway Project for a period
of two years.
Oblectives
The project aimed at relieving, on an emergency basis, the most
pressing constraints affecting road maintenance and trucking operations.   The
project permitted the importation of urgently needed spare parts, equipment,
tools, tires, bitumen and lubricants. The project similarly provided, through
BHC, spare parts to the private trucking industry to repair vehicles in order
to increase capacity. In addition, the project was to strengthen BHC through
further technical assistance and ensure proper and timely execution of the
project (para. 2.22).
The project consisted of implementing GHA's road maintenance program
during 1981 and 1982, and increasing the capacity of the domestic trucking
industry by about 75 million vehicle  kilometers.    The  maintenance program
included performing  effective routine maintenance on all public roads (25,400
km); resealing about 1,350 km;  resurfacing  about  250  km;  and regravelling
about 2,600 km of main roads and about 1,800 km of feeder roads (para. 2.23).
The project included finance for the highway authority to purchase'
equiment, spares and materials, for loans to be made to  local contractors by
a local development bank, for imports of spares and materials needed by local
contractors and truckers and for technical assistance (para. 2.23).
Implementation Experience
At the time the project was prepared, neither IDA nor the Government
foresaw the depth of economic deterioration, including the acute shortage of
foreign exchange, which would take place in Ghtna between 1980-85 and tt



- v -
disruption that this would have on the execution of the project. The economic
situation deteriorated, partly due to mismanagement and partly to the worst
drought in history, to a point where the Govetnment was frequently unable to
provide agreed budgetary resources or to finance the couatry's regular fuel,
lubricant and bitumen imports which further handicapped road maintenance
(paras. 6.01-6.02).
During most of the period of project execution, the Mini.etry of
Finance did not keep IDA informed of its budgetary problems, and in fact,
rarely responded to communications  directed to  it.   On the  other hand, the
Ministry of Roads and Highways was responsive to problems brought to its
attention and closely cooperated with IDA in endeavoring to improve project
execution (para. 6.03).
The Ghana Highway Authority's (GHA) performance was mixed; several
of its senior managers were devoted and hardworking but the country's problems
made it impossible for it to fill staff vacancies, and to provide a living
wage to its workers. GHA also seriously overestimated the capability of its
Mechanical Division to carry out equipment maintenance. Eventually, it recog-
nized that it should place more reliance on contractors, and adjusted its work
program accordingly to give contractors a larger role (paras. 6.05-6.06).
Bank for Housing and Construction's (BHC) performance, which had
been rated as uneven under the Second Highway Project, worsened during the
execution of the Third Highway Project despite the assistance of a consultant,
mainly because of economic events beyond its control.   However,  BHC'a senior
management generally did the best possible under most difficult conditions
(para. 6.08).
IDA's overall supervision of the project was satisfactory; however,
it overestimated the capability of GHA, particularly its Mechanical Division.
When it became awrare of the situation, IDA acted promptly first by increasing
the number  of tine  consultant's workshop  staff, then when that did not solve
the problem, by sending an audit team to Ghana, and acting on its recommenda-
tions (para. 7.02).
IDA showed flexibilty in adjusting the project to the rapidly chang-
ing conditions in Ghana. The amount of technical assistance was expanded
manyfold to meet the needs of GHA and its contractors. IDA also responded
affirmatively to several requests for a broader use of spare parts and bitumen
when it became evident that these were the only supplies available in the
country. The arrangement for advances to Crown Agents for procurement of
parts and materials was particularly helpful in moving the project ahead
(para. 7.04).
Results
The assistance under the project mainly went to support the
Government's  road  maintenance  program.    The project provided vital inputs
through parts, materials, equipment and management assistance to both GHA and
private ccatractors, to make this program, limited as it vas, feasible.  The



- vi -
physical output of the road maintenance program during the project's disburse-
ment years of 1981-86 are presented in Table 3. Table 4 shows the output of
the periodic maintenance program as compared to the targets set forth in the
President's Report. While the outputs were substantially less than targeted,
they are considered reasonable in the light of the conditions prevailing in
Ghana during project execution (para. 4.02).
The reevaluated ERR estimated at over 602 was considerably less than
the 100Z estimated at appraisal, but is clearly adequate, given the depth of
the deterioration of the economy during the economic crisis and drought during
the first half of the 1980s (para. 8.02). Better e',aluation of the component
for accessories and spare parts is suggested as a subject for possible future
research (para. 8.03).
Sustainability
The economic results of maintenance activities under the project are
predicated on short-term time horizons and sustainability should thus be
adequate (para. 4.03). GHA remains critically short of experienced civil and
mechanical engineers and this problem may have an impact on sustainability of
institutional improvements (para. 6.05).
Findings and Lessons
In retrospect, the project might be regarded as a holding operation
to keep GHA and BHC operating until the economy improved and another project
could be prepared to meet the need for a sustainable road maintenance program
(para. 8.07).
The lessons learned from the project have already been applied in
formulating the  follow-up project.   For  the GHA  component, the progress in
improving the central workshops is being expanded into two regions, and steps
have been taken to improve the morale of the workshops through food incentives
and training. The heavy financial burden on BHC and its contractors has been
eased, and other steps taken to improve BHC's performance (para. 8.05).
In designing future projects, more emphasis should be placed on
executing works and providing funds specifically for that purpose, rather than
on a procurement type operation (para. 8.06).



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
THIRD HIGHWAY (EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE) PROJECT
CREDIT 1029-GH
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Apart from an engineering credit in 1969 for the preparation
of road projects, the above project was the third for highways in the
Republic of Glhana. The First Highway Project (Credit 438-GH, US$13.0 m,
1973) was for road construction, while the Second Highway Project
(Credit 594-GH, US$10.0, and Loan 1182-GH, US$18.0 m, 1975) was for road
construcuion and a maintenance  program.   The Third Highway Project
provided for a continuation of the previously -initiated maintenance
program which was designed to support road maintenance operations in
both the private and public sectors.  The project was followed by a
multi-component Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (Cred-
it 1601-GH, US$40.0 m, 1985) which is well underway.
1.02        By 1979, the network consisted of 25,400 km of classified
roads, including 3,700 km of primary roads, 8,600 km of secondary roads
and  13,100 km of feeder roads.   About 4,700 km were paved and the
remainder were gravel or earth surfaced. The First and Second Highway
Projects had achieved only mixed results. The Bank's combined audit
report for both projects noted that while the physical investments
yielded acceptable economic returns, the projects' achievements in
meeting their institution-building objectives were rather limited. The
problems of the previous projects were mainly political and economic
instability which led to frequent changes of government, rampant infla-
tion and a severe shortage of foreign exchange. These factors made it
almost impossible for the private or the public sectors to complete the
projects or maintin the road system as originally planned.
1.03      At the time of independence, Ghana had a well-developed and
maintained highway network. However, by the early 1970s the system had
deteriorated into a generally poor condition. primarily because of
unexpectedly high traffic increases particularly of heavy vehicles, and
also because the maintenance program had become inadequate due to lack
of equipment and trained staff, and cumbersome funding procedures. The
Second Highway Project was designed to remedy this situation by estab-
lishing within The Ghana Highway Authority (GHA) an effective mainte-
nance organization, and providing equipment to GHA and private domestic
contractors to execute the first four-year phase of an eight-year
(1975-1983) road maintenance program.  Routine maintenance was to be
carried out by force account by GRA's regional offices, while periodic
maintenance was to be executed by private contractors (75% of regra-
velling and 50% of resealing), and the balance by GRA.



- 2 -
1.04      U der the Second Highway Project, GHA purchased US$12.1 mil-
lion of maintenance equipment including a two-year supply of spare
parts.   Government was  supposed  to provide  from  its own resources
foreign exchange needed to import operating supplies and materials
(lubricants, fuel, bitumen, etc.) and spare parts totalling US$3-5 mil-
lion per annum.   In practice, however,  GHA was able to import only
US$200,000 in supplies during 1977-79, and was forced to make do with
the initial stock of spare parts. By 1979, the situation had reached a
point where the maintenance program was stalled because of lack of spare
parts and supplies, and a large proportion of GHA's fleet was out of
service.
1.05      The project was designed to support the continuation of the
Second Highway Project for a period of two years.  Execution of the
project was the responsibility of the GHA which had overall responsibil-
ity for executing the road maintenance program. The Bank for Housing
and Construction (BHC) was responsible for relending part of the pro-
ceeds of the credit througi sub-loans to contractors and quarry opera-
tors, and for an import program to assist contractors and truckers.
1.06      While re-evaluating any project in Ghana in the early 1980s,
it is important to note that the Government faced unexpected mac-
ro-economic problems during 1980-1984 which aggravated its already
worsening economic crisis of the 1970s, and particularly depleted its
slender budgetary resources.  The following passage from the (draft)
President's Report for Ghana's First Structural Adjustment Credit
(Report dated November 4, 1986; para 11) is highly relevant:
"To add to all its difficulties, Ghana was
subjected in the early 1980s to three other
problems.   First,  a  prolonged  and  severe
drought created the worst food shortages since
Independence.  Second, the external terms of
trade  sharply  deteriorated  following  the
increase in petroleum prices, and a softening
in prices of Ghana's major exports (cocoa and
gold). Third, the sudden return of over one
million   Ghanaians   from  Nigeria   severely
strained the food and employment situation.
The cumulative effect of the downward economic
spiral and these most recent "shocks" to the
system can be seen in the trends in key
economic indicators between 1970 and 1982:
per capita real income declined by 30%; import
volumes fell by a third; real export earnings
fell 52%; domestic savings and investment
declined from 12 and 14% of GDP, respectively,
in  1970  to  almost  insignificant  levels:
inflation averaged 44% per annum over the
period."



Actions for solving these problems at the macro-level started systemati-
cally only from 1984, eepecially with the Economic Recovery Program of
1984-86, which was actively supported by the international community.
1.07      This report is based on information available in Bank files,
including supervision and consultants' reports, and interviews with Bank
staff formerly involved with the project.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION AND APPRAISAL
Identification
2.01      In October 1979, a high level Bank Group mission met with
representatives of GHA to discuss the problems facing Ghana's road
sector. The primary focus was on the effect of the country's economic
situation on the ongoing highway projects and possible role that IDA
could play in helping to relieve the present constraints.
2.02      Performance under the Second Highway Project had been far
below expectations: less than 25% of the maintenance program's overall
targets had been achieved and the level of performance had deteriorated
rapidly over the last two years.  GHA's routine maintenance resources
had therefore been spread thinly ove the main road network resulting in
insufficient maintenance on practically all sections. Periodic mainte-
nance had also slowed down; only 2-10% of the program for resealing and
about 50% for gravelling had been accomplished.   The maintenance of
feeder roads had hardly started.
2.03      The problem  stemmed mainly  from the shortages  of foreign
exchange for recurrent operating supplies and materials which were to
have been financed by the Government from its own resources. Although
the annual sums involved were relatively small, about US$5 m, the effect
on equipment use, including equipment of local contractors financed with
BHC loans, had been serious. As regards local cost financing of the
maintenance program, GHA informed the October 1979 miscion that this had
not been a problem in the past and that it did not anticipate it would
be a problem in future.  Also, GHA indicated that it had sufficient
organizational, staffing and management capacity to make immediate and
substantial progress on the maintenance program, if only the present
foreign exchange constraint for recurrent expenditures were resolved.
As events turned out, GHA was wron& on both counts; it did not foresee
the acute shortage of local funds which developed and did not anticipate
that its own capacity would deteriorate as well.
2.04      The October 1979 mission decided that IDA should consider, on
a crash basis, an emergency project which would alleviate the most
nressing constraints on the execution of the Second Highway Project.
The mission concluded that it was obvious that a solution had to be
found to these immediate problems before serious consideration could be



- 4 -
given to the then-proposed third highway project and the proposed feeder
road project.
2.05      An IDA highway mission in November 1979 discussed a detailed
plan of action put forward by GRA. The mission noted that possible IDA
assistance to the road sector to help relieve present constraints, which
were imposed largely as a result of the country's macroeconomic situa-
tion, could not be treated in isolation of the broader dialogue needed
with the Ghanaian Government on the policies and programs to put the
economy back on track.
Appraisal
2.06      The  project  was  appraised  in November/December 1979 by  a
four-man mission which consisted of two highway staff (one economist and
a consultant highway engineer) and two IDF staff.  The mission was
instructed to identify and appraise an interim project directed at
overcoming the shortcomings being experienced in the implementation of
the Second Project.
2.07      In  the  Issues  Paper  dated  January 14, 1980,  the  mission
proposed an emergency project aimed at relieving the most pressing
constraints in the highway sub-sector. It involved a relatively modest
infusion of foreign exchange into various priority activities including
GHA's maintenance program, private trucking operations and the support-
ing contracting industry. The mission proposed to limit the operation
to the highway sub-sector because established working relationships with
GRA and BHC would allow for rapid project preparation and implementa-
tion,  as well as disbursements.   The  foreign exchange cost of the
project was estimated at US$20 m.
2.08      Important issues raised were:  (a) IDA should finance recur-
rent costs of imports normally financed by budgetary allocation, which
could not be met under present economic conditions; (b) similarly, IDA
should finance the working capital needs of contractors and quarry
operators through BHC sub-loans; (c) the Government should finance the
foreign exchange  for a three-year supply of fuel and bitumen,  and
provide sufficient local funds for works by contract and force account;
and (d) Government would accept the foreign exchange risk for the full
line of credit, as under the Second Highway Project.
2.09      Other issues included (a) interest rates to be charged by BHC
for onlending; (b) repayment time by BHC; (c) BHC's arrearages which, as
a result of weak financial management, posed a major problem; (d) ar-
rangements for technical assistance to BHC and to deal with institution-
al weaknesses; and (e) arrangements to consolidate BHC's scattered
offices which contributed to a ack of overall administrative coordina-
tion. A Board Presentation in late April 1980 was proposed.
2.10      At the Decision Meeting held on January 17-18, 1980, Ghana's
economic problems were reviewed in the context of justifying the pro-
ject.   It was noted  that  poor  road  conditions  due  to a  lack of



- 5 -
maintenance, coupled with insufficient transport capacity, had severely
constrained mobility of foodstuffs and agricultural inputs, aggravating
the shortages of food and other essential commodities throughout the
country. A new Government had already declared its intention to embark
on a two-year program of rehabilitating the existing infrastructure,
particularly roads, and improving the maintenance of the existing
capacity as a cornerstone of its short-term development strategy.  The
Government had also entered into a dialogue with the IMF and the Bank
Group about an economic stabilization program which might attract
balance of payments support from both institutions.
2.11      The meeting noted that the proposed credit would provide for
the continuation of the Second Highway Project, but that a new component
had been introduced into the proposed Third Highway Project -- assis-
tance to the trucking industry.   The meeting agreed to the project
components as proposed, but that as lack of bitumen had been an impor-
tant obstacle to carrying out the maintenance program under the Second
Highway Project, it included US$1.0 m in the proposed credit to cover
some bitumen plus US$4.0 m for locally procured imports. The amount of
the credit was thus raised to US$25 m.
2.12      The meeting further decided that (a) the number of contractors
eligible for sub-loans should be limited to those already carrying out
road works for GHA; (b) that selling prices for spare parts and lubri-
cants should be marked-up to a level to a' 'oid a wide margin between
their economic cost and black market prices; and (c) funding for sup-
plies for contractors and truckers should be made available to trucking
companies rather than to BHC.
2.13      The meeting approved a combination of procurement arrangements
for spare parts (e.g., ICB, local competitive bidding, competitive
direct purchase) depending on the typeF of goods involved.  It agreed
that a procurement expert would be engaged to assist BHC in project
related procurement. The meeting also agreed that (a) Government should
bear the foreign exchange risk in the sub-loans for BHC, in return for
which the contractor would pay a 10% annual premium to Government; and
(b) as a condition of disbursement to BHC, it should be required to
reduce its arrears.
2.14      The  meeting  accepted  the  appraisal  mission's  processing
schedule and agreed that in lieu of a Staff Appraisal Report the Presi-
dent's Report should be expanded to permit coverage of all the issues
involved.   In a memorandum dated January 31, 1980, CPS rexistered a
dissent to eliminating the Appraisal Report on the grounds that the
President's Report was an inadequate vehicle for bringing out all the
issues involved. On February 15, senior management approved the use of
a President's Report only.
2.15      The memorandum dated February 25, 1980, circulating the Yellow
Cover Report noted two outstanding issues: (a) the appropriate level of
the proposed mark-up for supplies purchased through the Special Import
Facility (SIF) to prevent misallocation or reselling of the imported



goods; and (b) advance technical assistance to assist BHC in procurement
under the SIF.
2.16      A follow-up mission to Ghana just before negotiations, report-
ed that (a) the Government was having difficulty in accepting the budget
figures fo;0 periodic maintenance as proposed by IDA because of budgeting
constraints; (b) the Government preferred that sub-borrowers rather than
the Government take the foreign exchange risk; (c) the proposed mark-up
on spare parts would not be needed as the Government had just levied
taxes and duties on CIF values that raised the market prices to reflect
the real values of the spares; and (d) GHA had requested that an expert
on equipment maintenance be included in the project.
2.17      Senior management raised a number of questions on the Loan
Committee documents which were responded to in a memorandum dated
March 24.  The most important were those related to BHC.  Management
noted that as BHC seemed a weak institution, why not channel spare
parts, etc., to the private sector through commercial banks rather than
through BHC. The reply pointed out that the Government was anxious to
strengthen BHC, and that BHC would be assisted by its subsidiary, Plant
Pool, which specialized in equipment buying and handling. Also, commer-
cial banks lacked expertise in the contracting industry.
2.18      Management said that the Association should tigbten up the
proposed arrangement to reduce BHC's arrears; the response noted that
BHC would be asked to prepare an arrears collection Drogram satisfactory
to IDA by December 31, 1980, and to achieve within a time period accept-
able to IDA, a reduction in its exposure rate to below 30%. Management
asked that the funding mechanism of recurrent road maintenance expendi-
tures be tightened up. The reply noted that while local cost financing
had not been a problem in the past, the situation was becoming more
difficult as Government measures to cut budgeting expenditures, as
advocated by the IMF and the Bank Group, took hold. There was further
discussion on setting the final prices of spare parts for the private
sector, the potential risks of diversion of spares, and the steps to be
taken to prevent spares from reaching the black market.
2.19      Negotiations  for the credit  took place  in London on Ap-
ril 3-4, 1980. The Government agreed to all the terms and conditions in
the proposed credit documents with the exception of (a) the mark-up
under the SIF which it wanted increased to reduce the price differential
between the c.i.f. cost and the final end-user price; and (b) the terms
of the sub-loans in which the Government preferred to have the
sub-borrowers bear the full foreign exchange risk.   The Association
accepted  the  Government's  points.   Unfortunately,  the  decision  as
regards the second condition created serious financial hardship for
local contractors and BHC (paras 3.24-3.26).
2.20       The Executive Directors raised a number of questions about
the project prior to Board approval. They included an inquiry as to the
prospects of Ghana's macro-economic performance to obviate the need for
this type of operation in the future. In reply, it was mentioned that



-7-
the new Government had inherited a difficult and fragile situation and
it might need time to come to grips with the problem. Another asked
that as the project would bail out the Second Highway Project, what
would happen next? -- that there seemed to be a built-;n need for
foreign exchange to get road maintenance going but what could Ghana do
to be more self-reliant? The reply pointed out that Ghana was already
applying labor-intensive maintenance to the extent possible but this
could not replace equipment-intensive operations. The required inputs
such as spare parts and petroleum products could not be produced in
Ghana, and while the Government was looking into the possibility of
improving export earnings, Ghana would continue to need further external
assistance.   To the question whether the Bank should have provided
technical assistance earlier to BHC, the reply was "yes, in retrospect."
2.21      The credit was approved on May 27, 1980 and signed on Au-
gust 27, 1980.  It became effective on November 4, 1980.  The project
was expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.
Project Objectives and Description
2.22      The project aimed at relieving, on an emergency basis, the
most pressing constraints affecting road maintenance and trucking
operations.  The project permitted the importation of urgently needed
spare parts,  equipment,  tools, tires,  bitumen and lubricants.   The
project similarly provided through BHC, spare parts to the private
trucking industry to repair vehicles in order to increase capacity. In
addition, the project was to strengthen BHC through further technical
assistance and ensure proper and timely execution of the project.
2.23      The project consisted of implementing GHA's road maintenance
program during 1981 and 1982, and increasing the capacity of the domes-
tic trucking  industry by about  75 million vehicle kilometers.   The
maintenance program included performing effective routine maintenance on
all public roads  (25,400 km); resealing about  1,350 km; resurfacing
about 250 km; and regravelling about 2,600 km of main roads and about
1,800 km of feeder roads.  To carry out the project, the credit financed
the following components:
(a) Spare Parts, Tires ane Lubricants for GHA: the backlog needs
and the 1981-82 requirements for GRA road maintenance equip-
ment;
(b)  Bitumen for Resealing and Resurfacing:   a two-year bitumen
supply for resealing and resurfacing operations based on GHA's
periodic maintenance program;
(c)  Generator for GHA's Training Center:  two three-phase 125 RW
generators, including a year's supply of spare parts at the
Training Center;
(d) Subloans to Private Domestic Contractors and Quarry Operators;
sub-loans to be extended by BHC to enable procurement of



- 8 -
equipment and related spare parts for (i) about 16 contractors
who are executing GRA road maintenance contracts, but whose
operations have been disrupted because part of their equipment
requires replacement; and (ii) about four quarry operators
which are supplying materials for the road maintenance program
and similarly need to replace unserviceable equipment;
(e) Special Import Facility (SIF) for Spare Parts for Contractors
and Truckers:  spare parts, tires, tools and lubricants for
(i) about 45 contractors executing road maintenance works for
GHA; and (ii) about 200 small private trucking firms engaged
in agricultural transport; and
(f)  Technical  Assistance:   about  ten man-months  of  technical
assistance to strengthen the management and operations of BHC,
to improve the operational capacity of private domestic
contractors, to assist in the implementation of the SIF, and
to strengthen the opeiations of tli& GHA's central workshop.
i
2.24      GHA had overall responsibility for executing the road mainte-
nance program, while BHC was responsible for sub-loans to contractors,
the SIF and the technical assistance component except for 12 m-m of
consulting services for GHA.  Total project costs were estimated at
US$38.6 m excluding duties and taxes of about US$8.6 m.  The foreign
exchange component estimated at US$25.0 m (of which US$14 m was for GHA
and US$11 m for BHC) represented about 65% of total project cost net of
tax. The local cost estimate was US$13.6 m equivalent net of tax; it
largely comprised handling costs, trader markups and fees for BHC, Plant
Pool Ltd, and the Government.
2.25      The President's Report  stated that GHA was "considered a
reasonably efficient organization," an over-optimistic assessment as
events turned out. With the problem of imported supplies resolved, it
was expected that GHA would be able to increase its maintenance output
quickly to meet the most urgent needs of the road sector. As regards
BHC, the Report acknowledged that BHC's performance had been uneven
under the Second Highway Project, and that its financial management had
been deficient.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Early Progress
3.01      Project execution got off to an early start.  Within a month
of board approval, the Association sent a supervision mission to Ghana
to assist GHA in setting up the arrangements for the procurement of
proprietary and non-proprietary spare parts, tires, batteries, lubri-
cants and bitumen. The mission found that no detailed data were avail-
able regarding GRA's immediate needs for spare parts and lubricants. A
list of spare parts needed was to be prepared by GHA, taking into



- 9 -
account the manufacturer's recommendations and workshop *.ecords; the
mission considered that this was a satisfactory arrangement.
3.02      The mission noted that the 1980/81 budget was being debated in
Parliament at the time of its visit "within an austerity framework."
Despite the follow-up cable of June 17, 1980 to the Ministry of Finance
(MOP), and frequent efforts on the part of IDA thereafter, the project
was to be severely handicapped throughout its execution by (aj reduced
budgetary allocations for mcintenance below the amounts called for under
the supplemental letter to the credit agreement; (b) further reductions
in the annual budgets after specific amounts were established; and
(c) failure to release even the reduced amounts on a timely basis.
3.03      The mission assisted GRA in drafting terms of reference for
the advisor to GRA's workshops, who was provided by the same firm which
had been the maintenance consultant under the Second Project.   The
mission also assisted BEC Ir. preparing terms of reference for an advisor
to domestic contractors; BHC later contracted with a consulting firm to
provide this advisor, as well as a procurement expert, to oversee the
SIF.  In  the meantime,  headquarters  was  assisting BEC  in  reaching
agreement with an Indian development bank to provide institutional
support and financial training for its staff.
3.04      Even though only about 16 firms were expected to be assisted
(para 2.23(d)), by November 1980 GHA and BEC had jointly selected
20 contracting firms, which were mainly owner-operated, to be considered
for sub-loans.  They also identified the equipment to be ordered and
proceeded with the procurement under the project.   Lists of parts,
supplies and equipment were approved by the Association, and agreed-on
procurement procedures were followed by the executing agencies. Because
of Ghana's economic problems, many suppliers requested irrev',cable
letters of credit. Some .lso asked that letters of credit be covered by
unqualified agreements to reimburse (A/Rs), and a few refused to ship
unless paid 100% in advance, rather than 80% on shipment and 20% an
delivery as provided for in their contracts. While Government always
had the option to use either qualified or unqualified A/Rs covering
letters of credit, and BHC in particular was urged to consider using one
of these procedures, Government elected not to use either procedure. In
addition, both GRA and BHC sometimes failed to submit the proper docu-
mentation  to IDA with  their disbursement  requests.   These  problems
caused considerable delays in the delivery of some orders.
Progress up to 1982
3.05      By the end of 1982, when the two-year project was scheduled to
be completed, only about 60% of the credit had been disbursed. Delivery
of the first tranche of spare parts, supplies and bitumen to GHA was
about completed, and most BHC-supported contractors had received their
equipment. However, serious difficulties in carrying out road mainte-
nance had arisen because of insufficient budgetary funds, a fuel short-
age, and poor morale of GHA's workforce. GRA had gradually lost some of
its senior staff because of better opportunities elsewhere, and those



- 10 -
that remained were preoccupied with other problems. Although GHA's head
office management was doing its best under these difficult circum-
stances, absenteeism in the shops and field had reached alarming propor-
tions because of low pay, curfews, increasing difficulty in finding food
at an affordable price, lack of public transportation, and the general
deterioration of the economy.
3.06      While GHA continued to carry out manual maintenance opera-
tions, its equipment-intensive operations were at a low level for the
reasons stated above. The standard of work was poor because of the lack
of proper supervision on the part of GHA's regional and divisional
staff, and IDA reiterated the need for more technical assistance in the
form of experts skilled in equipment usage and work layout. While some
progress had been made by GHA and its consultants in repairing equipment
at its ce.etral workshop with spare parts delivered over the past year,
the backlog of sidelined equipment grew larger. Despite some input by
the workshop's consultants, the regional shops were in such poor condi-
tion, and so inadequately staffed that they were unable to carry out
repair work or even maintain equipment that was repaired. The overall
output of GRA's mechanical division was low indeed, and it greatly
contributed to GHA's poor performance on periodic maintenance.
3.07      Contractors were performing somewhat better than GHA depart-
mental forces, but they too were handicapped by deteriorating economic
conditions, and a lack of spare parts, supplies, and fuel. The contrac-
tors under both the Second and Third Highway Projects were small entre-
preneurs  with  little  or  no  managerial  or  contracting  experience.
Their small equipment holdings consisted of a mix of a few old and some
new machines. Contractors were subject to a complete work stoppage if a
grader or a loader broke down or to an imbalance in operations if one
out of two or three trucks was sidelined.
3.08      In view of the problems which had emerged, several changes
were made in the technical assistance program in 1981. The needs in the
workshops were far beyond that provided for under the project (one
adviser for 12 months). The team was strengthened at the suggestion of
IDA, by the addition of two mechanics and later by two road maintenance
foremen. Also, at BHC's suggestion, the contractors' advisory position
originally placed under BHC, was transferred to GHA which had a better
understanding of contractors'  needs.   A consultant was  selected  to
provide a range of serviLes including assistance to contractors and
quarry operators in the field, and formal training through seminars in
all aspects of contracting.
3.09      In mid-1981,  the Government removed the responsibility for
feeder roads from GHA to the Ministry of Youth and Rural Development,
dismissed GHA's board and placed it under the Ministry of Works.  On
December 31, 1981, following a coup, a new government took office and
GHA was placed under a new Ministry of Roads and Highways (MRH) along
with the Department of Feeder Roads (DFR).  The new government placed
high priority on maintenance of the road system, and project execution
eventually benefitted from the efforts of the new Secretary of Roads and



- 11 -
Highways to deal with the problems facing GHA. While the turnaround was
slow because of the many difficulties facing the new administration,
decisions were made that led to gradual improvements in GHA's operations
over the remaining three year period of project execution.
3.10      As noted in para 3.07, private contractors, financed under the
BHC component for sub-loans, had performed somewhat better than GHA;
however, progress of work and disbursement of the component have been
slower than expected. Major contributing factors have been administra-
tive difficulties in GHA, weak performance by some contractors, and in
particular,  payment  delays by the Government.   However,  cooperation
between GHA ano BHC has recently improved and steps are being taken to
assist performing contractors.  A policy of seizing the equipment of
contractors who were not performing satisfactorily, or who were not
repaying their loans to BHC had been implemented at the urging of IDA,
with a view to redistributing the equipment to contractors who were
performing.
3.11      As regards sub-loans for quarry operators, BHC had proposed to
finance under this category mainly spare parts for existing quarries,
instead of new equipment as provided for under the Credit Agreement.
Given the need for rehabilitation of existing quarries, IDA agreed. Up
to the end of 1982, it had approved only one sub-project and rejected
one unviable proposal. Since a shortage of crushed stone was one reason
for slow progress of road maintenance work, BHC was requested to accel-
erate the utilization of this component. Three more sub-projects were
in an advanced stage of preparation, but commitments continued slowly
since many quarry companies were not creditworthy.
3.12      Under the SIF, spare parts, tires, tools and lubricants were
being imported by local trading companies and sold to contractors and
truck operators on a cash basis. The utilization of the SIF was slow at
first but gradually picked up. Delays were caused by the almost total
breakdown of the Ghanaian economy, including a serious lack of supervi-
sory personnel in institutions like BHC, inefficiency of Government
rading corporations, and lack of incentives for private trading houses
tG sell at official retail prices.
3.13      Under the consultant services component, the contract of the
procurement adviser, who assisted BHC in the implementation of the SIF,
terminated in 1981. As previously noted, the position of the contrac-
tors' adviser was transferred to GHA.
3.14      The agreement between BHC and its consultant provided for
72 m-m advisory services over two years at a cost of US$455,000.  During
the first year, a team of six experts spent 21.5 months with BHC and
11 m-m of training were provided to four BHC officers deputed to the
consultant's headquarters at a cost of about US$133,000.  The program
was temporarily halted at the Association's request in April 1982,
because the political and economic situation in Ghana had deteriorated
to the point that working conditions had become unacceptable to the
consultant, and BHC was no longer able to effectively benefit from the



- 12 -
assistance, BHC was satisfied with the services provided and submitted
a proposal for its continuation. Since many BHC staff members had left
the country during the past two years, it was necessary to ensure that
suitable new staff be recruited to derive maximum benefit from a contit.-
uation of the aesistance program.
3.15      BHC's arrears continued to be a matter of concern.  According
to the Project Agreement, loans outstanding affected by arrears of more
than three months were to be reduced to a level not exceeding 30%. In
spite of efforts made by the Association and intensive assistance by
BBC's consiltants, an accurate and complete picture of overall arrears
was still not available by the end of 1982. While defaulting industrial
and mortgage loans have apparently been Lept within reasonable limits,
loans to contractors financed under the Second Highway Project were most
&'eriously affected by arrears.
3.16     BEC explained the above situation by the slow payments to
contractors and the lack of spare parts and other materials which did
not allow the contractors to perform. Importation of such materials was
being financed under the SIF, but the lead time for the arrival of goods
has been long, goods were sold on a first-come, first-serve basis, and
some contractors were unable to benefit from the SIF because they were
not paid in time by the Government for ongoing road maintenance work.
The repayment record of contractors was generally bad, and BHC's super-
vision capacity proved inadequate. BHC expected that improved coopera-
tion with GHA and the recently initiated seizure policy (see para 3.10)
would improve contractor's repayment performance, although slow Govern-
ment payments to contractors would still present an impediment.
Progress from 1983 to 1985
3.17      Following repeated complaints by IDA to the Government con-
cerning the slow progress in the repair of maintenance equipment and the
poor management of GHA's Mechanical Division, the Government informed
IDA on October 18, 1983, that it had decided to have its workshop
consultants, who had been acting in an advisory role, take over the
management of the Mechanical Division including the central workshop and
stores. The Chief Engineer (mechanical), his assistant, and the manager
in charge of the central workshop were dismissed.
3.18      IDA sent out an audit team which found major problems in the
operation of the Mechanical Division and recommended a series of steps
for improvements. The responsibility at each workshop ie-Tel needed to
be defined and then provided with appropriate tools, equipment and
facilities. Other tasks included installing a preventative maintenance
program, organizing a fleet-wide lubrication system, improving the
inventory control system, retraining stores personnel, improving the
workshop job costing system, and carrying out longer-term studies of
parts and equipment needs.
3.19      To effect these improvements, it was evident that all opera-
tions of the Mechanical Division required a thorough overhaul, a task



- 13 -
far beyond the capacity of the present consulting team which was concen-
trating on equipment  repair and  field maintenance  operations.   The
Government decided to replace the consultant with another firm, after
inviting proposals from shortlisted firms, to manage the shops under
terms of reference agreed with IDA.  The new consultants commenced their
duties in June 1984, and were closely supervised from time to time by an
IDA mechanical engineer. Within a year, the consultants brought about a
substantial improvement in the operation of the central workshop but
barely started on improving the regional shops. The main task was to
establish levels of work to be carried out in the field to prevent the
regional and district shops from tackllng work which they were not
competent to do.  The allocation for technical assistance to GHA was
raised to US$2.4 m, as compared to the US$120,000 originally allocated.
3.20      In January 1984, a disastrous fire at the Central Workshop
destroyed a warehouse which contained most of the spare parts purchased
under the project for GHA's heavy equipment, at a loss estimated at
about US$3.5 m. The shortage of water because of drought conditions and
the broken down communications system resulted in a total loss.  The
warehouse was uninsured. Subsequently, the Government agreed to change
its policy of self-insurance, and to take out foreign reinsurance for
imported equipment and parts. The loss of the spare parts inventory was
a serious blow to GHA.  To conserve funds, orders were restricted to
specific needs rather than to building up a slow-moving inventory. To
facilitate the placement and delivery of small orders, IDA had suggested
earlier to GHA that it set up an advance of US$210,000 with procurement
agents, which was replenished from time to time.  These arrangements
were closely monitored by IDA, and were generally successful in expedit-
ing the delivery of urgently needed parts.
3.21      The Ministry  of  Finance was  still unable  to provide  the
budgeted maintenance  funds  on a timely basis.   The  Government  had
reduced GHA's 1984 budget, but even so, quarterly allocations were
disbursed months late. The result was that work of domestic contractors
on maintenance was seriously impeded. This problem was worsened by the
failure of the Government to adjust the unit rates of the contractors to
reflect substantial devaluations over the past years, and the rising,
cost of imported supplies needed by  the industry.   The delay also
adversely affected GHA's effort to place more reliance on the domestic
contracting industry in carrying out periodic maintenance.
3.22      While improvements were gradually taking place in the central
workshop, the general economic situation in the country continued to
worsen which greatly contributed to the lack of morale and low produc-
tivity of GHA's labor force. By 1985, 65% of the engineering positions
in GHA were vacant, and it had a surplus of unskilled labor which it
could not dismiss. Only about 20-25% of actual maintenance needs of the
road system had been met over the past decade.  As a result,  road
conditions continued to deteriorate, and road transport costs were high
all over the country.



- 14 -
3.23      Nevertheless, GRA had taken certain measures to improve its
performance.  First, as already noted, it had placed a consultant in
charge of the problem-ridden central workshop, a decision whiczz had
already improved performance significantly.  Second, GHA, in consulta-
tion with IDA, had commissioned a manpower study of the organization.
Third, GHA had set up a Mobile Maintenance Unit (MMU), under Japanese
aid, which had produced impressive results in pavement rehabilitation
and resealing works.  Fourth, GRA had introduced "single-man contrac-
tors" (SMCs) with responsibility for roadside maintenance of about
five km stretches, and placed a maintenance contract with a timber
company. Fifth, with the help of WFP, a "food for work" program was
introduced to provide incentive to workers; the results have been
encouraging. The foregoing arrangements were incorporated in the Road
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (Fourth Highway Project) which
was approved on June h, 1985.
3.24      The Fourth Highway Project also addressed the mounting prob-
lems facing GHA's contractors and BHC. While, as previously noted, the
contractors had generally performed much better than GHA, they faced
major problems due to delay in contractual payments, delay in revising
contract rates after major devaluations and consequent price increases,
and difficulty in getting imported spare parts and fuel. During negoti-
ations for the Fourth Project, the Government agreed tBiat contractors'
unit rates under existing road maintenance or rehabilitation contracts
would be adjusted by December 31, 1985 to reflect devaluations and price
increases since January 1, 1983, and thereafter, from January 1, 1986,
automatic adjustments would be made to reflect changes in exchange rates
or prices in accordance with a formula acceptable to the Association.
The Government also agreed to assume the foreign exchange risk during
the time lapsed between collection from sub-borrowers by BHC and actual
repayment to Government.
3.25      In addition, as a condition of the Fourth Project, the Govern-
ment established in 1985 a Road Fund, financed from special road-user
taxes on petroleum fuel, for paying the road maintenance contractors.
This arrangement has freed GHA, DFR and contractors from dependence on
the uncertainty of budget allocations for road maintenance programming
and payments, particularly in the case of periodic maintenance; it also
helped GHA to pay long-standing arrears due to contractors.  Although
the present Road Fund level is inadequate, the sense of stability and
reliability brought by the Fund, the payment of arrears, the prompt
revision of unit rates being made as a condition of the Fourth Highway
Credit, the availability of equipment under the Third and Fourth Pro-
jects, and the recent (1986) freer availability of spares and supplies
in Ghana, have together boosted contractor confidence and capacity. IDA
is currently encouraging Government to considerably increase the size of
the Road Fund.  The training and equipment given to the contractors
under the Third and Fourth Highway Projects are playing a key role in
increasing contractor capacity.
3.26      BHC's performance under the Third Highway Project, although
slightly better than under the Second Highway Project, remained at best,



- 15 -
marginal.  BHC continued to suffer from institutional and financial
problems.  On the institutional side, procedures remained weak and the
institution was understaffed; a situation particularly obvious in the
accounting department which had been unable to produce timely and
reliable accounting data.  Further, appropriate policy statements and
operating procedures were required based partly upon review and updating
of internal documents.   On the financial side, BHC's continued weak
financial management and high portfolio arrears, coupled with the
effects of the series of devaluations of the cedi, which had signif4.-
cantly eroded the dollar equivalent of BHC's net worth, resulted in a
deterioratiorn of its term debt/equity ratio. However, BHC's board had
approved an increase in the authorized share capital and other financial
measures (including an increase in its term debt/equity ratio to 10:1)
which improved BHCts balance sheet significantly.
3.27      Notwithstanding the problems noted above, a reorganization of
BHC and the recruitment of 12 new professionals in 1984 had brought
about some improvement.  The Government and BHC, with IDA assistance,
prepared in the course of negotiating the Fourth Highway Project, a
detailed  action  program  which   included  measures  designed  to:
(a) strengthen the financial condition of BHC; (b) revamp BHC's policy
statement, organizational structure and operational procedures, includ-
ing staffing and training; (c) improve BBC's project appraisal and
supervision activities; (d) strengthen BHC's accounting and management
information systems and internal controls; (e) improve BEC's loan
recovery  performance,   including  agreed  collection  targets;   and
(f) strengthen BHC's commercial banking operations.
Implementation Schedule
3.28      The project suffered a three-year delay because of the prob-
lems which overtook the Ghanaian economy and the executing agencies.
While far less maintenance was carried out than originally aniticipated,
the project enabled GHA and BHC to keep going during extremely difficult
times.   The Closing Date was extended  twice  from June 30, 1983  to
June 30, 1986.
Project Costs
3.29      Because of the enormous inflation which too' place in Ghana
over the last several years, cost comparison of maintenance operations
with figures at the time of appraisal would be meaningless. Careful
procurement held down foreign costs while local costs of work were
probably understated in comparison to real costs because local contract
prices were belatedly adjusted. Table 1 shows the appraisal compared to
actual cost.
Disbursements
3.30      By the end of 1982, the project completion date, only about
half the credit had been disbursed (Table 2). Disbursements continued
slowly over the next 3 1/2 years because of the problems previously



- 16 -
discussed. By February 1987, about US$24.9 m had been disbursed; approx-
imately US$100,000 will be cancelled.
IV. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
4.01      The  project  provided urgently needed  assiscance  to  Ghana
during the worst years of the economic crisis and droug'at. One of the
most critical constraints contributing to Ghana's economic crisis in the
early 1980s was the poor state of the road network, which impeded the
movement of export crops to the ports and food crops to the markets.
Poor roads aggravated starvation and hardship during the drought and
famine years of 1982/83, as imported food under aid programs or food
surpluses in some areas could not be moved to the famine-affected areas.
Similarly, lack of spares and access- .ies for vehicles left about 70% of
the vehicle fleet sidelined, aggravatlng transport bottlenecks.  Assis-
tance provided under the Third Highway Project kept the minimal trans-
port capacity operating in these difficult years, which was of the
utmost importance to Ghana's economic survival.
4.02      The assistance under the project mainly went to support the
Government's  road maintenance  program.   The  project  provided  vital
Inputs through parts, materials, equipment and management assistance to
both GHA and private contractors, to make this program, limited as it
was,  feasible.  The physical output of the road maintenance program
during the project's disbursement years of 1981-86 are presented in
Table 3. Table 4 shows the output of the periodic maintenance program
as compared to the targets set forth in the President's Report. While
the outputs were substantially less than targeted, they are considered
reasonable in the light of the conditions prevailing in Ghana during
project execution.
4.03      It is difficult to separate specific project benefits from the
overall benefits associated with the entire maintenance program which
was undertaken with many cost elements in addition to the project costs.
It is also difficult to estimate benefits from particular road mainte-
nance activities, as the works were spread over the entire road system.
For these reasons, the President's Report (which served as the appraisal
report) had estimated economic returns from road maintenance on a global
basis, on assumptions of typical road conditions, vehicle operating
costs and road maintenance costs in Ghana. A similar approach is taken
in this reevaluation based on the results of a recent detailed analysis
of road maintenance costs and benefits presented in the SAR for the
Fourth Highway Project (Report No. 5479-GH). For the 1986 road mainte-
nance program, the report estimates an ERR of 73%, assuming a typical
mix of road conditions, treffic levels, vehicle operating costs and the
costs of different types of road works (regravelling, resealing, etc.).
All costs and benefits are expressed in terms of constant 1985 dol-
lar-equivalent prices. Since foreign components dominate road mainte-
nance costs and vehicle operating costs in Ghana (over 75%) and sirce
the value of the cedi during 1981-86 dropped drastically with a



- 17 -
devaluation of 5000%, the analysis was mostly done in dollar terms.
Detailed assumptions are presented in Annex 4 of the above SAR.
4.04      The above ERR is less than the appraisal estimate of 100%
since it was based on more conservative assumptions than used origin-
ally. However, it a.sumed that all project imports for road maintenance
were productively employed for this purpose.  As a result of US$3.5 m
worth of imports lost in the fire (para 3.20), representing a zero rate
of return for these resources, the weighted average estimated ERR from
the road maintenance component was reduced to just over 60%.
4.05      Benefits from providing accessories sid spares for the truck-
ing fleet could not be quantified. However, considering Bank documenta-
tion on the acute scarcity of trucking capacity In moving cocoa and
other exports during this period, this project component has certainly
provided a vital support to Ghana's exports and farm production.  It
would be a useful area for research to come up with a methodology to
better assess needs and benefits for this type of component.
V. CONSULTANTS' PERFORMANCE
5.01      The performance of the various consultants on the project was
mixed. The BHC procurement advisor for the SIF performed satisfactori-
ly, but the first contractor's advisor supplied by the same firm left
Ghana without notice in the middle of his assignment. The decision to
transfer this position from BHC to GHA was sound as the replacement
staff were located in GHA's head office alongside GRA's Road Maintenance
Divisicni. The expansion of the consultants' role to provide not only
practical advice to contractors and quarry operators in the field, but
to give formal instruction in managing, financing, estimating, etc., was
most helpful to the small domestic firms which were inexperienced in
road building works and contracting procedures.
5.02      Although the management consultants to BHC performed well,
their assistance to BHC was limited, due to interruptions resulting from
political instability. During the period of their services, the firm
provided assistance to the various departments of BHC and to its senior
management, both by assigning advisors to BHC offices and also by
sending BHC staff to its headquarters in India for in-house training.
Further assistance is being rendered by the same firm under the Fourth
Project.
5.03      The performance of the first workshop consultant was handi-
capped for a number of reasons.  The extent of the problems in GHA's
workshops was not recognized at the time of appraisal (para 2.25) and
the technical assistance originally included in the project was much
less than needed. Furthermore, GHA's capacity deteriorated along with
the general decline in the economy. Later, the size of the consultant's
team was substantially increased, but because of worker absenteeism and
a lack of cooperation from GHA's mechanical division, progress was slow



- 18 -
and mainly involved the repair of equipment.   The consultant's head
ofLice should have focussed more attention on the problems which handi-
capped their team, and their progress reports which were inadequate.
5.04      Following  the  preparation  of new  terms  of  reference  for
workshop consultants as a result of the Bank audit, which placed empha-
sis on the need to strengthen management of the workshops, the dismissal
of senior mechanical staff and the appointment of a new consulting firm
with line responsibility, the operation of the central workshop gradual-
ly improved, but little progress was made in the regional shops. The
improvement of the central workshop is continuing, and being expanded
into the regional and divisional shops under the Fourth Highway Project.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
6.01      Because of deterioration in the economy partly due to misman-
agement and partly due to the worst drought in history, the Government
was unable to provide during tLhe period 1980-85 the level of local
currency funding for the project which it had agreed to do. Even the
reduced budgetary amounts were not provided promptly or in full which
slowed departmental maintenance operations and prevextted GHA from paying
its contractors on a timely basis. The result was that contractors were
forced to slow down or stop work, as they lacked the funds to pay for
the limited amount of fuel, parts and supplies available in the country.
6.02      The economic situation deteriorated  to a point where the
Government was frequently unable to finance the country's regular fuel,
lubricant and bitumen imports which further handicapped road mainte-
nance. While the project provided spare parts, lubricants and bitumen
for GHA and its contractors, there was no provision in the project for
the import of fuel. Fuel shortages were caused not only by the lack of
fuel but by the breakdown of the fuel tanker fleet which distributed
fuel up-country. The contractors were often forced to divert their own
trucks to haul fuel. This situation gradually improved in 1985 as the
economy began to recover.
6.03      During most of the period of project execution, the Ministry
of Finance did not keep IDA informed of its budgetary problems, and in
fact, rarely responded to communications directed to it. On the other
hand, the MRH was responsive to problems brought to its attention and
closely cooperated with IDA in endeavoring to improve project execution.
6.04      The removal of feeder roads from GHiA (para 3.09) was a breach
of Section 4.03 of the Credit Agreement. However, as GHA was not even
maintaining the main road system, the change had no effect on feeder
road maintenance.   The eventual transfer of DFR to MRH was a sound
arrangement as feeder roads are now being given belated attention. The
Fourth Highway Project contains a pilot feeder road program to improve
feeder roads through the use of force account and contractors who are
being trained by an ILO team in labor-based operations.



- 19 -
6.05      GRA's chief executive at the t-me of appraisal left shortly
after; his replacement also left within a year. GHA's senior managers
are currently few, but are devoted and hardworking.   The country's
problems made it impossible for GHA to fill staff vacancies, and to
provide a living wage  to its workers.   The  food incentive program
recently started under the Fourth Highway Project has eased the problem
somewhat, but GHA still remains critically short of experienced civil
and mechanical engineers.
6.06      GHA seriously overestimated the capability of its Mechanical
Division, which declined even further during project execution.  Had
this problem been recognized earlier, remedial action could have been
taken at the beginning of the project.  GHA is also faulted for noj.
being able to prepare its own spare parts lists (para 3.01) and for
over-relying on manufacturers' lists which tended to overemphasize
expensive and slow-moving parts. The basis for improvement under the
Fourth Highway Project has been set, but much needs to be done to train
Ghanaian engineers and managers in GHA.
6.07      GHA overestimated its ability to carry out periodic mainte-
nance but eventually recognized that it should place more relia'nce on
contractors, and adjusted its work program accordingly to give contrac-
tors a larger role. While a few contractors gave up under the financial
constraints that they faced, the majority did the best they could under
extremely difficult circumstances and managed to continue working to the
extent possible.   The Bank-financed equipment was spread too thinly
among too many contractors (20 rather than the 16 firms called for in
the President's Report); better results would probably have been
achieved by restricting distribution to fewer firms.
6.08      BHC's performance, which had been rated as uneven under the
Second Highway Project (para 2.25), worsened during the execution of the
Third Highway Project despite the assistance of consultants, mainly
because of economic events beyond its control. However, BHC's senior
management generally did the best possible under most difficult condi-
tions. Both GHA and BHC suffered staff losses which handicapped their
operations, and prevented much progress in institution building.
6.09      While relations between GRA and BHC were not always harmoni-
ous, overall they worked reasonably well together. They twice reallo-
cated credit proceedii between their components where they were most
urgently needed. Strains between two semi-autonomous organizations with
different objectives were perhaps inevitable given the problems which
arose during project execution. GHA and BHC cooperated closely with the
Association in executing the project, and IDA encouraged the two enti-
ties to meet frequently to coordinate their operations.



- 20 -
VII. ASSOCIATION'S PERFORMANCE
7.01      The project was placed on the problem project list in the fall
of 1982.  It was removed, prematurely as it turned out, in the fall of
1983 when it appeared that GRA and BHC had taken certain corrective
steps to give cause for expecting improved performance. The project was
reviewed periodically thereafter but not considered a problem project
again because the Government had adopted positive measures towards
solving the main problems facing the project.  It was recognized that
most of them stemmed from the serious economic situation, and substan-
tial and lasting improvement could not be exnected until the economy
showed sig.s of reviving.
7.02      IDA overestimated the capability of GHA's Mechanical Division,
whose collapse brought equipment repair to a virtual standstill. While
the appraisal mission was experienced, the engineer, who was a consul-
tant, had no previous experience in Ghana. IDA, when it became aware of
the problems, acted promptly first by increasing the number of the
consultant's workshop staff, then when that did not solve the problem,
by sending an audit team to Ghana and acting on its recommendations.
7.03      IDA's overall supervision of the project was intensive as
shown on page iii, and the add4tion of a mechanical engineer to super-
vise the workshops was most useful.  The supervision of the BBC compo-
nent was not nearly as frequent as for the GHA component; however, IDA
lid work closely with the consultant advising BHC.  A memorandum dated
April 22, 1980, explicitly outlined the division of supervision respon-
sibility between the Highways and IDF Divisions.
7.04      The Association showed flexibility in adjusting the project to
the rapidly changing conditions in Ghana.   The amount of technical
assistance was exp.ided many fold to meet the needs of GHA and its
contractors. IDA also responded affirmatively to several requests for a
broader use of spare parts and bitumen when it became evident that these
were the only supplies available in the country. Use of spare parts was
extended to small truckers outside agricultural transport, and use of
bitumen was permitted by GRA contractors on important road construction
contracts, The Association also agreed to the purchase of hand tools to
enable GHA to continue labor-intensive operations when equipment was not
available.   The  arrangement  for advances  to  the  procurement  agent
(para 3.20) was particularly helpful in moving the project ahead.
7.05       Fuel shortages were anticipated during project preparation.
Inclusion of funds for fuel was considered but rejected on the grounds
that importing fuel for GRA only would create political problems. This
was undoubtedly true and, furthermore, supervision and monitoring of
imported fuel supplies would have posed difficult problems.
7.06      As noted in paras 2.22-2.23, the project aimed at relieving on
an emergency basis, the most pressing constraints affecting the road
sector over the two-year period 1981-82. While Part A of the project



- 21 -
description called for routine maintenance on all project roads and
periodic maintenance on about 6,000 km of roads, the funding provided
only for the importation of goods to enable GRA to resume its mainte-
nance program, and services to provide technical assistance to the
executing agencies. No credit funds were actually allocated to Part A
which was to be carried out with budgetary funds. In retrospect, the
above arrangements, which provided only for acquisition of goods and
services should have included some funding for implementation of Part A,
particularly by contract, and roads to be periodically maintained should
have been specifically identified. If more attention had been focussed
on identifying specific works to be carried out by GHA, somewhat more
maintenance might have been accomplished.
VIII.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      At the time the project was prepared, neither IDA nor the
Government foresaw the depth of the economic deterioration, including
the acute shortage of foreign exchange, which would take place in Ghana
between 1980-84 and the disruption that this would have on the execution
of the project. While some warnings such as foreign exchange shortages
were evident at the time of appraisal, it was unlikely that anyone could
have -redicted the extent of the difficulties which arose.
8.02      The  project  provided urgently needed assistance  to Ghana
during the worst years of the economic crisis and drought, and it helped
to maintain minimal transport capacity during that difficult period.
The estimated ERR of over 60% is substantially less than the estimate of
100% but is considered adequate given the problems which arose during
project execution.
8.03      The benefits of providing accessories  and spares for the
trucking fleet could not be quantified. This type of component would be
a useful area for research (para 4.05).
8.04      IDA's overall supervision was intensive; however, supervision
coordination by its two administrative entities responsible was not
always adequate. It is important that the supervision arrangements made
for the Third Highway Project which is to continue under the Fourth
Highway Project, be adhered to by both Bank divisions.
8.05      The lessons learned from the project have already been applied
in formulating  the follow-up project.   For  the GHA component,  the
progress in improving the central workshops is being expanded into two
regions, and steps have been taken to improve the morale of the work-
shops through food incentives and training. The heavy financial burden
on BHC and its contractors has been eased, and other steps taken to
improve BHC's performance (paras 3.24-3.26).



- 22 -
8.06      In designing future projects, more emphasis should be placed
on executing works and providing funds specifically for that purpose,
rather than on a procurement type operation.
8.07    ' In retrospect,  the project  can be regarded as a holding
operation to keep GRA and BHC operating until the economy Improved and
another project could be prepared to meet the current need for road
maintenance.



REPUBLIC OF auuu
TIID HIGHWAY (EIEAGENcY N&IWTUNWE) PRO?
CRCDIT 1029-CE
PROJECT CCNUTIOS REP1015
Final Cost Estimtes
(all amounts in USS aillions)
Bank Group
Contract Data                    Appraisal Estiatte                                   Contrib.      Phys.   Disbursed
Project Ites                              Contract    Contract     Completion    (including contingencies)   ---- Contract Value ---          %         CoAp.      to
Signed     Completed    'Estimate)    Local    Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign  T7otat    (Forein)                   Date
A. QRA Protect Zlemnnt
1. Spare Parts, Tires, Tools, and Lubricants                                            5.20      10.15    15.35              5.00                6.60         95        6.S
2. Ditumen                                                                              1.80       3.50     S.30    0.n0      2.40     2.4        4.30         100       4.3
3. Supply and lastallation of Generators                                                0.08      0.18      0.26    0.00     0.06      0.06       0.20        100        0.2
4. Technical Assistance                         02/23181    June 1982     June 1984     0.08       0.13     0.21    0.14      0.28     0.42        1.17        100       1.2
06/01184    09/01185      12/31185        -         --        --     .07      0.65     0.72       0.66        100        0.6
1016/81    01/01/86      June 1986       -.        --        --      --       --        --       0.59        100        0.6
7.16     13.96    21.12
B. BEtC Project Element                                                                     6.44     11.04    17.48                                  11.48         98       11.5
T7.AL                                                                                  33.60      25.00    38.60                                  25.00         99      24.9
Source: ID
MPAr
Marchl 1987-



- 24 -                                   TABLE 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
THIRD HIGHWAY (EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE) PROJECT
CREDIT 1029-GH
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Actual Schedule of Disbursements
ACCUMULATED DISBURSEMENTS
(US$' 000)
IBRD                  ACTUAL  TOTAL    APPRAISAL        ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS AS % OF
FISCAL YEAR AND QUARTER      DISBURSEMENTS    ESTIMATE              APPRAISAL ESTIMATES
1981
2nd                           0           1,000
3rd                          31           5,000
4th                         903           9,000                       10
1982
1st                       2,506          13,000                       19
2nd                       8,389          17,500                       36
3rd                       9,390          21,000                       45
4th                      12,625          23,500                       54
1983
1st                      13,000         24,500                        53
2nd                      14,800          25,000                       59
3rd                      15,100                                       60
4th                      16,500                                       66
1984
1lt                      17,933                                       72
2nd                      18,250                                       73
3rd                      18,702                                       75
4th                      19,269                                       77
1985
1st                      19,720                                       79
2nd                      20,360                                       81
3rd                      21,520                                       86
4th                      21,980                                       88
1986
1st                      22,580                                       90
2nd                      23,370                                       93
3rd                      23,984                                       96
4tb                      24,440                                       98
1987
1st                      24,770                                       99
2nd                      24,880                                       99
3rd                      24,902                                       99
Closing Date                   06/30/86        06/30/83
NOTE: The undisbursed balance of approximately US$-00,000 will be cancelled shortly.
WAPTR, March 1987



- 25 -
TABLE 3
REPUBLIC OF GHAM
THIRD HICHWAY (EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE) PROJECT
CREDIT 1029-Gl
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Total Output of Road Naintenance Program
During Project Period, 1981-86
Total Cost
Total Periodic    of Morks
Ypar            Regravelling     Resealing     Resurfacing    Improvesent   Naintenance  in 19M5 Prices al
(lb           (Ka)           (Kb)           lKS)          (Kb)            (USO)
1-961                   573             40             9             22            644       6,636,000
1982                    652             62            27             16            757       7,913,000
19l3                    778             40            16             37            871       9,291,000
1984                    672             90            29             51            842      11,014,000
1985                    625            195            73             64           957       15,3t0,000
1996 tJanuJun)          509             36            19             36            600       7,360,000
Total Ka.                  3,809            463           173            226          4,671
Total Cost            26,663,000     10,186,000     6,055,000     14,690,000                     57,594,000
a/ Basd on 1995 units costs (for contract work), per kn, of:
Regravellings        $7,000 equivalent
Rusealing:       $22,000 equivalent
Resurfacingq       $35,000 equivalent
Improvement:       $65,000 equivalent
NOTEt  Annual routie maintenance coverage during the period is estiuated at about 40a of total trunk road
network, that is, about 5,600 km per year, and about 30a of feeder roads, that is about 4200 km per
yeaw. Annual cost, at an estimated $500 per ka for trunk roads and and $200 per km for feeder roads,
is about $3.6 million.
WTR
09-Ja-87



- 26 -
TABLE 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
THIRD HIGHWAY (EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE) PROJECT
CREDIT 1029-GH
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Output of Periodic Maintenance Program Compared to Targets
Regravelling        Resealing         Resurfacing
----------------------km ---------------------
Project Target /a                  3800              1350                250
Annual Target                      1900               675                125
Total Output lb                    3809               463                173
Annual Output                       635                77                 29
Annual Output
as % of Annual Target               33                11                 23
/a Para 44 of President's Report
|b Table 3
WAPTR
March 1987



- 27 -
TABLE 5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
THIRD HIGHWAY (EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE) PROJECT
CREDIT 1029-GH
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Value in Constant Prices (1985) of Road Maintenance Output
and Project Disbursements during Project Period (1981-86)
A. Disbursements /a ('000 dollars)
Deflator
Disbursements            World Bank's MUV Index                  Value
Calendar Year         in Current Prices                 1985 - 100                  in 1985 prices
(a)                           (b)                     ((a) . (b)l   100
1981 (Jan. Dec.)             8,389                          105.2                          7,974
1982                         6,411                          103.8                         6,176
1983                         3,450                          101.0                         3,416
1984                         2,110                           99.3                         2,125
1985                         3,010                          100.0                         3,010
1986 (Jan. June)             1,630                          113.0                         1,442
TOTAL                   25,000                                                       24,144
/a Includes US$xxx for spare parts for private truckers.
B.  Cost of Road Maintenance Program
1. Cost of Periodic Maintenance during 1981-86 in 1985 prices
(from Table 4)                                                           US$57.6 m equivalent
2. Routine Maintenance (from Table 4)
5 years x US$3.6 m -                                                   USS19.8 m
3.  TOTAL (1    2)       -                                                   US$77.4 m
WAPYR
January 1987



OEOD1                                                           K
REF I T.P HC                          -28-                   Cl
t$t*grt$t                                k .  .,~~~~~~~'iv;
*OEDJJI *                                                    Yc
" ANNEX
JW50486 7j1X89.4 IN  1X11       J 11 OT 12/11: 17            Page 1
209A BHC OH
ATTN:
GOTTrFRIFD ANL.ASUFR
ACrING CHIXF2
AGRXt:l.  llIRFt I NFRASI HIJI:TURE AND HJfMAN RESOIHCE(S  D)XIVXXI)N
OPERATIO)NS EVAL.UJATION ):EPARTMENT
WORLD RANK
REFERFN(;F YOJR I.FITrNt OF 7TH JIJI.Y 1987 X lt)MMENl AS FO)LLOWS -
PARE  TV, PARAV'RAPH 4
THF ASXXISANt:E Ol- mvw xmm',1I TX0ONALIY WAl (;XIVEN BY A DEtvEl.OpMFNT
BANK (XTICX) AND NOt  'A CONIS.;LTANT' .
THF DEPAR1TJRI: OF rHF IlCC;X TEAM FROM Gi4ANA WA' NOTr DlE TO 'F::ON(OMXC
EVENTS' D11JT 'POt.ITI(AL EVENIS' .*rl1 yiwY THOUIHT IT WAS NOT SAIFF TO
LIVE XN GHANA IMMDIXATE.lY ArTER TrHE ))F:I*A)MDI:R 190t1 lJOOP.
THF PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK Wt)ORFNL:D XN THE F msr "Ai.F OF TU4: THIRD
HIGHWAY PRO.IFUt:T.  X  THERE WAS EVIDE3NCE IN XXXXX XMPROVViMENI DIURINE4
THF 'ND HiV.F DOTH XN ARREAR' POXTIXON AND) PROFITS.
AT PA(F By PARAG)RAPH 'F' UJNiIER TECHNICAL ASXSTSAN(Xr TtHE FXIGtURF
CANNOt rDF T'EN MAN--YEARS - XT MUts1- DE rEN MAN-MONTHS.
PARE H, PARAORAPH 2 24.
I-HF LAST PHRASE SHOULD READf-
TRADER MARK-IIPS ANII FEES FOR DHtC: PlANrT POOL I.l)D AND GOVERNMEiNT
(PI.EA4E),p NOTE THAI' THE PHYSICAL. STORA(iG  AND MANAhEMENT oF $PARE
PAkRT  Wh RF HANDLUD BY PIANI POOIL. ITD )
OSAFtO-MAAFO
MANAGI Nti I 1R(;IOR
BHtG - ACCRA
CC t  THr HONOURABLI.E DR KWESX BOTCHWAY
PNDl: SEUCRETARY
MINXSIRY O1 1)NANCF AND ECONOMIC PI.ANNUNO
LT, Co .* MENSAH-O)3EXJEMAH
PNJJtC XF ;ETARY
MINISTRY tOF RO)AAS  ANDJ HX:(HWAYS
MR HERDERT QU\AYNOR
CHXFF t XECITTVF
GHANA HGHlWAY ATHTNORITY



-29-
WORLDBANY MSS
ANNX
ZCZC F4:'0062 RCASS90                                                  Page 2
eAF4IN AF'GCO
REF . TCP FCt3
* AF'.IN $ 
TLX 2*'A23 Wf4ORLTD D
A-f, H.f:.                 ;ATT'r,     AtTTM C. T-TfART ,,:  ,
BFARVK. L4T.,tTh 1T    D..C
'4FID!tt:.AYIw',  .'4r               r, jA V
   $-.inJE^J '5.4P  t-ST0'uit F>i'.t. . ,^,!-t,t ,    tier ... ..-.^',.
T,;A Y;    . . 'R YE. U ETTEFR f-T JTI7;N!5   ..T 'T TA -E.
fD"1MrM  f?  r7           k -nrT. - 1  .  ',AI,--!T r    ! rp-. v Mi V.:r, CT?";r! T14hfiT
TT Tr! A FARZ  rA "c."T.CT2     - U"''',T  H1-E   'rrt -    T-FR'I
'      Y! W2Y iR(liECTD
:P,7w" Ir" ER r   r,iS 
PITC.   S C  TR . Y .K..        A.t:i
'PClD  FVRFTe4k   rt    1 raf4W  Aoimrt LtTLSV



NOTES
I                                  



IBRD 1488ER
BURKINA           FASO                         J. ;"'\
4,UPPER                                   EAST
f Z l rx 0 ~~ .                 NXr oo.~.t^7o EAS  f  ("LTtOUhgtQ
BOLGATANIA  Zu'SOr'  u "g A etioo  ___  _  RATA ,
R E C<3<;  N R. E G IO       ". 'i ./.
UPPER          ,)         R00 
,.'                                                              -.i RMIA*AI,,g  . (    
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -. AU..r.A t              QU-OAAV  e 
.WEST                                                        , ~ .AAf
) Y  r ~REGION     *
-e
A ,.
x^'5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7.,44. ft A'         *. Obr     f
j a   [rN0{  ~DowoVo                tmlS&-S/O                               
_      ^>O   ~~~~~R  T  H  E       N               )        b 0m    N            'o.*-*
X   \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*4~ A,'! '7s"  '  I  4-f\ \,
la"                  I    .     ra.',&,.
W0    <               g   ';d' )s't S                                     A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"A'-.',414A 70
>                               40(V 
..o.O ~ ~ ~ P
_                                 .   S( \- ST.    '              .oA- 'A
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Fo0 Rl- l
R     G   0 NI
3.                                                              ^                  k:
Jv.............................................. -!T '   9



