Document of                   FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2716-GH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR A
THIRD HIGHWAY (EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE) PROJECT
May 5, 1980
This document has a restricted disrHibution and ay be used by recipients only in the performace of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        Cedis (¢)
US$1                 2.75 Cedis
1 Cedi          =   US$0.36
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BHC  -   Bank for Housing and Construction
CIDA -   Canadian International Development Agency
GDP  -   Gross Domestic Product
GHA  -   Ghana Highway Authority
IDA  -   International Development Association
IMF  -   International Monetary Fund
KfW  -   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MTT  -   Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications
NIB  -   National Investment Bank
OSA  -   Omnibus Service Authority
PP   -   Plant Pool, Ltd.
SCC  -   State Construction Corporation
SDR  -   Special Drawing Rights
STC  -   State Transport Corporation
vpd  -   Vehicle per day
vkm  -   Vehicle kilometers



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GHANA - THIRD HIGHWAY (EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE) PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Ghana
Amount:              IDA Credit of US$25 million equivalent
Terms:               Standard
Relending Terms:    US$4 million of the proceeds of the credit would be
relent to the Bank for Housing and Construction (BHC)
at 12-1/2 percent per annum for 8 years including 2 years
of grace.
Projlect
Description:       The project aims primarily at reactivating the road
maintenance program initiated under the Second Highway
(Maintenance) Project, which virtually came to a stand-
still due to Ghana's severe shortage of foreign ex-
change, and at increasing the capacity of the domestic
trucking fleet to permit transportation of food and other
essential commodities. Specifically, the project would:
(a) enable Ghana to carry out for the next two years
routine maintenance on all public roads and periodic
maintenance on about 6,000 km of paved, gravel and feeder
roads by providing spare parts, lubricants, bitumen and
tools required for Ghana Highway Authority (GHA) and
private domestic contractors engaged in road maintenance;
(b) increase the capacity of private domestic contractors
and quarry operators to undertake road maintenance works
by providing equipment and related spares through a line
of credit to BHC; (c) enable remobilization of part of
the domestic trucking fleet by providing spare parts,
lubricants and tools; and (d) strengthen the institutional
capacity of BHC and the private domestic contractors
through technical assistance. The main project risk is
that project-financed spare parts and other supplies for
the private sector may be diverted from their intended
recipients. The project would attempt to minimize the
risk through pricing measures as well as involvement of
BHC in monitoring distribution and final use.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
US$ millions
Estimated Cost:                                     Local      Foreign      Total
(i) Spare parts, tires, lubricants
and bitumen for GHA                          6.22        11.70      17.92
(ii)  Supply and installation
of generators for GHA                        0.07         0.15       0.22
(iii)  Sub-loans for contractors
and quarry operators                         2.40         4.00       6.40
(iv)  Imports of spare parts and
materials for contractors
and truckers                                12.00         6.00      18.00
(v)  Technical assistance                         0.59          1.05      1.64
(vi)  Price Contingencies on:
(a)  Supplies for GRA                        0.79         1.98       2.77
(b)  Technical assistance                    0.13         0.12       0.25
TOTAL                          22.20        25.00      47.20
Duties and Taxes                        8.60           -        8.60
Project Cost (Net of Tax)                           13.60        25.00      38.60
Financing Plan:                                     Local        Foreign   Total
(US$ millions)
IDA                                         -          25.00    25.00
Government                                2.30            -       2.30
Contractors and Truckers                 10.90            -      10.90
BHC                                       0.40                    0.40



Terms of BHC's Sub-Loans:                 BHC sub-loans to contractors and
quarry operators, to finance
equipment, would carry interest at
18-1/2 percent p.a., and a commitment
fee of one percent p.a. Sub-borrowers
would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Amortization would be up to five years
including an average of nine months
of grace. The free limit would be
US$200,000 on individual sub-loans
and an aggregate limit of US$2
million.
Estimated
Disbursements:
FY1981      FY1982        FY1983
(US$ millions)
Annual                               9.0         14.5          1.5
Cumulative                           9.0         23.5         25.0
Economic Rate of Reti.rn:         In excess of 100 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:           None
Map:  IBRD 14888






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOIThENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA FOR A
THIRD HIGHWAY (EMERGENCY MAINTEITANCE) PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of US$25.0 million equivalent on standard IDA terms to
the Republic of Ghana to help finance the Third Highway (Emergency 11ainte-
nance) Project. US$4.0 million of the proceeds of the credit would be
relent to the Bank for Housing and Construction (BHC) for eight years includ-
ing two years of grace at 12-1/2 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report entitled "Ghana: Economic Memorandum" was
distributed to the Executive Directors in May 1979 (2345-GH). An economic
mission visited Ghana in October, 1979, and its principal findings are
incorporated in the following paragraphs. Basic economic data and selected
social indicators are summarized in Annex 1.
Basic Structural Characteristics of the Economy
3.        Agriculture is the largest sector of the economy accounting for
51.1 percent of GDP in 1978. Industrial production and services account for
17.2 and 31.7 percent respectively. Although Ghana had traditionally enjoyed
a fairly high standard of living compared with most other West African nations,
the growth performance of the economy in recent years has been uneven and
poor. In the period 1973-78 real GDP declined at an average annual rate of
0.4 percent, implying a decline in per capita income of 3.1 percent annually,
as population was growing at 2.7 percent. The per capita GNP is estimated at
US$390 in 1978.
4.        The most significant factor underlying Ghana's poor economic
performance in recent years has been the decline in the volume of exports,
which depend almost entirely on a few traditional export commodities--cocoa
(of which Ghana is the world's third largest producer), timber, manganese,
gold and diamonds, which together constitute 94 percent of exports. In
addition to contributing about 80 percent of the country's export earnings,
cocoa provides around 48 percent of government revenues and employs more than
20 percent of the labor force. Cocoa exports have declined substantially in
recent years due principally to low producer prices, inadequate rehabilitation
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report for Volta Region
Agricultural Development Project dated April 2, 1980 (Report No.
P-2762-CH).



efforts, and shortages of labor, imported inputs and transport equipment.
Aggravated by adverse weather conditions in 1975-77, cocoa output in 1977-78
fell to 271,000 tons, compared with well over 400,000 tons in the early 1970s;
in 1978/79 output fell further to 265,000 tons. Cocoa export earnings,
however, remained firm because of the high world market price for the crop.
Production of most of the minerals is stagnating, because of depletion of the
mineral ore reserves, poor transport facilities and run-down equipment.
5.        Near self-sufficiency had been reached in basic cereal production
with the "Operation Feed Yourself" program launched in 1972. But food pro-
duction declined due to the prolonged drought in 1975-77, and because of
inadequate support services and lack of fertilizers and inputs requiring
foreign exchange. Rising food prices have been an important component of
the high inflation rate. With improved rains,food production recovered to
some extent in 1978, and the indications are that this recovery has been
sustained in 1979.
6.        Manufacturing in Ghana remains heavily dependent on imported inputs.
Manufacturing contributed 14 percent of GDP in 1971 but this figure has
declined progressively to 10 percent in 1978 due to lack of raw materials
and spare parts caused by continuing foreign exchange shortages. Most plants
are estimated currently to be operating at around 20-30 percent of installed
capacity. This sector provides full and part-time employment to about 12
percent of the labor force.
7.        Traditionally, Ghana has imported its entire petroleum requirements,
mostly in the form of crude oil which is refined domestically and used chief-
ly as a source of fuel for the transport sector. Rising oil import prices
have resulted in crude oil imports absorbing an increasingly large percentage
of Ghana's export earnings, from 12.5 percent in 1978 to 25 percent in 1979.
Recently, some oil deposits have been discovered and commercial exploitation
has commenced. Production in 1979 has reached 7,000 barrels a day, equivalent
to about one-fifth of Ghana's oil requirements. Hydroelectric power meets
most of Ghana's non-transport energy requirements in the modern sector.
8.        Despite its economic problems, Ghana has in the past devoted con-
siderable efforts to development of its human resources. The education system
is well established, elementary education has been free and universal since
1962, and there has been considerable investment in public health facilities.
However, social infrastructure and basic amenities in the rural areas remain
poor: for example, only 14 percent of the rural population have access to safe
water and only 21 percent of the country's health establishments are in rural
areas.
Recent Economic Developments
9.        During the last decade the country's economic performance has been
characterized by a high rate of inflation, widening budget deficits and a
persistent foreign exchange shortage. This deterioration took place notwith-
standing a relatively good natural resource endowment and a significant improve-
ment in the country's terms of trade and has to be ascribed essentially to
poor economic management. There was a growing imbalance in public finances



- 3 -
due to rapid growth of budget current expenditures and slow growth in budget
revenues reflecting in part a sharp decline in cocoa production. Also, the
uneconomic operations of a large number of government enterprises have been an
additional factor contributing to the budgetary imbalance. Tax revenues
declined as a Droportion of GDP from 15 percent in 1974 to 8 percent in 1977,
and with lack of control over Government expenditures, the overall budget
deficit increased from about 6 percent of GDP to nearly 11 percent over the
same period. With virtually negligible external capital inflows, the growing
overall deficit was financed through an excessive reliance on inflationary
borrowing, mainly from the Central Bank. During the period 1971-77, money
supply increased on average by about 35 percent per annum. In 1977/78 alone
the money supply increased by 60 percent. With no significant increase in
production in the economy, the rate of inflation accelerated, reaching about
116 percent in 1977. In the management of the external sector, too, Ghana has
been afflicted by the adverse effects of continuing domestic price increases.
With the official rate of exchange fixed at 01.15=US$1 since February 1973,
the cedi came to be increasingly overvalued, providing a strong disincentive
to exports and encouragement to smuggling with consequential losses to the
country's official reserves.
10.       In June 1978, in face of an increasingly critical economic
situation, the authorities commenced a program of stabilization. A managed
downward "float" of the cedi was introduced, and in August 1978, a 58 percent
devaluation was implemented which changed the rate to 02.75 to one US
dollar. The devaluation was quickly followed with a tough budget for 1978/79
which aimed at drast:cally reducing the overall budget deficit. Other measures
included: a doubling of cocoa producer price from 040 to 080 a headload
(30 kg) to stimulate production; a 25 percent limit on the increase in money
supply in 1978/79; and tightening of credit.
11.       The outcome for the year 1978/79 shows that in the management of
its budget, the Government did make serious efforts to limit government
expenditures on both capital and current accounts which were kept at about
the same nominal levels recorded in the preceding year--representing,
therefore, almost a one-third reduction in government spending in real
terms. In revenue collection, however, the shortfall in FY78/79 was 0645
million, from an estimated total collection of V3,206 million. The
overall budget deficit for FY78/79 is estimated at 0981 million, compared
with the targeted deficit of 0738 million and with the FY77/78 deficit of
02,156 million. It is noteworthy that this is the first occasion in recent
years that Ghana's budget deficit has actually been reduced. Following the
reduction in the budget deficit, growth in money supply has also been
sharply curtailed--money supply increased by only 29 percent in FY78/79 as
against a 60 percent increase in the preceding year. The demonetization in
March 1979 which cancelled 0631 million from circulation also contributed
to limiting monetary growth.
12.       Curtailment of monetary growth, improved local food supplies
and the rolling back of prices between June and September 1979 under coercion
by the Armed Forces Revolutionary Council, which took power in June 1979,
have all contributed to moderating Ghana's inflation. After registering
a 116 percent increase in 1977, the consumer price index rose by 73 percent



- 4 -
in 1978 and by about 54 percent in 1979. Although this is a significant
achievement, the Ghanaian rate of inflation still far exceeds international
levels and the beneficial effects of the 58 percent devaluation of August
1978 have now been negated. The overall balance of payments in 1978 regis-
tered a deficit of US$72 million as against a small positive balance in
1977. The financing of the deficit as well as an increase in the reserve
position was made possible by allowing payments arrears to rise. In terms
of growth in GDP, the recovery initiated in 1977 continued into 1978 and the
indications are that it has been sustained during 1979. The cocoa crop in
particular is expected to improve with good rains and a further price boost
to ¢120 a headload in July 1979.
13.       In late 1978 the IMF approved a one-year standby arrangement
of SDR 53 million and Trust Loan Fund of SDR 25 million (totalling US$102
million) in support of the Government's stabilizatLon program introduced in
June 1978. As a mid-term review of progress under the standby arrangement
could not be completed by the IMF as scheduled in May 1979 because of
the military intervention at that time, Ghana is not eligible to draw the
last two installments of SDR 10 million each under the standby.
Prospects
14.       Ghana is relatively well endowed in terms of natural resources
and has the potential to achieve a rate of growth considerably in excess of
its performance of the last decade. The country's slow growth in revenues
and export earnings and the acute inflation have severely hampered economic
development; the restoration of economic stability is an essential pre-
requisite for Ghana to resume effective development. The measures on the
balance of payments and the budget initiated in June 1978 reflect an awareness
of needed policy directions. The indications are that the new civilian Govern-
ment which assumed office in September 1979 will continue to pursue the
program of stabilization and policy reforms initiated by the previous Govern-
ment. The Government has also indicated that its development strategy will
emphasize increased food production through assistance to small farmers,
rehabilitation of existing infrastructure, including mines and transport, and
support for manufacturing enterprises giving priority to those using locally
produced raw materials. However, the present acute shortage of foreign
exchange constitutes a severe constraint upon the Government's efforts to move
as quickly as the situation demands to increase production and generally
rehabilitate the country's existing assets.
15.       Ghana's growth prospects over the next few years will depend to
a considerable extent on constant reassessment and follow-up actions in
support of the objectives of the recent stabilization program. Key policy
measures should continue to aim at: (a) correcting the imbalance on external
account through a more realistic structure of prices and costs and the
maintenance of a viable exchange rate; (b) restraining growth in consumption
and reducing the strong inflationary tendencies associated with large public
sector deficits; and (c) promoting an expansion of domestic production (of
cocoa, food crops and industrial goods) through more appropriate price
incentives, support services and more assured supplies of necessary inputs.
Stabilization is clearly a formidable task and is likely to take time. On



- 5 -
the basis of the policy advances effected so far, and with improvements in
performance over the recent past, growth in GDP of 3 percent per annum
should be feasible. With sustained improvement in economic manage-
ment the economy is capable of even higher rates of growth. However, the
attainment of even a modest rate of growth will require that Ghana's own
efforts be supported by an augmented flow of external assistance to overcome
the present external resource constraint.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
16.       An agreement on a long-term rescheduling of Ghana's medium-term
external debt was concluded in March 1974. Under this agreement, all
payments due after February 1, 1972, in respect of pre-1966 debt obliga-
tions, will be paid over a period of 28 years, including a grace period of
10 years, at 2-1/2 percent per annum. Ghana's medium- and long-term exter-
nal public debt outstanding and disbursed at end-1978 is estimated at US$877
million representing 20 percent of GDP. The debt service ratio of public
and publicly guaranteed medium- and long-term debt was about 4 percent of
exports of goods and non-factor services and is expected to rise modestly in
the late 1980s after the grace period on the rescheduled debt expires in
1982. Arrears on Ghana's short-term debt increased from US$245 million in
1977 to US$489 million by end-1978. By January 1980 these arrears had
declined to US$453 million.
17.       Ghana is relying on official sources for the bulk of the external
capital required to support its development program, and relatively little
of its medium- and long-term borrowing is on commercial terms. As at end-
1979, Bank loans and IDA credits disbursed together represented about 20
percent of the estimated country's total public external debt. Service
payments on Bank loans and IDA credits in 1978 accounted for 26 percent and 3
percent respectively of the country's external debt service.
18.       The country's difficult economic situation and its vulnerability
to fluctuations in cocoa export earnings, make it desirable that future
debt service obligations should be kept as low as possible. Therefore,
IDA credits will have to constitute the bulk of Bank Group assistance to
Ghana over the next few years. This is also consistent with Ghana's rela-
tively low per capita income. At the same time, to ensure an adequate flow of
foreign exchange resources to the country it would be appropriate to finance a
portion of the local costs of projects.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANIA
19.       Since 1962, when the Bank Group financed its first operation in
Ghana, the Bank has made 10 loans totalling US$190.5 million and 14 credits
totalling US$124.3 million. Bank Group lending has covered power generation
and distribution, highways, agricultural development (including oil palm,



-6-
cocoa, sugar, livestock, fisheries and regional agriculture), water supply,
telecommunications and two DFC operations. Ghana is also a beneficiary of
a Bank-financed regional clinker project covering three nations (Togo,
Ivory Coast and Ghana). There are no IFC investments. The recent high
inflation in Ghana and the shortage of foreign exchange have adversely
affected the implementation of several ongoing projects. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of March 31, 1980 and notes
on the executions of ongoing projects.
20.       The principal objectives of Bank Group assistance to Ghana are:
(a) to support the adoption of economic policies designed to strengthen the
balance of payments and improve domestic demand management, (b) to help reha-
bilitate and improve capacity utilization of the country's existing assets,
(c) to stimulate agricultural and industrial production, particularly for
export promotion e.g., cocoa, and efficient import substitution, and (d) to
improve the country's essential infrastructure so as to relieve constraints
upon economic growth. The Bank Group is also supporting projects aimed at
raising the living standard of the poorer groups of the population.
21.       In line with the country's development priorities, future Bank
Group lending will place increasing emphasis on the agricultural and manu-
facturing sectors. In agriculture, a credit has been approved recently
which is designed to improve farm incomes and the standard of living of about
60,000 smallholder farming families in the Volta Region. This would be the
second Bank-financed integrated agricultural project in Ghana, following a
similar ongoing smallholder project in the Upper Region. Following the two
ongoing cocoa projects--one in the Eastern Region and the other in the Ashanti
Region--further assistance is contemplated for increased cocoa output to
strengthen Ghana's foreign exchange earnings. As a prelude to a third project,
a cocoa sector study is underway to analyze the present constraints to
increased production and to make policy recommendations for the sector.
Further Bank Group assistance to the sector being considered includes a
forestry project, currently under preparation, which would rehabilitate four
state-owned wood industries, improve port facilities at Takoradi, strengthen
forestry institutions and prepare a forestry and forest industries development
planning study.
22.       In industry, a second line of credit to NIB was approved by the
Executive Directors in May 1979. The project aims at stimulating increased
production and improved capacity utilization in priority manufacturing and
agro-industrial enterprises so as to expand the industry's contribution
to foreign exchange earnings and savings and strengthen linkages with other
sectors. This would be followed by a small-scale industries project, cur-
rently under preparation, which would provide financial and technical assist-
ance to small entrepreneurs utilizing local raw materials.



- 7 -
23.       In infrastructure, the proposed credit would provide urgently needed
foreign exchange to import spare parts, lubricants and equipment to reactivate
the country's road maintenance program assisted under the Second Highway
Project and assist in the remobilization of the trucking fleet to improve the
transport of foodstuffs and other agricultural commodities. Also a railway
rehabilitation project is being considered, which aims at strengthening the
finances and operations of the Ghana Railways Corporation and improving the
capacity of the railways for the movement of Ghanaian exports. A technical
assistance project designed to strengthen the Ghana Water and Sewerage Cor-
poration (GWSC), which had been assisted under previous Bank Group projects,
has been negotiated recently. Under consideration is an urban development
project which would seek low-cost solutions to Ghana's urban problems and
provide sites and services, infrastructural and social services as well as
urban employment in low-income areas.
24.       As noted in Part I of this Report, Ghana has experienced severe
economic difficulties during the last few years and there has been a low
level of Bank Group lending during the last two years. Continued improvement
in the Government's management of the economy will be important in determin-
ing the level of future Bank Group lending.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Introduction
25.       Compared with other countries in West Africa, Ghana has a relatively
well developed transport system comprising an extensive road network, a
railway, lake transport, two ocean ports and three major airports. Until
recently, the system has adequately served the country's needs. In recent
years, however, the country's macro-economic difficulties, especially the
shortage of foreign exchange, have severely constrained the capacity of
Government to maintain existing transport infrastructure. While the shortage
of foreign exchange has adversely affected the operations of all sectors, its
impact has been especially severe on the transport sector which depends on a
continuous supply of imported spare parts and supplies to maintain its exist-
ing facilities and to keep its vehicles and equipment operating. As a conse-
quence, the whole system has deteriorated sharply, and it has now come to
constitute a most serious obstacle to the timely flow of goods. In particu-
lar, the movement of foodstuffs has been badly disrupted, aggravating food
scarcities in the urban areas and fueling inflation; the evacuation of cocoa
production has also been adversely affected with a resultant loss in the
country's export earnings.



- 8 -
26.       Due primarily to a lack of maintenance, the country's extensive
road network (see para. 30) has deteriorated to the point where many of the
roads have become extremely hazardous to travel. Even on major trunk roads
linking the country's primary economic centers, such as the roads from Accra
to Kumasi and Accra to Takoradi, traffic is severely disrupted where sections
of the pavement are missing or blocked by numerous large potholes and by
flooding. The condition of the secondary and feeder roads is even worse;
truckers are reluctant to serve remote areas for fear of a breakdown, and
agricultural produce is not evacuated (see para. 40). Vehicle operating
costs on a large part of the road network are estimated to be almost double
those expected on good running surfaces. On many roads the deterioration has
progressed to the extent that, unless preventive maintenance work is carried
out urgently, expensive rehabilitation works will have to be undertaken.
27.       The country-wide shortage of spare parts and the resultant neglect
of maintenance has also been responsible for a sharp decline in the capacity
of Ghana's railways, which comprises about 1,300 km single-line system
carrying Ghana's bulk export cargo (bauxite, manganese and timber). For
example, the railways locomotive availability during 1977/78 went as low as
22 percent. A railway project is currently under preparation to rehabilitate
the system (see para. 23). The operation of Ghana's commercial port system
(comprising the main import and fishing port at Tema and the main export port
for timber, bauxite and manganese at Takoradi) has also been severely con-
strained by the shortage of spare parts and modern equipment. At the Tema
port, cocoa has been loaded by hand for three years because its cocoa loading
facility is broken. The shore handling equipment and dreiger are out of
operation at the Takoradi port for want of spares. Finally, more than 40
percent of the country's large motor vehicle fleet (see paras. 39-40) has
been immobilized due to the scarcity of tires, spare parts and operating
supplies. Given the already extensive investment in transport infrastructure,
considerable savings and increased capacity can be achieved by the infusion
of relatively small amount of spare parts and inputs in the sector, since the
transport system is presently operating at very low efficiency.
28.       The shortage of foreign exchange and rapid domestic inflation also
disrupted Ghana's transport investment program. Under the 1975-80 National
Development Plan, the transport sector accounted for 31 percent of total
proposed investments, of which 44 percent was destined for roads, 6 percent
for railways and 18 percent for ports.  However, the actual investments in the
transport sector were substantially reduced. For instance, in the road
sub-sector, actual investments during FY1976-79 were about ¢430 million
which represents around 7 percent of total investments compared with 13
percent proposed in the Plan.



29.       Two recent bilateral lines of credit have provided some foreign
exchange for the transport sector. The Overseas Development Ministry (ODM,
United Kingdom) provided a I20 million program loan in 1978, and Kreditan-
stalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW, Federal Republic of Germany), a DM35.5 million
in commodity aid in 1979. These two loans supported ports, the most pressing
needs of railways, airports, river traffic and Government-owned road transport
services. US$5.0 million equivalent also went to the Ghana Cocoa Marketing
Board (GCMB) which operates its own trucking fleet. However, no external
resources are presently available for road maintenance, or for privately-owned
trucking firms, which are the focus of the proposed project.
B. The Road Transport Sub-Sector
The Road System
30.       Ghana has about 25,400 km of classified roads, including 3,700 km of
primary roads, 8,600 km of secondary roads, and 13,100 km of feeder roads.
About 4,700 km are paved, and the remainder are gravel or earth surfaced.
There are an additional 6,000 km of village tracks and private mining and
lumber company roads. Traffic volumes are heaviest near Accra, tapering off
on the main roads to Kumasi and Takoradi to between 1,000 and 2,500 vpd.
Other trunk roads carry between 200-750 vpd, while volumes in the northern
two-thirds of the country are much lower. Traffic is estinated to have grown
at about 6 percent p.a. from 1970 to 1977, but appears to have stagnated and
even declined since then. This is because of the shortage of spare parts and
operating supplies which have immobilized a major part of the country's
vehicle fleet and brought the country's road maintenance program to a virtual
standstill.
Administration
31.      The responsibility for all public roads is vested in the Ghana
Highway Authority (GHA) which is an autonomous agency with its own Board of
Directors appointed by Government. GHA comes under the purview of the
Ministry of Works and Housing. GHA is organized into a headquarters and nine
regional offices, which are subdivided into 36 district offices. GHA is
adequately staffed and is considered a reasonably efficient institution,
capable of effectively carrying out a wide range of activities in the road
sector.
32.       Practical training of GHA's engineers is provided by a system
of staff rotation through the various branches of the Authority. Lower
echelon staff, such as technical officers, superintendents, foremen, and
mechanics are trained in the Authority's training school at Shai Hills,
which has a capacity of about 150 students. The Second Highway Project
financed a training program during 1975-79, which included the provision of
training advisors and equipment. Some 2,400 staff were successfully given a



- 10 -
variety of short technical training courses. Training is presently handi-
capped because teaching aids and workshop tools cannot be used because of lack
of electricity. Two generators are therefore included in the proposed project
in order to make full use of existing facilities.
33.       Funds for capital and recurrent expenditures are provided from
the Government's annual budget. However, almost no foreign exchange has been
made available for spare parts, lubricants, and bitumen during the last few
years, severely constraining GHA's operations (see para. 35). Local currency
allocations were generally adequate until the mid 1970s; thereafter rapid
inflation caused the real value of the budget to decline about 60 percent
between 1976 and 1979 (Annex VII), further constraining GHA and contractor
operations.
Road Construction
34.       Major road construction and rehabilitation works are carried out by
contractors under GHA supervision. There are at present 88 ongoing trunk
road and bridge projects. The completion of many of these projects has been
delayed due to the shortage of bitumen, spare parts for construction machinery
and cost overruns resulting from high domestic inflation. The Government has
therefore decided to reduce the scope of road construction activities and to
focus on projects with high priority. The Bank Group's First Highway Project
(Cr. 438-GH) included rehabilitation of 155 miles of trunk roads comprising
the Takoradi-Yamoransa-Mankesim road (73 miles) and two sections of the
Accra-Kumasi road (82 miles). Work on the Accra-Kumasi road sections has
considerably slowed down due to lack of bitumen and other imported materials.
The Takoradi-Yamoransa-Mankesim road has experienced a cost overrun due to
the need for additional earthworks and the effect of depreciation of the US
dollar. In addition, the contractor for this road declared bankruptcy in
January 1979. The Government has recently decided to complete 12 miles of
this road where works have started, using its own resources (see Annex IV
which describes more fully Bank Group's ongoing highway projects).
Road Maintenance
35.       During the late 1950's and early 1960's, the Government carried out
a major program of road construction. By the early 1970's, however, the
system had deteriorated into a generally poor condition, primarily because of
unexpectedly high traffic increases particularly of heavy vehicles, and also
because the maintenance program had become inadequate due to lack of equipment
and trained staff, and cumbersome funding procedures. The Bank Group's Second
Highway Project (Loan 1182-GH and Credit 594-GH) approved in 1975 was designed



- 11 -
to remedy the situation by establishing within GHA an effective maintenance
organization and operating procedures, training maintenance personnel and
providing equipment to GHA and private domestic contractors to execute the
first four-year phase of an eight-year (1975-1983) road maintenance program
(see Annex IV). Specifically, the Second Highway Project aimed at implement-
ing during 1975 79 routine maintenance on about 12,100 km of main roads and
about 9,700 km of feeder roads, and periodic maintenance on about 8,100 km of
main roads and selected feeder roads, with a view to achieving a fully ade-
quate level of maintenance output by the end of the eight-year program.
Routine maintenance was to be carried out by force account by GHA's regional
offices, while 75 percent of regravelling and 50 percent of resealing were to
be carried out by private contractors, and the balance of periodic maintenance
operations by GHA. Under the Second Highway Project GHA purchased US$12.1
million of maintenance equipment including a two year supply of spare parts.
Government was supposed to provide from its own resources foreign exchange
needed to import operating supplies and materials (lubricants, fuel, bitumen,
etc.) and spare parts totalling US$3-5 million per annum. In practice,
however, GHA was able to import only US$200,000 in spare parts and equipment
during 1977-79, and was forced to make do with the initial stock of spare
parts provided under the Second Highway Project. Fuel was provided except
during a temporary country-wide shortage in mid-1979, but other imported
supplies were not. As a consequence, a large proportion of GHA fleet is out
of service (on the average, about 40 percent) with the actual utilization
ratio varying between 20 to 50 percent depending on the type of equipment.
For instance, some 60 out of 130 serviceable motor graders and 74 out of 164
serviceable tipper trucks were idle in June 1979 for want of spare parts.
Also the government bucgetary allocations for recurrent local costs of road
maintenance have been inadequate (see para. 33). As a result, the execution
of the maintenance program was significantly curtailed: during the last four
years, an average of about 25-30 percent of programmed periodic maintenance
were carried out, and in 1979 much less. Overall the execution of the eight-
year road maintenance program is now two to three years behind schedule.
36.        GHA is an efficient organization, which was provided with suffi-
cient maintenance equipment and related support and successfully began to
implement its maintenance program in 1976. If the problem of imported
supplies could be resolved, it is expected that GHA would be able to increase
its maintenance output quickly to meet the most urgent needs of the road
sector. The proposed project, which would be supplemental to the Second
Highway Project, would provide necessary spare parts, materials and operating
supplies to keep the maintenance equipment running for the next two years to
increase the average maintenance output from the present 25-30 percent of the
targets set under the Second Highway Project to 70 percent. In order to
assure that the spare parts are procured and used quickly, the proposed
project would also provide technical assistance to GHA's central workshop.
The Contracting Industry
37.       Over 600 private Ghanaian contractors are registered with the Civil
Engineering and Building Contractors Association of Ghana. About 170 are
also currently executing GHA contracts for roadworks. Domestic contractors
accounted for 44 percent of all construction contracts awarded by GHA in



- 12 -
FY1978. In 1972 Government established the Bank for Housing and Construction
(BHC) 1/ a publicly-owned development bank, to provide financial assistance
for the development of the domestic construction industry. The Second
Highway Project included a line of credit to BHC for the purchase of equip-
ment for private domestic contractors; the aim was to enable private contrac-
tors to participate in GHA's road maintenance program. In 1975, BHC created
a wholly-owned subsidiary, Plant Pool (PP), as a commercially-run firm leasing
equipment to contractors. Plant Pool Ltd., which has become one of the more
successful companies in Ghana, operates a large fleet of vehicles and
equipment servicing contractors throughout the country. In general, Ghana's
domestic contracting firms are well managed, aggressive and capable of
undertaking greater volume of construction works. Contractors who were
provided with equipment under the Second Highway Project have made good
progress in preparation of their participatior. in the GHA's road maintenance
program and have already begun work. However, they have not been able to
operate at an adequate level of efficiency because foreign exchange shortages
prevented them from purchasing spare parts they needed to maintain their
equipment in good condition and to replace key pieces of equipment that have
reached the end of their economic life but were not financed under the Second
Highway Project. The proposed project therefore provides spare parts for
contractors' existing equipment as well as replacement for worn-out equipment
to enable them to carry out about one half of the periodic road maintenance.
38.       There are approximately 25 active quarry sites in Ghana.  CIDA
financed two mobile crushing plants for GHA. The Second Highway Project also
provided US$1.0 million through BHC for equipment and spare parts for three
existing quarries. Most recently KfW agreed to provide DM13.3 million
through BHC for two to three new quarries. However, very few are producing
on a regular basis due in part to the shortage of foreign exchange for spare
parts. The resulting scarcities of crushed stone have seriously affected the
maintenance operations of GRA and construction industry in general and
additional equipment will still be needed to meet road maintenance require-
ments. The proposed credit therefore provides funding for further sub-loans
through BHC to a few active quarry companies for additional equipment, spare
parts, explosives and other operating materials.
Road Transport Industry
39.       The motor vehicle fleet totalled about 96,000 vehicles in 1978,
including about 12,000 heavy trucks, 28,000 light trucks or buses; and 56,000
cars or taxis. The fleet grew at six percent p.a. from 1975 to 1978. The
road transport industry comprises government-owned firms, including the State
Transport Corporation (intercity buses and trucking) and the Omnibus Services
1/   The organization, management and operations of BHC are described in
Annex V.



- 13 -
Authority (urban buses), in competition with a well developed private sector.
The latter includes 8-10 firms with more than 30 vehicles, about 50 firms
with 2-30 vehicles, and several thousands of owner drivers. The private
sector operates in a generally market oriented framework, although it is
constrained by the inability to obtain spare parts for vehicles.
40.       Although precise figures are not available, it is estimated that
more than 40 percent of the road vehicle fleet is presently out of service,
due to the unavailability of tires and spare parts. For example, only 28
percent of the OSA's buses, and 60 percent of the trucks belonging to the
Cocoa Marketing Board (GCMB) were operable at end 1979. At the same time the
Private Road Transport Union, a labor union for the private sector, claims
that more than half its members' vehicles are out of service. This has
resulted in capacity shortages, especially in the North and in other rural
areas where spare parts are even more difficult to obtain and poor road
conditions increase the risk of a breakdown. A number of Government agencies
have responded to the shortage by building up their own truck and bus fleets.
These fleets are not professionally managed leading to low vehicle utilization,
inadequate maintenance, and the importation of a wide variety of vehicle
types which aggravates the spare parts problem. The shortage of spare parts
is particularly severe among the smaller private truckers, who are responsible
for most agricultural transport but yet have little influence over import
licensing decisions. Funds for spare parts primarily for small private
truckers are therefore included in the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The new civilian government which took office in September 1979
identified the extremely poor condition of the country's road transport system
as a major and immediate obstacle to its development strategy aiming at
increased food production and improved utilization of the country's existing
productive capacity. The Government has set the objective of concentrating,
for the next two years, on urgent road maintenance activities to keep the
roads open for movement of foodstuffs to ease the critical food situation in
the cities, and for evacuation of cocoa for increased export earnings. In
parallel, the Government also seeks to improve the country's road transport
capacity through proper repair and maintenance of the existing vehicle fleet.
While the Government states its intention, in its FY80 budget statement, to
increase foreign exchange allocation for importation of spare parts in support
of these objectives, Government's efforts are seriously constrained by the
country's severe shortage of foreign exchange. The Government has requested
urgent Bank Group assistance to help rehabilitate the transport sector.



- 14 -
42.       A joint Highways/IDF mission identified the components and appraised
the proposed project in November/December 1979, based on data collected by
GHA and BHC. A Staff Appraisal Report has not been prepared because GRA's
maintenance program was fully appraised under the Second Highway Project and
in view of the importance of providing a rapid response to the needs of the
sector. Details of technical data and analyses are recorded in the project
files. The credit was negotiated in London from April 2 to 4, 1980 with the
Ghanaian delegation led by Mrs. MIary Chinery-Hesse, Principal Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning.
Objectives
43.       The project aims at relieving, on an emergency basis, the most
pressing constraints affecting the road sector, in particular road mainte-
nance and trucking operations. The proposed project would permit the
importation of urgently needed spare parts, equipment, tools, tires, bitumen
and lubricants, in order to enable GHA to resume its eight-year (1975-83)
maintenance program, partly financed under the Second Highway Project, which
is now two to three years behind schedule because much of the equipment is
inoperable. The project would similarly provide through BHC spare parts to
the private trucking industry to repair vehicles and increase capacity. In
addition, the proposed project would strengthen BHC through further technical
assistance, to ensure proper and timely execution of the project, and
strengthen this important development institution.
Description
44.       The project would consist of implementing GHA's road maintenance
program during 1981 and 1982, and increasing the capacity of the domestic
trucking industry by about 75 million vehicle kilometers. The maintenance
program would include performing effective routine maintenance on all public
roads (25,400 km); resealing about 1,350 km; resurfacing about 250 km; and
regravelling about 2,600 km of main roads and about 1,800 km of feeder
roads. To carry out the project, the proposed credit would finance the
following components:
(i) Spare Parts, Tires and Lubricants for CHA: The backlog needs and
the 1981-82 requirements for GHA road maintenance equipment
would be supplied;
(ii) Bitumen for Resealing and Resurfacing: A two-year bitumen supply
would be provided for resealing and resurfacing operations
based on GHA's periodic maintenance program;
(iii) Generator for GHA's Training Center: Two three-phase 125 KW
generators, including a year's supply of spare parts, would be
procured and installed in the Training Center;



- 15 -
(iv) Sub-loans to Private Domestic Contractors and Quarry Operators:
The project would include funds for sub-loans to be extended by
BHC to enable procurement of equipment and related spare
parts for (a) about 16 contractors who are executing GHA road
maintenance contracts, but whose operations have been disrupted
because part of their equipment requires replacement, and
(b) about 4 quarry operators which are supplying materials for
the road maintenance program and similarly need to replace
unserviceable equipment;
(v) Special Import Facility for Spare Parts for Contractors and
Truckers: The proposed project would include funds, to be
administered by BHC, to provide spare parts, tires, tools
and lubricants for (a) about 45 contractors executing road
maintenance works for GRA; and (b) about 200 small private
trucking firms engaged in agricultural transport; and
(vi) Technical Assistance: The project would include a total of
about ten man-years of technical assistance to strengthen the
management and operations of BHC, to improve the operational
capacity of private domestic contractors, to assist in the
implementation of the Special Import Facility component of the
proposed project, and to strengthen the operations of the CHA's
central workshop.
Project Cost
45.       Total project costs are estimated at US$47.2 million including duties
and taxes of about US$8.6 million. The foreign exchange component estimated
at US$25.0 million represents about 65 percent of total project cost net of tax.
The local cost estimated to total US$13.6 million equi-valent net of tax com-
prises largely handling costs, trader markups and fees for BHC and the Govern-
ment. A summary breakdown of project costs is given at the beginning of this
report. The allocation for spare parts, tires and lubricants for GHA are based
on a sample inspection of equipment, and the estimate that operating equipment
needs 10 percent of its replacement value in spare parts each year. Bitumen
needs are based on the maintenance program, by which about 1,350 km will be
resealed and 250 km resurfaced in 1981 and 1982, and suppliers' cost esti-
mates. The cost of the generators are based on suppliers' estimates. The
cost of technical assistance is based on man-month rates of similar services
in Ghana. The billing rate for consultant services is estimated at an average
of US$8,000 per field man-month and includes salaries and overheads; other
expenditures, consisting primarily of housing and local transportation, are
estimated to total US$2,000 per field man-month. No quantity contingencies
are included because the project would primarily provide for stocks of spare
parts and operating supplies. Price contingencies for bitumen are based on an
expected inflation rate of 15 percent per annum in foreign costs and 20
percent per annum in local costs; price contingencies for other GHA supplies
and the technical assistance are based on expected inflation rates of 11
percent in 1980, 9 percent in 1981 and 8 percent in 1982 in foreign cost; and
20 percent per annum in local costs. Although the recent annual rate of
inflation in Ghana has been close to 60 percent, this is largely attributable



- 16 -
to increases in the price of food; a price contingency of 20 percent should be
adequate since the local cost component comprises largely dealer markups and
fees for BHC and the Government.
Financing
46.       The project cost would be financed as follows:
Local      Foreign      Total
(net of tax)
-------(US$ millions)-------
IDA                                 -          25.0         25.0
Government                         2.3           -           2.3
Contractors, Quarry Operators
and Truckers                      10.9           -         10.9
BHC                                0.4           -           0.4
TOTAL        13.6        25.0         38.6
In addition, the Government would finance the remaining recurrent costs of
the routine and periodic maintenance program, principally for salaries, wages,
fuel, and payments to domestic contractors. These are estimated to total
about ¢110 million (US$40 million) in FY1981, 0136 million (US$49 million)
in FY1982 and ¢161 million (US$58 million) in FY 1983, in constant end 1979
prices. This increase in constant terms is mainly due to the increasing
amount of periodic maintenance to be carried out between FY1981 and FY1983.
The Government agreed that it would provide in its annual budget, and make
available in advance of each quarter on the basis of GHA estimates, funds to
cover recurrent expenditures and payments to contractors. The Government
further agreed that it would review with IDA the adequacy of its road main-
tenance budgets for FY1982 and FY1983 not later than six months prior to the
beginning of the respective fiscal year (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.02). Also, the Government gave an assurance that it would provide
an adequate supply of fuel needed to undertake the road maintenance program
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02). GHA's requirements for
diesel fuel and gasoline are estimated to total 2.4 million gallons in FY1981,
2.8 million gallons in FY1982 and 3.2 million gallons in FY1983.
Project Execution
47.       GHA would have overall responsibility for executing the road
maintenance program. GHA would undertake all routine maintenance operations
and part of periodic maintenance comprising all resurfacing, about 25 percent
of regravelling and about 50 percent of resealing operations. The balance of
periodic maintenance would be carried out by domestic contractors. BHC would
be responsible for relending part of the proceeds of the IDA credit through



- 17 -
sub-loans to contractors and quarry operators. BHC, together with PP, would
also be responsible for administering, on behalf of the Government, the
Special Import Facility component of the project and monitoring its progress.
The technical assistance component of the project would be implemented by BHC
and PP, except that 12 man-months of consultant services would be provided
directly to GHA to strengthen the operations of its central worrahop and
to help expedite the implementation of the GHA components of the project.
The project implementation would start in mid-1980 and would be completed
by end 1982. In order to speed up implementation of the Special Import
Facility component, early recruitment of a procurement expert, to be financed
under the project, is required to assist BHC and PP. Retroactive financing
of up to US$50,000 is recommended to cover the estimated foreign costs
incurred after March 1, 1980 but before credit signing.
Procurement
48.       GHA Component:  GHA's immediate needs through end 1981 for spare
parts and tires, as well as its lubricant requirements for the period to June
1981 (totalling US$5 million) would be procured on the basis of limited
international tendering. Thereafter, GHA's requirements for spare parts,
tires and lubricants through end 1982 (US$3.7 million) would, to the extent
possible, be standardized and purchased in bulk under contracts awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding following Bank Group
guidelines, except that spare parts which cannot be purchased in bulk would be
procured on the basis of limited international tendering up to an aggregate
amount of US$500,000 equivalent. In all cases, the list and quantity of items
to be procured would be subject to prior approval by IDA. Bitumen, which is
estimated to cost US$3.0 million in foreign exchange, would be procured from
the country's only bitumen refinery under a negotiated contract satisfactory
to IDA. The generators for the GHA Training School estimated to cost US$0.15
million would be procured on the basis of limited international tendering.
49.       BHC Component:  Spare parts, tires, tools and lubricants for con-
tractors and truckers under the Special Import Facility estimated to cost US$6
million would be procured by local trading companies which would be selected
by BHC in accordance with the procedures set out in para 55 below. Inter-
national suppliers of major construction and transport equipment are adequately
represented in Ghana. The procurement of equipment for contractors and quarry
operators under the sub-loan component estimated to cost US$4 million would be
on the basis of limited international tendering except that contracts for
such items not exceeding US$200,000 would be procured on the basis of quotations
received from not less than three suppliers.
Disbursements
50.       The proposed credit would be disbursed to cover 100 percent of
the foreign cost of each project component as follows: (i) spare parts,
tires, and lubricants for GHA, totalling US$8.7 million; (ii) bitumen total-.
ling US$3.0 million; (iii) generators, totalling US$0.15 million; (iv)
equipment for contractors and quarry operators, totalling US$4 million;
(v) spare parts, tires, lubricants and tools for contractors, totalling
US$3.0-million; (vi) spare parts, tires, lubricants and tools for



- 18 -
truckers, totalling US$3.0 million, (vii) technical assistance for BHC
including related vehicles and office equipment totalling US$0.93 million,
and (viii) technical assistance for GHA including a vehicle totalling US$0.12
million. The remaining balance of US$2.1 million would be unallocated.
Technical Assistance to BHC
51.       The BHC, which would be responsible for implementing part of the
proposed project including the sub-loan component, was established in 1972 and
is one of three publicly-owned development banks in Ghana. It has primary
responsiblity for promoting and financing the building materials industries,
private contracting industries and public and private housing schemes. The
Second Highway Project included foreign exchange for a line of credit through
BHC to private civil works contractors (US$6.5 million) and quarry firms
(US$1.0 million) for the purchase of capital equipment and related spare
parts. In spite of operational and technical improvements introduced in
1977-78 and recruitment of competent staff, BHC's overall performance has been
uneven. In particular, financial management has been deficient. In 1978, the
Second Highway Project provided technical assistance to analyze and propose
measures to deal with the range of problems confronting BHC including inade-
quate control over banking, accounting and lending procedures, a high level of
arrears and a lack of organizational integration. The proposed project would
provide technical assistance and training to BHC based on the initiatives
already begun to improve BHC's financial management, operating procedures and
organizational arrangements. Specifically, the project would provide a total
of 6 man-years of consultant services comprising financial systems and report-
ing expert, a project appraisal and supervision expert and short-term consul-
tants in organizational management, accounting practices and various
technical/engineering fields. The proposed project would also finance 24
man-months of a technical consultant, based in BHC, to advise the contracting
industry on contracts, bidding and technical matters, and 9 man-months of a
procurement specialist to assist BHC and PP in the implementation of the
Special Import Facility component of the project.
Sub-Loans to Contractors and Quarry Operators
52.       The Government would relend US$4 million of the credit proceeds at
12-1/2 percent per annum to BHC to finance sub-loans for private domestic
contractors and quarry operators who execute GPIA road maintenance contracts.
BHC's sub-borrowers would assume the foreign exchange risk. The repayments to
Government by BHC would take place over eight years including two years of
grace. The conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to IDA
between Government and BEC would be a special condition of disbursement of
this credit component (draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 1, para
4). Screening of sub-borrowers would be undertaken jointly by BHC and GHA,
and BHC would conduct a full subproject evaluation. It is expected that about
16 contractors and four quarry operators will be selected.



- 19 -
53.       BHC's sub-borrowers would pay the maximum allowable interest rate
of 18-1/2 percent per annum, plus a commitment fee of one percent, thus
allowing BHC a six percent spread on its lending under this project. BHC
would retain four percent of the spread to cover administrative costs and
financial risk, with PP receiving two percent for technical services and
equipment storage related to hire purchase. Sub-borrowers would bear the
foreign exchange risk. The domestic inflation rate, around 60 percent in
1979, should continue to subside provided Government continues with its
economic stabilization program and in particular, curtails the size of the
budget deficit and growth in the money supply (see para. 11). The proposed
interest rate combined with the foreign exchange risk is considered adequate.
The interest rate would be subject to periodic review with IDA. The average
maturity of sub-loans would be three years for contractors and four years for
quarry operators, including six to nine months of grace. A free limit on
individual sub-loans of US$200,000 and an aggregate free limit of US$2 million
would apply to this line of credit totalling US$4 million (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 2.03).
BHC's Arrears
54.       Mainly as a result of weak financial management and, until recently,
poor project evaluation procedures, arrears have posed a major problem for BHC
(see Annex V, paras 13-14). BHC's calculations showed an exposure rate (percent-
age of portfolio affected by arrears) of 40 percent on term loans, largely due to
late payments of seven large industrial clients. Although the loan loss provision
and reserves amounting ti 010.7 million as of the most recent audit (June 30,
1979) are currently adeqiate to cover the absolute amounts in arrears of ¢3.2
million under the industrial term loan portfolio, given the present exposure rate,
these may not be sufficient and BHC needs to tighten up collection of arrears.
The technical assistance program under the proposed project would initially
concentrate attention on resolving the problem of arrears. In the meantime,
BHC has agreed to prepare, by December 31, 1980, an arrears collection program
satisfactory to IDA and implement the program to reduce, within a time period
acceptable to IDA, its loans outstanding affected by arrears of more than
three months to a level not exceeding 30 percent (draft Project Agreement,
Section 3.05).
Special Import Facility
55.       BHC, with Plant Pool Ltd, would be designated by the Government as
the administrator of the Special Import Facility. Trading companies which
import and service the most widely used brands of contracting equipment and
trucks, would be invited to submit lists and CIF price quotations of spare
parts and materials for which demand had been strong but unsatisfied. BHC
would select up to ten trading companies on the basis of the competitiveness
of the price quotations, the geographic coverage and capacity of service
facilities and the proper balance in the composition of spare parts and
materials the company is prepared to import. The selected trading companies
would be required to draw up a detailed import plan for those spare parts and



- 20 -
materials for the procurement of which they have been selected. The import
plan which BHC would conclude with each trading company would specify types
and quantity of goods to be ordered, schedules of delivery and a commitment
on the part of the trader to distribute and sell imported items only to
certified contractors and truckers. Each import plan would be submitted to
IDA for approval prior to implementation. The trading company would place the
order, provide BHC with the documentation, and BHC, through Government, would
submit the application with supporting documents to IDA for direct payment to
the foreign suppliers.
56.       The eligibility for assistance under the Facility would be limited
to contractors who are participating in GHA's road maintenance program and
trucking companies engaged in agricultural transport. Contractors and
truckers qualified to participate would be selected, and their use of spare
parts and equipment monitored, by BHC and PP. In selecting truckers, priority
would be given to small-scale operators owning not more than three trucks
(draft Project Agreement, Schedule 2). Individual contractors and truckers
would be assisted by BHC/PP in identifying their need for spare parts.
Participating contractors and truckers would first pay a fee of 65 percent of
CIF costs to BHC/Plant Pool at the time of being certified eligible to
purchase goods under the Facility. BHC will retain 10 percent, which will be
shared with Plant Pool as an administrative charge, and pay the balance
directly to the Government.  The contractor or trucker would then purchase
the authorized items directly from the participating trading company at the
official retail price, recently increased to 235 percent of the CIF cost. 1/
The end-user prices under the Facility would thus be equivalent to 300
percent of the CIF costs. The objective of the additional fee is to move the
price of the project goods further toward a level more closely reflecting
real values for such imported items in Ghana. Participating contractors and
truckers may independently apply to BHC for a working capital loan to purchase
specified items, if their cash flows are insufficient. Since the system
involves the importation of varied and large number of small items which
could easily disappear or be misallocated, PP would also maintain its
own inventory records of goods procured under the project and monitor sales
by trading companies.
Project Justification
57.       The extremely poor and hazardous condition of the roads in Ghana
coupled with the immobilization of a significant part of the country's
trucking fleet constitute a major impediment to economic recovery. There are
widespread delays in the movement of agricultural produce and other commodi-
ties and some goods are not transported at all and wasted.  This results in
significant loss of income due to foregone output and disruption of produc-
tion processes. Moreover, food scarcities in the urban areas have aggravated
the rate of inflation. By enabling Ghana to keep its roads open through
resumption of road maintenance activities and by restoring part of the
capacity of its trucking fleet, the project would have an immediate and
1/   The official retail price includes import duties, handling costs,
local insurance, storage and dealer margins.



- 21 -
substantial benefit of improved flow of foodstuffs and other commodities,
alleviating food shortages in the urban areas, increasing cocoa exports and
helping to restore normal production processes in other dependent sectors.
Other project benefits would include additional agricultural and industrial
output, avoidance of premature road reconstruction, savings in vtLicle
operating costs, time savings, accident reduction and institutional strengthen-
ing of BHC, GHA and the domestic contractors.
58.       Given the nature of the project, it is difficult to quantify
the overall economic benefits of the project, which are widely spread.
However, on the basis of the vehicle operating savings alone, the road
maintenance program, which accounts for 77 percent of total project cost,
yields an economic rate of return in excess of 100 percent, and a benefit/cost
ratio of 5:1. The calculation includes the cost of spare parts, operating
supplies and materials, equipment for contractors and quarry operators and
technical assistance as well as other direct costs of periodic maintenance
operations. The cost of salaries to repair equipment and GHA's recurrent
administration costs were not included as they would be incurred with or
without the project. Vehicle operating savings were based on estimated
average traffic of 750 vpd on paved roads and 75 vpd on gravel roads to be
maintained during 1981 and 1982. Representative economic vehicle operating
costs on good running surfaces were estimated to range from ¢0.55 per
vkm for a light vehicle to ¢2.10 per vkm for a heavy truck, and to be
70-110 percent higher on poor surfaces. All costs and benefits were calcu-
lated net of taxes and subsidies at end 1979 prices, and a shadow exchange
rate of ¢5.9=US$l was applied.
Risks
59.       GHA has done its best to make effective use of the very limited
foreign exchange resources it has received over the last two years and
is eager to avail itself of the possibility of building up its level of
maintenance activity through this project. Their endeavor could be hampered
by shortages of funds for recurrent local expenditures to match the foreign
exchange provided under the project; however, the Government has agreed to
provide the necessary level of funding and the mechanism to facilitate timely
release of local funds has been worked out (para 46). Wlhile the proposed
project would address the short-term needs, there is no guarantee that Ghana
will be able to sustain a proper level of road maintenance on a long-term
basis. However, this depends to a large extent on the measures to increase
the country's foreign exchange earnings, which would enable Ghana to sustain
road maintenance increasingly with its own resources. Another risk is that
the spare parts and other supplies for the private sector may be diverted
from their intended recipients. Strict PP and BHC monitoring of their dis-
tribution and final use, coupled with the proposed price markup that would
reduce the price difference between project-financed goods and the black
market would limit this risk, although some leakage cannot be excluded.
Finally, to avoid project implementation delays which could reduce the rela-
tive impact of the project in the face of a rapidly deteriorating situation,
the procurement mechanism has already been set into motion.



- 22 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Ghana
and the Association and draft Project Agreement between the Association and BHC,
together with the Recommendations of the Committee provided in Article V,
Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
61.       In addition to the features of the Development Credit and Project
Agreements whiclh are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of
Annex III,a condition of disbursement with respect to the BHC sub-loan compo-
nent would be that a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Associa-
tion has been concluded between the Government and BHC.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 5, 1980



- 23 -
GHANA
THIRD HIGHWAY (EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE) PROJECT
List of Annexes
ANNEX I                      Social Indicators Data Sheet
ANNEX II                     Status of Bank Group Operations in Ghana
ANNEX III                    Supplementary Project Data Sheet
ANNEX IV                     On-going Highway Projects in Ghana
ANNEX V                      Bank for Housing and Construction
ANNEX VI                     Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
ANNEX VII                    Capital and Recurrent Expenditures on
Roads (FY1976-79)



-24 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
TALE 3A
GNAIIA - SOCLAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GIAN                        .EtUCE CIOUPS (USTED ApAES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. Km. )                                              - MOST IEC'C  ESTINTE) 
tOtAL            238.5                                                 SAK          SAME    NZ  SIGHFR
AGCULTURAL       134.0                               MOST RECENT     GICRPIICC   INCOM         INCOME
1960 L     1970 h ESTIMaTE Lb       REGION j&   GROUP  d   GROUP a
GNP PER CAPITA (US5)                 200.0       280.0     390.0           306.1      467.5      1097.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGUMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     106.0       173.0     157.0            80.6      262.1       730.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPIATtION, MID-YDA  (MILLIONS)     6.8         8.6      10.6
OURAI  OpULATION  (PERCENT or TOTAL) 23.1       29.2      32.0           17.1       24.6        49.0
POPLATION PRoJ* O vS
POPLaION IN TYAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       21.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (EMLLIONS)                       57.0
YEAI. STATIONART POPULATION IS REACXD                2130.0
POPULATION DENSITY
PM SQ. Dl.                       29.0        36.0      44.0            18.4       45.3        44.6
PE  SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    46.0        63.0       79.0           50.8      149.0       140.7
POPULATION *GE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 nS.                         46.9        46.9      47.5            44.1       45.2        41.3
15-64 ns.                         51.5        49.5      49.5            52.9       51.9        55.3
65 TRS. AND ABOVE                  1.6         3.6       3.0             2.8        2.8         3.5
POPULATION GROVU RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             4.4         2.4        3.0            2.7        2.7         2.4
UU0II                             8.2         4.6       5.1             5.7        4.3         4.5
CRUDE BIRH RATE (PM THOUSAND)       49.0        49.0     48.0            46.3       39.4        31.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PQ THOUSAJD)      24.0        20.0      17.0           17.2        11.7        9.2
GROSS ICPIODUCTION RATE              ..         3.2       3.3             3.1        2.7         2.2
PAMIL  PLANINC
ArCCPTORS. AWUAL (THOUSADS)        ..         8.3      32.0
UISES (PERCE3T OF mAIED  Wo)    ..            2.0       2.1              ..       13.2        34.7
FOOD AND NUTLITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PE CAPITA (1969-71-100)         105.2       101.0      79.0            94.3       99.        L 104.4
PEU CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT or
REU0lIREM2iTS)                 89.0        99.0     101.0            89.5       94.7       105.0
PROTEINS (GRAMS P  DAT)          45.0        46.0      53.4            55.8       54.3        64.4
Or WI11CR ANIML AND PULSE        ..         10.OLg    16.3           17.9       17.4        23.5
CNILD (AGOs 1-4) MORTALITY RTE     36.0        29.0      23.0            22.3       11.4         8.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT JIT  (TEAS)    40.0         45.0      48.0            47.0       54.7        60.2
INFANT NORTALITY RATZ (PR
T3OSAN D)                         155.0       115.0        ..              ..       68.1        46.7
ACCESS TO SAP! wATER (PtCZlT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        35.0      35.0            20.3       34.4        60.8
URBAN                              ..        86.0      86.0            53.9       57.9        75.7
UAL                                ..        14.0      14.0            10.1       21.2        40.0
ACCESS TO ERzUQz DISPOSAL (PERCENT
Or POPUIATION)
TOTAL                              ..        55.0      56.0            22.5       40.8        46.0
URBAN                              ..        92.0      95.0            62.5       71.3        46.0
RURAL                              ..        40.0      40.0            13.9       27.7        22.5
POPULATION PM MSICWI            21000.0     12950.Oti 10200.0         17424.7    6799.4       2262.4
POPULATION PER NISflNG PERSON    2740.OjL   1070.0jl  860.0            2506.6     1522.1      1195.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL 8ED-
TOTAL                          1370.0       760.0     600.0           502.3      726.5       453.4
URlAN                              ''       770.0    440.0            201.4      272.7       253.1
RURAL                              ..       790.0    720.0           1403.6    1404.4       2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..        ..            23.4       27.5        22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF ROUSENOLD
TOtAL                              ..         4.7        ..             4.9        5.4         5.3
)3.AN                               ..         ..        ..             4.9        5.1         5.2
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..             5.5        S.5         5.4
AVERAGE SUMER OF PE95ONS PER ROOM
WTOAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..         ..         1.9
-U3RAN                             ..          ..        ..              ..         ..         1.6
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..         ..         2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             ..          ..        ..              ..       28.1        50.0
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..              ..       45.1        71.7
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..        9.9        17.3



25 -                                                       ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                Page  2  of  5  pages
GtSANA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SlEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (dDJUSTED ASERAGES
GHANA                          - HOS. RECE':T ESTIMATE)  a
SAMlE       SAllE     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME       INC011E
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP ?e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRDIMARY:    TOTAL                 c9.0         61.0       44.0             59.0       82.7        102.5
MA LE                 80.0         69.0      50.0             64.2        87.23       1d.6
FEMALE                39.0        53.0       38.0             44.2        75.8        97.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   3.0        11.0       50.0              9.0       21.4         33.5
MALE                   4.0         16.0      59.0             12.0        33.0        38.4
FEMALE                 1.0          6.0      39.0              4.4        15.5        30.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  13.0          23.0       17.0              7.0         9.8        11.5
PUPtL-TEACHER RATIO
PRL'ARY                            31.0         30.0       30.0             42.2       34.1         35.8
SECONDARY                            ..         17.0       23.0             22.9       23.4         22.9
ADLTLt LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        27.0/i      30.0       30.0             20.8        54.0        64.0
CONSUNPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          5.0        6.2              4.0         9.3        13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          17.0        78.0      107.0             44.3       76.9        122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           D.l/i       1.8        6.0              2.9       13.5         38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
iNTLREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   30.0        34.0       51.0              5.6        18.3        40.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA- 2.0           2.0        0.1              0.4         2.5         3.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LA8OR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      2700.0       3300.0    3700.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   40.2         41.8       41.6             31.9       29.2         25.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              63.8         58.4       54.0             77.6       62.7         43.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 14.1         16.7       19.0              7.9       11.9         21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                41.3         38.8       37.6             40.8       37.1         33.5
mALE                                  48.9        45.6       44.3             53.9       48.8         48.0
FEMALE                                33.5        32.2       31.0             25.6       20.4         16.8
ECONOtIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2          1.3       1.4              1.2         1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENt OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED ay
"ICGHEST 5 PERCENT OF 'OUSEtOLDS      ..          ..         ..               ..        15 . 2      20. 8
HICGHEST 20 PERCENT OF EOUSEROLDS    ..           ..         ..               ..       48.2         52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..         ..               ..        6.3          3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..         ..               ..       16.3         12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED AaSOLL'TE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      265.0            187.6      241.3        270.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      137.0             96.8      136.6        183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTt INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      152.0           138.4       179.7        282.5
RURAL                                 ..          ..      127.0             71.0      103.7        248.9
ESTI11ATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
PO7ERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..             34.5       24.8         20.5
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..            48.7        37.5         35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   'he adjusced group averages for each indicator are population-eighted geometric means, excluding the extrece
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability-of data and Is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
c    Afrtca So,th of Sahara;   /d  Lower Middle Income ($281-SSO per capita, 197b);   /e  Litermediate Middle
Income (S551-1135 per capita, 1976);   /f  1966-68;   at Registered, not all practicing in the country;
ih  1962;   Ji  The rate is for ages 6 and over;   LI  1964.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



Notes;   lthoughthe dat  ste drse feenourcesgeneralyooroeceireIC                                       collecinggthedata. Teppage
tL__              t.d.             d     f- ~ .go..lyjudgad the meet  uthoritatire ed rel-iable, it should .als  he noted that they my not be                           oft-  5
tRnalyo     lra1   b-oans  of the lank of standardIsed definitions and onunept. used by oiffeesn                                                         are, senetthhetl.es.e,t
useful to di.scribe orders of   ntd, indicate trends, sed charaterice cetanapo  differneshenenconris
The  dJ.ute,, gpnvssae     ro, .-,h indicator arepplation-esighted geometric  mean, e-o.dlng the ectres niIes of the indicator end the most ppimlted
trysijlsIi9'j           ..TTi  to lank of data, group arages of all indicators for Capitol Surplus Oil E.oprtere and of indicators of Ace..s to Water sod Eborta
iPosI,  Hosn,          -cm  Distribution and Pverty for other cuostry groups ar  ppolatlc-neIglted geomtrio mean   ithout e..elusio  of the exrm    ale   c
the motppoplated coutry.aSnetr  oese  foutries amog th  indlatra deedsc  n-ilablity of data and is not ocora  cation aun  it eeroinr
inreltg  vrrof on7nlatrt   nthr                         -hs  orrgese motiy usful no appro.m_tion.s  f"rooe   ouo- aenoea                            tic  .eles Of one
ind1.honcc Si a tine anen  tie ooutry -ed referene groups.
iAM AREA (thousan.d sq.hsi.)                                                              Acces  to      Diortndic-si (erro-t of peootio-tta,unnsirri-
Total - Total surfe are  compising lnd  -re  sd inland eaes                                hnke.r of  -people  total,  rban, on     e)crvdiyeoet  ipsln
Agricuturl - hos.t rbeet ectoate of agrbcot-rl sce  ned tecocraily                       percetages of their repective populativos  Zocreto diopoo..Isoy iIodid
orperannt ly for  -ePo, Patrs.aket end ditchec gardens or to                          ticocloooond disposal., ccit  or  ithout treat-tc             f teas  escrto
lie faio.                                                                               nod caste-tace  by sane-born  systems or the  -s  of c-it primes and s e
iO? PS? CAPITA 11U04) - SteP Per capita estimates no curent maket prices,                 P     intio  per Pbysliai   - Ppulatico dIvided by nuber off praeoc.a  onytocana
"""Elaiit'ie"iPby       onversion method as Wrld Bank Atlas (1975-77 hauls);               qulfe    o          edclcho.l at universty 1c-I
l~,1970, and 1977 data.                                                              Popoltioc per Nusig Perso  - PpUatic- ddrided by outer ci practicingsl
sIWMoYCIODIMPrilePh  CAPITA - Aneea. cnsmyif or o erbial energy                        and female graduate  -uSes, praotial nuss,ad assistant cures
(coalr andligniote, etroLeu, natural gas and hyd-, nucea  and gao-                       Pnpslatia   hrFospital Bed - ttal, urban  ani rura  - Population  total,  c-bce,
theraIl.     r.;p in kilogram  of coal equlenlet per capita;                              en6  d rua,divided by their respective   ut- of hosp Ital lees aeilable in
1970, end 1976 data.bI.-    r-..r1   db.pt1-                                                                                                                              ...
HospitaLs are  stahlisbaants peranently staffed by st ie.st one physici-n
POPrATIOnN ADE  VITAL STATISTICS                                                            Smntabiisnts, providing pisci pay cutodial car  ar  cot included. Ou-l
totl  c~itTcT9y~7llins   - s  f ulyi;l~, 170  ed                                hospitals, ic-ev-, iolude' helto end medical centers oct permanently utaffed
i97 dta                                                                                 by a pbweicie   hut bya meia -sistant, surs, aidaife, etc.) ohi-ooftr
Srhan Populto  ;ervet of total) - batic of urban to total popseitio;                      in-patient aecadation end pr-id. a limited rsage of medicab           acltis
different lefloitiun   of urban area  m   affect comparbility of data                 Adml-ssicas per bsical Bed - Total cuter of adalions..  to or dis3oarges C -
sang cutis  li, 1970, and 1975 data.                                                    hospioul  dved by the cankr of beds.
pomssition in yer  Ow  - Curret popultion projections ar  basd o                   HWlSI
1975 total popu-latio  by ag  and sea ens their, mortality and fertility           A-crue Dice of H-uehId (esa  per household) - tota.1  rban, end rora  -
ra.tes. Prjectica parmters for mortality yates comprise of three                     A bhu.ebId ocaistc of a group of individuals oh  share liiag qartero and
level  assumig life e-pctancy at birth incrasng with coutry's                        their asI  meals.  A boarder or lodger may or ma sea he Icludee oc the
Per capita become  evei, and female Life eapstsny etbiliiag at                        ocusehod for  tstaistical perpo..eS.
77   ye-re.  The parent.re for fertility rate also have three  leveI               Averse cater of persona per roo  - total urban, end rura  - Ac'ag  ,anhr
asounlo  decline Is fertility accodIng to incom- leve  ad past                        of persona per roce in sli oha, and rura  occupied  --vetons.ldee1iiigs,
family   -ianig performnc. Eack ontry is then assigned one of these                   reapsoti-el,  ma,lings e_clde obb-pe-eoeet struture  and unoccupied pens-
sins ociaia    fmraIyadfetlt   rnsfrpoeto                                          Access cc Rieotri-ty  ~peret of dwellings) - ttl,uban   .sd rurl - Co-
purposes.-i-I    r~iy-    etiiyt-.frp..t.                                             'vent iona  dse.lings sith  Ieletricity in livin   qcaoer  ac pereetage of
Staticsypmlto             nasainc    oslto  then  is no growth                          total, urban, end rural deelngs res pecticeiy-
sinc  th  birh rte ho equal to the death rate, and also theag
otructure  -nics o-otant. This io ahievd only  fter fertility rates              HDUATTICS
ciecibor tc the replaemet kneel of unit cot reprduotioc rate, oboe                 Adlted ELrilmeot Hatios
cetgencratiot of roe  repiec    itself scatly.  The stationary  pop-                frtay occol   totl, mle ad fenae-Gos   ca,  oeed  'si  et-'l-
isin   o  ca"simatd oo the haul  of the projected oharae  Itri-oo                    eto   l    cnotepiaylvla  pc-entagro  'f  ---etetoarc-inr
of the pocu-looo  io tie yescr 20.   ao ti e rate of decline of fertility              cobo-a.ge ocotol-nioc; normaly includes oholre  aged t-kY-a'   u
r-ct   epncnt leel-ojut   fc- different laogths of primar y edu-ni-o    rootosut
Year otatiot.. y oopclutioo is resobed -       y1 ear "hen stationay population           unvrsl        -coti-o ec.-Lnet say e..eed kid p.cen  or. to -cm  oupilo
dcc tso here reached.                                         Ore inito  or cl~~~~ove t,he official school age.
Popultion  ~ lesty                                                                        3-ooiav  ocicel   total sae  n  female- Competed as above; oecooa-,
Per no. on. - Mid-yea  rop.Istion per oun-  nilomet-e (li0        ctre)  f                 iualnreqca   at. leas  fuyerof ap-r-coonr   cocu  1
total sees                                                proocies general vocational, o~~r teochr training lo-truti-o  for Pupolo
Ra se. en. agicultural lane - Competed no atov  for  arcutra            -ed              uesly 'ofi2t.o  11 yours vf age; o--ap-ndene oc--s  -r  generlly
cely.                                                                                   enoluded.
Poumuio  s ito      -ua   sr t)-Cide   0i  year), sor-in-age                              Voatioal enrollmet  ~percent of secondary)- Scai -a Int                   ituoc   c
1i5-hi4 year), end retiree '5 year  sd ovr) as percentage  of mid-year                   technoa, industrial, or other program   obich operate lodepeodoolOra
poultin   ibs  1075  and 1977 data.                                                leparats of secodary ioti tticas.
Poe=ato  Arneh Pate  pvet     oa    A- Ana esoth rates of total mid-                      Popil-teaher ratio - primay  end secesed     - Total student  enrol~le o
year ponsacicos for 15-60, i%-t,ad 1970-77.                                               peian-y sad oaoocdsvy lea         ivie ,   bbyone-s o.-t-ene-s it the  cc-c-c
Poocition Growth Pt   yre~-rco-Annua geet  rates of ura                                      pond-eg Ino.l.. 
Crude RitthR Once opcr toceood)"    Anneal lice birti  per tlusano of sod-                  a  etectag   of total adut pvpu.latlc aged 15 years  -e  ove.
yerppsinun   pd  i970, an 977 ato..
Crude Death Pete 'per thousand) - Annua loathe per ticosad of nlya                    CSi5DTSIfIM
popuaton 9bOS. 1975. ace i977 data.                                                   Pacoenner Casper thousan  popltico     Pseae  cro ~coprise actor car
RrssHpr.ceoti-c Rate-Ices-ge oubie  of daugoters a na   ill bear                       ennn  less  he  sight pers..cs; e-lades ab-aos,hare  and rilit-ry
isher -cr   reproducive period if  nbeopracspesn-g-vhicles
opecfi  fertility rates; ucully-r-ya          _erge  endig is ib0,                   'Radio  ec.o.'..ooc .ad P.omlation) - All ty-pes of' ve-i-es foe c-su
PROS, ned 1975.                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~broadonots to general pubLic pee th-essad ofpouti;ecuesnlese
Lamel  PIanco   Accepors onal"housnds  - OceAl comber If                                 reevesincutries and Isyear   nnrgi ot-tioc of radio cetansi
ucceptors of tirti-coot   -oi         ne   op4-e  of national  fanly                    cffect; Inns for recent pear  may not be comparele so-  most countriec
Piseig  rcra.                                                                           hoihed lIcensing.
PamilyPianeno - Seers'corono ofmarc-ed ocns?  -Percentage of mar-nd      CPsecar    artounp             coplaIon  -TV  eevr  foe rcaca t  general
coeIf child-beaig-      a,Sl.yss   A  one li-.l tocoel devices                      po _opr gtosn  potoaio;  cluesuliene  71p receboe   in  conrIes
no all1 maried n-e  ic smage grop.                                                      and in years ohe. reitato If OV sets san ieffect.
Dome oT rood             1969-71-lid) ~~~~~~- Indec of oner caIt            de-ted permaril  to racerdiag general ces.It iscnid-rd so be "dily'
annua  prod-ctin of aLl fond o-ditie-  Production enludes seed adi   tapase  en   ortm       ek
feed and is cc calendar year basis.  Cmosditisa cone primar  goode .aAna   tedneorCpt   c   at-Bsdi  i   uiro  ikt
e.g. ou -an  instead of suga) shick are edible ane scntaio outretent                  sod lrn   h   er   oldn   dlaoat   rv-nonms dmbl
~  ofe an  tenar  eacldd).  Aggregate production of enobco-noy                    units..
is based on national overag  producer priceisihs
Per apI   -sucly of calries  ~pmrent of  eoleet)-Compted from                      LApc FRHCT
oneagy equ-lva t of beet fond suppllee a-ilable in ocuatry per capita              To.tallabor Porba $thc-ad) - Econmically acive pesos,cluding armd
per day.  Aenliabi  supplies comprise domestic peodstion, im,ports lass               Tocsad unemployed tot encledlg  hueivs tudents, eac. Gfcob
eprte,sad chage   in  tock.ilec supplie aloda anima.l feed, - seds,                 Isc-nu   ounroes are notcoprbe
quanitie   usd in fed prcesig, sad lese   o  disoriution. Reaire-                  Peale  Denset) - Peals labor forc  as pmeretage of Itota  labor fre
ote were estimated bly FAO hesd onpyscagcl  eds  for eml.                          AgbLitoo-  eec-tent) - Lnhr forc  is frsing, foretry, binning acd
ancivity and health considering evrestltemperar, Ohy seights,                         f~isog as percetage of total iaher force.
agetand sr  diotributltos of  oplatoon, and s11oeIng 10 percet for                 Industry  pere-eat) - Lahor force in  -itn,eoaoticn, enfet-rng and
cat  ct hoscod      -evl                                                             eletricity, enter sod gas a  percetage of total labor forc.7
Per oeit. supply of protein  cars cer e '   Protein content of per                    Prio tc  Sate (percent, - total, male sad fnale - Particbipation  r
..pita set o-pply of feod per lay. Net supply of Toad is d.fied as" s tit  c-noe  are  ompsted as total, sml, and fonle laker' foc  no  e-
love.RHquivesets for .l  -tunrnas estnklisbed by UPM  proide for a                     -etages of teoul, ale  and female  poplation of all ages respectively;
ednima  ainne of 60 gram  cf total1 protein per day sad SO gram  of                   1960, 1970, and 1975 data.  These ar  DIs participation  -noes reflecting
anial end pulse protein, of  hciot ii gram  siculd be sodmal pgtlne-se  s-trutr  of the population, and long ntne trend.  A -e-rtnate-
These  tandard  ar  loser than thoseof 75 grem  of tonal protein end                  ore from ctotlealsorcs
23 gras of anmlprotein as an overge for tie enrd, proposed by PAO                  tHemic Depaday Ratio -  Hatl.otf population under 15 and 65 end over 0.0
nheThI.   reclA Food Sure.                                                          ti ao     .freo  age group of 15-64 year.
Per cait prti  5 pply fr.. animal sd plse - Petnin supply of food
derived fro  anml  an   use   ngrm    a  Say.                                     MOM DDBTNINJTIt
Child (gs1          otlt dae)Artosn) -.Anua  deaths per th.osand                        P`e`etage of PrivaeI c    eki   ahadcld       eesd0   ihs
inag  groop 1-4 year,  nolde   bctis age g-etp; for most dm1I-                        5 persat, richest 10 psta, poorest S0 parcent, and poorest nO peocent
opnng v-tr-e  data dc-ic-ed fc-s  life tablls.                                          of hb-usslds.
HFAITH                                                                                  POVEThY 7APRGT 550070
lif  hipecenr atdioh yers -:   -vrae  uae  of Years of life                       Eimtlatd Absointe Poverty inom  level  USdB  -c oni)-uhe                dn c-ti-L
c-e.oLogt birch  1          17,Ie  17. data.                                            Aisl.eportinmelvl"                iokt  icm   ee   eotsinaa.os
Infat bMortlity Hauc 'or tto-an'  -  nnul deths of ifants under                            _, n trotiocaly sdecpsto  die o ples easeno.1 not-food requic-e t  ;s cot
yerof age per thousan  lire tibrc.                                                    affrdanle.
toes  o  af   ine  peco   fc eate .otluban, and rura  -                                 isolated Relative Povrery ic   ee   LPS prpcaDts -  -I-e end .uu
Sombr of Peni   oa,ura,adrrl1c                      esnble  _          tc .              ara.I reltive poery laces leeI        i   aetir   f       -vrge par capJo
safe ester suppl ncue  traed surface saters or marate.d Hon                             permona  incm=    f ton  -ounry. 'Ib-ha  leve  is SArni-d fro  ttsa  -tera  lece
M.-noss-nted enter such us than fro  protestec corehees, spring,                        sickth  uemetfor higher -st of l1ivig :0 urbanaes
and o_ntar7 eals) as   -cetagas of theoc  respetive populatoons. In                   EtmtdPcioc   ar   bouePoet  noelvl4ret     ra   a
en urban area a public fountain or susps  lanatd met mer then 200rsa.-Presofpplto   uonad  ua;cnaeaslt  poor.
meter  fro  a h-.s  my be voasidrcd as  miag  ithiaresnbeass
of tbto h-u..  in rura  ara    -asbahe accds  masud imply that the
hoauseefe or Sers  of the housallo  us an have so spen  a diwaer.-mic and Social  atin Division
tlcnte part of the day on P etbla  abs aSp'sy-  rais  aede.                                                               Meoseic Anaysis and Pooletons Department



-27 -                             ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
GHANA: ECONOMIC DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1978: US$390
ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                            (Z, cons.,It prices) 1/
Cedis Mln.     %                    1970-76
GNP at market prices            6575         100.0                  0.3
Gross domestic investment        641           9.7                  0.8
Gross national saving            484           7.4
Current account balance          -39           0.6
Export of goods, NFS             896          13.6                 -6.6
Import of goods, NFS             794          12.1                 -2.8
OUTPUT AND LABOUR FORCE
Output in 1976            Labour Force, 1970
Cedis Mln.       _              Mln.        %
Agriculture                     3300            50.3          1.787       57.2
Industry                        1254            19.1           .485       15.3
Services                        2003            30.6           .861       27.5
Total                           6557           100.0          3.133      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
------------Central Government------------
Cedis Mln. % of GDP      Cedis Mln. % of GDP
1976/77                  1977/78
Total revenue and grants               1106.3       10.4        1382.          7.0
Total expenditure and net lending    2228.0          1.0        3538.6        17.8
Overall deficit (-)                  -1121.7        10.6       -2155.7        10.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1972  1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  1978
(Million Cedis Outstanding End Period)
Money and quasi money                   563   686   853  1138  1582  2286  4910
Bank credit to public sector            555   515   670  1245  2006  3227  5659
Bank credit to private sector           186   178   222   312   395   572   751
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and quasi money as % of GDP        20    20  18.3  19.7  16.9  13.9  19.6
General price index (1977 = 100)       16.4  19.3  22.8  29.6  46.2 100.0 171.5
I/ 1976 is the last year for which constant price data are available



- 28-                        ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                              MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-78)
1976   1977   1978
(Million US$)                        US$Mln.    %
Current balance            -34.3  -79.8  -53.9  Cocoa beans           498.8    61.7
Trade balance             88.8   29.4  112.7  Cocoa products         77.2     9.5
Exports                  799.0  889.6  894.6  Timber logs            47.2     5.8
Imports                 -690.2 -860.2 -781.9  Timber sawn            23.1     2.9
Timber products       4.4      0.6
Invisibles (net)          -123.1 -109.2 -166.6  Gold                   69.6     8.6
Services                  -149.8 -167.8 -221.1  Diamonds               11.1     1.4
Transfers                   26.7   58.6   54.5  Manganese              14.0     1.7
All other goods      63.3      7.8
Capital accounts           -84.5   83.7  -18.3
Official, long-term        7.6   64.3   52.6  Total                 808.7   100.0
Private, long-term         9.9   33.4    5.5
Private, short-term 1/  -102.0  -14.0  -76.4  EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1978 (EST.)
Overall balance           -118.8    3.9  -72.2                               US$Mln.
Public debt, incl.
Gross international                                guaranteed
reserves (end of period)  103.5   89.3  153.3  Total outstarding
and disbursfd M&LT          877.0
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                 DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978
February 1973 - June 18, 1978
US$ - 01.15                             Public debt, incl.
guaranteed
Since August 26, 1978                            Total outstanding
US$ - t2.75                               and disbursed               3.4
IBRD/IDA LENDING,(Dec.31, 1979)(US$N1.)
IBRD   IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed  92.8  90.6
Undisbursed               74.1  31.9
Outstanding incl.
Undisbursed           166.9 122.5
I/ Includes errors and omissions but not current payments arrears.



-29 -                        ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BAIIK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1980)
Loan or                                                          US$ million: Amount (less
Credit     Fiscal                                                      cancellation)l/
Number      Year   Borrower                Purpose              Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Three loans and seven credits fully disbursed                   56.5   42.2
205-GH      1970  Republic of Ghana   Cocoa Rehabilitation              8.5          *  4/
354-Gil     1972  Republic of Ghana   Sugar Rehabilitation             15.6          1.1
438-GiH     1973  Republic of Ghana   First Highway                    13.0          0.2
499-GH      1974  Republic of Ghana   Second Water Supply              10.4          0.5
500-GH      1974  Republic of Ghana   Livestock Development             2.0          0.7
531-GH      1975  Republic of Ghana   Oil Palm                         13.6          9.3
901-GH3/    1979  Republic of Ghana   Second NIB                       19.0         19.0
1122-GH     1975  Post & Telecom-       Telecommunications    23.0                  16.0
munications
1180-GH     1975  Republic of Ghana   National Investment
Bank                   10.0                 1.8
1181-GH     1975  Republic of Ghana   Ashanti Cocoa             14.0                 7.0
1182-GH     1975  Republic of Ghana   Second Highway            18.0                 6.2
1291T-GH2/  1976  Republic of Ghana   Agricultural Devel-
opment                 21.0                12.4
1380-GH     1977  Volta River           Kpong Hydroelectric
Authority                                    39.0                23.4
1381-GH     1977  Electricity Cor-    Third Power
poration of Ghana                             9.0                 2.0
Total                                      190.5  124.3          99.6
of which has been repaid                     24.8    1.8
Total now outstanding                      165.7  122.5
Amount sold                   0.4
of which has been repaid    0.2               0.2
Total now held by Bank
& IDA                                      165.5  122.5
Total undisbursed                            68.8   30.8         99.6
1/  Prior to exchange adjustments.  A US$29.5 million IDA credit was approved on
April 22, 1980 for the Volta Region Agricultural Development Project.
2/ Interest subsidy fund (Third Window).
3/ Not yet effective.
*4/  US$36,279 remain undisbursed.



- 30 -                       ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6 pages
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 500       Livestock Development Project: US$2.0 million
Credit of July 26, 1974; Effective Date:
flay 4, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Because of unanticipated difficulties in acquiring necessary land
and cost overruns resulting from high local inflation, the Executive Directors
approved a revised project description in August 1976. The project now
includes: (i) development of two commercial ranches for 4,000 head of cattle,
(ii) credit for 20 private livestock producers, (iii) the preparation of a
follow-up project and training for ranch managers. Revised project foreign
exchange costs are estimated at US$2.3 million. Improvements in management
performance and some physical development were noted until early 1979.
Uncertainties during the last year however have delayed action on completion
of much needed water supplies and GLC has purchased unsuitable cattle for
one of its ranches. Mlanagement is again a problem. Together these factors
are affecting the viability of GLC and these issues are being discussed with
GLC to find a satisfactory solution.
Credit No. 499   Second Water Supply (Accra/Tema) Project; US$10.4 million:
Credit of July 26, 1974; Effective Date: January 7, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This Project is being cofinanced with CIDA and ADB. Although
execution of the Bank-financed component is substantially complete, overall
implementation is expected in end-1981, about three years later than origi-
nally envisaged, because the civil works on the treatment plant and the
pipeline is experiencing delay due to the country-wide shortage of building
materials and the problems of the contractor. While foreign cost component is
within original esti-mates, the local cost component has more than doubled. Due
to prevailing high inflation, the effect of the 100% tariff increase of July
1977 has been eroded and further tariff increase and other local funds are
needed to complete the project and maintain the financial viability of the
project entity.
1/   These notes are designed to inform, the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in enecution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -                      AIINEX II
Page 3 of 6 pages
Credit No. 531   Oil Palm Project:  US$13.6 million Credit of MIarch 5, 1975;
Effective Date: June 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
Planting program was behind schedule in December 1979 by about
600 ha (from 2,000 targeted) due to considerable downtime of land clearing
equipment because of late arrival of spare parts and delays in delivery of
new equipment. However, the situation has since improved and management
is confident it can catch up within the next six months. The smallholder
program is proving to be quite successful; however, the outgrower program
is not as encouraging because of the logistic problem of providing extension
services. All appraisal targets are expected to be met (subject to no
further problems emerging in funding) by project completion date. Tenders for
mill have been evaluated and the contract awarded.
Loan No. 1122    Telecommunications Project:  US$23 million Loan of
June 10, 1975; Effective Date: January 23, 1976;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
The project has experienced a slippage of about three years due to
delays in preparation of tender documents and retendering of the telephone
switching equipment; project execution is still in procurement stage. There
is an increase of about US$6.5 million in the foreign cost of the project
which has resulted from a change in the type of switching equipment, the
depreciation of the US dollar and increased physical quantities. After having
unsuccessfully attempttd to obtain financing of this cost overrun from other
donors, the Government has now decided to make foreign exchange available from
its own resources. This should expedite progress of various procurement
contracts and the project is now expected to be completed in 1982.
Loan No. 1180 National Investment Bank Project: US$10 million
Loan of December 23, 1975; Effective Date: March 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project provides for a US$10 million loan to the National
Investment Bank to help finance industrial, tourism and agro-industrial
development projects and to support small and medium scale private enter-
prises. The loan has progressed satisfactorily with less than US$0.1 million
remaining uncommitted and approximately US$8.2 million disbursed. The institu-
tional and procedural improvements introduced under the project have withstood
strenuous tests over the past two years and NIB's operational performance
has been noteworthy given continued economic difficulties in the country.
Partially due to low production levels resulting from insufficient foreign
exchange for spare parts and raw materials, arrears have built-up. However,
this has been controlled through a more intensive follow-up actions and
collection efforts, although rescheduling of subloans has been required in
some cases.



- 32 -                       ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6 pages
Loan No. 1181 Ashanti Region Cocoa Project: US$14 million Loan of
December 23, 1975; Effective Date: February 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project consists of replanting and maintaining 42,500 acres of
hybrid cocoa in the Ashanti Region. As of September 30, 1979, close to the end
of the planting season, cumulative planting was 29,425 acres (excluding aban-
doned farms), leaving about 13,000 acres to be replanted out of the combined
Bank and BADEA appraisal target of 42,500 acres. The major difficulty met by
the project's efficient management is insufficient farmer response due to an
unattractive producer price for cocoa. The project's planting program was
also severely affected by the 1977 drought which caused heavy losses in
newly replanted areas, and made a second replanting in 1978 necessary. To
allow the achievement of physical targets, the loan closing date was
extended by two years to December 31, 1980. However, the project is having
difficulty in obtaining polythene bags for raising seedlings. Moreover, the
requirements for maintenance of replanted farms are growing steadily. It is,
therefore, considered unlikely that the project would achieve its targets by
end 1980 and the loan closing date may have to be extended to December 31,
1981.
Loan No. 1291-T      Upper Region Agricultural Development Project:
US$21 million Loan of June 28, 1976;
Effective Date: April 11, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The project, the first Bank operation for integrated smallholder
agricultural development in Ghana, would provide most of the 125,000 farm
families living in the Upper Region with improved support services, farm
input and physical infrastructure. The project is being cofinanced by
the ODMI. Two principal objectives are to increase farm incomes via increase
in agricultural production and to establish permanent farm support services.
The loan became effective on April 11, 1977, and most key staff have been
appointed. Ministry of Agriculture personnel have been integrated satisfac-
torily. Suitability of some senior staff has been questioned and replacements
are being sought. Cost overruns are envisaged due to high rates of inflation.
Whilst some project components are being implemented satisfactorily (e.g.
extension and commercial services, training, broadcasting), overall progress
is being hindered by management and funding problems. Steps are being taken
to improve the management structure of the project and the recent appointment
of a Chief of Field Operations should improve field performance.



- 33 -                      ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6 pages
Loan No. 1380-GH    Kpong Hydroelectric Project:  US$39 million
Loan of March 24, 1977; Effective Date:
August 24, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
All major contracts have been awarded including civil works,
generating equipment, spillway and power-house gates and the transformers
at Kpong. Construction is progressing satisfactorily for the main civil
works. Under the present schedule, the Kpong hydroplant is expected to be
commissioned in July 1981. Heavy local cost overruns are being experienced as
a result of high inflation. The Government has recently approved a tariff
increase which should substantially improve VRA's finances although probably
not sufficient to achieve the agreed rate of return objectives. VRA has also
recently raised about ¢80 million through public bond issues.
Loan No. 1381-GH    Third Power Project, US$9 million Loan and
Credit No. 689-GH   US$9 million Credit, of March 24, 1977;
Effective Date: June 10, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Slippage has been experienced during the past year because of
delays in civil works design and execution. Due to these delays and high
inflation, local cost overruns are rapidly building up; staffing of the
power company (ECG) and system maintenance have also suffered from the poor
financial situation. A tariff increase of 30% for domestic consumers and 80%
for commercial consumers was introduced with effect from April 1, 1979.
Consultants are presently studying improvements required in staffing and
maintenance.
Credit No. 438-GH   First Highway Project:  US$13.0 million
Credit of November 2, 1973;
Effective Date: January 28, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
See Annex IV.



34                        ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6 pages
Loan No. 1182-GH    Second Highway Project:  US$18 million Loan
Credit No. 594-GH   and US$10 million Credit, both of
December 23, 1975;
Effective Date: March 30, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
See Annex IV.
Credit No. 901       Second National Investment Bank Project:  US$19
million Credit of October 26, 1979; Not Effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project, which is a second line of credit to the National
Investment Bank, would provide foreign exchange to support high priority
manufacturing and agro-industrial enterprises. The project includes a working
capital component (spare parts, raw materials, etc.) to help increase capacity
utilization of existing industries.



- 35 -                  ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1 page
GRANA
THIRD HIGHWAY (EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE) PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: five months (October 1979
to February 1980).
(b) The agency which prepared the project: GHA/BHC
assisted by Bank staff.
(c) Date of departure of Identification/Appraisal Mission:
November 29, 1979
(d) Date of Completion of Negotiations: April 18, 1980
(e) Planned Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action:
Retroactive financing of up to US$50,000 for procurement specialist
to speed up project implementation.
Section III: Special Conditions
(i) Government to review with IDA adequacy of its road maintenance
budgets for FY82 and FY83 (para 46);
(ii) Govecnment to make available to GHA funds for road maintenance
expenditures in advance on a quarterly basis (para 46);
(iii) BHC to prepare, by December 31, 1980, a program satisfactory to IDA
to reduce its arrears and implement the program to reduce its
exposure rate to below 30 percent (para 54).
(iv) Conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement between Government and
BHC (a special condition of disbursement with respect to the
sub-loan component, para. 52).



- 36 -                        ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
THIRD HIGHWAY (EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE) PROJECT
ON-GOING HIGHWAY PROEJCTS IN GHANA
First Highway Project (Credit 438-GH)
1.        As appraised, the project (US$13 million Credit of November 2,
1973) included a three-year program of rehabilitating and improving about 345
miles of paved trunk roads; preinvestment studies for further trunk road
improvement projects; preparation of a road maintenance program; and provision
of equipment for traffic control and pavement surveys. The total project cost
was estimated at US$19.5 million with an estimated foreign exchange component
of about US$11 million. The Credit Agreement was amended twice, in 1975 and
again in 1977, the net effect of which was to reduce the road rehabilitation
component from the original 345 miles to 155 miles. The reduction was neces-
sitated by higher rehabilitation costs caused mainly by increased design
standards due to an unexpected growth in heavy traffic coupled with delay in
project execution and rapid price escalation.
2.        As revised, the road rehabilitation work under the project consisted
of: (i) Takoradi-Yamoransa-Mankesim road (73 miles); (ii) Anyinam-Pra River
road (31 miles); and (iii) Pra River-Kumasi road (51 miles). The IDA credit
financed the foreign cost of the Takoradi-Yamoransa-Mankesim road, while
the construction of the latter two roads have been carried out by local
contractors with financing provided by Government except for about US$1.7
million worth of equipment financed by IDA.
3.        The preinvestment studies and preparation of a road maintenance
program have been satisfactorily completed. However, the progress on the
rehabilitation contracts has been slow, and works disrupted, due to the
country-wide shortage of materials (mainly bitumen, cement and stone chippings),
an acute shortage of foreign exchange for spare parts and lubricants, and a
fuel shortage during mid-1979. The Anyinam-Pra River road is now 95 percent
complete and the Pra River-Kumasi road, about 45 percent. While the inflation
has greatly increased the cost of these two contracts, Government has promptly
covered all local cost overruns. However, works on these two roads have come
to a standstill due to lack of bitumen and other materials which must be
imported.
4.        The Takoradi-Yamoransa-Mankesim contract has experienced significant
excess quantities in earthworks and drainage works due to inaccuracies in
the engineering work, amendments to standards, additional excavations of
unsuitable materials and the effect of depreciation of the US dollar. In
addition, the contractor (Carl Ploetner, Germany) declared bankruptcy in
January 1979. At present, 31 miles of the Takoradi-Yamoransa-Mankesim road
are complete, 12 miles are partly complete, while works have not started on
the remaining 30 miles. With only about US$0.2 million remaining undisbursed
in the credit, the project is facing a substantial cost overrun. Even assuming



- 37 -                         ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
deletion of 30 miles of the Takoradi-Yamoransa-Mankesim road where works have
not begun, the cost overrun on this contract is estimated at US$4 million in
foreign exchange.
5.         Government has recently decided to complete, with its own funds,
the 12-mile section of the Takoradi-Yamoransa-Mankesim road which is only
partly completed; works were restarted in February 1980. Completion of the
remaining 30 miles of this road will have to be considered in the context of
a future investment project in the highway sector. As regards other remaining
rehabilitation works under the Project, Government intends to assist the
local contractor executing the Pra River-Kumasi contract with the provision
of foreign exchange (about U$500,000) for spare parts, which will be financed
by BHC under the Second Highway Project.  Also, the work on the Pra River-
Anyinam contract is expected to resume shortly with the recent arrival of a
stock of bitumen in the country and be completed within the next six months.
Second Highway Project (Loan 1182/Credit 594)
6.         The Second Highway Project (US$18 million Loan and US$10 million
Credit of December 23, 1975) comprised: (a) establishment within CHA of an
administrative and management system for implementing road maintenance;
(b) execution of the first four-year phase of an eight-year (1975-83) road
maintenance program by applying routine maintenance to about 12,100 km of main
roads and about 9,700 km of feeder roads; and periodic maintenance to about
8,100 km of main roads and selected feeder roads; (c) training of GHA mainte-
nance personnel and contractors' staff; (d) term loans through BHC to domestic
contactors for procurement of road maintenance equipment and spare parts and
to quarry operators for equipment and spare parts; (e) reconstruction of the
Achimota-Nsawam road (16 miles); and (f) studies, and technical assistance to
GHA and BHC.
7.        Under the project GHA has developed an effective administrative
framework and management system for implementing road maintenance. GRA
has successfully carried out a training program for its maintenance personnel
including technical officers, foremen and mechanics. GHA purchased US$12.1
million worth of road maintenance equipment, workshop equipment and tools
including a two year supply of related spare parts. However, the execution
of the road maintenance program by GHA force account and by contract has been
far from satisfactory. Due to country-wide shortages of spare parts, road
building materials and lubricants, only 5-30 percent of the programmed
equipment-intensive routine and periodic maintenance was carried out by GHA
and contractors in 1979.
8.         All equipment for domestic contactors (US$6.5 million) has been
procured through BHC and delivered, with the exception of a few items, to 26
contractors participating in GHA's road maintenance program. All contrac-
tors have started work during 1979, but due to shortages of spare parts and
operating supplies, progress has been slow and only about 15 percent of all
work awarded has been executed.  Whereas the project provided an appropriate
percentage of spares for the new equipment, no provision was made to supply
the contactors with spares for their existing equipment. Procurement of
equipment and spares for quarry operators (US$1.0 million) is about 50
percent complete.



- 38 -                        ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
9.        The rehabilitation of Achimota-Nsawam road (16 miles) is being
cAirrie7  out by a domestic contractor (SWEDRU).  With 85 percent of the
contract period elapsed, only about 45 percent of permanent works have been
completed, as the contractor's work has been hampered by difficulties in
importing spare parts for the machinery, as well as a shortage of spare parts
and fuel. The contractor was recently provided with an additional plant
advance under the project and the implementatLon of this contract is expected
to improve.
10.       At present about US$6.2 million remains undisbursed under this pro-
ject. However, except for about US$0.5 million the undisbursed amount is fully
committed to various project components including the rehabilitation of the
Achimota-Nsawam road.



- 39 -                         ANNEX V
Page 1 of 6
GHANA
THIRD HIGHWAY (EMERGENCY lAINTENANCE) PROJECT
BANK FOR HOUSING AND CONSTRUCTION
1.        The BHC, established in November 1972, is one of three public owned
development banks in Ghana; it has primary responsibility for promoting and
financing the building materials industries, private domestic construction
companies, public and private housing schemes, commercial buildings, utility
and settlement programs. The Second Highway Project included foreign exchange
for a line of credit through BHC to private civil works contractors (US$6.5
million) and quarry firms (US$1.0 million) for the purchase of capital equip-
ment and related spare parts. Although initially delayed this line of
credit is now operating satisfactorily, having disbursed US$6.5 million as of
December 31, 1979.
2.        BHC's overall performance since inception has been uneven.  Opera-
tional and technical improvements were introduced between late 1977 and
1979 with Bank assistance and recruitment of competent staff to manage BHC's
activities. The Bank provided US$150,000 in June 1978 under the Second
Highway Project for -onsultants 1/ to propose measures to deal with inadequate
control over banking, accounting and lending procedures; the high level of
arrears and the lack of organizational integration. Recommendations thus far
put forward are sound and well-documented, and the Bank has urged BHC to
accept the consultants' proposals. However, BHC will require further techni-
cal assistance if it is to successfully introduce these and other reforms as
discussed below.
Capital Structure
3.        BEC has an authorized share capital of 020 million.  The current
paid-in share capital stands at ¢18 million, with the Government owning
55.5 percent, Central Bank 11 percent, and other parastatal institutions 33.5
percent. The Central Bank of Ghana and the Social Security and National
Insurance Trust have each agreed to pay in ¢1 million by mid-1980, thus
completing subscriptions to the authorized limit. BHC's By-Laws stipulate
that the bank and its subsidiaries shall maintain a debt equity ratio
not exceeding 3:1 which, in its calculation, shall exclude short-term
deposits and 80 percent of the total outstanding principal amount of term
debt for mortgage loans. Given recent accelerated disbursements on the
external loans, as well as the proposed credit, consideration will need to
be given to expanding BHC's capital base by the final quarter of calendar
year 1980 when it is expected that the debt equity ratio will be pressing
the 3:1 statutory limit. The Bank Group has suggested to Government,
several interim measures such as conversion of a portion of existing Govern-
ment loans to quasi-equity or subordinated debt to temporarily allow continua-
tion of disbursements, until improved financial performance can justify a
permanent change in capital structure.
1/   Berenschot-Moret-Bosboom (BMB) of Tilburg, Netherlands.



- 40 -                         ANNEX V
Page 2 of 6
Management and Organization
4.        BHC's Board currently consists of nine meer,ners, including the Acting
Managing Director.  Other members include senior officials of the National
Investment Bank, Ghana Commercial Bank, the Ministrv of Finance and other
parastatal financial institutions. The Deputy Governor of the Central Bar`.
currently acts as Chairman.  BHC's Board has been ai actit-v  and competelit
and has been instrumental to introducing a nurmber of coistructi<Te procedural
reforms including the presentation of periodic progress reports on each loan
and a requirement that BIC's uianagement produce policy papers on (a) commer-
cial banking, (b) local and foreign resource position, (c) equity participa-
tion (and diverstitures) and (d) staff expansion. The Board, meeting once a
month, approves all loans and ilnvestments above 0250,000.
5.        BHC is presently organized into three tm.ii departments.  The Opera-
tional Department which handles projects (pror>tiori, evaluation, supervision,
engineering, statistics and internal auditinf) is the part of the bank whicl
has sLade the mrst -progress since inception.  The Finance Department includes
accounting, cs: raercial banking-, planning and mortgages, and is perhaps the
weakest area, lacking a suitable range of qualified professional staff and
appropriate operating procediures. The Secretary's Department, responsible for
legal services, administration and Board business, appears to be the unit
which fulfills its functions most effectively. BHC has three branch offices
(Kumasi and two other outlets in Accra). While decentralization is both
necessary and desirable if BHC is to ultimately meet its objectives, con-
solidation of headquarters and design of a more dynamic and better coordinated
organization must first take place. The proposed technical assistance would
provide advice on organization and administration.
6.        BHC has a total staff of 532, of which 116 are at the professional
level. A competent professional engineer who was previously head of BUIC's
Project Development Unit was appointed Acting Managing Director in February
1979. To deal with staff constraints, particularly in financial management,
the proposed technical assistance would provide training in accounting and
financial reporting and other areas. While project evaluation and supervision
capabilities have improved in recent years, a technical assistance expert
would introduce a more rigorous project evaluation system and methodology for
both contractor and industrial lending. Recruitment would be undertaken to
upgrade professional levels in those areas of BHC where operations cannot be
improved through training.
7.        In addition to its debt equity ratio of 3:1, financial policies
include: (a) total exposure on any single project shall not exceed 90 percent
of total project costs, or not more than 25 percent of BHC's net worth,
(b) mortgage and estate loans shall not exceed 80 percent of total investment
costs, (c) foreign investors will be required to contribute at least 20 percent
of the total cost of a joint venture with BHC, (d) BHC's term funds will not be
used for equity capital.  Since September 1978, when the Central Bank raised
the interest ceiling from 12.5 percent, the BHC has been charginig the maximum



- 41 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 6
allowable interest rate of 18.5 percent on all loans, except mortgage loans
which by law are limited to 15 percent. In addition, BHC charges a 1 percent
commitment fee on undrawn balances and a small fixed investment tee. Balances
and reserve requirements held by a Bank of Ghana, representing about 40
percent of BHC's deposits and current liabilities, earn between 2-13 percent
p.a. BHC pays interest ranging from 12-13 percent p.a. on savings and fixed
term deposits. Overall, BHC earns about an average 4 percent spread on its
local resources which should improve as a higher percentage of its loan
portfolio is lent at the increased interest rates introduced in late 1978, and
an arrears recovery program gets underway (para. 13).
Operations
8.        As of June 30, 1979, total cumulative term loan approvals amounted
to 052.6 million (representing 744 loans) of which 53 percent of the volume
has been for 116 industrial loans, 30 percent constituted 42 equipment loans
to contractors and 272 vehicle loan to truckers through hire-purchase arrange-
ments, with the 17 percent balance of the funds being directed to a variety
of mortgage lending (314 loans). Outstanding term loans as of June 1979
amounted to 042 million. Commercial banking, originally established to
provide working capital and other facilities of BHC's term loan clients, has
come to represent an important aspect of BHC's activities, amounting to
0156 million in short-term loans outstanding at the end of FY1979, or 79
percent of BHC's total loan portfolio. BHC's guarantees and other contingent
liabilities including short-term indemnities amount to 015.6 million.
9.        As of June 30, 1979, BHC had extended industrial term loans of over
01 million each to three companies, representing 08.4 million or 38
percent of loan portfolio. The remaining industrial loans had an average loan
size of 0121,000, involving concrete production, wood industries, building
construction, brick, tiles and ceramics. Most of BHC's investments have been
to the private sector, except when BHC itself has taken controlling interest
in a company or has joined with a regional development corporation to promote
or rehabilitate a high priority scheme for which private investors could not
be found. In terms of geographical distribution, 70 of BHC's industrial loans
went to projects in the Greater Accra Region, 22 for the Ashanti Region and 22
evenly distributed throughout the southern two-thirds of the country, with the
remaining two in the Upper Region.
Equity and Subsidiaries
10.       BHC's approved equity investments amounted to 06.3 million in
17 projects as of June 30, 1979, of which 05.3 million had been subscribed.
Majority positions have been taken in five companies (a plant leasing com-
pany, a real estate development company, a quarry, a warehouse facility and
a concrete company). Equity participations have constituted BEC's primary
promotional thrust. Although most positions have been associated with high
priority schemes, only one company is thus far operating successfully, and
in their aggregate, equities have resulted in a serious drain on BHC's



- 42 -                        ANNEX V
Page 4 of 6
management and staff resources. The successful venture, Plant Pool Ltd. (PP),
is a leasing company which has worked and will continue to work closely with
BHC on its hire purchase program. Well-managed and staffed, PP employs almost
300 workers, including 40 technicians, mechanics, engineers and managers.
Leasing and owning about 260 pieces of equipment, PP has become the largest
company of its type in Ghana and is expected to play a central role in the
proposed project.
Financial Position
11.       As of June 30, 1979, BHC's total assets had reached 0277 million
representing more than a four-fold increase since 1975. Total loan portfolio
outstanding amounted to ¢198 million. The most dramatic growth occurred in
BHC's short-term lending, which increased 150 percent between FY1977 and
FY1979, particularly in the form of overdrafts and inventory financing. The
pattern toward short-term financing was not planned, but was rather a reflec-
tion of deteriorating economic conditions, a scarcity of foreign exchange to
support longer term productive investments and a consequential overall decline
in the availability of term resources since 1977. Average annual growth in
term lending during the same period was around 24 percent, which by FY1979 had
fallen to 12 percent. Despite BHC's relatively high interest margin (interest
coverage ratio of 2.8) net profit has fluctuated between 9 and 12 percent of
average net worth since 1976, which is not satisfactory under the prevailing
inflation. The problem of late loan recoveries could, if allowed to persist,
continue to erode BHC's profits, preventing coverage of increased costs
arising from inflationary pressures. Loan income, as a percentage of average
loan portfolio, particularly term loan income (16.3 percent in FY79) has thus
far shown an upward trend and a higher proportional increase than either term
loan expenses as a percentage of term portfolio or administrative expenses as
a percentage of total assets. In order to maintain this trend, it will be
necessary to increase BHC's longer term local as well as foreign exchange
resources. Furthermore, it will be necessary to reduce arrears in order to
derive full financial benefits from increased activities. Finally, while
BHC's gross income was 11.4 percent of average total assets in FY1979, net
profit, after appropriations for provisions and reserves has remained below 1
percent since 1976. BHC's accounts are audited by qualified auditors (Tettey,
Ussher and Partners). While the accounting has been performed satisfactorily,
audits have been in recent years submitted in short form. BHC requires the
discipline and scrutiny of an exercise leading to a "long form" audit and the
Bank is satisfied that, with the help of the proposed external financial
experts, the accountants responsible for BHC audit will receive sufficient
information for that purpose. Table 1 (page 6 of this Annex) sets out BHC's
current resource position.
12.        Provisions.  Despite the negative impact of reserve allocations on
BHC's profitability, the Bank Group fully supports the decision of BHC's Board
to appropriate the unusually high proportion of annual profits to loan loss
reserves until such reserves constitute, and are maintained at, 15 percent of
total portfolio outstanding. This policy is considered reasonable and prudent



- 43 -
ANNEX V
Page 5 of 6
until BHC's financial management, particularly arrears recovery, has been
improved. At present, provision is 5.3 percent of total loan and equity
portfolio outstanding, and 22.6 percent of term loan and equity portfolio.
13.       Arrears.  Mainly as a result of weak financial management and,
until recently, poor project evaluation procedures, arrears have posed a major
problem for BHC. BHC's own calculations showed an exposure rate of 40 percent
on term loans, largely due to late payments of seven large industrial clients.
Arrears on hire-purchase and short-term prefinancing are more pervasive and
chronic. However, it appears that loan loss provisions and reservese, 010.7
as of the most recent audit (June 30, 1979), are currently adequate to cover
the absolute amounts in arrears of 03.2 million under the industrial term
loan portfolio and 84 percent of the absolute amounts in arrears under the
hire-purchase contracts. In any case, the nature of hire-purchase agreements
allow BHC more than adequate collateral against possible losses.
14.       Measures have been taken by BHC to strengthen project evaluation and
supervision procedures with view to controlling arrears more effectively. The
technical assistance program to be launched under this project, beginning with
the advance consultant, will concentrate a great deal of attention on resolving
problems arising from both the internal institutional conditions and external
operational factors which combined, have led to the high level of arrears.
Role of BHC
15.       BHC has a major role to play in the economy of Ghana, particularly
in promotion of the construction and building materials industries. There are
presently 3,000 construction firms, of which 600 are active in civil works.
The Ghanaian Contractors' Association and GRA estimate private contractors
could, if prices and spare parts availability permitted, carry out over 80
percent of Government civil works and maintenance activities while maintaining
private sector commitments. The operational experts proposed to be provided
under the project would review BHC's five-year development strategy, and
propose quantitative targets as well as sources of financing. BHC's current
project pipeline would also be evaluated with a view to broadening its cov-
erage and increasing its geographical diversification.



ANNEX V
- 44 -                       Table 1
Page 6 of 6
BHC's Resources Position (as at June 30, 1979)
Local          Foreign
Currency        Currency        Total
Sources of Funds
Paid-up Share Capital                   15,000              -           15,000
Reserve Fund                             1,954             -              1,954
Sub-Total                           16,954                          16,954
First Bond Issue (6%)                   10,000             -            10,000
Second Bond Issue (8-1/2%)              20,000             -            20,000
Bank of Ghana Loan                       1,000              -             1,000
Government Loan                         11,000              -           11,000
1st World Bank Loan                       -              20,625         20,625
Sub-Total                           42,000           20,625         62,625
Total Resources                     58,954           20,625         79,579
Application of Funds
Outstanding Loans
Hire-Purchase                         12,301            6,580 1/      18,881
Industrial Loans                      22,419             -            22,419
Mortgage Loans                         7,235             -             7,235
Sub-Total                           41,955            6,580         48,535
Equity Investment                        5,344             -             5,344
Fixed Assets                             1,995             -             1,995
Total Application                   49,294            6,580         55,874
Funds Avalable for Disbursements           9,660            14,045        23,705
Approved but not yet Disbursed             8,590             1,365          9,955
Funds Available for New Approvals           1,070           12,680         13,750
Other Resources
Sale of Government Stocks and
TreasuryBills                            8,290             -             8,290
Potential Resources (FY1980)
Called Share Capital                     5,000 2/          -             5,000
Banco do Brazil Loan                      -              41,300         41,300
KfW Loan                                  -              21,200         21,200
Funds Available for New Approvals         14,360            75,180        89,540
1/   Represents US$2,393,000 in contractor equipment which had been formally
transferred before the fiscal year but the breakdown of which, because
of slow accounting procedures, was not reflected in BHC accounts
provided to the auditors.
2/   ¢2 million had already been paid-up in November 1979; 02 million were
expected to be paid-up by January/February 1980.
Source: WAPID



- 45 -                         ANNEX VI
GHANA
THIRD HIGHWAY (EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE) PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal                         -----------US$ thousand--------
Year             Quarter         During Quarter         Cumulative
1981               2                  1,000                1,000
3                  4,000               5,000
4                  4,000               9,000
1982               1                  4,000               13,000
2                  4,000              17,000
3                  4,000              21,000
4                  2,500              23,500
1983               1                  1,000               24,500
2                    500              25,000



- 46 -
ANNEX VII
GHANA
THIRD HIGHWAY (EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE) PROJECT
Capital and Recurrent Expenditures on Roads, FY1976-79
(Cedis millions)
Trunk     Feeder
Sub-Total          Road        Road
Fiscal    ---GHA Administration--  Periodic    Current   Constant  Construc-  Construc-
Year      Routine         Other   Maintenance   Prices    Prices 1/   tion            tion
Maintenance
1976           4.5          12.7       8.6         25.8        236        27.9
1977           6.1          15.6      11.6         33.3        195        45.0         -
1978          13.4          31.7      14.6         59.7        162        53.3        63.9
1979          19.0          29.9      12.7         61.6         96        52.4        61.4
1/ Adjusted according to the Ghana consumer price index.
Source: Ghana Highway Authority



fi ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    - 
-~~ ~~~ N*/                         5           . -    -    1                                                 -[1                                                                                5
:  o  I V O R Y C O A S T jf~V 
V.10 L
1                                                1                                                                  2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



