OFFICIA      i   CREDIT NUMBER 1029 GH
OCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Highway - Emergency Maintenance - Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                S    27        , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1029 GH
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   A"A^6-    27             , 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Associa-
tion).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule
2 of this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
(B) Parts A, B and F of the Project referred to in Sched-
ule 2 to this Agreement will be carried out by the Borrower's
Ghana Highway Authority and Parts C, D and E of the Project will
be carried out by the Bank for Housing and Construction, and the
Borrower will make available to the Ghana Highway Authority and to
the Bank for Housing and Construction the proceeds of the Credit
as hereinafter provided; and
(C) the Association is willing to make the Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and the Bank for Housing and Construction;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter
called the General Conditions):
(a) The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning
set forth in paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement."


﻿-2-
(b) The words "and for Investment Projects" are added before
the period at the end of Section 5.03.
(c) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If
(a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account shall have been suspended with respect
to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period of
thirty days or (b) by the date specified in Section 2.02 (e)
of the Project Agreement no applications for approval or
requests for authorization to withdraw from the Credit
Account in respect of any portion of the Credit allocated to
Part C of the Project shall have been received by the Asso-
ciation, or having been so received, shall have been denied
or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Credit shall
remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right to
request such approvals and authorizations or to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account, as the case may be, with
respect to such amount or portion of the Credit. Upon the
giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Credit
shall be cancelled."
(d) The words "and the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06.
(e) The words "or the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 10.02.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "GHA" means Ghana Highway Authority, a body corporate
with perpetual succession and common seal, established and oper-
ating under Ghana Highway Authority Decree, 1974 (N.R.C.D. 298) of
the Borrower, as such Decree may be amended from time to time;
(b) "BHC" means Bank for Housing and Construction, esta-
blished pursuant to the Bank for Housing and Construction Decree,


﻿-3-
1972 (N.R.C.D. 135) of the Borrower (hereinafter called the BHC
Decree), as such Decree may be amended from time to time;
(c) "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and BHC, as such agreement may be
amended from time to time;
(d) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and BHC pursuant to Section
3.03 (b) of this Agreement;
(e) "Administration Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and BHC pursuant to Section 3.03
(c) of this Agreement;
(f) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
BHC to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project out of
the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Part C
of the Project relent to BHC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and "free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which
qualifies as a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.03 (b) of this Agreement;
(g)  "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
BHC proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
(h) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(i) "Cedis" and "0" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(j)  "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower;
(k) "Bye-laws" means the bye-laws of BHC, approved by the
Board of Directors on November 29, 1973, as amended from time to
time;
(1) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by BHC or by any one or more of
its subsidiaries;
(m) "Plant Pool" means Plant Pool, Ltd., a Subsidiary of
BHC;


﻿-4-
(n) "Road Maintenance Program" means the Borrower's planned
road maintenance program for the years 1981 and 1982;
(o) "Special Import Facility" means the facility to be
established and administered under Part D of the Project;
(p) "Import Plan" means a specific import plan to be entered
into by BHC and a motor trading company and to be carried out
under the Special Import Facility;
(q) "Motor Trading Company' .eans a motor trading company
operating in Ghana with which BHC has or proposes to have an
Import Plan;
(r) "fiscal year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower;
and
(s) "periodic maintenance" means resealing or resurfacing
of paved roads, or regravelling of truck or feeder roads, exclud-
ing minor construction works.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion:
(a) for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for Parts B, E and F of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(b) for any Investment Project included in Part C of the
Project, provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made in
respect of a Sub-loan unless: (i) the Sub-loan shall have been


﻿-5-
approved by the Association; or (ii) the Sub-loan shall be a
free-limit Sub-loan for which the Association shall have autho-
rized withdrawals from the Credit Account; and
(c) for any Import Plan included in Part D of the Project,
provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of
an Import Plan unless the Import Plan shall have been approved by
the Association.
Section 2.03. A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for
an Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit which shall not exceed the sum of: (i)
$200,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts
financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit for such Investment Project; or (ii) $2,000,000 equivalent,
when added to all other free-limit Sub-loans financed or proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the foregoing
amounts being subject to change from time to time as determined by
the Association after consultation between the Association and
BHC.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made on account of: (i) expenditures made by
an Investment Enterprise prior to the date of this Agreement; or
(ii) expenditures made in respect of a Sub-loan subject to the
Association's approval, more than ninety days prior to the date on
which the Association shall have received the application and
information required under Section 2.02 (b) of the Project Agree-
ment; or (iii) expenditures made in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan more than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Association shall have received the request and information
required by Section 2.02 (c) of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions set forth or
referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. BHC is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions-of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions in respect of
Parts C, D and E of the Project.


﻿-6-
Section 2.06. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower and BHC of such later date.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) jper annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.08. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1990, and ending
March 15, 2030, each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.10. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause GHA and BHC to
cooperate closely with each other in carrying out the Project, and
shall cause GRA to be responsible for the coordination of the
respective activities of GHA and BHC under the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause GHA to carry out
Parts A, B and F of the Project and BHC to carry out Parts C, D
and E of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and highway
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources, including an
adequate supply of fuel, required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation upon the generality of the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall: (i) provide in its annual budget
and make available promptly as needed funds to cover expenditures


﻿-7-
under Parts B and F of the Project; (ii) provide in its annual
budget, and make available in advance of each quarter on the basis
of GHA estimates, funds to cover recurrent expenditures and
payments to contractors under the Maintenance Program; and (iii)
not later than six months prior to the beginning of the 1982 and
1983 fiscal years, discuss with the Association the adequacy of
its road maintenance budget for each such fiscal year.
(c) In order to assist GHA in carrying out Part F of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause GHA to employ a consultant
or an expert whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause BHC to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and the Administration Agreement all obligations of BHC
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action
necessary or appropriate to enable BHC to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) For the purpose of carrying out Part C of the Project,
the Borrower shall relend the equivalent of the ptroceeds of the
Credit allocated to Part C of the Project to BHC under a Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and BHC, the terms and conditions of which shall have been
approved by the Association, and which shall include, inter
alia, the following:
(i) an interest rate of 12-1/2% per annum;
(ii) a repayment term of eight years including a grace
period of two years; and
(iii) foreign exchange risk to be assumed by the
Investment Enterprise.
(c) For the purpose of carrying out Part D of the Project,
the Borrower shall enter into an Administration Agreement with
BHC, the terms and conditions of which -,hall have been approved by
the Association, and which shall be consistent with the provisions
of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.


﻿-8-
(d) For the purpose of carrying out Part E of the Project,
the Borrower shall make available to BHC, on terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association, the equivalent
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Part E of the Project.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement and the Administration Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
and the Administration Agreement, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause GHA to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by GRA to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
other than goods and services financed under a Sub-loan, shall be
used exclusively for the purpose of the Project until its comple-
tion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause GHA, with respect
to Parts A, B and F of the Project, and BHC, with respect to Parts
C, D and E of the Project, to furnish to the Association promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, reports, and procurement
schedules for the parts of the Project being carried out by the
respective entity, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reason-
ably request.
(b) The Borrower shall cause GHA, with respect to Parts A,
B and F of the Project, and BHC, with respect to Parts C, D and E
of the Project: (i) to maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project and to identify the goods and services
for the 'Lroicet financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and
to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) to enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities


﻿and maintenance sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods for the Project financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) to furnish to
the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services for the Project
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish
to the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower, GHA, BHC
and the Association of their respective obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall not take, or permit any
of its political subdivisions, or any of its agencies or instru-
mentalities, or any agency or instrumentality of any political
subdivision to take any action which would prevent or materially
interfere with the carrying out of the Project, or the performance
by BHC of any of its other obligations under the Project Agree-
ment, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Administration Agree-
ment, and shall take or cause to be taken all reasonable action
which shall be required on its part in order to enable BHC to
carry out Parts C, D and E of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall cause GHA and BHC to con-
tinue to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures of GHA and BHC.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause: (a) GHA to carry on
its operations in accordance with appropriate administrative,
financial and highway practices, under the supervision of com-
petent and experienced management assisted by qualified staff in
adequate numbers; and


﻿- 10 -
(b) BHC to carry on its operations in accordance with
appropriate administrative, financial and banking practices, under
the supervision of competent and experienced management assisted
by qualified staff in adequate numbers.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall ensure that its public roads
shall be duly maintained by GHA in accordance with proper techni-
cal, engineering, administrative and financial practices, and
shall provide to GHA, promptly as needed, the funds, equipment,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion of BHC under the Project Agreement or under any other project
agreement between the Association and BHC;
(b) the BHC Decree (N.R.C.D. 135) or the Ghana Highway
Authority Decree, 1974 (N.R.C.D. 298) shall have been amended so
as to affect materially and adversely the operations or financial
condition of BHC or GHA, respectively;
(c) BHC shall be unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been undertaken whereby any of
the property of BHC shall or may be distributed among its cre-
ditors;
(d) any part of the principal amount of any loan to BHC
having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accor-
dance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance of
maturity, as provided in the relative contractual instruments, or
any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of BHC or for the suspension of its operations; and
(f) a Subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by BHC, if such creation, acquisition or


﻿- 11 -
taking over would adversely affect the conduct of BHC's business,
its financial situation, the efficiency of its management and
personnel or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (f)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower and BHC; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association; namely that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed on behalf
of BHC, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of
BHC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date NoVemrA.Z- f6t4 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The provisions of paragraphs (a) through (f)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement and those of paragraphs (a) and
(b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date -fifteen years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Subject to the provision of Section 2.05 of
this Agreement, the Principal Secretary, Ministry of Finance and


﻿- 12 -
Economic Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning
P.O. Box M76
Accra
Ghana
Cable address:
ECONOMICOM
Accra
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 13 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   /#
; 'Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1) Equipment, spare
parts and materials
(a) under Part B (1)         8,700,000       100% of foreign
of the Project                          expenditures
(b) under Part B (2)         3,000,000       100% of foreign
of the Project                          expenditures
(c) under Part B (3)           150,000       100% of foreign
of the Project                          expenditures
(d) under Part D of                          100% of foreign
the Project                             expenditures
(i) for contrac-        3,000,000
tors
(ii) for truck           3,000,000
operators
(2) Sub-loans under Part C        4,000,000       100% of foreign
of the Project                               expenditures
(3) Consultants' services,          930,000       100% of foreign
vehicles and office                          expenditures
equipment under Part E
of the Project


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(4) Consultants' ser-                120,000       100% of foreign
vices and vehicles                            expenditures
under Part F of the
Project
(5) Unallocated                    2,100,000
TOTAL         25,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures:
(a) prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$50,000, may be made in respect of Category (3) on account of
payments made for expenditures under Part E (2) of the Project
before that date but after March 1, 1980; and


﻿- 16 -
(b) under Part C of the Project until the Association has
been furnished with evidence that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of the Borrower and BHC.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Road Maintenance Program
Carrying out by GHA of the Road Maintenance Program which
consists of performing effective routine maintenance on all public
roads and periodic maintenance on about 6,000 km of public roads.
Part B:   Acquisition of Goods by GHA
(1) Acquisition and utilization of spare parts, tires and
lubricants.
(2) Acquisition and utilization of a two-year supply of
bitumen for resealing and resurfacing operations.
(3) Acquisition and installation in GHA's Training Center
of generators and related spare parts.
Part C:   Sub-loans
Granting of Sub-loans by BHC to about 16 contractors who are
carrying out GHA road maintenance contracts and about 4 quarry
operators who are supplying materials for the Road Maintenance
Program to assist them in purchasing equipment and related spare
parts.
Part D:   Special Import Facility
Administration of a program by BHC, through Motor Trading
Companies, for the importation into Ghana of spare parts, tools
and lubricants for the benefit of (a) about 45 contractors engaged
in periodic road maintenance works and (b) small-scale private
truck operators primarily engaged in agricultural transport.
Part E:   Institutional Support for BHC and Contractors
(1) Strengthening of BHC's financial management, organiza-
tion and training by the provision of about 72 staff-
months of expert services in the areas of financial
systems and reporting procedures, project appraisal and
supervision, accounting management, and organizational
management.


﻿- 18 -
(2) Putting into effect a procurement system for the Special
Import Facility by the provision of about 9 staff-months
of expert services to BHC and Plant Pool.
(3) Strengthening the general technical and managerial
competence of private local contracting firms by the
provision of about 24 staff-months of expert services
through BHC.
(4) Acquisition and utilization by BHC of office equipment
and vehicles in support of expert services.
Part F:   Institutional Support for GHA
Strengthening the operations of GHA's workshops by the
provision of about 12 staff-months of expert services and the
acquisition and utilization by GHA of one vehicle.
The Project is expected to be completed on December 31,
1982.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C of this Schedule, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall cause GHA and BHC to
prepare and forward to the Association as soon as possible,
and in any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of
availability to the public of the first tender or prequalification
documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procure-
ment notice, in such form and detail and containing such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request; the Association
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to
provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the oppor-
tunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall cause
GHA and BHC to provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods remain to be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or
the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 20 -
Ghana may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Ghana if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of GHA and the Association that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Ghana equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 21 -
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Lubricants required through June 1981, spare parts and
tires required through December 1981, and spare parts required
after December 1981, up to an aggregate amount of $500,000 equi-
valent, under Part B of the Project, and the generators required
for the training center under such Part B, shall be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding under Part A of
this Schedule, but on the basis of invitations to bid issued
directly to selected potential suppliers, without advertising. The
description and quantities of such items shall be subject to prior
approval by the Association.
2.   Bitumen under Part B of the Project may be procured
locally under a negotiated contract, the terms and conditions of
which shall be subject to the prior approval of the Association.
3.   Road maintenance equipment, quarry equipment and related
spare parts under Part C of the Project shall be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding under Part A of this
schedule, but on the basis of invitations to bid issued directly
to selected potential suppliers, without advertising, except that
contracts for such items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or less shall be procured on the basis of quotations
received from not less than three suppliers.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equi-
valent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall cause GHA
and BHC to furnish to the Association, for its comments, the text
of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising proce-
dures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifi-
cations in the said documents or procedures as the Association
shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall cause GHA and BHC, before a final decision on the


﻿- 22 -
award is made, to inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform GHA or BHC, as the case may be, and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall cause GHA and BHC to furnish to the
Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of
the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform GHA or BHC, as the case may be, and state the reasons for
such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall cause
GRA and BHC to inform the Association of the proposed modifica-
tion, waiver, extension or change order and the reasons therefor.
The Association, if it determines that the proposal would be
inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly
inform GRA or BHC, as the case may be, and state the reasons for
its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of     - A
1980f.
FOR SECRETARY


