OFFICIAL     CREDIT NUMBER 1029 GH
SDOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Third Highway - Emergency Maintenance - Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANK FOR HOUSING AND CONSTRUCTION
Dated                    22       , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1029 GH
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   4     4-    L7           , 1980, between
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called
the Association) and BANK FOR HOUSING. AND CONSTRUCTION (herein-
after called BHC), established pursuant to Bank for Housing and
Construction Decree, 1972 (N.R.C.D. 135) of the Republic of
Ghana (hereinafter called the Borrower):
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Association, the Association
has agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agree-
ment, but only on condition that BHC agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and BHC, BHC will carry out
Part C of the Project for which four million dollars ($4,000,000)
of the proceeds of the Credit have been currently allocated under
the Development Credit Agreement;
WHEREAS pursuant to the Administration Agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and BHC, BHC will carry out
Part D of the Project for which six million dollars ($6,000,000)
of the proceeds of the Credit have been currently allocated under
the Development Credit Agreement;
WHEREAS pursuant to this Agreement BHC will carry out Part E
of the Project for which nine hundred thirty thousand dollars
($930,000) of the proceeds of the Credit have been currently
allocated under the Development Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS BHC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in


﻿-2-
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Parts C, D and E of the Project;
Management and Operations of BHC
Section 2.01. BHC shall carry out Parts C, D and E of the
Project, described in Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agree-
ment, and continue to conduct its operations and affairs, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative and financial standards and practices, with quali-
fied and experienced management, and to that end, BHC shall
cooperate closely with GHA.
Section 2.02. In order to assist BHC in carrying out Part E
of the Project, BHC shall employ consultants and experts whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association and the Borrower.
Section 2.03. (a) For purposes of carrying out Part C of
the Project, BHC shall enter into a Subsidiary- Loan Agreement,
satisfactory to the Association, with the Borrower; and for
purposes of carrying out Part D of the Project, BHC shall enter
into an Administration Agreement, satisfactory to the Association,
with the Borrower.
(b) In accordance with and subject to the provisions of
the Development Credit Agreement, BHC shall submit Investment
Projects and Import Plans to the Association for approval or for
authorization for withdrawals to be made from the Credit Account.
(c) (i) When submitting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) or an Import Plan to the Association for approval, BHC
shall furnish to the Association an application, in form satis-
factory to the Association, together with a description of the
Investment Enterprise and of the Investment Project to be financed
thereunder (including a description of the expenditures for such
Investment Project proposed to be financed by BHC and an appraisal
of the Investment Project) and the proposed terms and conditions
of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of the
Sub-loan, or, in the case of an Import Plan, the agreed list of
goods to be financed thereunder, and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request; and (ii) appraisals of


﻿-3-
Investment Projects will include an analysis of the operational
performance, management and financial position of each Investment
Enterprise in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the
Association.
(d) Each request by BHC for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan shall contain a summary description of the Investment Enter-
prise and the Investment Project (including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit) and the terms and conditions of such free-limit Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(e) Except as the Association and BHC shall otherwise agree,
BHC shall submit applications for approval of Investment Projects
and Import Plans pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) of
this Section and requests for authorizations to withdraw from the
Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (d) of this
Section on or before June 30, 1983.
Section 2.04. Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, BHC shall:
(a) extend Sub-loans in accordance with the criteria set
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b) administer the Special Import Facility in accordance
with the policies and procedures set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) BHC undertakes that unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan will be made or Import Plan
will be entered into on terms whereby BHC shall obtain, by written
agreement or other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to
protect the interests of the Association, of the Borrower and of
BHC including, in the case of any such Sub-loan or Import Plan:
(i) the right to require the Investment Enterprise to carry out
and operate the Investment Project, and the Motor Trading Company
to carry out the Import Plan, with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) the right to
require that the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Sub-loans, or to be imported on the basis of Import Plans, be used
on a priority basis in the carrying out of the Investment Project
or Import Plan, respectively; (iii) the right of the Association,


﻿-4-
of the Borrower and of BHC to inspect such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(iv) the right to require that the Investment Enterprise or Motor
Trading Company take out and maintain such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice and that, without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance cover hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and delivery of the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to the place of use or installation, and
that any indemnity thereunder be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Investment Enterprise or Motor Trading Company
to replace or repair such goods; (v) the right to obtain all such
information as the Association, the Borrower or BHC shall reason-
ably request relating to the foregoing, to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise;
and (vi) the right of BHC to suspend or terminate the right of the
Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan,
or the right of the Motor Trading Company to the benefits of the
Import Plan, upon failure by such Investment Enterprise or Motor
Trading Company to perform its obligations under its respective
agreement with BHC.
(b) BHC shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project and Import Plan in such manner as to: (i)
protect the interests of the Association, of the Borrower and of
BHC; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement,
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Administration Agreement;
and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.06. BHC shall furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
Parts C, D and E of the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the
Investment Projects, the Sub-loans, the Special Import Facility,
the Import Plans and the Motor Trading Companies.
Section 2.07. BHC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and Administration Agreement.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BHC shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving any provision of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Administration Agreement.
Section 2.08. Except as the Association, the Borrower and BHC
shall otherwise agree, BHC: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer or


﻿-5-
otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets, except in the
ordinary course of business; and (ii) shall take all action
necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry
on operations and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business.
Section 2.09. BHC shall cause each of its Subsidiaries
to observe and perform the obligations of BHC under this Agreement
to the extent to which the same may be made applicable thereto as
though such obligations were binding upon each of such Subsi-
diaries.
Section 2.10. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions set forth or
referred to in Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. BHC shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of Parts C, D and E of the Project and of each
Investment Project (including the cost thereof) and of each Import
Plan and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of BHC and shall enable the Association's representa-
tives to examine such records. BHC shall establish standards
and practices on the basis of assistance received under Part E
of the Project.
Section 3.02. BHC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than four months after the end of each such fiscal year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited in long form and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of BHC and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. Except as the Association and BHC shall other-
wise agree, BHC shall not incur or permit any Subsidiary to incur
any debt if, after the incurring of such debt, the consolidated
debt of BHC and all its Subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding
would exceed three times the consolidated capital and surplus of
BHC and all its Subsidiaries. If such ratio shall, for reasons
beyond BHC's control, be exceeded, BHC shall promptly take all
such reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring
such ratio within such limit. The Association and BHC shall from
time to time review the adequacy of such ratio. For the purpose of
this Section:
(a) The term "debt" means any debt incurred by BHC or any
Subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred, including debt assumed or guaranteed by
BHC or by a Subsidiary.
(b) Wherever reference is made in this Section to the
incurring of debt, such reference shall include any modification
of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be
incurred: (i) under a loan contract or agreement on the date
and to the extent the loan is drawn down pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement,
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into but only to the extent the guaranteed debt is
outstanding.
(c) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of BHC debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable in Cedis for the purposes of
servicing such debt.
(d) The term "consolidated debt of BHC and all its Subsi-
diaries" means the total amount of debt of BHC and all its Sub-
sidiaries excluding: (i) eighty per cent (80%) of the aggregate
outstanding principal amount of loans made by BHC and secured by a
real estate mortgage; and (ii) debt owed by BHC to any Subsidiary
or by any Subsidiary to BHC or to any other Subsidiary.
(e) The term "consolidated capital and surplus of BHC
and all its Subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the total
unimpaired paid-in capital, surplus and free reserves of BHC
and of all its Subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts


﻿-7-
as shall represent equity interests of BHC in any Subsidiary, or
of any such Subsidiary in BHC or in any other Subsidiary.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association and BHC shall other-
wise agree, BHC shall not make any repayment in advance of matu-
rity in respect of any of its borrowings (other than deposits)
having an original term exceeding one year.
Section 3.05. BHC shall: (i) not later than December 31,
1980, formulate a program, satisfactory to the Association, to
reduce arrears; and (ii) put into effect such program to reduce,
within a period of time satisfactory to the Association, its loans
outstanding affected by arrears of more than three months to a
level not exceeding 30%.
Section 3.06. BHC shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Association as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the various currencies (including Cedis) used in its borrowing
and lending operations.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. (a) The Association and BHC shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accom-
plished. To that end, the Association and BHC shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the progress of Parts C, D and E of
the Project, the performance by BHC of its obligations under this
Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and the Administration
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition
of BHC, any BHC proposal to amend the BHC Decree or Bye-laws
and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
(b) BHC shall furnish to the Association at regular inter-
vals all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the expenditures of the proceeds of the Credit,
Parts C, D and E of the Project, the Investment Enterprises,
the Investment Projects, the Sub-loans, the Special Import
Facility, the Import Plans, the Motor Trading Companies and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from the foregoing.


﻿-8-
(c) Within six months following the final withdrawal from
the Credit Account, BHC shall prepare and furnish to the Asso-
ciation a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request, on the execution of Parts C, D
and E of the Project, their costs and the benefits derived and to
be derived from them, the performance by BHC and the Association
of their respective obligations under this Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 4.02. BHC shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the
maintenance of the service thereof or the performance by BHC of
its obligations under this Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or the Administration Agreement.
Section 4.03. BHC shall enable the Association's representa-
tives to inspect the records referred to in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of BHC thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate; or
(ii) a date ten years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before
the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify BHC of this event, and upon the
giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the
parties thereunder shall forthwith terminate.


﻿-9-
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under Article VI of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145  (WUI)
For BHC:
Bank for Housing and Construction
P.O. Box Ml
Accra
Ghana
Cable address:                     Telex:
BANKHOUSE
Accra                              2096


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement or under Section 2.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement on behalf of or by BHC may be taken or executed by the
Managing Director of BHC, or by such other person or persons as
the Managing Director of BHC shall designate in writing, and BHC
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By          /      -, Regional Vice President
. Western Africa
BANK FOR HOUSING AND CONSTRUCTION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Sub-loan Lending Criteria
A.   Eligibility
Sub-loans may be made to: (1) local contractors who have
entered into contracts with GHA for the purpose of carrying
out road maintenance works; and (2) quarry operators who are
supplying materials to GHA and contractors for the Road Main-
tenance Program.
B.   Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
Sub-loan contracts will include, inter alia, the followiig
terms and conditions:
1.   Repayment
(a) The repayment period is not to exceed five years.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each
Sub-loan will provide for a grace period of not
more than one year.
(c) The amortization schedule applicable to each
Sub-loan will provide for approximately equal
semiannual, or more frequent, aggregate payments
of principal and interest or approximately equal
semiannual, or more frequent, payments of prin-
cipal.
(d) No Sub-loan may be repaid in advance of maturity
during the first two years of the term of such
Sub-loan.
2.   Interest Rate
Interest on the principal amount of each Sub-loan outstanding
from time to time will be payable at a rate of 18-1/2% per annum,
which rate shall be subject to review and modification from time
to time upon agreement between the Borrower, BHC and the Asso-
ciation.


﻿- 12 -
3.   Other Conditions
(a) A commitment fee of not more than one per cent per
annum may be charged to Investment Enterprises by
BHC on the undisbursed principal amount of each
Sub-loan.
(b) Investment Enterprises shall bear any foreign
exchange risk.
(c) All contractors' equipment to be financed out of
the proceeds of a Sub-loan is to be acquired in
accordance with the provisions of the Borrower's
Hire-Purchase Decree, 1974 (N.R.C.D. 292).


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Special Import Facility
Operating Policies and Procedures
A.   Administration
BHC, with the assistance of Plant Pool, and on behalf of the
Borrower, will administer the Special Import Facility and take
full responsibility for its timely and effective implementation.
B.   Import Stage
(1) Eligibility
Any local motor trading company which imports the most widely
used brands of contractors equipment and trucks and provides
reputable service facilities throughout Ghana is eligible to apply
for participation in the program to import spare parts, tools and
materials under the Facility.
(2) Selection
In order to be considered for selection for the program, a
motor trading company will prepare and submit to BHC a list of the
spare parts, tools and materials for which there has been a strong
demand and which such motor trading company has been unable to
meet. Each list will set forth the c.i.f. cost of the goods and
the estimated delivery date. BHC shall select, on a competitive
basis, up to a maximum of ten motor trading companies for parti-
cipation in the program with the aim of providing selected
companies with balanced inventories of supplies consistent with
their respective traditional services. Selection shall be further
based on the number and distribution of facilities and outlets of
each company, its service capabilities and the competitivenesss
and cost effectiveness of its price quotations.
(3) Import Plan
BHC will enter into an Import Plan with each approved Motor
Trading Company, the terms and conditions of which plan will
include, inter alia:
(a) a description, the volume and the c.i.f. price of goods
to be ordered;


﻿- 14 -
(b) the proposed delivery schedules;
(c) a commitment by the Motor Trading Company to distribute
and sell the goods imported only to contractors and
truck operators who have been certified in accordance
with paragraph C of this Schedule;
(d) a provision limiting the imports to not less than two
bulk consignments;
(e) an advance payment to the Borrower in Cedis equivalent
to the c.i.f. amount of each shipment; and
(f) an agreement that the Motor Trading Company will sell
the goods at the official retail price.
C.   Distribution Stage
(1) Eligibility
Any contractor currently executing a GHA road maintenance
contract and any small-scale local private truck operator engaged
in agricultural transport, with priority given to truck operators
having not more than three trucks, is eligible to be considered
for participation in the program. BHC and Plant Pool will jointly
select up to about 45 contractors in consultation with GHA and
about 200 truck operators.
(2) Certificate of eligibility
BHC will issue to each approved participant a certificate of
eligibility which authorizes the purchase of goods in generally
predetermined quantities from approved Motor Trading Companies.
The goods will be held by the approved Motor Trading Companies and
sold in Cedis only to certified contractors and truck operators.
(3) Price of Goods
The end-user price of the goods will consist of the official
retail price to be paid to the Motor Trading Company, and a fee,
satisfactory to the Association, to be paid to BHC and the Bor-
rower at the time of certification.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  J        day of
198   .
FOR SECRETARY


