Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15608
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
NORTHERN TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
(CREDIT 1879-MAI)
May 6, 1996
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MK)
(as of November 1994)
US$1.00= MK16.0
(at time of appraisal)
US$1.00 = MK2.3
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I foot (ft)    0.305 meters (m)
I mile (mi)  =   1.609 kilometer (km)
I square mile (mi2)  =   2.590 Square Kilometer (km2)
I ton (t)     0.907 metric ton (m ton)
GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms used
DWT           =      Dead Weight Ton
EDF           =      European Development Fund
ERR           =      Economic Rate of Return
GOM           =      Government of Malawi
GOT           =      Government of Tanzania
IDA           =      International Development Association
ICR           =      Implementation Completion Report
KfW           =      Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
LS            =      Lake Services
MCC           =      Malawi Cargo Centers
MCCL                 Malawi Cargo Centers Limited
MOTC          =      Ministry of Transport and Communication
MOW           =      Ministry of Works
MR            =      Malawi Railways
MRHC          =      Malawi Railway Holdings Company
NTC           =      Northern Transport Corridor
ODA           =      Overseas Development Administration
PPF           =      Project Preparation Facility
SAR           =      Staff Appraisal Report
TAZARA        =      Tanzania - Zambia Railway Authority
TEU           =      Twenty Foot Equivalent Unit (containers)
THA           =      Tanzania Harbours Authority
USAID         =      United States Agency for International Development



MALAWI
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NORTHERN TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
(CREDIT 1879-MAI)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction .......................................................... ii
Project Objectives ..........................................................            ii
Implementation Experience and Results ............................... ........................... iii
Summary of Findings, Future Operations,
and Key Lessons learned ..........................................................      iv
PART 1: PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT FROM IDA PERSPECTIVE
A. Evaluation of Project Objectives ..........................................................1I
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ............................................................3
C. Major Factors ..........................................................8
D. Project Sustainability ..........................................................     8
E. Bank's Performance                                   .9
F. Borrower's Performance ....................9
G. Assessment of Outcome ...................                                            10
H. Future Operation ...................                                                 10
1. Key Lessons Learned ................... I I
PART 11: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table  I.   Summary of Assessments
Table  2.   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table  3.   Project Timetable
Table  4.   Loan/Credit Disbursements
Table  5.   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table  6A. Project Costs
Table  6B. Project Financing
Table  7.   Economic Re-Evaluation
Table  8.   Studies included in Project
Table  9.   Status of Legal Covenants
Table  10A.Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table  lOB.Bank Resources: Missions
Table   I 1. Traffic Through Different Corridors
Table  12. Traffic Through Different Corridors (Graph)
Annex  1.   Aide Memoire ICR mission
Annex 2.   Project Review from Cofinanciers perspective
Map IBRDNos.: 19421 & 19422
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






MALAWI
NORTHERN TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
(CREDIT 1879-MAI)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Northern Transport
Corridor Project in Malawi, for which Credit 1879-MAI in the amount of SDR 11.1 million
equivalent was approved by the Board on March 3, 1987 and made effective on June 7, 1988.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1994, as originally planned. Final disbursement
took place on April 12, 1995, at which time a balance of SDR 713,824.97 was canceled.
Cofinancing for the project was provided by GOM, EDF, KfW, ODA, USAID and The
Netherlands.
The ICR was prepared by Sture Karlsson, Task Manager, AF2EI, with the assistance
of Aaron Adiv, Transport Economist/Consultant, and T. Iwama, Transport Planner, AFlEI,
and reviewed by Jeffrey Racki, Division Chief, AFlEI and Judith Edstrom and Jacomina de
Regt, Operations Adviser and Acting Operations Advisor respectively, AFI. The borrower and
cofinanciers were invited to review and comment on the ICR. No comments were received
from the borrower, and comments provided by cofinanciers are annexed unedited to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR started during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission
in April, 1994, and is mainly based on material in the project file.






- ii -
MALAWI
NORTHERN TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
(CREDIT 1879-MAI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Malawi is a land-locked nation which is dependent on a number of neighboring
countries for access to the sea. Historically, the rail lines from Blantyre to the ports of Beira
(640 km) and to Nacala (815 km) in Mozambique, handled over 90 percent of Malawi's
external trade. The civil war in Mozambique interrupted this service. By December 1983 the
line to Beira was closed and in July 1985 the line to Nacala closed as well. As an alternative,
Malawi had to resort to a much longer trade route, mostly to the port of Durban, South Africa,
via Zambia and Zimbabwe. The alternative southern routes, which included also more
expensive road links, over a distance of 3,467 to 3,806 km via Lusaka, Zambia, put a strain on
the Malawi economy. It was estimated that the total loss to the Malawi economy in 1984 was
at least US$50 million, or 20 percent of the value of all exports.
2.    Prior to 1984-1985, when the Northern Transport Corridor (NTC) Project was
identified, the International Development Association (IDA) had financed five road construction
and rehabilitation projects in Malawi. To create an alternative route, and reduce the transport
cost due to the situation in Mozambique, the Government of Malawi (GOM) requested IDA and
five bilateral donors to assist in the development and implementation of the NTC project.
Project Objectives
3.    The main objective of the project was to provide a shorter and more cost effective route
to the Indian Ocean for Malawi imports and exports by improving the NTC and connecting
southern Malawi with the Port of Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania. Other objectives were to facilitate
the expansion of regional trade, principally between Malawi and Tanzania; and to help develop
the northern region of Malawi.
4.    The NTC project was intended to expand the capacity and increase the efficiency of the
northern outlet by taking advantage of existing natural and man-made facilities along this route.
It was intended to integrate marine transport on Lake Malawi, which could provide a parallel
north-south link over two-thirds of Malawi, and the TAZARA railways which could provide a
rail link between Mbeya and Dar-es-Salaam in Tanzania (almost half of the total distance
between Blantyre and Dar-es-Salaam). Thus, the project aimed at substituting much of the road
transport by less costly modes. Cofinancing was provided by EDF, KfW, ODA, USAID, the
Netherlands, and the GOM.



- 111 -
5.     The project involved (a) road construction and rehabilitation totaling 298 km in Malawi
and Tanzania; (b) construction of dry-cargo transshipment facilities (in Dar-es-Salaam and in
Mbeya); (c) construction of fuel transshipment facilities (in Dar-es-Salaam and Mbeya); (d)
provision of fuel hauling railway wagons and tank containers (Tanzania); (e) improvements of
facilities and equipment for Lake Services, Malawi; (e) construction of a border post and
weighbridge at Songwe, Malawi; (f) consultancy services; and (g) training of Malawian staff.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.    The NTC project has been evaluated in the historical context upon which it was
conceived, when the Mozambique corridors were indefinitely closed, and the only outlet for
Malawi external trade was through the long routes to South Africa, which at that time also was
viewed with some risk. The project was designed as an alternative gateway for Malawi, to
compete with the road/rail corridors to South Africa and the port of Durban. The NTC was
neither designed, nor expected to compete with the shorter rail corridor to Nacala, and the road
connection to Beira, which have been reopened since the implementation of the NTC. Instead
it was expected to provide a secure alternative that would also be lower in cost, as long as the
more direct alternatives remained closed. Given that the Mozambique corridors were expected
to eventually re-open, to be successful the project was required to generate most of the
projected benefits within the period during which the Mozambique routes were closed. Given
this need to obtain results quickly, combined with the inherent complexity of the project, and
the unpredictability of the opening of the Mozambique routes, the level of risk embodied in the
project was extremely high.
7.     The NTC did establish itself as a reliable and viable corridor, and an alternative for
Malawi imports and exports. By 1993 NTC carried close to 20% of Malawi's external trade,
and the corridor has become particularly important for fuel imports (fuel imports through the
NTC has increased from 1 % in 1986 to around 40% in 1994). However, total traffic through
the NTC in 1993 was just two-thirds of the level projected at the time of appraisal, partly due
to the worsening economic situation in Malawi and the consequent decrease of imports and
exports, and partly due to the re-opening of the shorter routes through Beira and Nacala earlier
than expected, and the opening of the NTC later than expected. The projected traffic was also
adversely affected due to the Lake Services component not having commenced operations, and
thus costs were higher than would have been the case if the Lake Services had functioned as
planned. As a result, the overall re-evaluated ERR was just 7 %, significantly less than the
16% ERR envisaged in the SAR. Although sensitivity analysis were conducted at the planning
stages, it would appear now that the degree of risk, especially with respect to timeliness of
implementation, was not evaluated in sufficient depth.
8.     The existence of an optional traffic corridor is an asset to Malawi's economy and
international trade. The NTC has become a lever in route competition among others, and the
multi-modal corridor system has for the years it has been operational proven to facilitate
imports/exports, although part of the system (the lake component) still has not commenced
operation. It is apparent that the main reason for the successful operation of the NTC lies with
the Malawi Cargo Centres Limited (MCCL), which was created specifically to manage the
assets of the facilities created, and to promote and market the use of the corridor. MCCL has
put in place operational mechanisms in both Malawi and Tanzania for the through movement of
cargo. Operation and maintenance of the corridor is warranted given the traffic volume, and it



- iv -
is anticipated that the NTC will continue to play an important role in Malawi's international
trade. It should be noted that concurrently with the project, the North-South Road was being
built with donor assistance. Better coordination, such as that offered under integrated sector
operations, would have strengthened Government's ability to set priorities based on sound
efficiency considerations, and make investment decisions accordingly.
9.     The sustainability of the NTC is likely, more so because of the possible positive impact
of many other on-going initiatives in the Transport Sector such as: (i) the road maintenance
initiative; (ii) the formulation of a sound transport policy under the on-going Malawi Railway
Restructuring Project (MRRP); and (iii) the restructuring and privatization of the Lake
Services, also under the MRRP project.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
10.   The weakest link in the NTC, as identified already at the appraisal of the project, is the
lake component stretching from Chipoka (South end of the Lake) to Chilumba (North end of
the Lake). Despite heavy investment and upgrading of port and vessel facilities, hardly any
traffic has been taken on the lake due to the fluctuation of the lake level and the failure to carry
out required dredging in the two ports, although the need for dredging was identified at the
outset of the project. This problem was partly resolved in mid 1995, when part of the dredging
was carried out under Kfw and IDA funding, and it was anticipated that the new container
vessel procured under the project would commence operation sometimes by the end of 1995,
which did not materialize due to continuous dredging problems. The fuel vessel with the same
draft as the container vessel, however, started its operation immediately after the dredging
activities were completed. This was possible as the oil jetty is located at the outer end of
Chipoka port, away from where the main dredging problems are encountered.
11.   Due to the problems with Lake Services a restructuring and commercialization of LS
has been included as a follow up project under a component of the Malawi Railways
Restructuring Project, Credit 2696-MAI. It is intended that, after being registered as a separate
company, LS's business activities would be split into separate result centers, and that decisions
would be taken as appropriate for commercialization and privatization of these activities.
12.   The construction of the MCC facilities in Dar es Salaam required resettlement of
around 3,000 people that were living on the site selected for the cargo center, and demonstrated
the difficulties associated with a loan to one country for a transborder project. As infrastructure
improvements required for the new site selected could not be funded under the credit, ODA
agreed to make funds available and to supervise this sub-component that was implemented by
Dar es Salaam City Council. Concern had been expressed from the outset about the
implementation capabilities of the City Council, but at the time, however, there was no obvious
alternative.
13.   The final result of the resettlement component is that compensation was properly paid
to all house owners and squatters, but that only around 35 of the house owners applied to the
Lands Office for a title at the new site. The new resettlement area at Yombo is still largely
devoid of the planned infrastructure. One of the problems related to the implementation of the
resettlement component (rated 3) has been the multiple organizations involved (two
Governments, ODA, City Council, THA), and the unclear lines of responsibility between the



- v -
different parties. Another problem was the lack of capacity, counterpart funding and general
interest in the matter by the implementing agent, Dar es Salaam City Council.
14.   The multi-modal corridor system has proven to be of great importance to facilitate
imports/exports to Malawi, although part of the system (the lake component) still has not
commenced operation as anticipated. It is apparent that the main reason for the successful
operation of the NTC lies with the MCCL which has put in place operational mechanisms in
both Malawi and Tanzania for the through movement of cargo. These include through tariff
arrangements and operational agreements for a smooth transfer of Malawi cargo directly from
the port to the MCC facilities. The creation of MCCL, with its ownership structure and the
private sector involvement, has given MCCL access to expertise in freight forwarding, freight
brokerage and transport services marketing, which is a key ingredient in ensuring a sustainable
future operation of the NTC.
15.   The key lesson learned for such a project, which had to reap most of its benefits in a
short period of time, is that the project design should have been closely linked to the speed of
implementation, i.e. :(i) the project should have been simplified to the extent possible; (ii) it
should have left a great deal of flexibility for adjustments and modifications of components
during the implementation phase; and (iii) the phasing of the many components and activities
should have been more carefully analyzed at the planning stage of the project. It would also
have been advantageous if MCCL had been established earlier in the process, and provided
guidance in the overall design as well as implementation matters, and to initiate the marketing
of the NTC system as early as possible to convince the export/import industry of the potential
to channel traffic via the port of Dar es Salaam (which at the beginning of the project
implementation was heavily congested and regarded as inefficient with high risk of damages
and pilferage of cargo).
16.   Other lessons learned include: (i) the ownership by and the division of responsibilities
between implementing agencies (MOTC, MOW, MR, LS, MCCL) should have been more
clearly defined, and dedicated full time staff should have been appointed by the agencies, rather
than the use of busy in-line staff; (ii) the close coordination between GOM and donors during
the identification and planning of the project should have been maintained during the
implementation stage; (iii) on a large complex project like this it would have been advantageous
to keep the responsibility for design and supervision to a minimum of consultants, with the
GOM as the client for all contracts. Too many problems arose from lack of coordination among
the different consultants engaged in the design and implementation of different components;
and (iv) the concern expressed from the outset about the implementation capability of the Dar
es Salaam City Council to implement the resettlement component should have been taken more
seriously, and an arrangement should have been made with ODA and GOT on how to deal with
a noncompliance by the implementing agent. Clear definitions on authority and responsibility of
supervising agencies should also have been established.



PART I: PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT FROM IDA PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Name:               Malawi, Northern Transport Corridor Project
Credit number:      1879-MAI
RVP unit:           Africa, Southern Africa Department
Infrastructure and Energy Division (AFIEI)
Country:            Malawi
Sector:             Transport
Background
1.    Malawi is a land-locked nation which is dependent on a number of neighboring
countries for access to the sea. Historically, the rail lines from Blantyre to the ports of Beira
(640 km) and to Nacala (815 km) in Mozambique, handled over 90 percent of Malawi's
external trade. Due to the civil war in Mozambique the line to Beira was closed in December
1983 and in July 1985 the line to Nacala was closed as well. As an alternative, in 1984 Malawi
had to resort to a much longer trade route, mostly to the port of Durban, South Africa, via
Zambia and Zimbabwe. These alternative southern routes, (a distance of 3,500 to 3,800 kIn)
were estimated to cost the Malawi economy at least an extra US$50 million per annum, or 20
percent of the value of all exports.
2.    To shorten the travel distance to the sea, reduce transport costs, and reduce the
dependency on a single outlet for its external trade, Malawi decided to develop the overland
corridor to Dar-es-Salaam (1,789 km). In October 1984 Malawi opened a gravel road of
limited capacity, connecting northern Malawi with the Tanzanian border, and from there to the
port of Dar-es-Salaam.
3.    The Northern Transport Corridor (NTC) project was intended to expand the capacity
and increase the efficiency of the northern outlet by taking advantage of existing natural and
man-made facilities along this route. It was intended to integrate marine transport on Lake
Malawi, which could provide a parallel north-south link over two-thirds of Malawi, and the
TAZARA railways which could provide a rail link between Mbeya and Dar-es-Salaam in
Tanzania (almost half of the total distance between Blantyre and Dar-es-Salaam), thus
substituting much of the road transport by less costly modes.
A. Evaluation of Project Objectives
4.    The main objective of the project was to provide a shorter and more cost effective route
to the Indian Ocean for Malawi imports and exports, by improving the NTC and connecting
southern Malawi with the Port of Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania. Other objectives were to facilitate
the expansion of regional trade, principally between Malawi and Tanzania and to help develop
the northern region of Malawi.



5.    To assist in achieving the objectives, the project provided financial assistance to the
Government of Malawi (GOM) to develop this alternative transport route through Tanzania.
Co-financing was provided by EDF, KfW, ODA, USAID, the Netherlands, and the GOM. The
main role of the Association was to finance the preparatory works required to develop the NTC
concept, to finance road rehabilitation and border crossing facilities, to coordinate and
supervise major parts of the project, and to finance consultancy services, technical assistance
and training of Malawi staff.
6.    The NTC-project consisted of eight major components:
a)    Road reconstruction and rehabilitation (US$52.16 million): Karonga, Malawi to
Ibanda, Tanzania (65 km), Ibanda to Uyole, Tanzania, (98 km), and Salima to
Balaka, Malawi (145 km), including the construction of Ngodzi Bridge;
b)    Construction of transshipment facilities in Tanzania for handling containerized
traffic and break-bulk cargo (US$22.40 million): Cargo centers in Dar-es-
Salaam and in Mbeya; and infrastructure improvements at a new site in Dar-es-
Salaam for re-settlement of people (US$3.27 million).
c)    Construction of transshipment facilities in Tanzania for fuel handling
(US$22.26 million): Fuel storage and handling facilities in Dar-es-Salaam and
in Mbeya;
d)    Procurement of fuel hauling vehicles (US$2.14 million): rail fuel tank wagons
to be used by TAZARA, and road tank containers to be used by Malawi
transporters;
e)    Improvements of port facilities on Lake Malawi and acquisition of equipment
for Lake Services (LS), (US$21.97 million): procurement of a new 750 DWT
container vessel; construction of dry cargo and fuel handling facilities, and
procurement of handling equipment at Chilumba and Chipoka, dredging at the
ports of Chilumba and Chipoka; and upgrading of the ship yard at Monkey Bay
in Malawi;
f)    Construction of border post and weigh bridge (US$0.53) in Songwe at the
Karonga-lbanda border crossing between Malawi and Tanzania;
g)    Consultancy services (US$15.62 million): technical assistance to the NTC in
project coordination and establishment of the MCCL, technical assistance to
LS, detailed engineering and design, and project supervision;
h)    Training of Malawi transport sector personnel.
7.    The NTC was expected to achieve lower transport costs than its alternative southern
routes, even though the NTC is designed to utilize different modes of transport (rail from Dar
to Mbeya, road from Mbeya to Chilumba, lake from Chilumba port to Chipoka port, and
road/rail from Chipoka to final destination). However, to achieve this objective the project
design was complex, due to (i) the large number of sub-components (a complex multi-modal
corridor including rail, road, and lake transport, seaport and dry-port facilities, and numerous



- 3 -
transshipments from mode to mode); (ii) the number of Borrower institutions (MOW, MOTC,
MR, LS, MCCL); (iii) the number of different donors (six); and (iv) implementation in two
countries (Malawi and Tanzania). This complexity put heavy demands on the Borrower and its
agencies in terms of coordination and supervision of the different components. Under such
constraints the objectives of the project, including its design and time table for implementation,
might have been too ambitious.
8.    The NTC project has been evaluated in the historical context upon which it was
conceived, when the Mozambique corridors were indefinitely closed, and the only outlet for
Malawi external trade was through the long routes to South Africa, which at that time also was
viewed with some risk. The project was designed as an alternative gateway for Malawi, to
compete with the road/rail corridors to South Africa and the port of Durban. The NTC was
neither designed, nor expected to compete with the shorter rail corridor to Nacala, and the road
connection to Beira, which have been reopened since the implementation of the NTC. Instead
it was expected to provide a secure alternative that would also be lower in cost, as long as the
more direct alternatives remained closed. Given that the Mozambique corridors were expected
to eventually re-open, to be successful the project was required to generate most of the
projected benefits within the period during which the Mozambique routes were closed. Given
this need to obtain results quickly, combined with the inherent complexity of the project, and
the unpredictability of the opening of the Mozambique routes, the level of risk embodied in the
project was extremely high.
9.    The secondary objectives of increasing regional trade and developing the Northern part
of Malawi are by-products of the development of the corridor and not assessed as primary
stand-alone objectives.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
10.   Most of the physical project components required to meet the objectives of imnproving
the NTC were completed, although with some delays (very significant in the case of Lake
Services) and cost over-runs. The final project cost was US$140.75 million, an increase by
28% compared with the SAR estimate of US$110.09 million. (See Table 6A). A detailed
description by component follows:
11.   Karonga-lbanda Road: Construction of this two-lane paved road (64.6 km) and five
bridges between Malawi and Tanzania was financed by the EDF. All work was completed in
11/91. However, cracks have developed in the concrete deck slabs of the bridges. While these
do not unduly compromise the structural integrity of the bridges, their service life will be
reduced unless remedial works are undertaken.
12.   Ibanda-Uyole Road: Rehabilitation of this two-lane paved road (89 km) in Tanzania
was originally financed by the Dutch Government, with construction planned for early 1991 to
early 1993. However, the project was suspended half way through due to shortage of funds.
EFD finally provided additional funding, and the works resumed in 2/92 and were completed
by the end of 1994 (an overall delay of around 1.5 years).
13.   Salima-Balaka Road: Rehabilitation of this two-lane paved road (147.5 kn), included
an access road to the port of Chipoka (2.5 kmn), was financed by KfW (65.5 km) and IDA (82
km). Implementation suffered from delays and cost overruns, mainly due to less than



- 4 -
satisfactory performance by the contractor. By the original estimated completion date of 12/90,
the contractor had only completed around 40% of the KfW funded component, and 3 % of the
IDA financed section. After unsuccessful attempts by GOM, KfW and IDA to get the
contractor to improve his performance, it was agreed GOM should to terminate the contract,
and re-tender the remaining works. The contract was terminated with effect from 2/91. The
new contractor commenced the works in 3/92, and completed the works satisfactorily on time
by the end of 1993. The overall delay for these works was more than three years, and the cost
increased 39% to US$23.0 million. The dispute with the original contractor has been referred
to arbitration. A request was made by the GOM in early 1993 to include the re-construction of
Ngodzi bridge, that was washed out during heavy flooding in March 1989. The Credit
Agreement was subsequently amended to include this construction (total cost US$1.25 million),
and the works were completed by mid June, 1994.
14.   Construction of Border Post & Weigh Bridge: The border post ( US$ 0.53 million),
financed by IDA, was completed towards the end of 1994. The Weigh Bridge, located at the
border post, was installed as part of the Karonga--Songwe roads contract.
15.   Civil Works at the ports of Chipoka and Chilumba: The works, financed by
USAID, involved the construction of fuel handling and storage facilities, and of handling and
storage facilities for dry cargo, including containers. Improvements to the infrastructure at the
two ports (US$5.91 million), installation of gantry cranes (US$3.56 million), and diesel
generators (US$0.39 million) were substantially completed, for Chipoka by 6/89 and
Chilumba by 11/89. Both facilities were handed over to MOW/MOTC on 2/90, although
supply of diesel generators were further delayed by around 5 months, which in turn led to a
delay of commissioning of the gantry cranes. Both facilities were ready for operation by mid
1990, but have hardly been utilized due to problems related to dredging of the two ports (par.
18).
16.   Monkey Bay Shipyard: The rehabilitation and upgrading of the shipyard was partly
financed by USAID and included shipyard facilities and slipway winches (US$2.66 million).
Equipment and tools (US$1.92 million) were financed by ODA. Completion of the shipyard
facilities was delayed by about 6 months, ending on 2/90, mainly due to bad weather conditions
and soil conditions for the slipway foundations, which deviated considerably from design
conditions. The installation of 5 slipway winches, however, was delayed by more than 5 years.
The original installation took place in 1990, although during a trial run the winches showed
severe deficiencies and were not accepted. The supplier eventually agreed to replace the
winches at no additional cost, and the installations were finally commissioned in the end of
1995.
17.   Procurement of a New Container Vessel: KfW financed the procurement of a new
container vessel (about US$7.33 million) for the LS to operate between Chipoka and Chilumba.
The original idea was to procure a 600 ton pontoon vessel, suitable to carry the type of
export/import traffic expected to move in volume on the lake, (including break-bulk cargo,
containers and fuel). The cost of this pontoon was estimated at US$2.88 million in the SAR.
The re-designed vessel supplied to LS has a loading capacity equivalent to 750 tons of cargo.
The contract was awarded in September 1989, and the vessel delivered to LS 14 months later.
The vessel has still not started its operation, mainly because of problems related to the dredging
of the two ports (par. 18).



18.   Dredging: The main reason for the delays in commencing operation of the container
vessel (par. 17) and the two upgraded ports at Chipoka and Chilumba (par. 15) has been related
to insufficient water depth in the two ports. An IDA supervision mission in 1992 brought to
light that the dredging of the two ports, as provided for at the outset of the project, had been
almost neglected, and that the water depth was not sufficient for the new container vessel to call
at the two ports. Ad-hoc efforts to carry out soundings and soil investigations were initiated
immediately, but it took until early 1994 before required funds could be obtained for the works
to be undertaken. KfW then agreed to fund dredging of Chipoka out of savings from the
Salima-Balaka roads project, and IDA funds were, with the agreement by GOM, obtained from
the Infrastructure I Credit (Cr. 2069-MAI). Dredging of Chipoka was carried out between 7/94
and 12/94 at a total cost of around US$132,000, and the works in Chilumba were carried out
between 12/94 and 2/95 at a total cost of around US$66,000. LS was instrumental in assisting
the contractor with support services (US$27,000) - mainly floating equipment such as a floating
pontoon and a tug boat. Potential maintenance dredging in the future will be carried out by a
small cutter suction dredger, recently provided under USAID funding, but it is uncertain if a
recurrent budget is assured for the works.
19.   Construction of cargo facilities in Dar-es-Salaam and Mbeya: The two cargo centers
in Tanzania, (MCC), were designed to handle both dry cargo and fuel, and operate as
independent units in each location. Construction of the dry-cargo centers in Dar-es-Salaam and
Mbeya were funded by the ODA, while procurement of gantry cranes (for containers) and
generators were funded by USAID. Some miscellaneous items for the dry cargo facilities, as
well as the fuel facilities at the two sites were funded by KfW. The implementation of the
works was more complicated than anticipated, mainly due to the many consultants/contractors
involved. The construction works at the two sites commenced in mid-1989, and the two cargo
centers were substantially completed by mid-1991, when fuel handling operations started on a
small scale. After an initial operating period of the new facilities, it was found that several
essential items (the major ones related to the electrical installations) had not been included in
the original design of the facilities. A total of around 40 such items were identified by the end
of 1993. KfW funded some of these items, particularly those concerning the fuel facilities at
both Dar-es-Salaam and Mbeya. IDA funded the remaining items (mainly related to safety and
security) from the Credit 1879-MAI and Credit 2069-MAI. All rectification and outstanding
works were completed by the end of 1995.
20.   Rail Tank Wagons and Road Tank Containers: The contract, financed by USAID,
supplied twenty-two 60,000 liter rail fuel tank wagons (US$ 1.24 million), and thirty-three
16,000 liter road fuel tank containers (US$ 0.90 million). The rail wagons were accepted by
Malawi Railways on 3/91, and transferred for use by TAZARA. The tank containers were
handed over to the Malawi Petroleum Control Commission on 10/90.
21.   Resettlement: The construction of MCC facility in Dar-es-Salaam required
resettlement of around 3,000 people that were living on the site (Kurasini) selected for the
cargo center. It was recognized at appraisal that appropriate resettlement provisions would need
to be made for the squatters occupying the Kurasini site. The Tanzanian Government proposed
a combination of cash compensation and land title at an alternative site in Dar-es-Salaam
(Yombo Vituka). The Malawi Government agreed to fund the cash compensation, on the basis
of valuations from the Dar-es-Salaam City Council, and land titles would be offered to the
Kurasini house owners under the auspices of the Dar-es-Salaam City Council.



- 6 -
22.   A World Bank study carried out in May 1987 recommended that the Tanzanian
proposal be accepted, but drew attention to potential drawbacks due to the remoteness of the
new site, and particularly the lack of infrastructure at the Yombo site. As funds under the credit
could not be used for infrastructure improvements, ODA subsequently agreed to make funds
available to Tanzania for the provision of: (i) an access road, linking the site to the main Pugu
Road; (ii) temporary supplies of potable water from shallow wells, pending extension of the
piped supply; (iii) a dispensary; (iv) extension of power supply into the site; and (v) a market
shelter. The proposed infrastructure improvements were deemed necessary to ensure the
economic and social welfare of the resettled community, but it was also recognized that they
would provide additional benefits to the existing population in the wider area. It was thought,
too, that the provision of these improvements would contribute significantly to the satisfactory
implementation of the resettlement program.
23.   Concern had been expressed from the outset about the implementation capabilities of
the Dar es Salaam City Council which was to be responsible for the implementation of this
component. At the time, however, there was no obvious alternative vehicle or mechanism in
place for such an activity, and it was hoped that provision of funds and liaison by project team
members would enable the City Council to fulfill its role. However, when the Kurasini area
was handed over to the contractor (end of March 1989) there was little evidence of the
infrastructure being in place at Yombo, despite available funds and all effort of encouragement
by the ODA funded consultant to get City Council to speed up their activities. Offers of land
title had been made, although only some of 35 of the house owners had applied to the Lands
Office for a title at the new site.
24.   The final result of the resettlement component is that compensation was properly paid
to all house owners and squatters at the Kurasini site, but that the new resettlement area at
Yombo is still largely devoid of the planned infrastructure. Improvement of access to the site
was partly completed, a few wells are operational, a dispensary has been constructed, but no
electricity has been supplied to the area. One of the problems related to the implementation of
the resettlement component has been the multiple organizations involved (two Governments,
ODA, City Council, THA), and the unclear lines of responsibility. The major problem,
however, was the lack of capacity, counterpart funding and general interest in the matter by the
implementing agent, Dar es Salaam City Council.
25.   Consultancy Services: The project included: (i) technical assistance for project
coordination and financial control; (ii) technical assistance for LS in the fields of marketing,
positioning and scheduling of vessels, port operations and maintenance, and vessel repairs; and
(iii) detailed engineering, design and supervision of construction works and equipment
procurement. The coordinator employed at the start of the project terminated his contract in
1991, and it took until November 1993 until GOM replaced the coordinator for the last seven
months of the implementation phase. The lack of a full time coordinator for almost 3 years was
a major reason for lack of progress in rectifying outstanding matters and coordination of the
different components. The position of financial controller was successfully transferred to a
Malawi counterpart in late 1993, but the transfer of knowledge from the TA attached to LS was
negligible, partly because of MRs non-commitment to the project. The performance of the
consultants engaged for site supervision of the different component were mixed (some did not
represent the client well or were not under the control of GOM due to direct contracting by
some donors).



- 7 -
26.   Training: Training for government staff in the transport sector (higher degrees in
transport economics) met with a lot of problems, including the lack of identification of staff by
both MOTC and MOW. The only training implemented was three months overseas training in
preparation for the operations of the container vessel. Training negotiated for handling of
containers was canceled as the new container vessel, essential for this training, couldn't enter
the two ports.
27.   Institutional Development: The project envisaged the establishment of MCCL as a
commercial entity to manage, promote and market the NTC for both fuel and dry cargo
through Dar-es-Salaam and Mbeya. MCCL was registered as a private company under the
Companies Act, incorporated on February 23, 1990. Its shareholders are public and private.
MCCL has launched several successful marketing drives on the Malawi side, including
seminar discussions, press releases and advertisements. These initiatives have included high
level Tanzania delegations to focus on various aspects of the corridor to the customer/shipper in
Malawi. Experience after 4 years of operation indicates that this task has been achieved, and
that MCCL has been instrumental and successful in facilitating smooth flow of cargo
movements and making the NTC work.
28.   The assets used by MCCL (cargo terminals in Dar-es-Salaam and Mbeya, rail wagons
and other associated facilities) were supposed to be channeled to MCCL through Malawi
Railway Holdings Company (MRHC) through a Lease Agreement. The Credit Agreement
provided that MCCL should pay rental fees for the use of the MCC assets. These were set at
least 5 % per annum of the assets value, with a 3 year moratorium from start of operations.
Due to the re-structuring of Malawi Railways and the non-operational status of MRHC, the
assets are now directly leased to MCCL by GOM. The final lease agreement, laying down the
terms of the lease and associated rental fees, has been discussed for several years. A draft
proposal in substantial compliance with the objective of the covenant was eventually submitted
to IDA for review in September, 1995. The draft was approved, and it is anticipated that the
agreement will be concluded by the end of March 1996.
29.   Environmental Impact: As predicted at the time of project appraisal, the project has
had beneficial effects on the environment from the roads project, mainly through reduced dust
and soil erosion from improved drainage works. As regards lake transport it was felt at the time
of appraisal that increased shipping traffic on the lake might affect the environment. No
adverse affect has been monitored because little incremental traffic has developed. The project
provided funds for three ports to be equipped with oil spill equipment, each including a
skimmer and oil booms. Selected staff from the three ports have been trained to operate the
equipment.
30.   Summary: By completing these physical components, the project achieved the goal of
establishing an alternative route for imports/export to and from Malawi, via Dar-es-Salaam.
This clearly reduced the economic dependency of Malawi on the southern routes, and, during
the closure of the Mozambique corridors, until October 1992, provided a shorter more
competitive alternative to the Malawi-Durban corridor. In response, during this period, traffic
on the NTC increased. As shown in table 10, by 1990 the NTC carried 16% (116,475 tons) of
Malawi's imports and 12% of Malawi's exports (23,856 tons). This represents an increase
from about 6% of both imports and exports prior to the project (1987). By 1994 (the last year
for which data is available), traffic through NTC amounted to 162,192 tons (22%) of imports
and 13.562 tons (8%) of exports. The total traffic through the NTC system for 1994, however,



- 8 -
was only two thirds of the level projected in the SAR for the corridor. With regard to Malawi's
total international traffic during the period 1990 to 1994, it can be seen (Table 11 and 12) that
the NTC has kept, and even slightly increased, its share of the traffic (on average 15 to 19%
respectively) despite the opening of shorter routes to Nacala and Beira. While the NTC can be
expected to continue to carry a significant part of Malawi's imports and exports, it is likely that
the increased competition created by the opening and improvements to the shorter routes
through Beira and Nacala will result in a reduction of the current market share (around 20%)
for the NTC.
C. Major Factors
31.   Factors not generally subject to government control, which created a gap between
actual and expected outcome, included: (i) complicated project design and implementation (the
NTC included many components, some of them of technical complexity, co-financed by six
different donors with different administrative arrangements in programming activities, engaging
consultants, contractors etc.); (ii) part of the project was implemented in Tanzania (problems
related to land acquisition and re-settlement issues); (iii) traffic evolution; (iv) less than
satisfactory performance by contractors (Salima-Balaka roads contract) and consultants (some
of whom did not represent the client well or were not under the control of the client due to
financing agreement); (v) shortage of funds (delays of roads project, rectification of numerous
outstanding matters at the two MCCs, and dredging of the two ports); and (vi) reopening of
Mozambique corridors.
32.   Factors generally subject to government control, which contributed to the gap between
actual and expected outcome, included lack of timely: (i) reorganization of Lake Services ( no
commitment by MR to push for institutional, operational, and financial reforms); (ii)
finalization of lease agreement for MCCL; (iii) replacement of the project coordinator; and (iv)
lifting of the ban on imports of grain through Tanzania (lack of coordination between
Ministries) earlier than in August 1992, which would have provided a more cost effective route
for drought relief cargo to Malawi during 1990 - 1992 '/.
D. Project Sustainability
33.   The sustainability of the NTC is likely in the sense that it is likely to remain an outlet
for traffic from Malawi. The multi-modal corridor system has already, before all components
were completed, proven to be of great importance to facilitate imports/exports to Malawi,
although part of the system (the lake component) still has not commenced operation as
anticipated. It is apparent that the main reason for the successful operation of the NTC lies with
the MCCL which has put in place operational mechanisms in both Malawi and Tanzania for
the through movement of cargo. These include through tariff arrangements and operational
agreements and procedures with TAZARA, THA and Customs Authority for the smooth
If the ban had been lifted earlier, and the Port of Dar es Salaam, and the Northern Transport
Corridor had been utilized for drought relief cargo to Malawi during 1990-1992, rather than
channeling it via Durban in South Africa, it is estimated that around US$ 10.4 million could have
been saved in transportation cost. The economic return (ERR) of the MCC (Dry Cargo) component
would then have increased from 5.3% to 10.5%, and the ERR for the overall NTC project would
have increasedfrom 7% to 9%.



- 9 -
transfer of Malawi cargo directly from the port to the MCC facilities. A key aspect of these
systems is the concept of direct delivery of cargo and the one-stop-shop service, enabling the
transfer of cargo directly from ship's hook to MCC, Dar-es-Salaam, where all transit clearing
services are provided. This arrangement means that MCCs in Tanzania have become dry ports
for Malawi, to which Malawi cargo can be manifested by shipping lines.
34.   The likely sustainability of investments in the Lake Component (upgrading of the ports
and acquisition of a container vessel) is more uncertain and depends on the traffic LS can
capture in the future. Restructuring and commercialization of LS is now part of the Malawi
Railway Restructuring Project.
35.    Since the completion of the NTC, the rail line to Nacala (815 km) has been reopened
and the southern corridor to Durban has been shortened from over 3,500 km to 2,667 km (due
to the opening of the road via Tete). The NTC, however, is still likely to remain viable and
important for Malawi. First of all it is about 1,000 km shorter than the corridor to Durban (via
Tete), and second and perhaps most importantly, it provides Malawi with an alternative outlet
to the Dar es Salaam port and the regular shipping lines (East African Conference Lines) that
have direct calls at this port. Given the past experience of being dependent on only one gateway
to an international port, it is of strategic importance for Malawi to maintain several options for
its imports and exports.
E. Bank Performance
36.   Identification: The project was identified in discussions between GOM and the Bank in
1984-1985, when the corridors through Mozambique were closed for Malawi exports and
imports. A conceptual report "Transport Bottlenecks in Malawi's Access to the Indian Ocean"
issued in late 1984, formed the basis for further preparations of the project. The Bank's
performance in this area was satisfactory.
37.    Appraisal: The Bank was also instrumental in coordinating discussions with bilateral
donors for co-financing of the project. The Bank's assistance during this stage was satisfactory
in terms of staff skill mix and continuity.
38.   Implementation and Supervision: Over the implementation period from September 1988
through April 1994, the Bank's supervision effort amounted to 69.8 staff weeks, including 11
supervision missions, averaging 2 missions per year. Progress was satisfactory during the
beginning of the project, but delays and problems started to appear rapidly after an initial
period of 2-3 years. These implementation problems were not always adequately identified and
assessed, and there was a lack of coordination on the part of the financing agencies to assist the
GOM in addressing and resolving the problems. Over the implementation period from mid-
1992 to the closure of the project, however, the Bank's supervision effort increased
substantially, but on balance its overall performance is rated as deficient.
F. Borrower Performance
39.    Preparation: GOM performance in project preparation was satisfactory, with a
documented commitment to arrange for alternative transport routes to/from Malawi, and to
implement the NTC.



- 10 -
40.   Implementation: GOM performance in implementation is closely linked to the degree of
achievement of project objectives as discussed in section B. Several factors negatively affecting
the project were subject to Government control, particularly the issue of replacement of the
project coordinator, and appointment of full time staff to supervise and monitor the project. It
should be mentioned, however, that the steering committee appointed was instrumental in
identifying shortcomings and deficiencies. Despite the good progress at the start of the project,
and the good progress over the last year of the implementation, the overall performance was
deficient.
41.   Compliance with major loan covenants and commitments was, however, less than
satisfactory. The financial covenant for LS to restructure its passenger service operations with a
view to eliminate all losses by no later than June 30, 1991 was never complied with, and the
lease agreement between the GOM, MR and MCCL regarding financial and operational
conditions for facilities created was not completed as agreed in the DCA (par. 28).
G. Assessment of Outcome
42.    The project was demanding for GOM to implement. Although the lake component has
not yet started operation, it achieved its major physical objectives. Despite numerous factors
that negatively affected the implementation, the project was substantially completed by the
original closing date of the credit. However, the project faced a 28% cost overrun and
significant delays. By 1993 traffic on the Corridor was just two thirds of that forecast at the
time of appraisal, with shorter, more cost effective corridors back in operation. As a result,
the overall re-evaluated ERR of the project is only 7%. For comparison, the ERR estimated by
the SAR was 16% for a 6 year completion, and 21 % for a 3.5 year completion. Thus,
although NTC has established itself as a reliable and viable corridor, and an alternative for
Malawi's imports and exports at a time when the shorter routes through Mozambique remained
closed, the economic analysis suggests that the gains achieved in lowering transport costs do
not, with hind sight, justify the investments as made.
43.   The weakest link in the NTC, as identified already at the appraisal of the project, is the
lake component. Despite upgrading and improvements of facilities at the two ports in Chipoka
and Chilumba, at the ship yard in Monkey Bay, and the acquisition of a container vessel (a total
investment of US$22 million), hardly any traffic (11,500 tons in 1993/94 compared to forecast
of around 170,0000 tons in SAR) has been taken on the lake. The main reason is attributed to
the failure to carry out the required dredging of the two ports, although this was identified at
the outset of the project. This problem has partly been resolved, and it was anticipated that the
new vessel would commence a weekly operation between Chipoka and Chilumba by the end of
1995. This target date for starting the operation between the two ports was not met, and it is
uncertain when the vessel will commence operation. The fuel vessel, however, started its
operation immediately after the dredging activities were completed in late March, 1995. This
was possible as the oil jetty is located at the outer end of Chipoka port, away from where the
main dredging problems are encountered.
H. Future Operation
44.    The creation of MCCL was a key element in ensuring a sustainable future operation of
the NTC. The ownership structure, with the private sector involved, has given MCCL access to
expertise in freight forwarding, freight brokerage and transport services marketing. The



- 11 -
company has now successfully operated the NTC for 4 years, and been instrumental in
facilitating exports/imports of Malawi traffic.
45.   Due to the problems with Lake Services (par. 43) a restructuring and
commercialization of LS has been included as a follow up project in a component of the
Malawi Railways Restructuring Project, Credit 2696-MAI. The main objective of this
component is to allow LS to become a separate company with its own management and Board
of Directors. However, even after becoming an autonomous company, LS would need further
restructuring and rationalization of staff. It is intended that, after being registered as a separate
company, LS's business activities would be split into three separate result centers, viz., freight
services, passenger services, and vessel maintenance and decisions would be taken as
appropriate for commercialization and privatization of these activities. To link the operation of
the different ports (currently under the Marine Department of MOTCA) to the shipping
activities, the port operations would possibly be transferred to a concessionaire. To enable LS
to achieve the objectives of restructuring and commercialization, the Malawi Railway
Restructuring Project will provide support to LS in the form of equipment and consultancy
services for institutional development.
1. Key Lessons Learned
46.   Implementation of a complex project such as the NTC has provided useful lessons
learned for future similar projects in the sector:
a) the ownership by and the division of responsibilities between implementing agencies
(MOTC, MOW, MR, LS, MCCL) should have been more clearly defined, and
dedicated full time staff should have been appointed by the agencies, rather than the
use of busy in-line staff;
b) the project manager/coordinator should have been replaced immediately after the
coordinator employed at the start of the project terminated his contract;
c) the close coordination between GOM and donors during the identification and
planning of the project should have been maintained during the implementation stage,
e.g. through annual joint supervision missions;
d) for such a complex project, which had to reap its benefits in a short period of time,
the implementation program, and phasing of the many activities, should have been
more carefully analyzed at the planning stage of the project, and the design should
have left some flexibility to adjust for modifications during the implementation phase.
It would have been advantageous if MCCL had been established earlier in the
process, and provided guidance in the design as well as implementation matters, and
also to initiate the marketing of the NTC system as early as possible to convince the
export/import industry of the potential to channel traffic via the port of Dar es Salaam
(which at the beginning of the project implementation was heavily congested and
regarded as inefficient with high risk of damages and pilferage's of cargo);



- 12 -
e) GOM should have had full time representation in Tanzania during the first phase of
the implementation, rather than reliance on staff from the High Commission in Dar-
es-Salaam;
f) on a large complex project like this it would have been advantageous to keep the
responsibility for design and supervision to a minimum of consultants, with the GOM
as the client for all contracts. Too many problems arose from lack of coordination
among the different consultants engaged in the design and implementation of different
components; and
g) the concern expressed from the outset about the implementation capability of the Dar
es Salaam City Council to implement the resettlement component should have been
taken more seriously, and an arrangement should have been made with ODA and
GOT on how to deal with a non compliance by the implementing agent. Clear
definitions on authority and responsibility of supervising agencies should also have
been established.



PART II: SUPPORTING STATISTICAL TABLES AND ANNEXES
Table 1:           Summary of Assessments
Table 2:           Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:           Project Timetable
Table 4:           Loan/Credit Disbursements
Table 5:           Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6A:          Project Costs
Table 6B:          Project Financing
Table 7:           Economic Re-Evaluation
Table 8:           Studies included in Project
Table 9:           Status of Legal Covenents
Table 1 OA:        Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table I OB:        Bank Resources: Missions
Table 11:          Traffic Through Different Corridors
Table 12:          Traffic Through Different Corridors (Graph)
Annex 1:           Aide memoire ICR Mission
Annex 2:           Project Review from Cofinanciers perspective



TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Not
A.    Achievement of Objectives        Substanitial    Partial     Negligible      Applicable
Macro Policies                                                                  X
Sector Policies                                                 X
Financial Objectives                                            X
Institutional Developmenit                                      X
Physical Objectives                 X
Poverty Reduction                                                               X
Gender Issues                                                                   X
Other Issues                                                                    X
Other Social Objectives                                                         X
Public Sector Managemilenit                                                     X
Private Sector Managemenit          X
Other (Economic Independenice)                    X
B.     Project Sustainabilitv            Likely       Unlikely     Uncertaii
x
High/v
C.     Batk Performance                Satisfactorv   Satisfactory    Deficient
IdentificationI                                   X
Preparation Assistance                            X
Appraisal                                         X
Supervision                                                     X
Highly
D.    Borrower Performance             Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                                       X
Implementation                                                  X
Governmelt Compliance                                           X
Operation                                         X
Highty                       Un-         Highly Un-
E.     Assessment of Outcome           Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Satisfactory
N



TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
'  Amount                                                  Year of       Status
Project ID      | US$1|                      Purpose                     Approval    (% complete)
Preceding Operations
3MALPA002                0.50    Highway Engineering: Detailed engineering of    1967        Completed
the Zomba-Lilongwe road (290 krn)
3MALPA005                11.50    Hiahways: Reconstruction, bitumen paving of    1968        Completed
the Zomba-Lilongwe road. Consultants study of
road transport licensing, regulations.
3MALPA013                10.00   Iiighways 11: Construction of the Lilongwe-     1975        Completed
Kasungu road ( 1 13 kni). First phase of a
District Roads Improvement and Maintenance
Program (DRIMP).
3MALPA019                10.50    Highways IlI: Construction of Kasungu-Jenda    1978        Completed
road (85 kin) feasibility study & detailed
engineerinig of Jenda-Mzuzu road.
3MALPA026               33.00    Highways IV: Construction of main Jenda-        1981        Completed
Mzuzu-Ekwendeni road and second phase of
DRIMP.
3MALPA035                44.9    Highwav V: Road construction, third phase of    1984        Completed
DRIMP; construction of Luwawa-Champhoyo
road; provision of weigh bridges.
Following Operations
3MALPA056                28.8    Intrastructure 1: The project would finance a   1990          Active
time slice of the agreed infrastructure
investment program, including highways and
bridge rehabilitation, district roads maintenance,
road safety, improved rural transport services,
urban and rural water supply rehabilitation.
Railways Restructuring Proiect:
MW-PA-34489              16.2    Revitalizing the shorter route to Nacala;       1995          Active
Restruc.uring commercialization and eventually
privatization of the Railways and Lake Services



TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle    [    Date Planned                 Date Actual
Identification                         NA               November - December 1984
Initial Project Brief                  NA                    February 15, 1985
Preparation                     March - April 1985           April - May 1985
Appraisal                          October 1985                October 1985
Negotiations                       October 1986             October 20-24, 1986
Board Presentation                January 6, 1987             March 3, 1987
Signing                          April - May 1988              May 6, 1988
Effectiveness                     August 4, 1988               June 7, 1988
Project Completion                 June 30, 1994               June 30, 1994
Last Disbursement Date           October 31, 1994             April 12, 1995



TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATES AND ACTUAL
(US$ THOUSANDS)
FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93             FY94          FY95
Appraisal Estimate            1,600    3,300    6,400    9,600    12,000   13,300    13,400           13,400
Actual                        4,835    7,063    8,691    9,523    11,063   11,600    13,969           14,009
Actualas%ofestimate            302      214       136       99       92        87        104           105
Date of final disbursement                                                                           04/12/95
Note: Actual is greater than appraisal estimate due to changes in SDRIUS$ rate. Actual disbursements amounted to SDR
10.386 million, against an approved amount of SDR 11.100 million.



TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key Implementation                  Estimated                   Actual
Physical Objectives
a. road reconstruction and rehabilitation      298 km                    298 km
b. cargo centers in Tanzania                      2                        2
c. upgrading of ports, Lake Malawi                2                        2
d. acquisition of container vessel                I                         I
e. economic rate of return (overall)            16 %                      7 %
- Fuel handling facilities                      24 %                      17 %
- MCC -- Karonga-Uyole road                     16 %                      5 %
- Salima-Balaka road                            14 %                      10 %
- Improvements to Lake Services                 13 %                    (negative)



TABLE 6A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                        Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
L    Local  |    Foreign    ]   Total           Local           Foren             Total 
A   Road Construction
(i)  (a) Karonga-Songwe (46km)                  3.34            7.78             11.12           0.00             12.75            12.75
(b) Songwe-lbanda (5 km)                   0.00             2.27            2.27                       included in A (i)(a)
(ii)  lbanda-Uyole (98 km)                      0.00             13.91           13.91            0.00            16.40            16.40
(iii)  (a) Salima-Jct. M18 (63 km)               1.84            4.31             6.15             6.12      |     10.76            16.88
(b) Chipoka Access (2.5 km)                0.06             0.11            0.17                      included in A (iii)(a)
(c) Ict. M18-Balaka (82 km)                1.92            4.48             6.40             0.68            4.20             4.88
(d) Ngodzi Bridge                           not  part of the original   desien               0.14             1.11            1.25
Subtotal                               7.16            32.86           40.02             6.94            45.22            52.16
_   Malawi Careo Center
(i)  Dar-Dry Cargo Construction                 0.00            10.07            10.07            0.00            16.24           16.24
(ii)  Mbeya-Dry Cargo Construct.                0.00             5.81             5.81                       included  in B (i)
(iii)  Gantry Cranes & Generators                          included in B (i) (ii)                  0.00            3.71             3.71
(iv)  Tools & Equipment                                    included in B (i) (ii)                  0.00             1 92            1.92
(v)  Misc.                                                included in B (i) (ii)                  0.00             0.i3            0.53
(iii)  Squatter Resettlement                     0.00            0.73             0.73             0 00            3.27             3.27
Subtotal                                               16.61            16.61            0.00            25.67           25.67
C.  Fuel Handling
(i)  Dar-Fuel Storage                           0.00            5.03             5.03             0.00            22.26           22.26
(ii)  Mbeya-Fuel Storage                        O 00             2.28             2 28                       Included  in C (i)
Subtotal                               0.00             7.31            7.31             0.00            22.26           22.26
Fuel Transport
(i)  Tank Containers                            0.00            0.45             0.45             0.00            0.90             0.90
(ii)  Rail Tank Wagons                          O 00             1.05             1.05            0.00             1.24             1 24
Subtotal                               0.00             1.50            1.50             0.00            2.14             2.14
E   Lake Services
(i)  Vessel                                     0.70             1.30            2.00             0.00            7.33             7.33
(ii)  Chipoka Port                              0.53             3.02             3.55            0.00             2.06            2.06
(iii)  Chilumba Port                             0.79             4.47            5.26             0.00            3.85             3.85
(iv)  Gantry Cranes & Generators                    included      in      E (ii) (iii)             0.00            3.95             3.95
(v)  Monkey Bay Shipyard                        0.63      1      2.53      |     3.16             0.00             2.86            2.86
(vi)  Tools & Equipment                           included      in        E fiB (iii) (v)          0.89             1.03            1.92
Subtotal                               2.65            11.32            13.97            0.89            21.08            21.97
F.  Border Post & Weigh Bridge
(i)  Border Post                                0.25            0.25             0.50             0.48            0.05             0.53
(ii)  Weigh Bridge                              001                13             0.14             included  in  Karon,aa-Sonawe   road
Subtotal                               0.26             0.38            0.64             0.48     j      0.05             0.53
Contingencies are treated separately



|  L          Appraisal estimate (IJS$M)            |            Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local t         FSreign     [     Total             Local |_Foreign |_Total
G.  Consulting Services
(i)  T.A. - MTC                                   0.14             0.58              0.72             0.17              1.68             1.85
(ii)  T.A. - Lake Service                         0.12              0.47             0.59              0.06             0.34              0.40
(iii)  Supervision of:
A(i) & F(ii) [Kronga-lbanda]                 0.43              1.70             2.13             0.00              2.46             2.46
A(ii) [lbanda-Uyole]                         0.21             0.83              1.04             0.41              1.23             1.64
B [MCC]                                      0.16             0.63              0.79             0.00             0.95              0.95
(iv)  Supervision of:
A(iii) [Salima-Balaka]                       0.21             0.83              1.04             0.50              6.23             6.73
D [fuel transport]. E [Lake], & F(i)        0.27              1.09             1.36                      included in A(i). above
[border post]
C [fuel handling]                                    included in D-F(i), above                   0.07              1.41             1.48
(v)  Supplementary Detailed
Engineering                                  0.00              1.50             1.50             0.00              0 11             0.11
Subtotal                                 1.54             7.63             9.17              1.21             14.41            15.62
H   Training
(i)  Staff Training                               0.00             0.25              0.25
Subtotal                                 0.00             0.25             0.25
Base Cost A-H                                11.54            77.61            89.15
1.  Contingencies
Physical (10%)                               1.16              7.61             8.77
Price (12.5%)                                6.03             5.82             11.85
Subtotal                                7.19             13.43            20.62
J.  New Components
Dredging Chilumba                                                                                                  0.07             0.07
Dredging Chipoka                                                                                                   0.13             0.13
Subtotal                                                                                                      0.20             0.20
TOTALPROJECTCOST                             62.98            91.29            110.09            9.52             131.23           140.75
(net of taxes)



TABLE 6B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest Estimate
l ______________________                (US$M)                     (US$M)
Local  Foreign            Local  Foreign
Source              Costs    Costs    Total    Costs    Costs    Total
Government of Malawi             2.89    0.00     2.89     7.15     0.96     8.11
IBRD/IDA                         0.00    13.40    13.40    1.48    13.50    14.98
EDF, EEC                         4.00    15.95    19.95      -      12.75    12.75
KfW                              3.78    15.10    18.88      -     44.01    44.01
ODA                              4.00    15.34    19.34    0.89    20.94    21.83
USAID                            1.80    16.20    18.00      -      18.57    18.57
The Netherlands                  0.18    17.13    17.31      -      20.50    20.50
TOTAL                           16.65    93.12   109.77    9.52   131.23   140.75



TABLE 7
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
Project Objectives: The basic objective of the NTC project has been to reduce the transport cost of Malawi
imports and exports, in comparison to transport via the southern routes to South Africa. The quantifiable
benefits have been the savings in transport cost per ton for traffic diverted from the southern routes to the
NTC. As for the rehabilitation of the Salima-Balaka road, the economic objectives were to reduce vehicle
operating costs. The quantifiable benefits have been savings per vehicle-km multiplied by number of vehicles
traveling on the road.
Cost and Monetary Units: As in the SAR, economic costs have been based on financial costs, excluding taxes
and duties. Unlike the SAR which calculated all costs (and benefits) in MK, the present analysis have
calculated all costs (and benefits) in US$, to overcome the problem of continuous devaluation of the Malawi
Kwacha. The exchange rates selected, based on IMF data, have been the averages for the years in which the
specific project components were implemented.
Traffic Forecast: The SAR analysis of benefits (with the exception of Salima-Balaka road) were based on
traffic forecasts of commodity shipments through various sections of the NTC. The ICR has used revised
forecasts based on actual traffic flows, by commodity, between 1990 and 1994, as reported by the MOTC and
MCCL. Actual traffic on the NTC has been lower than estimated in the SAR. For example, in 1990 the actual
traffic through NTC was about 140,000 tons compared with SAR estimate of 255,000 ton, in 1993 it was
192,000 tons compared with an estimate of close to 300,000 in the SAR. Other than fuel shipments, which
slightly exceeded the SAR estimate (about 57,000 tons in 1993 compared to less than 55,000 in the SAR), the
shipments of all other commodities fell short of the SAR estimates. One reason for this has been the opening of
the corridors through Mozambique (Nacala and Beira), other reasons are related to the overall decline of the
economy in Malawi over the period in comparison. Tables 10 and 11 show the flow of cargo among the four
major corridors between 1990 and 1995 (1995 figures are based on tentative information of the first 6 months
traffic). The changes that have taken place in the utilization of different corridors between 1991 and 1994 are
further illustrated in Fig 7.1 below.
For the fuel traffic from 1994 and onwards it has been assumed an annual increase of 2.5% '/
up to year 2000, after which the traffic will be stagnant between year 2001 to 2010. Although precise and
reliable forecasts of dry cargo, in particular bulk traffic, may be very difficult to make, bulk grain and fertilizer
imports will remain a crucial traffic through the NTC. It is also estimated that the current proportion of
Malawi's imports/exports of containerized traffic will be handled through the NTC. An annual increase of
2.5% has therefore been assumed over the period in review (1995-2010). As for the Salima-Balaka road and
number of vehiicles, it has been assumed a 5%2/ growth per annum from 1994 onward. Data for 1994 were
based on traffic counts over the Lafidzi bridge.
Ji   Assurned GNP growth rate.
2/   Actual annual growth rate between 1988 and 1995 has been more than 9%, but it is estimated that it will
slow down to on average 5 % for the remaining period in review.



Benefits: The quantifiable benefits have been identified for different components (sections) of the NTC, as well
as for the project as a whole. The quantifiable benefits, by section, were: (a) Karonga-Ibanda-Uyole road -
savings in transport costs of diverted dry goods; (b) Malawi Cargo Centers - savings in transport costs of
diverted dry goods; (c) Fuel Handling - savings in transport costs of diverted fuel; (d) Lake Facilities - savings
in transport costs of dry goods and fuel in comparison to road transport; (e) Salima-Balaka road - savings in
operating costs of vehicles and on road maintenance.
The SAR estimated savings per ton for traffic diverted to the NTC from Blantyre-Mchinji-
Durban (via Zambia) corridor. The same methodology as used in the SAR has been used to analyze the
economic results of the NTC project. The project's ERR have been recalculated by using actual traffic data
available through 1994, and estimated projections for future years. Given the increasing prospect for peace in
Mozambique from 1991 and onwards, it was possible to gradually increase the utilization of the corridors
through Mozambique, and to reduce the dependence on the longer route to Durban via Zambia. Therefore, in
recalculating the benefits of the NTC project it has been assumed that with effect from 1993 the diversion of
traffic has been from the shorter route to Durban via Tete corridor, which opened in late 1992, as opposed to
an assumed shift from the longer Blantyre-Mchinji-Durban (via Zambia) in the SAR. This shift in use of
corridors has significantly reduced the benefits of diverting traffic to the NTC, particularly with regard to dry
cargo including containerized traffic.
1991                              1994
TeteNaCala NTC                   Nacala      NTC
7%  4%   14%                     11%         19%
_  =  <  _   Mchinji
9%
Mchinji                      Tete
75%                         61%
Fig 7.1
In summary, the recalculated economic returns for the project overall and for the various components are as
follows (SAR estimates in parentheses):
Li Project overall, 7% (16%);
LI Karonga-lbanda-Uyole Road (50% of the cost/benefit is included in MCC:s Dry Cargo, and 50% is
included in MCC fuel facilities)
LO Malawi Cargo Centers (MCC) in Mbeya and Dar es Salaam (Dry cargo), 5.3 % (16%);
EJ MCC in Mbeya and Dar es Salaam (Fuel facilities include. tank wagons), 17% (24 %);
LO Lake Facilities, negative (13 %);
LO Salima - Balaka Road, 10% (14%);
LI Consultancy Services and Technical Assistance (No specific economic analysis has been undertaken,
neither in the SAR nor in this recalculation, for the TA component of the project because of the difficulty
of quantifying the benefits. The total costs of TA and other consultancy services, however, are included in
the total costs of the project when calculating the economic return of the overall NTC. If these costs would
have been excluded, the overall ERR would have been 8%).



The reason for a negative ERR for Lake Services improvements is that practically no traffic has
been taken by the LS up to 1995, and there is no clear indication about traffic handling in the future (in
1993/94 LS handled only 11,500 tons of traffic, compared to an estimate of 174,000 tons in the SAR). The
very low ERR for the MCC Dry Cargo Facilities (5.3% compared with SAR estimate of 16%) is mainly due to
heavy delays and cost increases of constructing the two cargo centers in Tanzania, as well as the roads
construction on the Tanzanian side. Contributing to the low ERR has also been a significantly less traffic than
forecast.



TABLE 7.1: NTC BENEFITS AND COSTS RELATED TO THE OVERALL PROJECT
Benefits
YEAR   Total Costs   Div. traffic dry  Salima-Balaka  Diverted   Lake transport   Net
all projects  cargo, MCC, &  Road      Fuel traffic   vs. Road    Benefits
Karonga-Uyole                          Transport
Road
1988          15.75          0.00         0.00      0.00          0.00  -15.75
1989          24.25          0.00         0.00     o0.e           0.00  -24.25
1990          42.91          4.24         0.00      ' 2F          0.00  -34.42
1991          20.53          5.82         0.00      3.83          0.00  -10.88
1992          17.98          8.68         0.00      4.08          0.00   -5.22
1993          15.30          2.13         2.36      4.01          0.00   -6.80
1994           4.03          2.18         2.53      6.88          0.00    7.56
1995           0.00          2.24         2.63      'i.05         0.00    11.92
1996           0.00          2.29         2.75      7.23          0.00   12.27
1997           0.00          2.35         2.87      - Al          0.00   12.63
1998           0.00          2.41         2.99      7.60          0.00   13.00
1999           0.00          2.47         3.13      7.79          0.00   13.39
2000          12.38          2.53         3.26      ,-.98         0.00    1.39
2001           0.00          2.59         3.41       /.98         0.00   13.98
2002           0.00          2.66         3.5f       7.98         0.00   14.20
2003           0.00          2.72         3.72      7.98          0.00   14.42
2004           0.00          2.79         3.89      7.9&          0.00   14.66
2005           0.00          2.86         4.07      '.98          0.00   14.91
2006           0.00          2.93         4.26       !.98         0.00   15.17
2007          12.38          3.01         4 45      7.98          0.00    3.06
2008           0.00          3.08         4.66      7.98          0.00   15.72
2009           0.00          3.16         4.87      7.98          0.00   16.01
2010           0.00          3.24         5.10      7.98          0.00   16.32
Capital Cost    140.75
Maint. Cost      24.76
ERR=         7/%
Total costs all projects include cost of TA and consultancy services (US$ 15.63 million). If these costs were excluded
the ERR would be 8%.



TABLE 7.2: NTC - COSTS OF DIFFERENT COMPONENTS
Cost
YEAR        MCC       Karonga-      Fuel        Fuel      Salima       Lake      Technical     Total
Dry-Cargo   Uyole Rd    Facilities    Vehicles   Balaka Rd   Services   Assistance   Cost
1988           0.88        4.86                                2.16       5.25        2.60       15.75
1989           0.89        4.86        7.42        1.07        2.16       5.25        2.60       24.25
1990          19.55        4.86        7.42        1.07        2.16       5.25        2.60       42.91
1991           0.40        4.86        7.42                               5.25        2.60       20.53
1992           1.92        4.86                                7.64        0.96       2.60       17.98
1993           1.50        4.85                                7.64                   1.31       15.30
1994           0.53        0.53                                1.25       0.40        1.31        4.02
1995                                                                                              0.00
1996                                                                                              0.00
1997                                                                                              0.00
1998                                                                                              0.00
1999                                                                                              0.00
2000           3.45        1.59        2.19        0.21        2.64        2.30                  12.38
2001                                                                                              0.00
2002                                                                                              0.00
2003                                                                                              0.00
2004                                                                                              0.00
2005                                                                                              0.00
2006                                                                                              0.00
2007           3.45        1.59        2.19        0.21        2.64        2.30                  12.38
2008                                                                                              0.00
2009                                                                                              0.00
2010                                                                                              0.00
0.00
Capital Cost      25.67       29.68      22.26        2.14       23.01       22.37       15.62     140.75
Maint. Cost        6.90        3.18       4.38        0.42        5.28        4.60       0.00       24.76



TABLE 7.3: NTC - BENEFITS AND COSTS RELATED TO MCC DRY CARGO
MCC      Karonga -  MCC/Karonga
YEAR      Dry-Cargo   Uyole Rd    Uyole Rd
Cost    Cost (50%)    Benefits    Net Benefits
1988          0.88        2.38                      -3.26
1989          0.89        2.38                      -3.27
1990          19.55       2.38          4.24      -17.69
1991          0.40        2.38          5.82        3.04
1992           1.92       2.38          8.68        4.38
1993           1.50       2.38          2.13       -1.75
1994          0.53         0.56         2.18        1.09
1995                                    2.24        2.24
1996                                    2.29        2.29
1997                                    2.35        2.35
1998                                    2.41        2.41
1999                                    2.47        2.47
2000           3.45        0.80         2.53       -1.72
2001                                    2.59        2.59
2002                                    2.66        2.66
2003                                    2.72        2.72
2004                                    2.79        2.79
2005                                    2.86        2.86
2006                                    2.93        2.93
2007           3.45        0.80         3.01       -1.24
2008                                    3.08        3.08
2009                                    3.16        3.16
2010                                    3.24        3.24
Capital Cost     25.67       14.84
Maint. Cost       6.90        1.59
|  ERR=        5.3%10
Traffic for 1990-1 993 is based on actual tonnage reported by MCCL; For 1994-2010 it is assumed a 2.5% growth rate
per annumn;1990-1992 Mozambique corridors largely closed; 1993-2010 Mozambique corridors open.



TABLE 7.4: NTC - BENEFITS AND COSTS RELATED TO FUEL TRAFFIC
YEAR       Fuel     Fuel    Karonga -  Savings
Facilities Vehicles   Uyole Rd   Divertea
Cost    Cost   Cost (50%)   Fuei   Net Benefits
1988                             2.38                 -2.38
1989        7.42     1.07        2.38                 10.67
1990        7.42      1.07       2.38      4.25       -6.b2
1991        7.42                 2.38      3.83       -D.97
1992                             2.38     4.08         1 70
1993                             2.38      4 01        163
1994                             0.56      6.88        6.32
1995                                       7A5         'I, 05
1996                                       7.23        7.23
1997                                       7.41        7.41
1998                                      7.60         7.60
1999                                       7.i19       7.79
2000        2.19     0.21        0.80      7.98        4 79
2001                                       /.98        1 Y8
2002                                       7.98        7.98
2003                                       7.98        7 98
2004                                       7.98        7.98
2005                                      ,/.98        / 98
2006                                       /.98        7.98
2007        2.19     0.21        0.80      ;'.98       4.19
2008                                       7.98        /.98
2009                                       7.98        /.98
2010                                       7.98        7.98
Capital Cost    22.26    2.14       14.84
Maint. Cost     4.38     0.42        1.59
|  ERR=      17%y
1990-1993 based on actual tonnage reported by MCCL, 1994-2000 assume 2.5% growth rate per annumn; 2001-2010
assume no growth rate (Nacala corridor rehabilitated); 1990-1992 Mozamoique corridors largely closed; 1993-2010
Mozambique corridors open.



TABLE 7.5: NTC - BENEFITS AND COSTS RELATED TO SALIMA-BALAKA ROAD
YEAR    Capital  VOC   Road Maint.  Total
Cost  Savings   Savings   Savings Net Benefits
1988     2.16                        0 00      -2.16
1989     2.16                        0 00      -2.16
1990     2.16                        0.00      -2.16
1991                                 0.00       0.00
1992     7.64                        0.00      -7.64
1993     7.64    2.01      0.35      2.36      -5.28
1994     1.25    2.18      0.35      2.53       1.28
1995             2.28      0.35      2.63       2.63
1996             2.40      0 35      2.75       2.75
1997             2.52      0.35      2.87       2.87
1998             2.64      0.35      2.99       2.99
1999             2.78      0.35      3.13       3.13
2000     2.64    2.91      0.35      3 26       0.62
2001             3.06      0.35      3.41       3.41
2002             3.21      0.35      3.56       3.56
2003             3.37      0.35      3.72       3.72
2004             3.54      0.35      3.89       3.89
2005             3.72      0.35      4.07       4.07
2006             3.91      0.35      4.26       4.26
2007     2.64    4.10      0.35      4 45       1.81
2008             4.31      0.35      4.66       4.66
2009             4.52      0.35      4.87       4.87
2010             4.75      0.35      5.10       5.10
Capital Cost  23.01
Maint. Cost    5.28
| 10oERR=    0 |
Note.
VOC and Road Maintenance costs are based on SAR estimates.No. of vehicles is based on actual traffic counting
up to 1994, and a 5% growth rate between 1995-2010.



TABLE 7.6: NTC - BENEFITS RELATED TO MCC AND DRY CARGO TRAFFIC
Year       Tons    Savings/ton   Savings
US$       $million
1990         89,373    47.47       4.24
1991        122,141    47.65       5.82
1992        179,090   48.45        8.68
1993         78,696    27.04       2.13
1994         80,663    27.04       2.18
1995         82,680    27.04       2.24
1996         84,747    27.04       2.29
1997         86,866    27.04       2.35
1998         89,037    27.04       2.41
1999         91,263    27.04       2.47
2000         93,545    27.04       2.53
2001         95,883    27.04       2.59
2002         98,281    27.04       2.66
2003        100,738    27.04       2.72
2004        103,256    27.04       2.79
2005        105,837    27.04       2.86
2006        108,483    27.04       2.93
2007        111,195    27.04       3.01
2008        113,975    27.04       3.08
2009        116,825    27.04       3.16
2010        119,745    27.04       3.24
Note       N
1990-1992   NTC via rail/road (instead of Durban via Mchinji);
1993       NTC via rail/road (instead of Durban via Tete);
1994-2010   NTC via rail/road (instead of Durban via Tete), assuming 2.5% growth per annumn;



TABLE 7.7: NTC - BENEFITS RELATED TO FUEL TRAFFIC
Year       Tons    Savings/ton  Savings
USS     $million
1990         50,958   83.47      4.25
1991         45,899   83.47      3.83
1992         48,873   83.47      4.08
1993         56,621    70.91     4.01
1994         97,058   70.91      6.88
1995         99,484   70.91      7.05
1996        101,972   70.91      7.23
1997        104,521    70.91     7.41
1998        107,134   70.91      7.60
1999        109,812   70.91      7.79
2000        112,558   70.91      7.98
2001        112,558   70.91      7.98
2002        112,558   70.91      7.98
2003        112,558   70.91      7.98
2004        112,558   70.91      7.98
2005        112,558   70.91      7.98
2006        112,558   70.91      7.98
2007        112,558   70.91      7.98
2008        112,558   70.91      7.98
2009        112,558   70.91      7.98
2010        112,558   70.91      7.98
Note.
1990-1992 NTC via rail/road (instead of Durban via Mchinji);
1993      NTC via railVroad (instead of Durban via Tete);
1994-2000  NTC via rail/road (instead of Durban via Tete), assuming 2.5% growth;
2001-2010  NTC via rail/road (instead of Durban via Tete), assuming no growth;



TABLE 7.8: NTC - BENEFITS SALIMA - BALAKA ROAD
Year Average Daily  Savings/ton  VOC savings            Salima-Balaka Road - 145 km
Traffic       US$       $ million
1990                                                                  ADT    Savings/  Savings, 145 km
1991                                                                 Sep-94  Veh-Km, $    peryear$
1992                                                    Cars          183.0     0.10            968,528
1993           253    0.15         2.01                 Vans          54.7      0.20            579,000
1994           274    0.15         2.18                 Buses          0.7      0.18              6,669
1995           288    0.15         2.28                 Truck-Light   25.0      0.21            277,856
1996           302    0.15         2.40                 Truck-Heavy   12.2      0.44            284,101
1997           317    0.15         2.52                 Total         276       0.15           2,116,153
1998           333    0.15         2.64
1999           350    0.15         2.78
2000           367    0.15         2.91
2001           386    0.15          3.06
2002           405    0.15          3.21
2003           425    0.15         3.37
2004           446    0.15          3.54
2005           469    0.15          3.72
2006           492    0.15          3.91
2007           517    0.15          4.10
2008           543    0.15         4.31
2009           570    0.15         4.52
2010           598    0.15         4.75



TABLE 8: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study             Purpose as defined at           Status               Impact of study
I   Appraisal
_.   GITEC, "Transport        A feasibility study,     Completed July 1985;      Set the ground work for
System Study of the      project preparation, and    financed through PPF to   the project; the SAR
Blantyre-Dar es Salaam   detailed design for the  the Government of        depends largely on results
Corridor," July 1885     NTC                      Malawi                   of this study.
2.   Art Hansen,              An assessment of          Completed May 1987       Accepted as a guideline
"Resettlement            resettlement site and                             for the resettlement plan
Consultant's Report to    resettlement plan in Dar                         to accommodate the
the World Bank: Malawi   es Salaam                                         construction of the MCC
NTC Project," May 22                                                       at the port of Dar es
1987                                                                       Salaam
3.   Malawi-Tanzania NTC:    To assess progress status   Report completed July   No real change in lack of
Dry goods facilities: Dar   of the resettlement of the   1991.             implementation of the
and Mbeya, Report on     Kwasini squatters in                              resettlement plan.
resettlement, July 1991  Yombo, roughly a year
(Draft Final) funded by    after the site of Kurasini
ODA.                     was cleared: and to
provide guidelines for
actual implementation of
the resettlement plan.
4.   Laymeyer International    An overall supervision of  A report covering most of  Provided the necessary
Consulting Engineers/    the MTC Project          the project's components  documentation and
Sellhom Engineering                               was completed            follow up as envisioned
Company, Consortium,                              November 1994. It        in the SAR
Malawi Northern                                   includes II individual
Corridor Project                                  reports. The only
Consulting Services,                              remaining components to
Final Report. November,                           be reported on are:
1994                                              supply of slipway
winches, Monkey Bay;
and construction of fuel
facilities at Dar-es-
Salaam and Mbeya.
5.   Government of Malawi,   A coordination mechnism   Last report, No 14, was    Expedited completion of
John Ryder Project      to expedite completion of  submitted for December   the NTC project
Coordinator, Progress    the NTC project. This is   1994
Reports for the          an addition to the original
completion of            supervision component of
outstanding works in    the project in the SAR
connection with the NTC
_____  project



TABLE 9: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Malawi - Northern Transport Corridor
Original       Revised
Covenant    Present        Fulfillment    Fufillment                   Deseriplion of
Agreement      Section       Type         Status        Date           Date                           Covenant                                   Comments
Article Ill    3.03          12           CP                                          The borrower will consult with the         Investment in the NTC was generally
Association prior to undertaking any major  according to the covenant. However, in other
investments in its transport sector, including    sector, i.e. aviation the government did
investments in vessels and port maintenance    consult with the Association.
in Lake Malawi.
Article VI     3.04(a)       5            C             06/30/88                      The borrower will take all necessary measures  The MCC Company was established, and has
or later                      to establish the MCC Company by June 30,    been operating the NTC as envisioned in the
1988 or later date as may be agreed by the  SAR
Association.
3.04(b)      5             C            06/30/88                       Thc borrower, prior to the establishment of
or later                      the MCC will furnish the Association, for its
review, the memorandum and articles of
Association.
4.01         2             CP                                          The borrower will furnish the Association not   Audited reports have always been submitted
later than 6 months after the end of each year   later than required. The last report covered the
for MRHC, MR and the MCC, and 9 months    period ending March 30, 1994. As final
after the end of each year for NTC and MWS,  disbursement took place on April 12, 1995 the
a certified copy of the report by the auditor.    borrower has been requested to provide
audited reports for the period ending March
The MR maintains with respect to the LS   30, 1996.
4.02 (a)(i)    12          NC                                          operation the following ratios of total
operating expenses to total operating
revenues:
not more than 100%
FY88/89                       not more than 95%
FY89/90                       not more than 90%
FY91-FY94                                                                It has been agreed between MR and the Govt.
That LS will have full operational autonomy
in management and finance from April 1, 94.
But due to the poor performance in the past
years and the yearly operational losses of
around MKI 0 million the restructuring and
privatizing of LS was included as a
component of the Malawi Railway
Restructuring Project.



1I            1 | Original     Revised                                                                                          -
Covenant      Present       Fulfillment    Fulfillnent                     Description of
Agreement       Section        Type          Status        Dale            Date                             Covenant                                      Comments
4.02(a)(ii)    12           NC             06/30/91                        Restructure lake passenger-service, with a    same as 4.02(a)(i)
view to eliminate all losses no later than
06/30/91
4.02(b)(c)    12            NC             Before Dec.                     MR will provide the Association a review of    same as 4.02(a)(i)
(d)                                        31 of each                      whether it will meet the guidelines above. If
year                           not, the borrower will take all necessary
measures (including change in rates and
frequency of service) to comply with these
guidelines.
5.01                        C                                              Operate the project with sound administrative.
tinancial, transportation practices and
engineering practice
|________ - Covenant Type:                      .                                                                           Present Status
I      Accounts/audits                                  8      Indigenous people                               C       covenant complied with
2      Finiancial performance/revenue gerieration       9      Monitoring, review and reporting                CD      complied with after delay
from beneficiaries                                                                                      Cil    complied with partially
3      Flows and Utilization of project fund           10      Project Implementation not covered by           NC      not complied with
categories 1-9
Counterpart funding
4                                                      11      Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other
Management aspects of the project or                    resources
5      executing agency                                12      Sectoral or cross-sectoral
Environmental covenants                                 policy/regulatory/institutional action
6      Involuntary resettlement                        13      Other
7     .



TABLE 1OA: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUT
( Stage of Project Cycle  Planned   Revised   Actual
|_________________ | Weeks        Weeks     Weeks
Through appraisal        0         0        50.8
Appraisal-board          0         0         74.0
Board-effectiveness      0         0         11.8
Supervision             89.0      94.0      69.8
Completion               0        10.0       8.1
Total                   89.0      104.0     214.5



TABLE lOB: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
. ____________________________ _     Performance Rating            .
Stage of Project Cfycle   |  Month/Year      No. of   |  Days in           Specialized staff shills     Implementation Status    Development Objectives
|____________________  |  Persons   |   field    |      represented                                                                         Types of Problems
Through Appraisal           11-12/84           4             1 I      HE. RE, TEC. EC
4-5/85            4            12       HE. TO, TEC. FA
10/85            5             17       TO,FA.EC(C).HE.TEC
Appraisal through             2/86             4            19        LE. HE. PO. FA
Board approval                6/86             1           N/A        HE
10/86            6             5        EC,TEC.HE,FA.CO.DIS
2/87             1           N/A        HFE
5/87             1            12       RS(C)
10/87            I             15       HE
Board approval through        2/88             1           N/A        HE
Effectiveness
Supervision                 9-10/88            2            24        HE, PE                                      2                         I                             T, F
6/89             2            12        HE, EC                                      3                        3                               F
6-7/89            1            10       PE                                           2                        1                               T
4/90             I            1 5       HE                                          2                        2                             M, T
10/90            1            10        HE                                          3                         3                            M, T
8/91             2             5        HE.FA                                       3                        2                              M.T
3/92             1             7       TE                                           2                         I                              T
7/92             2            13       TE. PE                                       2                        2                             T, F
10/92            2             8        TE. PE                                      2                         2                           M, T, F
2-3/93            I             7       PE                                           2                        2                            M. T, F
9/93             1             i        PE                                          2                         1                              F
_     4/94              i             8        PE                                          S                        S
Completion                                                        _
1/       I-Problem free; 2-Ntoderate problems, 3-Major problems with appropriate actions being taken to address them: S-Satisfactory
2/       Combined with supervisiofl/preparatioo missions for other projects
3/        HE-Highway Engineer: RE-Railway Engineer, TEC-Transport Economist: EC-Economist.
TO-Transport Operations Specialist; FA-Financial Anal)st: LE-Legal Officer:
PO-Port Operations Specialist, CO-Counsel: DIS-Disbursement Specialist:
RS(C)-Resettlement Specialist (Consultant): TE-Transport Engineer. PE-Port Engineer
4/        M-Municipal: T-Technical: F-Financial



TABLE 11: NTC - TRAFFIC THROUGH DIFFERENT CORRIDORS
1990                    1991                      1992                      1993                    1994                   1995
Imp    Exp    Total   i'rp      Exp.    7ota;    f,       Exp     Total    Imp     Exp.    To ta    'mp.   Exp.   Total   Imp    Exp.   Total
N rC (via Kaworo)
Fuel
50,958         50.958   4' 899           45,899   48 7K            48.873   56.521           56,621  97,058         97,058  68.831        68,831
Dry Cargo
65,517  23856  89.373   *So  4  35527  122,14'  1454:-  33,619  179,090  119628  16.181  135,809  65.134  13,562  78,696  30,627  6,000  36,627
Sub-total
116,475  23 856 140.331  132 513  35,527  168,040  '3 ,';   33,6 9  227,963  176 249  16.181  192,430 162,192  13,562 175,754  99,458  6,000 105,458
Mchi2p__via Zambia)
Fuel
63,375         63,375  124,760          124,760  118 004          118,004   47,739           47,739  22,820         22,820   7,683         7,683
Dry Cargo
84,945  27,784 112,729  695,269  84,988  780.257  260 780  35,222  296,002   31,187  10,489   41,676  39,736  17,752  57,488  26,171  6,446  32,617
Sub-total
148,320  27.784 176,104  820,029  84,986  905,017  378 764  35,222  414,006   78,926  10,489   89,415  62,556  17,752  80,308  33,854  6,446  40,300
T (te via SA and Mozambi41 Y
Fuel
76,191         76,191    6,875            6,875   18,949           18,949   54,651           54,651  54,514         54,514  25,310        25,310
Dry Cargo
378,328 144,151 522,479   66,000  15.020   81 020  433,554 118,218  551,772  550,664 109,133  659,797 391,114 123,556 514,670 143,039 52,198 195,237
Sub-total
454,519 144,151 598,670   72,875  15,020   87,895  452,503 118,218  570,721  605,315 109,133  714,448 445,628 123,556 569,184 168,349 52,198 220,547
Nacala Corridor
Fuel
1,779          1,779    4,491            4,491    7.203            7,203   11,355           11,355  11,650         11,650   8,390         8,390
Dry Cargo
19,874   9,471  29,345   24,747  14,076   38,823   48,433  13,585   62,018   69,944  16,926   86,870  59,704  26,084  85,788  35,686 26,038  61,724
Sub-total
21,653   9,471  31,124   29,238  14,076   43,314   55,636  13,585   69,221   81,299  16,926   98,225  71,354  26,084  97,438  44,076 26,038  70,114
All Corndors
Sub-total fuel
192,303        192,303  182,025          182,025  193,029          193,029  170,366          170,366 186,042        186,042 110,214        110,214
Sub-total dry cargo
548,664 205,262 753,926  872,630 149,611 1,022,241  888,238 200,644 1,088,882  771,423 152,729  924,152 555,688 180,954 736,642 235,523 90,682 326,205
Grand Total
740,967 205,262 946,229 1,054,655 149,611 1,204,266 1,081,267 200,644 1,281,911  941,789 152,729 1.094.518 741,730 180,954 922,684 345,737 90,682 436,419
Source of Data: Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation
1) 1995 figures are provisional for all boarders for January - June (first half of 1995)



Table 12: Traffic through different Corridors
1,400,000 
1,200,000-
1,000,000
800,000                                                                                                                                     0 Nacala
OTete
U Mchinji
600,000                                                                                                                                     E NTC
400,000
200,000 -
0--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0- _      , _-
1990              1991               1992               1993               1994              1995
Year
1/ 1995 figures are provisional for all boraders for January-June (first half of 1995), multiplied by 2.



ANNEX 1.
AIDE MEMOIRE
NORTHERN TRANSPORT CORRIDOR (CR. 1879-MAI)
WORLD BANK SUPERVISION MISSION
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    A World Bank (IDA) mission comprising Mr. Sture Karisson, Port Engineer, Energy and
Infrastructure Division, Eastern Africa Department, (AF2EI) visited Malawi between April 20 and
27, 1994, for supervision of the Northern Transport Corridor (NTC) Project, Credit 1879-MAI.
2.    Meetings and discussions were held with the Ministry of Transport and Communications
(MOTC), Ministry of Works (MOW), Economic Planning and Development Department (EP&D), as
well as with representatives of Lake Services, Malawi Cargo Centers (MCCL), and with Lilongwe-
based representatives of USAID. Close liaison was maintainled with The World Bank Resident
Representative's Office.
3.    This Aide Memoire, which will be submitted for approval of IDA Headquarters, highlights
the main observations and findings of the mission, and records the understanding reached with
MOTC and MOW.
4.    The mission wishes to record its appreciation for the assistance, cooperation and courtesies
extended to it by the Government of Malawi.
5.    As indicated in a telex to GOM of April 6, 1994, the NTC supervision mission's objectives
were to review: (i) progress on the completion and correction of outstanding items at the Cargo
Centers in Tanzania, and the two Lake Ports at Chilumba and Chipoka, including the issue of
dredging of the two ports; (ii) progress on the construction of Ngodzi Bridge and Boarder Post at
Songwe; (iii) status of finalizing a lease agreement between the Government and Malawi Cargo
Centres Limited (MCCL); (iv) training of port staff; (v) procurement issues; (vi) project costs; and
(vii) preparations for the Project Completion Report (PCR).
II. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION STATUS
6.    Cargo Centres at Dar es Salaam and Mbeya. It was reported that the drainage work at
Mbeya was almost completed, but that there were a few new outstanding items identified, which
preferably could be added to the existing contract by means of a variation order. Outstanding items
are related to the security wall, sound-proofing to offices and the crane cable channel, and cost
estimated at around US$ 8,900. MOTC informed that for each item three quotations have been
obtained, and that the contractor on site was the lowest for each of them. The mission agreed to the
proposal to include the works in the existing contract, and that a no objection will submitted. It was,
however, emphasized that the additional works must be completed before June 30, 1994, if they are
to be funded under the Credit.



NTC Aide Memoire                        - 2 -                              April 26,1994
7.     It was further informed that Kfw has agreed to finance most of other outstanding items at
the two cargo centres, but that there is a shortage of funds to complete minor civil works in Dar es
Salaam related to the fire fighting water reservoir, security wall and guard shelters, warehouse
lighting alterations, and minor modifications to offices and workshop areas. The seven identified
items are cost estimated at around US$ 49,000 in total, and quotations have been obtained from local
contractors. The mission agreed to the proposal to carry out the works under funding from the Credit,
provided all works can be completed by June 30, 1994.
8.    Construction of Border Post at Songwe. The original contract for the civil works did not
include provision for water supply and electricity. MOTC requested the IDA approval of including
the construction of a water tank, pipe reticulation, submersible pump and motor including pumping
house for the provision of water supply, and the erection of overhead lines from the generator, as
well as modifications to the parking space and some plantations in and around the area.. Additional
cost for the works is estimated at around MK 555,000. The mission agreed to the proposal to include
the works as a variation order to existing contract, and will arrange for a no objection to be issued.
MOTC was, however, reminded that the additional works must be completed by June 30, 1994, if
they are to be funded under the Credit.
9.     Salima - Balaka Road. The actual date of completion of the works was November 19, 1994,
ahead of the contractual completion date. The contractor is now involved in de-silting and re-grading
of drainage channels, and repairs of localized embankment scour. The second coat of paint to the
road markings on Contracts 11/91 and 32/91 has also been applied during the past month. As most of
the rectification work has been completed, the contractor has now advised the Engineer that he
intends to discontinue maintenance activities, and return later this year to complete outstanding
maintenance activities. With regard to claims it was reported that the contractor has submitted in
total 38 claims, of which around 50% have been substantiated. The Engineer, however, is confident
that previous estimated total contract value, MK 7,626,000 including estimated value of claims, is
appropriate.
10.   Ngodzi Bridge. The mission traveled together with the consultant to visit the site. It was
noted that both abutments, as well as the center pier were completed, and that steel beams for half of
the bridge span were delivered and erected. The remaining steel beams will be delivered within two
weeks, by the time it is anticipated that deck form work and false work for the first span will be
completed and ready for concreting of the bridge deck slab. By providing separate form work and
false work for each of the bridge's two spans (instead of providing one set, stripping 14 days after
concreting and re-erecting as originally planned), the contractor is optimistic that these inputs will
lead to a return to the program, and the completion of the works by June 30, 1994.
II.   Karonga - Ibanda Road and Bridges. The construction of the paved road and five bridges
was completed and opened for traffic in 1991. All five bridges, however, have developed cracking in
the concrete deck slabs, and MOW, with financial assistance from the European Community, has
appointed a consultant to investigate the causes of these cracking and to advise on remedial measures
to be adopted in order to rectify the situation. Four of the bridges are located immediately north of
the town of Karonga in Malawi, whilst the fifth bridge is situated some 2 km across the border in
Tanzania. The five affected bridges are all major river crossings and are composed of various multi-
span arrangements comprising steel/concrete composite bridge construction. Within a short period



NTC Aide Memoire                        - 3 -                              April 26. 1994
after the road was opened the concrete deck slabs were found to be exhibiting cracking of varying
patterns, which caused concern as to the structural integrity of the bridges.
12.   The consultant, in his report dated February 1994, concludes that the cracking does not at
present unduly compromise the structural integrity of the bridge decks, but will reduce the durability
of the reinforced concrete sections by increasing the permeability and thus the incidence of corrosion
of the reinforcement. The service life of the structures will thus be reduced unless remedial works are
undertaken.
13.    Several different, but sometimes inter-related factors have been identified that have led to
the variety of cracking seen in the concrete of the bridge decks. It is concluded that the following
have contributed to the concrete cracking:
*  Insufficient attention has been paid to the detail design in the provision of reinforcement to
control cracking induced by early thermal movement stresses in the concrete deck coupled with
long term shrinkage movement being restrained by shear connectors to the steel beam members.
The effects of this may have been increased by the use of high cement contents in the concrete,
although the cement content is just within specified limits. This element of the phenomena is the
responsibility of the designer/specifier rather than the contractor;
- Secondary cracking has also arisen from drying and plastic shrinkage during the curing period of
the concrete. No definite evidence was found of the curing methods adopted by the contractor,
but there remains suspicion that better protection of the concrete during curing would have
reduced the incidence of this cracking;
14.   The consultant recommends that a waterproofing deck membrane and surfacing should be
applied to the bridge decks affected by the cracking, but do not consider it necessary to undertake
major concrete repair works. The consultant, furthermore, suggest that in the future the form of
composite construction used for these five bridges should be avoided, particularly for the longest
spans, and that more attention should be paid to accommodating thermal movement.
15.   Ibanda - Uyole Road (Tanzania). MOW reported that the rehabilitation of this 98 km road
on the Tanzanian side, delayed due to insufficient funds, is now expected to be completed by July
1994. The works are funded by EEC, EDF and The Netherlands.
16.    Chilumba Port. The mission was informed that the rectification's required for the fuel
pumps and pipelines in Chilumba now are completed, but that the commissioning of the works have
not been carried out due to shortage of fuel. The modification works have been entirely financed by
the GOM.
17.   With regard to dredging of the port the mission was informed that a team from the contractor
Kier International visited the port on April 16-17 to investigate the soil conditions as well as
quantities to be dredged. There is a shallow ridge running parallel to the container quay wall, almost
in the middle of the basin and some 15-20 meter from the quay wall. By hammering and driving a
steel bar into the ground, the diver concluded that most of the material should be feasible to excavate
with a grab from a crane positioned on a pontoon.



NTC Aide Memoire                        - 4 -                            April 26, 1994
18.   Requested by MOTC, and based on the survey carried out as described above, the contractor
submitted a proposal on April 25, 1994 regarding dredging of the port of Chilumba. The contractor
suggest to mount a crane upon a barge with which grabbing and/or dragline operations will be
carried out. The excavated material will be deposited on the barge and will, from time to time, be
removed either into deep see water or on the quay apron to be removed by a front-loader. Total cost
is estimated at Lstg. 36,340 (around US$ 50,000) divided into mobilization, demobilization and a
unit rate for the 1,600 m3 material to be dredged. The quotation from the contractor excludes rent of
floating craft (barge + tug boat), which is supposed to be provided by the Client (MOTC). The
mission concur with the recommendation by MOTC that the dredging of Chilumba, including the
cost of renting required floating craft for the dredging at both Chilumba and Chipoka, should be
financed under the provisions made in Infrastructure I project (Credit 2065-MAI), and undertook to
discuss with the task manager.
19.    Chipoka Port, The mission was informed that Kfw has agreed to allocate savings from
Salima-Balaka Roads Contracts to finance Phase I of required dredging, provided that dredging of
Chilumba can be funded under the World Bank Credit (see. 18 above). The quantities to be dredged
in Phase I are about 25,000 m3, and cost estimated at around DM 200,000. This initial dredging
would allow the container vessel to start its operation without major interference with Phase II
dredging, to be carried out when the new dredger, funded under a USAID grant, will arrive in late
1994. The dredging contractor, Kier International, will start mobilization of pumping equipment
immediately, and it is anticipated that the works can commence in late May, and be completed
within 8-10 weeks. It is foreseen that dredging in Chilumba will be carried out immediately after the
works in Chipoka have been completed.
20.   Lake Services and Monkey Bay Shipyard. The management of Lake Services informed
that the issue of defect slip winches eventually seems to be resolved, and that the supplier will
provide the new winches, although no firm date has been suggested when this long standing issue
will be resolved. It was also informed that the new dredger, to be funded under an USAID grant, is
ordered and will be delivered within 5 months. Furthermore it was reported that the modification and
extension of the floating dock, wholly funded by GOM, is slightly behind schedule and is now
scheduled to be completed by June/July, 1994, and that the installation of new main engines for the
passenger vessel llala has recently been completed, and is currently under commissioning and sea
trials.
21.   The mission was further informed that as a step towards the complete autonomy of the Lake
Services as a separate legal entity, prior to possible privatization, it has been agreed between MR and
the Government that LS, with effect from April 1, 1994, should have full operational autonomy in its
day to day management, including a separate accounting function and financial independence.
However, the financial and operational performance of LS has been poor in the past, with substantial
yearly operational losses (estimated at around MK 10 million in FY95), and the issue of subvention
of the predicted deficit for FY95, and provision of sufficient working capital for LS to operate its
activities, has not been resolved as yet.
22.   Given the overstaffing and overcapitalization of LS, commercial viability can be achieved
only by implementing a comprehensive plan aiming at increasing efficiency and reliability of
operations, radical restructuring and privatization of part or the whole of LS, and involving the
private sector in core activities. Simultaneously there would be a need of aggressive marketing to



NTC Aide Memoire                         - 5 -                             April 26.1994
convince the market that there is a role for LS to play in the transport sector, particularly with regard
to freight traffic.
23.    The restructuring of Lake Services is included as a component of the Malawi Railways
Restructuring Project, which was appraised prior to this supervision mission. As an initial step to the
preparation of restructuring Lake Services, it has been agreed to utilize proceeds from Credit 1879-
MAI to finance a privatization/commercialization study on the potential of privatizing part or the
whole of LS, including the issue of operations of the ports, particularly Chilumba and Chipoka. Draft
TOR is attached as Appendix 1, and the study will be completed before the closing date of the Credit
on June 30, 1994.
24.    Consultancy Services. MOTC informed that a letter will be submitted shortly to the
Resident Mission requesting for an extension of Mr. Ryder's contract for a period of 3 months. Mr.
Ryder's services are to be funded under the Infrastructure I Project, Credit 2065-MAI.
25.   The MOW once again brought up the issue of outstanding invoices from the consultants
Lahmeyar International, originally in the sum of DM 152,379.60, but now reduced to around DM
107,000. As previously conveyed, the mission informed that in the first instance this dispute has to
be discussed and eventually settled between the GOM and the consultants, as provided for in the
contract signed between the parties. After the parties have agreed, the issue will be reviewed by The
Bank for further consideration. However, given that the additional services eventually agreed by the
parties were carried out some years ago, it is not likely that a no objection to amend the consultancy
agreement, for financing under the Credit, would be given retrospectively.
26.    Technical assistance and training, During the previous supervision mission in September,
1993, it was agreed to postpone the provision of long term technical assistance (ships captain and
chief engineer), that was planned for a duration of one year to assist in the operation of the new
container vessel. The main reason was attributed to the dredging issue, and that without dredging of
the two ports the container vessel could not start its operation and calling at the two ports. As the
project now will be closed on June 30, 1994, and the dredging of the two ports will not be completed
by the closing date, it was agreed to cancel this component of the project.
27.    Regarding training of port staff it was agreed to cancel also this component of the project, as
the training concept was based on the participation of the container vessel in the port of Chipoka.
The mission informed that training of port staff, considered essential for a successful operation of the
upgraded ports, is intended to be included in the Lake Service's component of the recently appraised
Malawi Railways Restructuring Project.
28.    Project Cos. The mission, together with the Financial Controller of MOW, carried out a
thorough review of the project cost, although lack of information regarding actual SDR equivalents
for applications made since May 1993. The revised financial statement, Appendix 2, shows that there
are sufficient funds to complete all outstanding items agreed on, and that there would still be an
uncommitted balance of around SDR 425,000.
29.    The mission emphasized that the closing date of the Credit is June 30, 1994, and that
uncommitted funds at the closing date will be canceled. It was further informed that withdrawal after
closing date to cover payments made, or payments due for services that have been provided on or



NTC Aide Memoire                        - 6 -                              April 26,1994
before the closing date, might usually be suggested for a limited period not exceeding four months.
The GOM, however, requested The Bank to favorably consider that payments for services provided
before the closing date will be accepted for a period of six months after closing date, until December
31, 1994. The main reason for this request is to allow for payment of retention moneys for different
contracts, particularly the rehabilitation of Salima-Balaka road. Given the past difficulties regarding
this roads contract, where the original contract had to be suspended and a re-tendering of the works
carried out, and the fact that the new contracts were completed in advance of the contractual
completion date, the mission supported the GOM request for an extension of the withdrawal period
to 6 months after the closing date, and undertook to bring the issue to the management for further
consideration.
30.    Auditing. The mission reminded MOW and MOTC that the overdue audited report for 92/93
project account has not been submitted. The Financial Controller informed that the financial
statements were issued in late January, and submitted to the Auditor General. It was originally
agreed that the accounts would have been audited by the end of February. It is now anticipated that
the accounts will be submitted to the Bank before May 17, which is the deadline notified by the Bank
until the account will be suspended.
31.    Covenants. The status on compliance of covenants is reflected in Appendix 3. With regard
to the lease agreement between the GOM, Malawi Railway Holding Company (MRHC) and MCCL,
it was informed that the a draft agreement has been circulated to relevant parties for comments, and
that the aim is to finalize the agreement for signature before June 30, 1994.
32.    ProJect Completion Report (PCR). The World Bank Guidelines on preparing the PCR was
handed over to representatives of MOW, who undertook to coordinate the work between the different
agencies involved in the implementation of the NTC-project. It was tentatively outlined that Part I
and 111, to be prepared by the Bank, would be ready for submission to the Borrower by early
November, 1994, and that Part 11, to be prepared by the Borrower, would be ready within 4 weeks of
receipt of Part I and 111.
33.    Next mission. The next mission, and last supervision mission of this Credit, is tentatively
planned for late June.
Lilongwe April 26, 1994
B. W. Zingano                             Sture Karlsson
Principal Secretary                         Task Manager



NTC Aide Memoire                         - 7 -                             April 26,1994
Distribution
MOTC:                       Principal Secretary, Chief Transport Planning Officer, and Principal
Transport Planning Officer.
MOW:                        Principal Secretary, Chief Planning & Program Evaluation Officer,
and Controller of Roads.
MOF:                        Principal Secretary, and Deputy Secretary for Multilateral Aid.
ED&P:                       Principal Secretary
MR:                         General Manager
Lake Services:              Divisional Manager
MCCL:                       General Manager.
World Bank:                 Resident Representative.
Donor Community:            USAID, BDDSA, KFW (to be distributed by the Office of the World
Bank Resident Representative).



ANNEX 2.
Ka'3a    Kreditanstalt
KNW   fur WiedervufbaLu
Poetfach 11 1141
60046 Frankfurt am Main
TELEFAX  - TELEFAX  - TELEFAX  - TELEFAX
Telefax number: 001-202-473 8326               atricerincharge:    Mr. von Bechtolsheim
our ref.:       Bhh/Min
IBRD - Energy & Infrastructure Op. Div.        *xtension:      2913
- Southem Africa Department -                  date:           February 2a, 1996
Att Mr. S. Karisson
Washington, D.C.
Telefax number: 00265-743480
cc:
NTCP Coordinator
Att. Mr. J. Ryder
Telefax number: 00265-780250
German Embassy
Aft. Dr. W. Klapper
L2b2 -     Financial Cooperation with Malawi
ICR on Northern Corridor Project (# 1879-MAi)
Dear Mr. Karlsson,
as discussed on the phone, please find a condensed write-up of our remarks to the above
report. To repeat, we feel that the ICR generally gives a true and fair assessment of the project.
As we shall carry out a final evaluation of the components financed through KfW (fuel facilities.
container vessel and Salima-Balaka road), we shall be highly grateful to receive your
disaggregated calculations conceming the economic assessment of NTC fuel traffic (ICR/table
7.4) and the Salima-Balaka road (ICR/table 7.5) - many thanks in advance!
JA:L2B2\XMALAWl\MIN10422.DOC
Parmenananintra. "5             Teiox: 4 15 25 W had              Landlesa'vsibenk FrmnIdurt%kln
60325 Frankfun am Ain           T?eefax: t69) 74 31 25 44        Konionurnme 5002040
Ta4ranv (Q0gS 74 31 40           S.W..F.T.: IKFWlD1Vf            Sanklol2MhS 100204 00
8/1  S   8V31 'N                                   1dfl4)INV3d M)iX   8:01  9661 qa 6?



-2-
Coming to the contents of your ICR. allow us the following remarks.
*   part 1. para 3 (last line): the term "less costly modes" is certainly correct on a theoretical
basis, but does not necessarily take into account actual managerial and organisational
capacities of Lake Services and TAZARA.
part 1. para 13: Funding through KfW covered construction costs of 126.4 km (Salima-
Mua and Mua-Penga Penga) as weH as 2.5 km access to Chipoka
part 1, para 17: Anecdotal evidence suggests that dredging problems were not the only
cause for the stand-still of the container vessel. After dredging - in the first half of 1995 -
the vessel's services were advertised, but demand response was negligible, possibly
related to apprehensions concerning the associated "broken transport chain'.
part 1, para 45 c: this point was of particular importance for an institution, which - like KfW
- is not continuously represented in Malawi.
Best regards and thanks for your efforts.
KREDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU
8/g  S   01I aN                                  iUMNNVE MAx        88:0[  9661 qaS 6z



UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
MISSION TO MALAWI
P.O. Box 30455                                                       NICO House, City Centre
Lilongwe 3                             >                               ~ Tel. :782 455/378/694
.Malavwi                                                             Telex: 44627
Msalas&  ,so ~, ,Fax :783 181
| t8Q 0 8 1996
MALAWI: Nodbl Trmspo-.
AFIEI:  ComidortI'umpopt I
Log No. /     :.
Mr. Jeffrey Racki
Division Chief
3. R-oome
Southern Africa Department                       4. AISC - JBI-0.-
Energy and Infrastructure Division
Action Taken on ncomgtnz Carssndenee
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433                           Date    Si      l Sfred 
Dear Mr. Racki:
Malawi - Northern Transport Corridor, Cr. 1879-MA I
Implementation Completion Report
USAID Malawi appreciates the opportunity to comment on the Implementation Completion
Report prepared by IBRD staff covering the Northern Corridor project. USAID was one of the
donors participating, using funds appropriated for the Southern Africa Regional Program.
The Implementation Completion Report finds the Project to generally have been successful,
although rates of return on the whole were less than forecast. However, certain of USAID's
portions of the Project, primarily port development at Chipoka and Chilumba, and vessel repair
facility improvements at Monkey Bay, turned out to be poor or non-performing in the IBRD
analysis. There is no disagreement with this conclusion.
It is fitting that we take this opportunity to try to fathom what led to investment decisions which
have not begun to pay off, and which are unlikely to do so given the present economic
organization of transport along the Northem Corridor. We do so from hindsight and with limited
institutional memory.
We are unable to find any indication that a decline in the depth of the water at the two ports was
considered as a possible risk before making substantial investments in freight handling
equipment there.
U.S. Postal Address: USAID/Lilongwe (ID)
Washington, D.C. 20521 -2280



Nor was the complexity of the multi-modal system adequately analyzed- from Dar es Salaam by
rail, road, vessel, and back to rail to arrive at Blantyre. Even if the two ports had had adequate
water depth, use of three different modes for the less than 1000 km. stage between Blantyre and
the TAZARA Railway at Mbeya, Tanzania would have been out-competed by through trucking
arrangements. Only petroleum imports, whose modal choice is decided by the Government's
Petroleum Control Commission, have used the water route to any appreciable extent.
Fortunately for the rest of the Project, the water route was redundant.
The welcome return to peace in Mozambique has brought the potential for Northern Corridor
cargo volume down to normal, much lower numbers while the successful highway improvement
prograrns have solidified the comparative advantage of trucking on the NCR. In retrospect, risk
analysis might have suggested that possible implementation delays, an earlier than expected
reopening of the Mozambican transport routes, the possibility of falling Lake Malawi water
levels, and the redundancy of the water route could have combined to some degree to make the
lake cargo investments doubtful starters.
While it may have been outside the scope of the Implementation Completion Report, we believe
it is now appropriate to begin the process of finding alternative uses for the non-performing
assets at Chipoka and Chilumba. The gantry cranes and some of the other installations have
alternate uses, and should be made available to the private sector for redeployment. In a larger
sense, the monolithically structured Malawi Lake Services needs to be restructured by vertical
separation so that its various parts are subject to competitive forces and as a result appropriately
sized. We suggest that the Monkey Bay repair facilities and each of the ships could be
individually privatized and that each of the ports could become the responsibility of the shippers
in its hinterland. And Malawi Cargo Centers Ltd. (of which Malawi Railways Holdings Ltd.
owns a substantial share) should be discouraged from 'filling the gap' in trucking services
between Mbeya and Chilumba that falsely appears to be a cause of the low volume of lake cargo
carried to date.
We appreciate the opportunity to have this comment included in the Implementation Completion
Report and look forward to collaborating with you in the redeployment of lake transport assets
especially in view of our historical involvement in this area.
Sincerely,
nthia F. Rozell
Mission Director



EUROPEAN UNION
DELEGATION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
Lilongwe. 19 February 1996
File Ref.: RRJftp/378
TELEFAX MESSAGE
To                         :     World Banic
Attn.                      :     Mr Jeffrey Racki
Telefax 'Jo.                     101 1 202 477-1234
No. of pages                     2 (including this page)
Subject:     Northern Transport Corridor, Cr. 1879-MAT
Implementation Completion Report
Ref.:        Your note dated 16.1.1996
Dear M  Racki
Find be,ow the comments on the implementation report:
They r: er to paragraphs and I hope they can be of some help.
I wouk. like to stress the importance of our continuous cooperation on a commou agreed
method 'logy and strategy in the infrastructure sector in Malawi.
Certainly che Northern Corridor has lost much of its appeal since the Mozambiqm! war is
over. Nevertheless nobody should put down the level of attention on the different Cwrridors
serving this landlocked country. We do believe still that the Corridor has to be completed
(i.e. the terrible road between Karonga and Chiweta and the conrainerboat traffic established)
before finally evaluating how the transport market reacts to it.
Evalu; c.'on Summary
7.    A re-evaluated ERR of 7% is not unusual in under developed economies pa ticularly
ior project of a big size with many components.
a     As you ccrtainly know the rna,jority of the shares of MCCL belong indirectJy to GOM
'Malawi Rallways + MAlawi LAhr Servicj + Pctroleum ComTiission). Theimport
of oil is "forced" into the corridor by one or the stakehalders of MCC, novertbeless.
the profitability of MCC is more than questionable.
13.   Maybe it is worth considering the lake component as supplementary/parallel
component since it is unlikely that it will cver work.
_______: (2Europa house. Capital Ci(y, P.O. ELox 30102, ULONGWE 3
Telapho,,: (2&5) 78.31.99 - Telax: (0904) 44260 0ELEGEUR Ml - Fax: (265) 78.35.3d



23',02  961: 07   'A76 J 156                    l4JDiA~ 
-2-
Part J: Performance assessment from IDA perspective
6a.   Maybe it is worthwhile to includc thc road Dwangwa-Nkhata Bay Road (EDF 69%.
KfW 31%, 1990 - 1994) that givcs strength and scope to the Salima-BalaL- Road
otherwise meaningless to the NTC purposes without the lake component uindr
operation.
8.    To judge tie success of the project exclusively through the reduction in transport
costs may be too limitative in this case for several reasons.  We could see the
problem in a long term perspective anid in connection with a more libersalized
regional mnarket. The crearion of a transport network is important. This is far from
being achieved but the NTC was and is in rie right direction.
11.   A design and a tender documentation is currently being prepared by consuitants to
tMnderke [0hc rcmcdial WqjH 11996?.
12.   EDF not EEC.
19.  it is not clear whether the designed flexibility (summary P. 14) was the core problem
or the lack of project management together with lack of project design (as it seems
to me).
30.   It could be useful to add that currently transport operators are trying to avoid the
Comdor due to poor condition of the Karonga-Chiweta Road (109 Ikm) that required
a truck 5 to 6 hours of driving.
A reference to the fuel import traffic (steered by GOM) going through the NTC
should be rnade.
Anotiher factor to be mentioned is the monopoly of NASACO in Tanzania in handling
the typical shipping lines and forwarders procedures in a very bureaur-ratic way.
Table 1: It is remarkable to notice the change in assessment of the outcome from
satisfactory to unsatisfactory (see draft report 25.5.95).
be6: In relation to point 1 and 4, there seems to be a need to add something on
the impact of the quality of the performance delivcred.
Yours sincerely
PETER BECK CHTRSTIANSEN
HEAD OF DELEGATfON



IBRD 19421
/ n        _-ZA                                            w-(                                   oo
AN jOL                                )Kj-(oo    -                      .                           I .ND AN,OCGA
________               --Xi1                                                                       -   NOTHR CORDRRJC
M-h'&-   MAJOR  AyMALaE ROAD
+---0 ROAD ROM ARESSOAM A Of
t NAMIBIA    g                         s'"''"  IJ t~~~ZAMBA                                         4
7~ ~    ~                                  i ROADOW^\ \RO O,, ES SA.A lAM
I?                  Id1    Wwi          ir /r                                 3'0 <0A8XrI         
IMB GABWEONEMB  1585
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                     r                                                        3, A &A  8t I 09 Li E,tf I N  ROD 5i AN  R CONSAON
ATrNT  ROTISV - )7 /-SAP
Cb OADHIM DARVR                                                155-LSK   #   NOTHERN CRRDORA PROLfJECTL
R7 Y7r7M  sXW BEi  Rs)A                   SOUTHoo
RA FDWCDPCOM r 5fM Car                                                 ONb_,A L  O AHd  INTR-TIONA ;M7C 745P  ROUTE0
.           tr               w              77        '. Zr3N                                                70A'  UNE   DCONSTR Cn rN






MALAWI
NORTHERN TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
Project Roads, Construction and Rehcbilitotin-                                                                                                  DARES
*    Molowi C-rgo Centers                                                                                                                             O 5A
Fuel Handling and Storage Facilities                                                                                                   ,-
4L    Port Improvements
Paved Roads                                                                                                                  /
----Paved Roads Under Construction                                                                                                 /
......... Pved Rood, Froposed
Principal Govel and Earth Roads                                                                           /
Rai6voys                                                             
Corridor Route
Rivers                                                        /                            Jr
O    DiWstrid Administrti-ve Centers                              7                             1
*    National Capitals
--- tIernotionol Boundaries                                                       /
T    A    N    Z    A    N    I   A
I,                                                                                                                                                                          is l,
a~~~~~~~m-
M                    A                 B M B       QUAEJ  X  <  
87-                      p             37D,>De                                                                                                          Ir~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t,v
~~~~~~~ c'                                                                                              4 Sc                  ISa.O
S ~             ~ ~                               M& --.                                                                                        ==
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a                                                                                        r               /c, 









1 MAAGING
Report No:       15CU8
'Fype: ICR



