Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 1879 MAI
                       Development Credit Agreement
                   (Northern Transport Corridor Project)
                                  between
                            REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                             Dated May 6, 1988
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 1879 MAI
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 6, 1988, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B)   the Borrower and the United Republic of Tanzania intend to
contract from the European Development Fund (hereinafter called EDF) a non-
reimbursable contribution (hereinafter called the EDF Grant), and a loan
(hereinafter called the EDF Loan) in an aggregate amount approximately
equivalent to twenty-two million five hundred thousand European Currency
Units (ECU 22,500,000) to assist in the financing of Parts A (i), F (ii) and
G (iii) of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements
(hereinafter called the EDF Agreements) to be entered into between the
Borrower, the United Republic of Tanzania and EDF;
      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau of the Federal Republic of Germany (hereinafter called KfW) a
non-reimbursable contribution (hereinafter called the KfW Grant) in an
amount approximately equivalent to thirty-one million six hundred thousand
deutsche mark (DM 31,600,000) to assist in the financing of Parts A (iii)
(a) and A (iii) (b), C and E (i) of the Project on the terms and conditions
set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the KfW Grant Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and KfW;
      (D)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Overseas Development
Page  2
Administration of the United Kingdom (hereinafter called ODA) a non-
reimbursable contribution (hereinafter called the ODA (Malawi) Grant) in an
amount approximately equivalent to eleven million eight hundred eighty-one
thousand pounds sterling (L11,881,000) to assist in the financing of Parts
B (i), B (ii), E (ii), E (iii), E (iv) and G (iii) of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the ODA
(Malawi) Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and ODA;
      (E)   the United Republic of Tanzania intends to contract from the
Overseas Development Administration of the United Kingdom (hereinafter
called ODA) a non-reimbursable contribution (hereinafter called the ODA
(Tanzania) Grant) in an amount approximately equivalent to five hundred
thousand pounds sterling (L500,000) to assist in the financing of Parts B
(iii) and G (iii) of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
an agreement (hereinafter called the ODA (Tanzania) Grant Agreement) to be
entered into between the United Republic of Tanzania and ODA;
      (F)   the Borrower intends to contract from the United States Agency
for International Development (hereinafter called USAID) a non-reimbursable
contribution (hereinafter called the USAID Grant) in an amount of eighteen
million dollars ($18,000,000) to assist in the financing of Parts B (i), B
(ii), D, E (ii), E (iii) and E (iv) of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the USAID Grant
Agreement) entered into between the Borrower and USAID on July 24, 1986, as
amended on August 26, 1986, and including a supplement to the USAID Grant
Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and USAID;
      (G)   the Minister for Development Cooperation of The Netherlands
(hereinafter called The Netherlands) intends to provide the United Republic
of Tanzania with a non-reimbursable contribution (hereinafter called the
Dutch Grant) in an amount approximately equivalent to about twenty million
Dutch guilders (Dfl 20,000,000) to assist in the financing of Parts A (ii)
and G (iii) of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (hereinafter called the Dutch Grant Agreement) to be entered into
between the United Republic of Tanzania and The Netherlands.
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions), constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "MTC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Transport and
Communications;
      (b)   "MWS" means the Borrower's Ministry of Works and Supplies;
      (c)   "Northern Transport Corridor" means the Malawi-Tanzania Corridor
Transport System as defined in the Bilateral Agreement, that is, the route
linking Blantyre, in southern Malawi, with the Port of Dar es Salaam in
Tanzania, and including, inter alia:
            (i)   the road linking Blantyre with the Port of Chipoka on
                  Lake Malawi;
            (ii)  the lake route linking the Ports of Chipoka and Chilumba
                  on Lake Malawi;
Page  3
            (iii) the road linking the Port of Chilumba with Mbeya through
                  Uyole in southern Tanzania; and
            (iv)  the segment of the TAZARA system linking Mbeya, in
                  southern Tanzania, with the Port of Dar es Salaam;
      (d)   "The Bilateral Agreement" means the Agreement entered into on
August 15, 1987, between the Borrower and the United Republic of Tanzania
concerning the Malawi-Tanzania Corridor Transport System;
      (e)   "TAZARA" means the Tanzania-Zambia Railway Authority,
established pursuant to Act No. 23 of 1975, Cap 768 of the Laws of the
United Republic of Tanzania;
      (f)   "MR" means Malawi Railways Ltd.;
      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(c) of this Agreement;
      (h)   "MCC Company" means the Malawi Cargo Center Company to be
established in the Borrower's territory to manage the dry-cargo/fuel
transshipment facilities to be set up at Dar es Salaam and at Mbeya in
Tanzania under Parts B and C of the Project;
      (i)   "MRHC" means Malawi Railway Holdings Company, established under
Cap 69:04 of the Laws of Malawi; and
      (j)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange
of letters dated:
            (i)   November 5, 1986 and November 26, 1986; and
            (ii)  September 3, 1987 and December 15, 1987, respectively,
                  between the Borrower and the Association.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount
in various currencies equivalent to eleven million one hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 11,100,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      (c)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part A (iii) (c), Part
F (i) and Parts G (i) , G (ii) , G (iv) , G (v) and H of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions, satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994, or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
Page  4
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue:
            (i)   from a date sixty (60) days after the date of this
                  Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on
                  which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the
                  Credit Account or cancelled; and
            (ii)  at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding
                  the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set
                  from time to time thereafter, pursuant to paragraph (a)
                  above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be
                  applied as of the next payment date in that year
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that
                  the rate set as of June 30, 1988, shall be applied as of
                  July 1, 1988.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid:
            (i)   at such places as the Association shall reasonably
                  request;
            (ii)  without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
                  territory of, the Borrower; and
            (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
                  purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
                  such other eligible currency or currencies as may from
                  time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
                  provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each April 15 and October 15, commencing April 15,
1998, and ending October 15, 2027. Each installment .0 and including the
installment payable on October 15, 2007, shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever:
            (i)   the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
                  determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
                  in constant 1985-dollars for five consecutive years; and
            (ii)  the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for
                  Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the
                  review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of
                  the Association, and after due consideration by them of
                  the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the
                  terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
                  above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount
                  of each such installment not yet due until the principal
                  amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so
                  requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise
                  such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of
                  the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
                  payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
                  Association on the principal amount of the Credit
                  withdrawn and outstanding from time to time provided,
                  that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision
Page  5
                  shall not change the grant element obtained under the
                  above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out the Project through MTC, MWS and MR with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and transportation practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, and, except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall consult with the Association prior
to undertaking any major investments in its transport sector, including
investments in vessels and port maintenance facilities on Lake Malawi.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   take all measures necessary for the establishment of the MCC
Company by June 30, 1988, or such later date as may be agreed by the
Borrower and the Association; and
      (b)   prior to the formation of the MCC Company, furnish to the
Association, for its review, the memorandum and articles of association of
the MCC Company.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain and cause MRHC, MR and
the MCC Company to maintain, records and accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and
expenditures of MTC, MWS, MRHC, MR and the MCC Company in respect of the
Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, and shall cause MRHC, MR and the MCC Company
to:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section, including those for the Special
                  Account, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, for MRHC, MR and the MCC Company, and nine
Page  6
                  months after the end of each such year for MTC and MWS,
                  a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the completion of
                  the audit for the fiscal year in which the last
                  withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) as evidence of such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                  Section, and that the report of such audit contains a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
                  year, together with the procedures and internal controls
                  involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
                  support the related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause MR to:
            (i)   maintain, in respect of its lake service operations, a
                  ratio of total operating expenses to total operating
                  revenues of not higher than:
                  (A)   100% for the fiscal year 1988/89;
                  (B)   95% for the fiscal year 1989/90; and
                  (C)   90% for each of its subsequent fiscal years until
                        completion of the Project; and
            (ii)  restructure its lake passenger-service operations with a
                  view to progressively eliminating, in respect of such
                  operations, all losses by no later than June 30, 1991.
      (b)   before December 31 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower
shall cause MR, on the basis of forecasts prepared by MR and satisfactory
to the Association, to review whether it would meet the requirements set
forth in paragraph (a) above in respect of such year and the following
fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Association the results of such review
upon its completion.
      (c)   If any such review shows that MR would not meet the requirements
set forth in paragraph (a) above for MR's fiscal years covered by such
review, the Borrower shall promptly take, or as appropriate, cause MR to
take, all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of
the structure or levels of its rates and the frequency of its services) in
order to meet such requirements.
      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses
                  related to operations, including administration, adequate
Page  7
                  maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but
                  excluding interest, depreciation and other charges on
                  debt.
            (ii)  The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from
                  all sources related to operations.
                                 ARTICLE V
                              Other Covenants
      Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause MRHC and MR:
      (a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make
other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practices;
      (b)   to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance
with sound administrative, financial and transportation practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers; and
      (c)   at all times, to operate and maintain its plants, machinery,
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with
sound engineering, financial and transportation practices.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The Bilateral Agreement shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of the Borrower to carry out its obligations under this Agreement.
      (b)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the MCC
Company or for the suspension of its operations.
      (c)   The EDF Agreements, the KfW Grant Agreement, the ODA (Malawi)
Grant Agreement, the USAID Grant Agreement and the Dutch Grant Agreement
shall have failed to become effective by September 30, 1988, or such later
date as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the provisions
of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes, to the
satisfaction of the Association, that adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
      (d)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right
                  of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant
                  made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project
                  shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                  whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
                  providing therefor.
            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
                  Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
                  Association that:
                  (A)   such suspension, cancellation or termination is not
                        caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
                        any of its obligations under such agreement; and
                  (B)   adequate funds for the Project are available to the
                        Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
                        consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
                        under this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE VII
Page  8
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 7.01. The. following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the ODA (Tanzania) Grant Agreement, other
than the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
      Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VIII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P. 0. Box 30049
            Capital City
            Lilongwe 3
            Malawi
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  FINANCE                       4407
                  Lilongwe
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                  By /s/ Timon S. Mangwazu
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Sven Sandstrom
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
Page  9
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
       Amount of the
     Credit Allocated                % of
       (Expressed in             Expenditures
CategorySDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1)     Civil works:
    (a) under Part                 4,950,000     85%
        A (iii) (c) of
        the Project
    (b) under Part F (i)             330,000     85%
        of the Project
(2)     Consultants'               2,740,000
    services under
    Parts G (i), G (ii),
    G (iv) and G (v) of
    the Project:
    (a) Foreign                                     100% of foreign
        consultants                                 expenditures and
                                            50% of local
                                            expenditures
    (b) Local                                       90%
        consultants
(3)     Training under               250,000        100%
    Part H of the
    Project
(4)     Refunding of               1,240,000        Amount due under
    Project Prepara-                                Section 2.02 (b)
    tion Advance                                    of this Agreement
(5)     Unallocated                1,590,000
    TOTAL    11,100,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
improving the Northern Transport Corridor in order to:
Page  10
    (a)   increase its capacity to carry a substantial proportion of the
Borrower's transit traffic; and
    (b)   enable the Borrower to derive savings in transport costs compared
to those on existing alternate routes.
    The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Improvement of Roads:
          (i)   construction of a two-lane bituminous-paved road between
                Karonga in northern Malawi and Ibanda in Tanzania,
                including:
                (A)   the Karonga-Songwe River segment; and
                (B)   the Songwe River-Ibanda segment;
          (ii)  rehabilitation of the Ibanda-Uyole road in Tanzania; and
          (iii) rehabilitation of the bituminous-paved SalimaBalaka road in
                Malawi consisting of:
                (A)   the Salima-Junction M18 segment;
                (B)   the Chipoka access road; and
                (C)   the Junction M18-Balaka segment.
Part B:   Construction and Equipping of Dry-cargo Transshipment Facilities
          in Tanzania:
          (i)   a port-road-rail transshipment terminal in the vicinity of
                the Port of Dar es Salaam;
          (ii)  a road-rail transshipment terminal at Mbeya; and
          (iii) infrastructure improvements in the area chosen for the
                resettlement of inhabitants of the site selected for the
                terminal referred to in subparagraph B (i) above.
Part C:   Construction and Equipping of Fuel Storage and Transshipment
          Facilities in Tanzania:
          (i)   fuel storage and handling facilities for petroleum products
                in the vicinity of the Port of Dar es Salaam; and
          (ii)  fuel storage and handling facilities for petroleum products
                at Mbeya.
Part D:   Acquisition of Fuel Tank Wagons for Use on the TAZARA System and
          Tank Containers for Transport of Jet Fuel.
Part E:   Improvements in Facilities of MR's Lake Service on Lake Malawi:
          (i)   acquisition of one container/fuel carrying vessel;
          (ii)  construction of dry cargo storage facilities and
                improvement of fuel storage and handling facilities at the
                Port of Chipoka, including the acquisition of cargo
                handling equipment;
          (iii) construction of dry cargo storage and berthing facilities
                and improvement of fuel storage and handling facilities at
                the Port of Chilumba, including the acquisition of cargo
                handling equipment; and
          (iv)  improvement of ship maintenance facilities at Monkey Bay,
                including construction of a repair jetty and acquisition of
                equipment for the maintenance workshop and rehabilitation
                of the existing slipway.
Page  11
Part F:   (i)   Construction of a Border Post; and
          (ii)  Provision of a Weighbridge at the Malawi/Tanzania Border
                Crossing.
Part G:   Consultants' Services for:
          (i)   assistance to MTC in Project coordination, Project
                financial control, facilitation of the flow of traffic in
                the Northern Transport Corridor and establishment of the
                MCC Company;
          (ii)  assisting MR's Lake Service in cargo operations;
          (iii) supervision of Parts A (i), A (ii), B and F (ii) of the
                Project;
          (iv)  supervision and assistance in equipment procurement for
                Parts A (iii), C, D, E and F (i) of the Project; and
          (v)   preparation of supplementary detailed engineering for Parts
                B, C, D, E (ii), E (iii) and E (iv) of the Project.
Part H:   Training of Transport Sector Personnel.
                                 *   *   *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding:
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits", published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.  Bidders for the rehabilitation works on the Junction M18-Balaka segment
of the Salima-Balaka Road under Part A (iii) (c) of the Project shall be
prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Contractors:
    In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to
domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures:
    Civil works under Part F (i) of the Project may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions:
1.  Review of prequalification:
    With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2
hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
2.  (a)   With respect to the review of invitations to bid and of proposed
awards and final contracts, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  12
Where payments for such contracts are to be made out of the Special Account,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   The provisions of subparagraph (a) above shall not apply to
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals
from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such
contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
3.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix I to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
    In order to carry out Part G of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures, satisfactory to
the Association, on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency",
published by the Bank in August 1981.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                          Implementation Program
1.  The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an
implementation schedule acceptable to the Association and, subject to the
provisions of this Agreement, provide guidance, overall coordination,
monitoring and supervision of all activities under the Project, with the
exception of the road improvements outlined under Part A of the Project,
through MTC. To this end, MTC shall, at all times during the implementation
of the Project, employ a project coordinator whose qualifications and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
2.  Part A of the Project:
    (a)   All road construction and rehabilitation works to be implemented
within the Borrower's territories shall be carried out through MWS.
    (b)   The Borrower shall, in the spirit of The Bilateral Agreement,
obtain assurances that activities under Part A (i) and Part A (ii) of the
Project, to be implemented in Tanzania, shall be carried out through the
Ministry of Communications and Works of the United Republic of Tanzania.
3.  Parts B, C and D of the Project
    In carrying out Parts B, C and D of the Project, and unless
otherwise agreed by the Association, the Borrower shall by June 30, 1988:
    (a)   take all measures necessary to ensure that MRHC shall be empowered
to acquire fixed assets;
    (b)   vest in MRHC all assets, comprising the terminals, storage and
handling facilities to be constructed at the Port of Dar es Salaam and at
Mbeya, and the fuel tank wagons and tank containers, under an agreement
whose terms and conditions shall be drawn up in consultation with the
Association; and
    (c)   cause MRHC to lease all assets referred to in paragraph (b) above
to the MCC Company, under terms and conditions drawn up in consultation with
the Association including:
          (i)   delegation to the MCC Company of responsibility for the
                management of the terminals and for the employment, as
                required, of experienced terminal operators to be selected
                on the basis of competitive bidding;
Page  13
          (ii)  the institution of a profit-sharing arrangement between
                MRHC and the MCC Company to become effective from the date
                of commencement of operations; and
          (iii) the payment by the MCC Company to MRHC of such fees as
                shall be necessary to enable MRHC to earn returns on the
                assessed life of the leased assets of at least five percent
                (5%) per annum beginning three years after the date of
                commencement of operations.
4.  Part E of the Project
    In carrying out Part E of the Project, the Borrower shall
transfer to MR, for use by its lake service department, the proceeds of all
grants made to the Borrower for the financing of all activities under Part
E, except immovable assets, including gantry cranes in the Ports of Chipoka
and Chilumba. The terms and conditions of transfer shall be drawn up in
consultation with the Association. MR shall be responsible for the
maintenance and upkeep of the immovable assets referred to above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A (iii) (c),
F (i), G (i), G (ii), G (iv), G (v) and H of the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, allocated from time to time to the
Eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures in
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received satisfactory evidence that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may
be made as follows:
    (a)   On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a
deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw
from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts
as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with amounts not
exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for
Eligible Expenditures. All such deposits shall he withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account tinder the respective Eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for
which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or
at the time of such request, such documents and other evidence as the
Page  14
Association shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for
Eligible Expenditures.
5.  (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association
when either of the following situations first arises:
          (i)   the Association shall have determined that all further
                withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
                the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
                Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
                Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
          (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
                Eligible Categories for Parts A (iii) (c), F (i), G (i), G
                (ii), G (iv), G (v), and H of the Project, minus the amount
                of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
                Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
                Conditions with respect to Parts A (iii) (c), F (i), G (i),
                G (ii), G (iv), G (v) and H of the Project, shall be equal
                to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
                Allocation.
    (b)   Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories for
Parts A (iii) (c), F (i), G (i), G (ii), G (iv), G (v) and H of the Project
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account:
          (i)   was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible
                pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
          (ii)  was not justified by the evidence furnished pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly
                upon notice from the Association deposit into the Special
                Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to
                the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
                payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
                justified. No further deposit by the Association into the
                Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made
                such deposit or refund.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
