                              54480
           Document of
        The World Bank


                                      Report No:




     RESTRUCTURING PAPER

             ON A

PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING

               OF

    FOOD RESPONSE PROJECT

           TF092672

        AUGUST 13, 2008


            TO THE

   CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC

         APRIL 18, 2010
                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CTP/PAS   Comité Technique Permanent du Programme d 'Ajustement Structurel
          (Permanent Technical Committee of Structural Adjustment Programs)
FIE       Field Implementation Entitie
FPCR TF   Food Price Crisis Response
IDA       International Development Agency




          Regional Vice President:       Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                Country Director:        Mary Barton-Dock
                 Sector Manager:         Karen Brooks
               Task Team Leader:         Meike van Ginneken



                                     2
           CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC FOOD RESPONSE PROJECT

                                          P113221

                                         TF092672

                                   Restructuring Paper

1.      The closing date for Central African Republic Food Response Project (FPCR TF
Grant Number TF092672, project ID P113221) will be extended from August 17, 2010
until February 17, 2012.

2.      As of February 2010, the overall disbursement rate of the Project was 50 percent;
since effectiveness, the overall rating is currently Unsatisfactory:
    · Component 1 School Feeding Programs ($3.25 million): activities supported
        under Component 1 were completed within the period of the Grant Agreement
        between the World Food Program and IDA (FPCR TF Grant Number TF092804).
        Implementation of Component 1 was rated Satisfactory.
    · Component 2 Agricultural supply response ($3.25 million): Implementation of
        Component 2 has not yet started . Implementation delays have resulted mainly
        from past confusion regarding the appropriate contracting modality for the FIEs.
    · Component 3 Project management, monitoring and evaluation ($0.5 million):
        coordination activities related are well advanced, while analytical work is still at
        an early phase.

3.      Project objectives continue to be achievable. With respect to Component 2 and
3,the Client has made significant progress over the last four months. The Environmental
and Social Management Plan, Pesticide Management Plan, and the Indigenous Peoples
Plan were prepared and disclosed. The World Bank has provided its no-objection on the
operational manual as well as on the Subsidiary Agreements between the Comité
Technique Permanent du Programme d' Ajustement Structurel (CTP/PAS) and the Field
Implementation Entities (FIEs). In addition, the Client has submitted all outstanding
narrative and financial reports. Given the strong technical proposals prepared by the FIEs,
which build upon extensive agricultural experience in CAR, the project team is confident
that the activities supported under Component 2 can be achieved within the proposed
extension.

4.      The requested extension would provide sufficient time for the completion of the
22-month Subsidiary Agreements. The Client and the World Bank have agreed on a
time-bound action plan for accelerating project implementation and achieving project
goals. The action plan provides a government commitment to prepare annual reviews of
compliance with action plan and performance indicators. At the core of the action plan is
a list of time-bound actions that the CTP/PAS and other government entities have
committed to undertaking in order to meet the revised closing date and avoid further
delays in the implementation of Components 2 and 3.

5.     This will be the first extension of the project.

                                              3
