Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10 8 10
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2219-PE)
JUNE 30, 1992
Agricultural Jperations Division
Country Department I
Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
._    _                  .                                          L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



CURRENCY EQUIVALFNTS
Currency Units
Up to 12/1985: Peruvian Soles (S/.)
From 01/86 to 12/90: Intis '±1/. 1.00 = SI. 1,000.00)
From 01/1991: Nuevos Soles (NS/. 1.00 = I/. '..0 million)
ExchanQe rate at appraisal
US$1.00 = SI. 550
S/. 1,000 = US$1.82
Exchange Rates during Implementation
(yearly averages):
Year               Intis9  USS *)
1983                    1.629
1984                    3.467
1985                   10.980
1986                   13.950
1987                   16.840
1588                  128.830
1989                2,666.190
1990              187,885.630
(*) Inti equivalents per US dollar (official market).
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
BAP         Peruvian Agricultural Bank
CIPA        Agricu-tural and Livestock Research and Extension Center
DCCN        Directorate of Farmers and Native Commaunities
DS          Directorate of Services
DWE         Directorate of Works and Equipment
ECASA       National Rice Marketing Enterprise
ED          Executive Directorate of the Project
ENCI        National Enterprise for Input Marketing
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FAO         Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
GOP         Government of Peru
HCBM        Huallaga Central-Bajo Mayo Project
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IFAD        International Fund for Agricultural Development
INAF        National Institute for Expansion of Agricultural Development
INFOR       National Forestry Institute
INIPA       National Institute for Agricultural Research and Extension
MAG         Ministry of Agriculture
ME          Ministry of Education
MS          Ministry of Health
MTC         Ministry of Transport and Communications
OAAM        Alto Mayo Aguaruna Organization
QOGCAR      General Office of Cadastral and Rural Affairs (MAC)
ONERN       Office for Evaluation of Natural Resources
PCR         Project Completion Report
PEAM        Alto Mayo Rural Development Project
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SENAMA      National Agricultural Machinery Service (INIPA)
SMS         Subject Matter Specialist in Extension Service (INIPA)
TD          Technical Directorate of the Project
TORs        Terms of Reference



FOR OFMUFICL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 30, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on PERU
Alto Mayo Rural Development Proiect (Loan 2219-PE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on PERU - Alto Mayo Rural Development Project (Loan 2219-
PE)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office.
Attachment                                                   7
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their officida duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DE"ELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loa. 2219-PE;
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaQe
PREFACE . . . . . . . ......                                                                  i
EVALUATION SUMARY .iii
PART I:    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Project Identity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Background .
Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Project Design and Organization    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Project Implementation .4
Results.. .....  8
Project Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Bank Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Borrower Performance  ...  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   10
Project Relationship   ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   10
Consulting Services    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Project Documentation and Data   ...  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   11
Findings and Lessons Learned   ...  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   11
PART II:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . .   13
P.+xT III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
Table 1: Related Bank Loans    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
Table 2: Project Timetable   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
Table 3: Loan Disbursements    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
Table 4: Project Implementation    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
Table 5: Project Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
Table 6: Project Results   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
Table 7: Status of Covenants   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
APPENDIX 1 - Notes on Economic Analysis .31
MAP  -  IBRD 16496
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofTicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETIOh REPORT
PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2219-PE.
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Alto Mayo Rural
Development Project supported by Bank Loan 2219-PE of US$30 million which was
approved on December 14, 1982 and which became effective on June 7, 1983. The
Project was cofinanced by' the International Fund for Agri. -ultural Development
(IFAD) with Loan 116-PE amounting to SDR 17.9 million, approved on Decem-
ber 10, 1982. The Bank loan was suspended on May 12, 1987, and closed on
December 31, 1988. Final disbursement from the Bank Loan was on December 3,
1987. Some US$22.7 million was disbursed, and US$7.3 million was cancelled.
The closing date for the IFAD loan was extended for a third time to December
1992. About SDR 3.5 million equivalent of the IFAD loan remains to be
disbursed.
The PCR was prepared by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program on behalf of
the Agricultural Operations Division, Latin America Country Department I
(Parts I and III) and by the Borrower (PART II).
It is based on review of the Staff Appraisal Report, the Bank and IFAD
Loan Agreements, the President's Report, supervision reports, correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda, the project's
financial statements and audit reports, IFAD progress reports &ad financial
statements, and progress reports prepared by the Borrower. For security
reasons, PCR mission field visits were limited to the main project area and
excluded native communities and forest reserves.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2219-PE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The Alto Mayo Rural Development Project (PEAM) was the first World Bank
assisted rural development project in the Peruvian Ceja de Selva region. The
project was cofinanced by the International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD), and aimed to consolidate rural settlement, increase agricultural
production and improve farm incomes and social services in the Alto Mayo
valley. It was also expected to help protect the environment, safeguard
native communities in the area and to assist in their integration into the
national economy. The project included the constructicn and maintenance of
roads, schools and health service infrastructure; expansion of existing irrig-
ation infrastructure; construction of storage facilities; provision of exten-
sion, research and farm mechanization services; long- and short-term credit;
national and local mapping, other specific studies, and the pror3.sion of land
titles; and the setting up of forestry development services and a forest
police unit.
Implementation Experience
2.    The circurnstances under which the project had to be implemented were
extremely adverse. Beside the counterpart funding difficulties common to many
projects in Latin America, the PEAM was seriously affected by Peru's rapidly
deteriorating macroeconomic situation, the suspension of Bank loan disburse-
ments, security problems, natural disasters, and lately by the Peruvian
cholera epidemic.
3.    Project implementation was characterized by a good overall performance
up to May 1987, when disbursements were suspended for all Bank loans to Peru
(due to payment arrears), but declined thereafter. Counterpart funding
problems, although frequent, were not a constraining factor during the initial
phase, but seriously affected project implementation after the suspension of
Bank loan disbursements. However, since at loan suspension Bank loan dis-
bursement 1iad reached about 80 percent, most of the planned investments had
already been implerrented, or were about to be completed. Subsequently, in
spite of the above difficulties, the project management was able to continue,
although at a reduced scale, a number of project activities. The IFAD loan,
whicn was basically for rural credit, had a much slower disbursement pace and
is expected to be fully disbursed by the end of 1992.



- if -
4.    The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) estimated project total cost at US$84
million, of which the Bank loan was to finance 35.7 percent, IFAD 22.6
percent, the Government (GOP) 37.6 percent, and the farmers 4.1 percent, over
a f *e-year period. Fank loan disbursements were suspended tnree and a half
years after start-un and final disbursement was on December 3, 1987.  At
closing on December 3;, 1988, the Bank had disbursed US$22.7 million and
US$7.3 million was cancelled. The closing date of the IFAD loan has been
extended on three occ.asions to the end of 1992. IFAD's disbursement on
February 29, 1992 was equivalent to SDR 14.4 million, and SDR 3.5 million
equivalent remains undisbursed. T zal actual project cost is estimated at
US$60.5 million.
5.    The SAR did not foresee the accelerated immigration following the
construction of the Carretera Marginal de la Selva (the Amazon forest ring
road).  The area's population doubled from 75,000 to 150,000 in the 1980s,
causing uncontrolled deforestation and damage to the environment, and exerted
cc.asiderable pressure on the infrastructure established by the project. The
project's production development strategy was defective in relying essentially
on the expansion of irrigated rice production and on favorable rice price
projections. Contrary to expectations, border prices declined steadily and
when the Government eliminated its marketing support and the subsi' izw it had
temporarily introduced to compensate for declining international prices, the
project's production base weakened considerably.
6.    Wit-h minor exceptions, all the social and economic infrastructure.
including 184 km of roads, 44 schools, 15 health units, 3,000 m3 of storage
capacity, the completion of the irrigation infrastructure comprising 1,500 ha
of public schemes and 9,500 ha of expanded private schemes, reached or
surpassed appraisal estimates. The potable water systems, however, were only
partially constructed. Schools and health units were transferred to the
pertinent Ministries and were successfully mainta.ined, and the warehouses were
economically used by the marketing parastatals. Contrary to the SAR expec-
tations, road maintenance was not carried out by the local b'-auich of the
Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) but directly by the project,
due mainly to the inadequate operational capacity of the former. Similarly,
maintenance of irrigation infrastructure has not been fully satisfactory, in
part due to inadequate water charges.
7.    Agricultural research and extension improved through project-financed
infrastructure and staff attained a satisfactory performance level by 1987-88.
However, due to the above-mentioned financing constraints, activities were
gradually scaled down thereafter and practically phased out by 1990.  Supply
and marketing services were handled by the concerned parastatals, the National
Enterprise for Input Marketing (ENCI) and the National Rice Marketing Enter-
prise (ECASA), respectively. ECASA was closed in 1991, and ENCI's operations
have been sharply curtailed. The services provided by a project-established
tractor unit were a key factor for agricultural expansion. This highly subsi-
dized scheme, however, had to be discontinued due to financial constraints.
Planned cartography and other specific studies were accomplished. Land
titling reached only 74 percent of SAR estimates.



8.    The IFAD financed credit component was an important aGricultural devel-
c-,r nt factor, althougn its disbursemen't pace was significantly slower than
kv -:ted. Its initially poor performanc.. was improved, at mid-term, through
tna expansion of the Peiuvian Agricultural Bank's (BAP) operational capacity,
and later through the simplification of IF'D disbursement procedureB, aimed at
avoiding foraign exchange l.sses estimated at about 40 percent. Howaver, due
to the low interest rates asDplied by BAP in a period of hyperinflation, the
rcvolving fund created by the IFAD loan is now reduced to a mere 5 percent of
its original value, in real terms.
Project Results
9.    In spite of severe constraints, the project succeeded in implementing
most of the planned roads and social infrastructure, and created the basis for
increased agricultural production. Rice production increased from 35,000 tons
in 1983 to about 100,000 tons in 1988, exceeding SAR targets by about 10
percent, while other crops surpassed SAR estimates by about 50 percent. The
project's economic rate of return would have been about 17 percent (;AR
estimate was 18 percent) had prices and production been maintained at 1987-88
levels. However, due mainly to diminishing prices and transport and input
eupply difficulties, production and yields have decreased considerably by
1989-90 (rice output dropped by 40 percent and plantain/cassava by over 50
percent), suggesting that a wider range of alternative crops should have been
introduced than suggested at appraisal.
10.    During implementation the internal and external constraints that
limited the performance of rural credit operations were identified and cor-
rected, although with some delay. At present the project-financed credit
component is the only source for rural credit and har bacome an important,
although limited, agricultural development factor in the area. The project
was not able to integrate forestry activities with its Rgricultural develop-
ment program, thus it failed to introduce a long-term, coordinated approach
for safeguarding the environment. This shortcominc, as well as the project's
limited success in maintaining project financial infrastructure facilities, is
due in large part to the suspension of field supervision because of security
factors.
Sustainability
11.   Project implementation experience has demonstrated that under the
prevailing civil unrest and socio-economic envirorment most of the key project
act.vities cannot be sustained.  Due to the deteriorating world market prices
for rice, production in Alto Mayo became essentially uneconomical and depended
on large injection of subsidies to attract farmers. The financial burden,
however, could not be sustained by GOP and subsidies had to be phased out
which resulted in a plunge in production. Furthermore the project's failure
to introduce adequate water charges did not allow sufficient generation of
funds for maintenance and repair, making the irrigation systems unsustainable
in the long run. The project also failed to create a sustainable agricultural
extension and research system, tractor services and road maintenance.  The
IFAD provided credit fund, which should have been self-sustatning on a



- V... -
revolving basis has dsteriorated to a mere 5 percent of its original value due
mainly to inadequate management. However, tne social services, mainly the
health and education components, appear to be sustainable.
Findings and Lessons Learned
12,   The p=oject experience shows that considerable care is nec-ssary in
determining the economic parameters on which project design is based. The
c.ver-optimist;.c assumptions on rice price development have led to improper
investment decisions which could have been avoided. Also the emphasis on mono
crop farming should have been avoided since remote areas may be extremely
vulnerable to market and prices fluctuations. Instead, a diversified cropping
pattern, preferably involving non-perishable high-value crops, should have
been introduced. Too little attention was also paid to coordinate forestry
activities with the agricultural development program, leading to indiscr'mi-
nate deforestation, especially in the zones surrounding the project area. The
design of development projects, particularly iii tropical forest areas, should
be based on sustainable models integrating agricultural production and forest
conservation activities.  Implementation experience has also demor.crated tha-
a strong commitment by the Government and financial participation by benefi-
ciaries is required to ensure the sustainability of services and infrastruc-
ture. Therefore, at an early stage of ;he project, necessary financial
commitments have to be obtained, costs realistically assessed and fee collec-
tion systems established. Furthermore, it should have been realized that the
existing institutions on which the project depended for implementation were
still rather weak, and would have needed stronger support. Obviously the
discontinuation of international funding combined with a reduction in local
funds has further aggravated the situation. The implementation experience,
however, has also shown that a strong and dedicated project management is
capable of substantial achievements even with limited resources and under
adverse conditions, underlining the need for the recruitment of well-qualified
managerial staff.



PROJECT COtPLETION kErORT
PERU
ALTO MAYO RkURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2219-PE)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity
-     Pro,ect Name:    Alto Mayo Rural Development Project
-     Loan No.:          2219-PE
-     RVP Unit:          Latin America and the Caribbean Region
-     Country:           Peru
-      Sector:           Agriculture
2.    Background
2.1         The performance of the Peruvian agrictiltural sector in the 1970s was
poor. Wnile the population was increasing at 2.8 percent p.a. (4.1 percent in
urban areas), agricultural production declined by 0.6 percent p.a. in real terms,
food imports increased by over 20 percent, and agricultural GDP decreased from
15 percent in 1970 to 11 percent in 1980. This unsatisfactory performance was
attributed to a sweeping land reform and considerable Government intervention
following the military takeover in 1968, compounded .y the effects of severe
droughts in the late 1970s.
2.2         While the scope for production increases in the Costa and the Sierra
was limited to intensification which was only attainable in the long run through
capital-intensive technological improvements, the ferti'le Ceja de Selva (High
Jungle) area, eas-t of the Andes, which recently integrated into the country's
economy through the construction of a Trans-Andean Highway System and oil explo-
ration, offered excellent possibilities for short- and medium-term agricultural
development.   The civilian Covernment, installed in 1980, introduced policy
changes aimed at reducing state intervention in the economy, encouraging private
enterprise participation in agrir ltural development, improving agricultural
support services, and promoting 4-velopment in frontier areas and the Ceja de
Selva. The project, located in the Ceja de Selva, therefore responded to one of
Government's important development priorities and was part of the Huallaga
Central-Bajo Mayo regional development project (HCBM), established in the mid-
1970s with USAID assictance.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.1          The Project was the first Bank financed agricultural development
project in the Peruvian Ceja de Selva. It was cofinanced by IFAD, and was to be
implemented over a period of 5 years. IFAD's participation was due mainly to its
flexibility in financing the project's credit component which the Bank was unable
to do, as Peru's credit policy conflicted with the Bank's directives on the



-2-
subject. The pro,ect's central objectives were to develop the Ceja de Solva area
and to increase the country's food production, while improving the incomes and
living conditions for the 12,800 rural families through the expansion of agricul-
tural rroduction and the improvement of the region's physical and social infra-
structur..  All families were to benefit from the infrastructure improvements in
the area, while 8,700 families--including 200 families living in native Amer-
indian communities--were to participa.e directly in the agricultural development
components of the pro4ect. The project area consisted of 700,000 ha, but direct
action was to concentrate on 120,000 ha.
3.2          The project's components included:
(a)    an agricultural credit program for about 3,900 farmers in the area,
including US$23.0 million long-term arn US$8.0 million short-term
credit, to develop about 9,500 ha of small irrigation schemes and
other activities;
(b)    construction and improvement of about 181 km access roads in the
project area and support for ebtablishment of a road maintenance
program;
(c)    constr'xction of a small diversion structure and main canal, ta serve
about 1,500 ha in the Yurongos irrigation scheme;
(d)    supply of land clearing equipment for rental;
(e)    establishment of applied research capability and a strengthened
extension service in the area;
(f)    construction of 3,000 m3 storage for grains and fertilizers;
(g)    rehabilitation and construction of fisheries facilities for the
production of fingerlings;
(h)    strengthening of forestry administration to enforce protection,
legislation, carry out forestry in ntories and monitor changes in
these activities during project in) 'mentation;
(i)    construction/renovation of health and education infrastructure,
including 15 ' alth centers/posts, 20 water supply schemes, 3,000
latrines, and . schools;
(j)    studies to monitor the project's impact on tribal groups, prepare
a follow-up project, and monitor environmental changes;
(k)    training and short-term technical assistance in specialized fields;
(1)    local mapping  and  land  titling  of  over  120,000  ha,  and  the
preparation of a new map of the country based on satellite imagery.



-3-
3.3          Tota. projent costs were estimated at US$83.7 million, of waich the
Bank loan was to finance 35.7 percent, IFAD 22.6 percent, the Government (GOP)
37.6 percent, and the farmers 4.1 percent, over a five-years period. The project
was to be administered by the Executive Directorate (ED) of the Huallaga Central-
Balo Mayo Project through a local Technical Directorate (TD)--both alrsady in
place at appraisal. The credit component was to be mana&ed by the Agrarian Bank
(BAP), monitored by a credit committee composed of extension, research and
farmers representatives, and linked to the project extension activities. While
construction of civil works was the responsibility of the project, their opera-
tion and maintenance was to be transferred to the respective agencies.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.1          The concept of the project was consistent with the Government poli-
cies and priorities, and with the potential and needs of the project area at the
time of appraisal. It was formulated based on a constructive dialogue betweFn
the authorities concerned, the local preparation team (later engaged in project
management), the Bank and the FAO/CP missions.   The SAR's concern about the
project's impact on the environment and on the local Ametindian communities can
be considered innovative. The scope and scale of the project -ere appropriate
to its objectives which would probably have been fully attained had external
factors, such aq an unprecedented economic crisis, international rice price
fluctuation and the suspension of Bank disbursements and supervision, not
disrupted project implementation.  These factors and their impact on project
performance could hardly have been foreseen at appraisal. Generally, the project
rationale was sound and the satisfactory implementation pace of most investments
and services up to 1987 are indicative of its realistic phasing.
4.2          The development strategy of the SAR was, among other factors, based
on product price and population parameters, which did not materialize. In fact,
unrealistic rice price projections led to the formulation of a faulty production
strategy founded essentially on the expansion of irrigated rice production.
Contrary to SAR assumptions border prices declined steadily during the imple-
mentation period, thus constraining the project's production expectations. The
SAR also failed to take full account of the intensification of migration in the
area attracted mainly by the completion of the Carretera Marginal and tha access
roads constructed under the project.   As it developed, the local population
doubled from about 75,000 in 1980 to about 150,000 in 1989, resulting in heavier
than expected pressure on the natural resources, services provided by the
project, and social infrastructure which soon became inadequate. The SAR also
did not provide a mechanism linking and coordinating forestry activities/manage-
ment with agricultural development in the area, and thi:  --ntributed to lax
control over deforestation in the project area and surrounding zones and,
together with increased migration, contributed to environmental degradation.
4.3           The organizational arrangements, linking local management to the
HCBM authority and committing implementation responsibilities to appropriate
local institutions proved to be a functional solution.  However, the limited
operational capacity of its local unit, as well as implementation problems of the
Natioanl Institute for Agricultural Research and Extension (INIPA), the Agrarian



-4-
Region and the National Forestry Institute (INFOR) indicate that this subject was
insufficiently examined by the SAR.  While the involvement of the concerned
institutions was essential to ensure sustainability, it appears that in new areas
where the institutional framework had not yet been consolidated, more institu-
tional strengthening would have baen required to allow the increased responsi-
bilities generated by the project to he efficiently absorbed by local agencies.
5.   Project implementation
5.1         The macroeconomic e...ironment had a determinant impact on project
implementation. The implementation period was characterized by a deteriorating
national economy, increased inflation and socirl unrest. Accumulated external
debt, the international recession, overvalued exchange rates, and floods in the
North and droughts in the South caused the GDP to plunge and inflation to rise
in the early 1980s. The Government's heterodox economic program launched in 1985
in order to prompt a quick recovery, immediately resulted in an extraordinary
output axpansion in 1986, witi, GDP grcwing by 9.5 percent and inflation
decreasing from almost 300 percent to about 60 percent. However, this policy was
not sustainrble due to a lack of investments, growing exchange losses and
deteriorating public finances. Follow-up measures included the establishment of
a price control system, import restrictions, nationalization of the banking
system, suspension of the parallel foreign exchange market, and the suspension
of the payments of the external debt service already in arrears. This brought
about a reciprocal suspension of all World Bank loans to Peru in May 1987. As
a result, economic activity slowed down, inflation speeded up and the spread
between the official and parallel exchange market increased significantly,
generating uncontrollable imbalances in the economy.  In parallel, guerrilla
terrorism and narcotrafficking expanded, bringing insecurity to both the urban
and rural sectors.
5.2          In spite of the already difficult economic framework at inception,
the project had a satisfactory start-up and a good performance up to Project Year
4. This was followed by a period of uncertainties resulting from financial cons-
traints and the deteriorating general situation as described above. The project
was able, however, to implement most of the planned investments and in the short
term, exceed SAR agricultural production targets. During this initial period
nevertheless, tuo little attention was given to overcoming the initial slow start
in farm credit disbursements, the deforestation problem, and the project's
inabili y to ensure sustainability for agricultural production, rural credit,
agricultural services and road maintenance.
5.3         Bank loan disbursements were suspended three and a half years after
start-up and the final disbursement was on December 3, 1987. The loan was closed
on December 31, 1988.  A total of US$22.7 million were disbursed and US$7.3
million were cancelled on July 31, 1990. The IFAD loan was due to be closed on
December 31, 1991, after two one-year extensions but is currently being discussed
for an additional one-year extension. IFAD's disbursement on February 29, 1992
was SDR 14.3 million equivalent, and SDR 3.5 million ev'uivalent remains to be
disbursed.   Total actual (mid-1991) project cost were estimated at US$60.5
million.



- 5 -
5.4          In spite of frequent counterpart funding constraints experienced
from the beginning of the project and a lower than expected disbursement rate of
the IFAD financed credit component, PEAM's Bank loan disbursement rate was
significantly higher than Latin America's average (75.7 percent against 50.9
percent), and at loan suspension most of the foreseen investments had been
implemented, or were completed shortly thereafter. They included: construction
of 89 km of new access roads (103 percent of appraisal estimates) and improvement
of 95 km of existing roads (100 percent); construction of 44 schools (110
percent) and 15 health units (100 percent); construction of new irrigation
infrastructure covering 1,500 ha (100 percent) and improvement of 9,544 ha of
existing schemes (100 percent); land clearing 6,190 ha (109 percent); construc-
tion and equipping of che project headquarters (100 percent), 4 extension offices
(100 percent), 2 agricultural research stations and 2 fisheries stations (100
percent); one forestry district office (33 percent), 2 forest control points (100
percent); 6 storage units (100 percent); the carrying out of local and national
cartography (100 percent); land demarcation (123 percent); and distribution of
land titles (74 percent).
5.5          The suspension of Bank loan disbursement in the middle of a profound
economic crisis seriously affected overall project performance after 1987-88.
GOP funds were insufficient to compensate not only for the lacking external
funds, but also to cover expected counterpart contribution. As a result, some
investmer.ts, such as potable water supply, could not be completed, (only 2 out
of a planned total of 20 systems were installed) maintenance of equipment and
infrastructure was neglected, and important activities such as forest police,
agricultural research and extension were phased out or drastically reduced.
5.6          Agricultural development was centered on the production of irrigated
rice mainly for the supply of the coastal markets. This strategy was based on
the area's technical potential for this crop, the encouraging yields obtained by
the settlers over the previous decade, the Government's import-substitution
policy, and on favorable price projections. It was promoted through the expan-
sion and improvement of existing irrigation infrastructure, introduction of
improved varieties, crop mechanization and credit. Rainfed crops and livestock
development for local consumption were also promoted. Inputs supply and produce
marketing were provided by ENCI and ECASA, respectively. ECASA was phased out
in 1991, and ENCI's operations have been drastically reduced. In the absence of
any alternative marketing system in place, this, together with unattractive
prices for rice resulted in a substantial drop in the profitability and produc-
tion of rice.
5.7          Agricultural research, carried out by INIPA in the two experimental
stations established by the project, was effective and helped to raise yields of
major crops, mainly through the introduction of new varieties and better crop
management practices. The initial weakness of the local INIPA extension service
was eventually improved by the project's direct selection and hiring of senior
and field agents and introduction of economic incentives. The project success-
fully established one zonal and 3 local extension offices and hired 32 incre-
mental senior and field extensionists; however, the introduced T&V system was
never really adopted, due to the heterogeneity of the agricultural investment



- 6 -
activities and lack of a sound referential T&V model.  The extension service
assisted the bulk of the credit beneficiaries, with mixed results.   It deta-
riorated after 1988 due to the project's financial difficulties and it was,
together with the research component, progressively scaled down and practically
phased out in 1991.   Research and extension represented only 5.3 percent of
actual project expenditures, against an SAR estimate of 9.3 percent.
5.8          The services p-ovided by the project-established tractor unit were
a key factor for agricultural development.   Its main achievements were the
clearing of 6,200 ha of land and the levelling of a large part of the 11,000 ha
for irrigation purposes.  However, the highly subsidized operation failed to
generate sufficient funds for a continuing operation and replacement of equip-
ment. The tractor unit was therefore discontinued and private services moved
out, discouraged by the high local operating costs which farmers were not
prepared to pay.
5.9          Another important production factor introduced by the project was
the provision of farm credit. This IFAD-financed component represented about 40
percent of the total external loan and was implemented by BAP. The use of the
credit was initially modest, as there were, besides national funds, other sources
for credit (including Bank Loan 2302-PE and an IDB Loan) and because of the
limited operational capacity of the local BAP agency.   In PY 3, the project
financed unforeseen equipment and incremental staff for two additional BAP
agencies, which led to an expansion of credit operations by over five times in
the following year. This had an impressive impact on production and yields in
1987 and 1988.   However, due to counterpart funding constraints and foreign
exchange losses (estimated at 40-50 percent) from IFAD Loan disbursements, credit
operations declined again thereafter. The establishment (by end-1990) of a local
dollar-account simplified the IFAD Loan disbursement procedures, enabled the
project to disburse in adrance over IFAD funds, thus avoiding the exchange
losses. However, while having contributed to develop the production base of the
project area, the credit component failed to establish a sustainable revolving
fund for future operations. As a result of traditional credit policies, erosion
by subsidized interest rates that were outmatched by hyperinflation, extended
grace periods and repayment difficulties, the revolving fund has been reduced to
only about 5 percent of its real value.
5.10         The implementation of the forestry component was the responsibility
of the Forestry District of the Regi6n Agraria XIII-San Martin and the local
INFOR Forest District office.  The project has established 60 percent of the
planned infrastructure, including a central office, two forest police posts, and
hired incremental technical staff. However, besides the reforestation of about
100 ha of degraded soils and the carrying out of a forest inventory, very little
was achieved. Structurally dissociated from agricultural production and lacking
the broad approach towards sustainable development, the Forestry District was
apparently more interested in immediate economic results deriving from forest
exploitation than in sustainable forest management. It therefore indulged in
indiscriminate timber extraction and deforestation of protected slopes, and thus
affected about 45 percent of the forest reserves in the area of influence of the



- 7 -
project area and led to squattering by subsistence farmers and coca planters.
This had a negative impact on soil and water conservation, as well as on the
fauna and flora in general, and affected the survival of the local tribal
communities and the sustainability of agricultural development of the Alto Mayo
valley in general, even though the forests within the actual project area were
apparently well managed. The two planned fisheries stations were constructed,
but only 50 percent of the 160,000 fingerlings estimated at appraisal were
distributed, and the component's impact on the farming systems was modest. The
forestry and fisheries components were the first ones to be phased out due to the
financial constraints.
5.11         The targets of the education component were fully achieved.  The
project constructed and equipped 163 class rooms in 18 new schools and 26
existing ones, for a total capacity of 6,520 pupils. This infrastructure was
transferred to the Ministry of Education and has been satisfactorily adminis-
tered. Under the health component, 4 health centers and 11 ambulatories were
constructed and equipped, and successfully transferred to the Ministry of Health.
Also 3,000 latrines were constructed but only 2 of the 20 planned potable water
systems became operational, and another 11 remained incomplete.  The lack of
potable water contributed to the spread of cholera which at present is a critical
problem in the project area. Although adequately dimensioned for the demand of
the early 1980s, the social infrastructure has now become largely insufficient
and needs urgent expansion.
5.12         The construction/rehabilitation of 184 km of access roads was one
of the project's most important achievements.  Studies and construction were
implemented by contractors, but maintenance was carried out directly by the
project, diverging from what was established in the Loan Agreement. The machines
and vehicles purchased by the project for this purpose were not transferred to
the MTC as planned, because the local MTC unit lacked the necessary operational
capacity. The project management also feared that, if handed over to the MTC
unit, as happened in the context of other projects, the machines could be
diverted to other purposes which would be detrimental to the project. Although
agreeing with this arrangement as a temporary solution, the Bank exhorted the
project management to find a more appropriate solution for the future which,
howevar, was not done.
5.13         P.anned cartography and other specific studies were satisfactorily
accomplished. National cartography for planning purposes included: (a) partial
maps of Peru comprising 95 sheets of a 1:250,000 scale map; and (b) an overall
1:1,000,000 scale national map comprising 4 sheets.   Local cartography for
cadastral purposes covered 150,000 ha at the 1:15,000 scale and 88,000 ha at
i:10,000, and allowed cadastration and demarcation of 10,182 holdings (23 percent
of the appraisal target) and the titling of 4,833 holdings (74 percent of the
appraisal target).  Other studies, carried out with the participation of the
concerned agencies, comprised: (a) a forest and fauna resources inventory,
covering 90,000 ha in the project area; (b) a semi-detailed soil survey, covering
60,000 ha; (c) a river flow control study, (d) two socio-economic studies on the
Alto Mayo native communities; and (e) a Project Phase II feasibility study aimed
at developing the left bank of the Mayo river. Except for the river flow study



- 8 -
which was helpful in the planning of small irrigation schemes, the other studies
have had little practical use so far.
5.14         While not treated as a separate component, assistance to the nine
tribal communities in the project area was included as part of the relevant
project components. As planned, the project constructed primary schools in each
of the nine indian villages, three health posts, as well as an urban marketing
center. Bilingual extension support, construction of household water supplies
and vaccination programs were also provided by the project. A:.though partially
integrated and having adopted some of the project supported agticultural devel-
opment initiatives, the tribal communities still depend to a large extent on the
native forest resources for survival. They were, therefore, seriously affected
by the land squattering and deforestation which the project was unable to
prevent.
5.15         The prolect management unit was efficient. Procurement and disburse-
ment procedures were respected, activities were carried out in a timely manner
and monitoring was satisfactory, while technical and auditing reports were deli-
vered within reasonable time limits. This was due to the competent leadership
both of the Executive Director (responsible for the HCBM project as a whole) and
the local Technical Director, who were both kept in place by the Government
during three changes in administration. The project management generally judged
and corrected emergent problems properly; however, some decisions were merely
adopted to resolve contingent situations during the implementation period, while
failing to propose more durable solutions.
6.    Results
6.1          In spite of severe conatraints, the project succeeded in implement-
ing the investment programs for roads and social infrastructure, and created the
basis for increased agricultural production, which in most aspects, had largely
exceeded appraisal targets by 1988. The project supported the expansion of the
irrigated area, comprising 1,500 ha of public irrigation benefitting 200 families
and about 10,000 ha of farmer managed small-scale schemes, through the supply of
credit to the participants. Under the project, the total irrigated area (includ-
ing non-assisted farmers) was expanded from 6,800 ha to 23,000 ha (compared to
an appraisal target of 11,000 ha).  The area under rainfed crops remained around
13,000 ha instead of expanding to 29,000 ha as planned, and the area of improved
pastures expanded to only about one-third of the appraisal target.   Forest
clearing in the project area was only about 13,000 ha compared to the appraisal
estimate of 17,000 ha, while the area under fallow expanded by 1,200 ha instead
of decreasing by 8,600 ha as planned.
6.2          Rice production increased from 35,000 tons in 1983 to about 100,000
tons in 1988, surpassing appraisal targets by about 10 percent. However, due to
depressed prices and increased transport costs caused by the poor maintenance of
the highway leading to the coast, rice production plunged by 40 percent in 1989-
90.   Production targe^.s of rainfed crops, mainly maize and beans for local
consumption, were surpassed, and are still rising, while plantain and cassava
production receded to pre-project levels, after having exceeded the appraisal



-9-
estimates by over 50 percent in 1988.   Coffee and cocoa were promoted with
promising results.  Bb if production targets were attained, while milk production
fell significantly short of expectations, due to breed and management cons-
traints. Average yield increases, as a result of the project research/extension
activities, were 20 to 28 percent for irrigated rice, 18 percent for maize, 200
percent for beans, 85 percent for cassava, and 42 percent for plantain.
6.3          Through the local Irrigation District, the project established over-
all water management and control of the irrigation infrastructure, maintenance
of main canals, and control of the rivers' waterflows and hydropower.   The
project also promoted the organization of water users in two irrigation boards,
nine irrigation commissions ar.d 56 users' committees, who were responsible for
water distribution and maintenance of lateral canals. Unfortunately, no adequate
system of water charges was established, and this had serious consequences on the
sustainability of the irrigation schemes' operation and maintenance.
6.4          As project funding was drastically reduced one-and-a-half year
before the expected closing date, and due to distortions iesulting from soaring
inflation, dual exchange rates and to the general situation of the Peruvian
economy, reliable trends estimates are unavailable and a realistic economic
analysis of the project is not possible. However, based on a 20-year scenario
assuming constant benefits at 1988 levels, the economic rate of return was re-
estimated at 16.6 percent, compared to an appraisal estimate of 18 percent (see
Appendix 1 for clarification of this theoretical exercise).
7.    Project Sustainability
7.1          The project did not succeed in establishing a sustainable production
model and was not able to prevent indiscriminate deforestation in the forest
reserves around the project area, to the detriment of sustainable development.
Also, the arrangements contemplated for the continuation of basic services, such
as agricultural research and extension, the tractor scheme, and maintenance of
roads and irrigation structures, proved ineffective. The revolving credit fund
could not be sustained due to an inappropriate credit policy and interest rate
structure.  Part of this failure can be attributed to the discontinuation of
funding and supervision, as the operational capacity of the local institutions
concerned was still limited and would have needed external support for some time
before being able to cope with the considerably increased tasks generated by the
project investments. Other important contributing factors were the deterioration
in the national economy and public service institutions in the late 1980s and the
project's dependence on an economic policy and institutional structure which
could not be sustained.
8.    Bank Performance
8.1          In spite of the fact that, at appraisal, migration to the project
area was already high and rising, causing increased pressure on the land,
expanded deforestation risks were underestimated, while design and institutional
arrangements for the implementation of effective forest management were inade-
quate.   Unrealistic price projections by the Bank led the appraisal team to



- 10 _
propose an inappropriate production strategy, based largely on irrigated rice
monocropping, with high physical, price and market risks.
8.2          Bank supervision missions detected early the main political, techni-
cal and financial issues and problems, and rated the project accordingly. For
security reasons and due to the suspension of loan disbursements, the Bank ceased
to supervise the project, and after 1988 relied on IFAD which for lack of a
proper project supervision structure, carried out only one supervision there-
after.  While appropriate provisions were included in the Loan Agreement and
relevant warnings were raised by the supervision missions, the Bank did not
sufficiently insist, at the early stages, on the cost recovery issues which
resulted in serious sustainability problems for the tractor unit, the revolving
rural credit fund and the irrigation infrastructure.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.1          The Borrower's performance, at project management level, in spite
of adverse conditions, was satisfactory. The Borrower's unilateral decision to
interrupt debt service payments which lead the Bank to suspending loan disburse-
ments, seriously jeopardized project implementation. Changes of national strate-
gies and priorities, resulting in reduced funding and deteriorated transport
conditions, were equally detrimental to project performance.
9.2          The lack of adequate support to the Agrarian Region XIII-San Martin
and the Regional Forest District to enforce the forest law in the zones surround-
ing the project area, resulted in indiscriminate deforestation with negative
consequences to sustainable agricultural development in the Alto Mayo valley.
TLie Borrower also failed to establish effective cost recovery mechanisms for
rural credit, tractor services, and irrigation infrastructure. The Borrower,
however, succeeded in implementing most investment programs planned and in
optimizing the use of the scarce resources available after loan suspension.
10.    Project Relationship
10.1         Generally the relationship between the Borrower and the Bank was
good until the suspension of all Bank loans to the country in 1987. The rela-
tionship between the Borrower and IFAD whicl' provided funding for short and long
term farm development loans was also good, notwithstanding the unsatisfactory
performance of the credit fund as far as recovery rates and interest rate policy
are concerned.
II.   Consulting Services
11.1         Consulting services were ma.nly financed under the technical assis-
tance training and studies component.   Actual total cost of the component
amounted to US$0.9 million (versus the appraisal estimate of US$1.3 million), of
which about US$0.6 million was financed by the Bank and about US$0.3 million by
the Government, while IFAD financed only US$20,000 against an appraisal estimate
of US$200.000. Most of these funds were used for carrying out planned studies--
all of them satisfactorily accomplished--and for organizing the farm machinery



unit and the training of operators on land clearing. Consulting services were
also contracted, and satisfactorily accomplished, under the National and Local
Cartography component, for aerophotographic surveys and the preparation of
thematic maps. Total expenditures for this component, which included also the
preparation of a technical cadastre and the distribution of land titles, amounted
to US$1.8 million (against an appraisal estimate of US$3.7 million). Available
data, however, do not identify the cost fraction corresponding solely to
consulting services.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1         Project covenants were clearly stipulated for effective implementa-
tion. However, adjustments concerning the IFAD disbursement mechanism had to be
introduced to improve the performance of the credit component. The project and
its SAR were based on satisfactory baseline data, but suffered from design
problems, due mainly to over-optimistic price assumptions, underestimated migra-
tion figures and impact assessment as well as inadequate institutional support
measures. Nevertheless the SAR provided an adequate guidance and yardstick for
the implementation and monitoring of all key activities. Although monitoring and
data collection were carried out in a satisfactory manner, no attempt was made
to carry out a conventional re-evaluation of the ERR because of the reasons
outlined in para. 6.4.
13. Findings and Lessons Learned
13.1         The main lessons that can be derived from the PEAM implementation
experience which are of relevance to both the Borrower and/or the lending
institutions, are summarized below:
(a)    considerable care must be taken in determining economic parameters
on which project design is based.   International agricultural
commodity price forecasts have to be carefully evaluated and local
production cost in both financial and economic terms assessed to
avoid erroneous investment decisions;
(b)    remote areas are particularly vulnerable to changes  in market
conditions, and are most seriously affected because of deficiencies
in transport and communication systems by cost increases and changes
in government policies. Multi-cropping farming systems preferably
involving non-several perishable high value crops should be promoted
as a priority, thus avoiding excessive reliance on high risk single
cash crop approach;
(c)    the opening up of new frontier lands through road and social
infrastructure development generally results in high migratory
inflows into the areaq of immediate influence and spill-over effects
into surrounding zones. Appropriate control measures have to be put
in place to avoid environmental degradation and overburdening of
services and infrastructure;



- 12 -
(d)    the design cf development projects in pioneering areas such as the
Ceja de Selva should attempt to integrate fores. exploitation and
management with agricultural production activities, aimed at
achieving a sustainable development. This would require coordinated
&ation of all intervening agencies, should be within the framework
of a comprehensive development plan, and should be based on studies
on the potential and constraints of the natural resources, before
project appraisal or at an early implementation stage;
(e)    centrally organized, subsidized tractor schemes have proven world-
wide to be unsustainable and subject to misuse.   Initial land
clearing and levelling by the project should have been followed by
support to private (group) ownership of tractors by settlers;
(f)    to ensure the provision of key services in new areas on a sustained
basis, a political commitment involving national and local
authorities should be secured prior to appraisal and the concerned
entities should be involved from the start;
(g)    infrastructure which depends on the financial input of beneficiaries
such as irrigation systems can only be sustained if effective cost
recovery is instituted at start up and adequately enforced
throughout project life;
(h)    to ensure the maintenance of revolving credit funds at current
values and appropriate credit disbursement, an appropriate recovery
and interest rate policy has to be in place. Under conditions of
hyperinflation fund managers have to ensure that interest rates are
compatible with inflation rates and that they include an adequate
margin to avoid rapid erosion of values and depletion of funds;
(i)    a strong and dedicated project management is, even under a scenario
of limited financial resources and deteriorating socio-economic
conditions,   able  to  have  a  decisive   impact  on  project
implementation, underlining the need for the recruitment of well
qualified managerial staff at an early stage.



- 13 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE I/
1.   Project Design
1.1         In general terms the Alto Mayo Rural Development Project was well
designed, reflecting the circumstances prevailing at the time of appraisal. Its
concept was based on the creation of the basic infrastructure for agricultural
production, provision of agricultural credit, and technical assistance to farz-
era, and supplying health and education infrastructure to consolidate existing
rural settlements in the Alto Mayo Valley. Hovever, in retrospect, the following
observations have to be made:
(a)   It was taken for granted that the Valley's main agricultural
products, rice and maize, would have a secure market, when in
reality this was not the case. When the state marketing monopolies
- ECASA and ENCI - which were in cbarge of rice and maize marketing,
entered into crisis, the entire production and marketing system for
these products entered into crisis as well. No sensitivity analysis
was made of the income from rice and maize production, taking
account of the transportation of these products to coastal markets,
or a comparative analysis of sales prices in the coastal area, which
would have determined the economic competitiveness of rice and maize
produced in the Alto Mayo Valley.
(b)   The project design lacked a clear orientation for a diversified
agricultural production system, which would have avoided the near-
exclusive monocropping of rice and maize and the ignoring of other
equally important products.
(c)   The production scheme was based on the food import substitution
model, without considering efforts to develop agro-industrial export
production.
(d)   The project design also did not give due importance to the design
of an adequate and effective agricultural product marketing system.
(e)   The  design  also  lacked  a  sufficiently  agile  and  effective
environmental  mp'agement  component  which  would  have  avoided
environmental deterioration resulting from deforestation by peasants
from the Sierra region.
I/   Unofficial translation of the "Borrower's Perspective" prepared by the
Executive Directorate for the Special Project Alto Mayo of the Borrower's
National Development Institute (INADE).



- 14 -
2.    Project Implementation
2.1          During the 1982/1983-1991 prcject implementation period, two dis-
tinct performance levels in carrying out project works and actions are clearly
observable:
(a)   Works  and  actions  carried  out  directly  by  the  project  were
characterized by efficient and effective management which brought
about concrete results that were clearly visible, verifiable and of
immediate beneficial effect on production and the benefici&ry
population.
(b)   With the exception of the agreement with the Banco Agrario del Peroi
(BAP) for granting of agricultural credit to farmers, measures
carried out indirectly through agreements with other Government
organizations, such as the agreements with CIPA X (now INIAA and the
Ministry of Agriculture CDR) for agricultural and livestock research
and for te.hnical assistance to farmers, and the agreeme2t with the
Alto Mayo Worestry District for control of indiscriminate forest
exploitation, have not been completely satisfactory.
In general terms and on an overall level, the project achieved 80 percent of its
objectives with 74 percent of financial resources disbursed by all financing
sources, which indicates the project's level of efficiency.
3.    Project Results
3.1          The many, varied beneficial effects generated in the project area
as well as in adjacent areas as a result of the implementation of the Alto Mayo
Rural Development Project, are unquestionable.  This has been translated into
increased agricultural production and productivity, greater employment, more
schools, medical posts and health centers, and improved living and health
conditions through the provision of rural drinking water services. All of the
above have generated a very strong vitality in the economy of the Alto Mayo zone
and attracted ever-increasing migration while at the same time contributing to
pacifying the area by halting the encroachment of drug trafficking and subver-
sion. Ilowever, the level of development achieved would have been greater if the
measures and actions indicated in paras. 1.1 and 2.1 had been followed.
4.    Opinion on Part I of the PCR
4.1         Many of the conclusions reached in Part I of the Project Completion
Report (PCR) are correct. However, we disagree mainly with the following:
(a)   It is stated that the Project's economic strategy was deficient in
having concentrated on monocropping of irrigated rice and maize,
which determined a respective economic collapse. We consider that
the project nevertheless achieved its main objectives of increasing
agricultural production and providing essential services to the



- 15 -
population, under the food import substitution model in which it was
conceived and deslgned, and that the failure cannot be blamed on
rice and maize marketing (the Valley's main crops), which was the
responsibility of the state enterprises ECASA and ENCI.  In any
case, if the economic results differed from those expected, it was
due to factors beyond the project's administration and control.
They reflect mainly the failure of the state marketing policy and
the lack of repair and maintenance of the Carretera Marginal linking
the valley to the coast, thus raising transport costs and product
prices and removing them from the nationai market in the face of
increased coastal production and imports. Project implementation
strictly followed the clear and precise descriptions in the World
Bank and IFAD loan contracts.
(b)    It is stated that the project was not capable of integrating
forestry activities into its agricultural development program and
failed in implementing a sustained long-term development model,
which caused uncontrollable, environmentally damaging deforestation
and seriously affected native communities due to expropriation of
their lands and deforestation, which the project was incapable of
preventing.
Regarding this matter, it should be emphasized that, despite (a) the
lack of an environmental management component under which it would
have been possible to integrate forestry and agricultural
activities, and (b) a gradual and significant deterioration of the
environment as a consequence of the exploitation of forests situated
on hillsides, it is not correct that uncontrolled deforestation or
irreparable ecological damage occurred. At the most, four critical
hydrographic sub-catchments and microcatchments have been affected
and it is indeed necessary to take effective and immediate measures
to recover the ecological balance in these catchment areas. It is
also not true that native communities have suffered expropriation
of their lands and deforestation; on the contrary, these lands are
the best protected since the communities themiselves jealously
protect them, and thus avoid de facto expropriations and
deforestation; nor do these communities run the risk of extinction
since they are gradually becoming integrated into the lifestyle of
the rest of the rural population.
(c)    The project is blamed for the failure to propose lasting solutions
to the problem of development in Alto Mayo, and also for failing to
implement agricultural research and extension service , agricultural
mechanization    services,    and   maintenance    o.   irrigation
infrastructure.
On this matter, it should be pointed out that the goals set for
these components were fully met and in some cases surpassed, despite
the suspension of World Bank loan disbursements in May 1987, a year
and half ahead of the original loan closing. The lack of continuity



- 16 -
of said services was due to the non-implementation on the part of
state agencies to which the responsibility for providing such
services was transferred as foreseen in the project document (INIPA,
CIPA, Ministry of Agriculture, INL4A, Forestry District, Irrigation
District, etc.), except for the agricultural mechanization services
which remained a project activity but became an unsustainable system
because of Government tariff policy and hyperinflation. With regard
to road maintenance, it should be indicated that the project assumed
a responsibility unforeseen in the project document because of the
failure of the Ministry of Transportation to carry out the road
maintenance. It should also be pointed out that the maintenance of
the irrigation infrastructure and collection of water users' fees
are carried out by Irrigators' Commissions.
(d)   It is suggegted that accelerated immigration to Alto Mayo was due
to the construction of access roads in colonization areas.
This was not the case, because even without the construction of
access roads in the Valley, strong immigration would have occurred
due to the attraction, advantages and real possibilities for
progress that the project offered farmers, in comparison with those
existing in other parts of the country; it may be said unequivocally
that the major attraction was agricultural credit.
(e;    It is stated that the reduction in real value of the Rotating Fund
under the Credic Component to approximately 5 percent currently, was
due to the low interest rate charged by BAP.
Instead it should be said that this was due to the fact that the
Government's failure to implement a mechanism for adjusting the sub-
loan principals, which would have solved the problem of capital
erosion by hyperinflation.
5.    Opinion on Part III of the PCR
5.1          The data,  figures and information contained in the tables and
annexes of Part III of the Project Completion Report for the Alto Mayo Rural
Development Project are adequate and correct.  Most of them were provided by
project personnel.
6.    Opinion on the World Bank's Performance
6.1         We _onsider that the World Bank's performance war excellent and of
decisive importance for project implementation; it supported the project with
financial resources which were adequate and necessary to carry out various works
and actions, with project corrections and suitable recommendations by the various
project supervision missions carried out by World Bank staff.
6.2          Relations between the World Bank and the Borrower were also very
good, especially during the 1983-1987 period.



- 17 -
7.    Opinion on IFAD's Performance
7.1         We consider that IFAD's performance was also excellent and of deci-
sive importance for tho implementation of the project's agricultural credit
component; its importance was especially noted after suspension of World Bank
loan disbursements at a time when the prolect was experiencing an acute shortage
of financial resources, since Government funds were too scarce and insufficient
to partially offset the suspended funds. IFAD's support still continues and it
is hoped that it will be extended so that the US$4,000,000 balance of IFAD Loan
116-PE may be used during 1992.
8.    Opinion on the Borrower's Performance
8.1          The project executing unit's performance in managing project imple-
mentation was appropriate; this was possible due to continuity in pr'oject manage-
ment under the technical administration from the time of the feasibility study
in 1981 until 1991, and the hiring of highly qualified personnel, all of which
helped the project to overcome truly difficult periods and crisis situations
caused by economic policy changes which occurred as a consequence of changes in
Covernment.
9.    Lessons Learned
(a)    The  design  of  rural  development  projects  should  emphasize
diversified agricultural production with high market value, instead
of concentrating on monocropping.
(b)    Special emphasis should be given to export agro-tndustries based cn
agricultural production with comparative advantages over other
regions in the country and in other countries.
(c)   The implementation of some of the project components through other
government agencies did show marginal results if these agencies were
weak and did not receive Goverrment support; in these cases, the
signing   of   implementation   agreements   with   Non-Government
Organizations is recommended.
(d)   An analysis of production costs and conscientious market studies
should precede, and be decisive for, making investment decisions
regarding rural devalopment projects.
(e)   It is necessary to include an environmental management component
integrating forestry activities with the agricultural development
program, in order to avoid environmental problems.
(f)    Agricultural credit to farmers is a decisive tool in stimulating
agricultural production and can be intelligently geared toward
determined products inaccordance with project objectives alLd goals.



- 18 -
(g)    In periods of hyperinflation, it is necessary to apply a financial
adjustment mechanism so that amounts lent to farmers can maintain
their real value and a reasonable interest rate can be charged on
these adjusted principals.
(h)   The banking inetitution that channels credits to farmers must be
adequately staffed with professionals, specialists and technicians,
and must have the offices, office equipment and supplies needed to
meet its responsibilities.
(i)   It is also important and necessary to provide supervised credits to
avoid the use of loans for purposes other than those planned and to
provide technical assistance to guarantee production success and
hence repayment of loans.



- 19 -
PART m. STATISTICAL INFORMATIQN
Table 1: IBRD LOANS RELEVANT TO THE PROJECT
Loan/ Title        Purpose      Year of      Status          Comments
Appro-
val
Ln.2150-PE          Rehabilitate    1982      Closed March   Bank support sus-
Agric.Research and   research and             1988. PCR      pended in 1987.
Extension Project   extension                 under prepara-  Project performance
services                tion.           hindered by funding
and institutional
constraints. Objec-
tives partially
achieved
Ln.2302-PE Sixth    Long-term       1983      Closed 1988    As above
Agric. Credit Project loans at na-
tional level
Ln. 1812-PE Puno    Increase in-    1980      Closed 1987    As above
Rural Dev.Project    come of                 (2 years be-
17,000 rural             hind schedule)
families
Ln. 177 1-PE Lower   Develop/rehabi  1979     Closed 1987    As above
Piura Irrigation    litate coastal           (3 years be-
Rehabilitation Pro-   irrig. areas            hind schedule)
ject II
Ln.2091-PE: Eighth   Road improve-  1982      Closing date    As above
Highway Project     ment for re-              being decided.
gional devel-            PCR under
opment                   preparation



- 20 -
Table 2: PLANNED, REVISED AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                  Date             Date            Actual
Planned         Revised            Date
Identification                                                    06/1979
Preparation                 (02/1982) (1)    (02/1982) (1)        09/1981
Appraisal Mission           03/1982         03/1982               03/1982
Loan Negotiations           10/1982          11/1982              11/1982
Board Approval: Bank        12/1982          12/1982              12/14/82
Board Approval: IFAD          -               -                   12/10/82
Loan Signature: Bank          -               -                  03/28/83
Loan Signature: IFAD          -               -                  03/02/83
Loan E7ffectiveness: Bank     -                -                 06/07/83
Loan Effectiveness: IFAD      -               -                  06/06/83
Loan Closing: Bank          12/31/88          -                   12/31/88
Loan Closing: IFAD          12/31/88         12/31/91 (2)
Loan Completion: Bank       06/30/88           -                 07/31/90
Loan Completion: IFAD       06/30/88         12/31/91 (2)
(1)   In brackets, date of report
(2)   New extension to 12/31/92 expected
Comments:  Two issues were flagged by the SAR: (a) the adverse effect on environment
from frontier development and (b) frictions between the settler population and native
communities. Specific components and organizational arrangements foreseen in the project,
particularly the strengthening of the local Forestry District, the establishment of a Forest
Police and the setting up of an extension service for tribal communities were intended to
minimize these problems.



- 2 1 -
Table 3: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENT
(US$ million)
Calendar Year  1983   1984  1985  1986   1987   1988   1989  1990   1991
A. IBDR/IDA
Appraisal Esti-    4.2   12.2  19.1  23.2  27.0  30.0    -         -       -
mate
Actual 1/        3.2   9.3   15.1   18.1  22.7  22.7    -
Actual as % of   76.2  76.2  79.1   78.0  84.1  75.7    -          -       -
Estimate
B. IFAD
Appraisal Esti-    2.1    5.6   9.7   14.0  19.0  19.0  19.0  19.0   19.0
mate 2/
Actual 2/        0.2    0.8   2.1    5.6   10.1   11.3  12.9  13.7   15.7
Actual as % of    9.5   14.3  21.6  40.0  53.2   58.9  67.9  72.1   83.3
Estimate
1/ on 12/03/1987.
2/ expressed in US$ at SDR/US$ of December 1991.



- 22 -
Table 4: PROJECT IMPLEMAENTATION 1NDICATORS
Indicators                                Unit            Appraisal       PCR Estimate 1/
Estimate
A. CREDIT
Long-term: beneficiaries                                    Number             5,000               2,953
Amount                                         USSN               18.1               13.2
Short-term: beneficiaries                                   Number             5,000                618
Amount                                         USSN                6.2                3.0
B. IRRIGATION
New scheme                                                    ha               1,500               1,500
Improvement of existing schemes                               ha               9,500              9,544
C. LAND CLEARING
Area cleared                                                  ha               5,700               6,190
Beneficiaries                                               Number                                 1,300
D. ACCESS ROADS
New roads                                                     km                 86                 89
Improvement of existing roads                                 km                 95                 95
E. EXTENSION 2/
Offices constructed                                          unit                4                   4
Incremental fieLd agents                                   numrber               32                 32
F.   RESEARCH 2/
Research stations estabLished                                unit                2                   2
Incremental researchers                                    number                9                   3
G. STORAGE
Units constructed                                            unit                6                   6
Capacity                                                    ton              3,000                 3,000
H. FISHERIES
Stations constructed                                         unit                2                   2
Fingerlings produced                                         unit             160,000             80,000
I. FORESTRY
District Offices constructed                                 unit                3                   1
Forest control points constructed                            unit                2                   2
J. HEALTH
Health centers                                               unit                4                   4
constructed/equipped
Health posts constructed/equ.                                unit                11                 11
Water supply systems constr.                                 unit                20                  2
Latrines                                                     unit              3,000               3,000
L. EDUCATION
SchooLs constructed/equipped                                 unit                40                 44
Students                                                    number                                 6,520
M. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Incremental staff: professionals                           number                21                 21
technicians                            number               25                  21
support                                number               20                  30
Vehicles                                                     unit                13                  10
Motorcycles                                                  unit                 7                  5
N. MAPPING AND TITLING
National mapping: 1:250,000                                  unit                 1                  1
National mapping: 1:1,000,000                                unit                 1                  1
Titling                                                      unit              6,000               4,833
0. STUDIES
Forest inventory                                               ha               90,000             90 000
SoiL survey                                                    ha               60,000             60,000
Fauna and Flora                                                ha                                  58,000
Feasibility: Project Phase 2                                  unit                 1                  1
P. MONITORING/EVALUATION
Monitoring/supervision system                                unit                 1                  1
...................................
1/ 31 Dec. 1991.
2/ Extension and Research have been closed on 31 Dec. 1991 for lack of funds.



- 23 -
I'able 5: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Cost by Component
(US$ million)
Component                Appraisal Estimate             Actual
L       F        T       L       F       T
Credit:     Long Term             8.6     9.5     18.1    5.5    13.9    19.4
Short Term                 4.3      1.9     6.2      1.3    0.8      2.1
Sub-total Credit                 12.9    11.4    24.3    6.8    14.7    21.5
Irrigation                        1.0     0.6      1.6     1.7    1.7      3.4
Land Clearing Equipment          0.2      1.6      1.8     0.8    1.7      2.5
Access Roads                     9.1      6.6     15.7    4.0    11.7    15.7
Extension and Research            3.6     2.2      5.8     2.4    1.1      3.5
Storage                          0.2      0.1      0.3     0.1    0.1      0.2
Fisheries and Forestry           0.8      0.7      1.5    0.5    0.2       0.7
Health and Education             2.2      2.4      4.6     2.1    3.5      5.6
Project Organization             2.1      0.8      2.9     3.6    0.3      3.9
Technical Assistance, Training   0.3      1.0      1.3    0.3    0.6       0.9
and Studies
Local Mapping and Titling         1.7     0.5      2.2     0.7    0.1      0.8
National Mapping                 0.1      0.5      1.5    0.1    0.8       0.9
Total Baseline Costs             34.1    28.5    62.6    23.1   36.5    59.6
Physical Contingencies          3.3      2.5     5.8      -       -        -
Price Contingencies             8.5      6.6     15.1      -      -        -
Total Project Costs              45.9    37.6    83.5   23.1   36.5    59.6
Front End Fee                    -       0.4     0.4       -     0.4      0.4
Refunding of PPF                 -       0.4     0.4       -     0.3      0.3
Initial Deposit                  -        -       -      0.2      -       0.2
Total Fmancing Required          45.9    40.0    83.9   23.3   37.2    60.5
Key: L = Local currency;  F = Foreign Exchange Component; T = Total;



- 24 -
B. Project Cost by Category
(US$ million)
Categories           Appraisal Estimate              Actual
1. Investments              L        F       T        L      F */       T
Civil Works                14.6    9.7    24.3    13.7        9.1     22.8
Goods                       2.0    16.5    18.5      0.5      4.5      5.0
Cartography                 0.1     1.1     1.2      0.2      1.6      1.8
Consultants, Training,      1.4     2.4     3.8      0.3      0.6      0.9
Studies
Credit: Long Term          12.0    13.3    25.3      5.5      13.9    19.4
Credit: Short Term          6.2     2.7     8.9      1.3      0.8      2.1
Total Investments          29.3    32.5    61.8    21.5    30.5    52.0
2. Recurrent Costs
Incremental Staff           8.1     0.2     8.3      4.7       -       4.7
Maintenance & Repairs       7.8     5.3    13.1      1.7      1.2      2.9
Total Recurrent Costs      15.9    5.5    21.4       6.4      1.2      7.6
Total Project Costs        45.2    38.0    83.2    27.9    31.7    59.6
Front Fee                  -       0.4     0.4       -       0.4      0.4
Refunding of PPF           -       0.4     0.4       -       0.3      0.3
Initial Deposit            -        -       -       0.2      0       0.2
Total Financing            45.2    38.8    84.0    28.1    32.4    60.5
% of SAR Estimates          -        -       -      62.2    83.5    72.0
Key:   L = Local;    F = Foreign Exchange Component;   T = Total.
*/ For lack of information, FE component for actual expenditures was calculated using
SAR FE rates, except for Credit, where Government information was kept.



- 25 -
C. Project Financing
Sourcei                  Planned        Revised         Final
Categories              US$              S$    %      US$    %
M             M              M
IIBRD                                30.0   35.7   30.0   35.7   22.7   37.5
Civil Works: Roads                   14.5   17.3   13.7   16.3   10.6   17.5
Civil Works: Other                   4.1    4.9    4.1    4.9    6.0    9.9
Goods                                4.8    5.7    4.6    5.5    3.8    6.3
Cartography                           1.2    1.4    1.2    1.4    0.9    1.5
Consultants, Training, Studies        1.5    1.8    1.5    1.8    0.7    1.1
Front Fee                            0.4    0.5    0.4    0.5    0.4    0.7
Refunding of PPF                     0.5    0.6    0.5    0.5    0.3    0.5
Initial Deposit                       1.0    1.2    2.0    2.4      -       -
Unallocated                          2.0    2.4    2.0    2.4       -       -
IFAD                                 19.0   22.6   19.0   22.6   14.7   24.3
Credit: Long Term                    16.3   19.4   16.3   19.4   13.9   23.0
Credit: Short Term                   2.3    2.7    1.1    1.3    0.8    1.3
Civil Works: Roads                    -       -     0.1    0.1      -       -
Civil Works: Other                     -      -     0.7    0.8      -       -
Goods                                  -      -     0.2    0.2      -       -
Consultants                           -       -     0.2    0.2    (-)    (-)
Monitoring and Evaluation            0.4    0.5    0.4    0.5    (-)    (-)
GOVERNMENT                           31.6   37.6   31.6   37.6   20.2   33.3
Civil Works: Roads                    -       -      -       -     3.7    6.1
Civil Works: Other                   6.8    8.1    6.0    7.1    2.5    4.1
Goods                                n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.    1.2    2.0
Cartography                          n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.    0.9    1.5
Consultants, Training, and Studies   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.    0.2    0.3
Initial Deposit                      n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.    0.2    0.3
Credit: Long Term                     6.6    7.9    n.a    n.a.    2.6    4.3
Credit: Short Term                   5.6    6.7    n.a.   n.a.    1.3    2.1
Incremental Staff                    8.0    9.5    n.a.   n.a.    4.7    7.8
Maintenance and Repairs              7.2    8.6    n.a.   n.a.    2.9    4.8
Farmers (*)                          3.4    4.1    n.a.   n.a.    2.9    4.8
Total                                84.0  100.0  84.0  100.0  60.5  100.0
(*)   Farmers' contribution assumed to be 20% of agricultural credit operations
following SAR estimates
Key: ( - ) = negligible values (below US$50,000)



- 26 -
Table 6: PROJECT RESULTS
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators           Pre-                Incremental
situation   Appraisal    Actual     Actual
Sitatiln Estimate     1488        1990
1. Areas Harvested        -----------------------------(ha )-------------------------
Irrigated Rice (Total)        6,800      +4,200    +16,200       +9,000
- of which leveled            3,850     +7,150    +19,150      +11,950
Rainfed Crops (Total)        13,200    +15,700      +2,470         -103
- Rice                       5,800    +11,200       -4,050       -4,325
- Maize/Beans                4,619      +2,900     +2,370       +2,546
- Groundnuts                   140            -      +160          -61
- Cassava/Plantain           2,178      +3,900     +2,513         -600
- Coffee and Cocoa             463            -    +1,477       +2,337
Pastures (Total)              6,000      +5,800        -850        -180
- of which improved           1,400     +7,300     +1,100       +2,200
Fallow                       12,600       -8,600     -5,120      +1,200
Forest and Other             81,400      -17,100    -12,700       -9,917
2. Production             ----------------------------( tons )----------------------
Rice                         35,000    +55,000    +63,800       +33,400
Maize and Beans               6,500      +3,900     +4,500       +6,700
Cassava and Plantain         23,700    +10,900    +28,800         -5,800
Coffee                            -           -       +500       +1,400
Cocoa                             -           -       +200         +200
Beef                            100       +500        +500         +400
Milk                          1,300      +7,600      -1,100       -1,100
---------------------(US$ million, 1982 prices) -----------
3. Value of Production          4.1         6.2         7.5          4.2
----------------------------( kg/ ha )---------------------
4. Yields
Irrigated Rice                3,500       +700        +700         +700
Rainfed Rice                  1,700       +800        +200         +200
Maize                         1,700       +400           0         +300
Beans (in association)          200       +300        +600         +500
Cassava                       6,000      +2,000     +4,300       +5,100
Plantain                      8,000      +4,000     +4,100       +3,600
Livestock (head/ ha)            0.8        +1.1        n.a.         n.a.
Milk (liters/ lactation)        840       +910         n.a.         n.a.
Key: (-) = not considered by SAR;  n.a. = information unavailable



- 27 -
B. Economic Impact
AoDraisal Estimate                Actual
Economic Rate of Return                 18%                          16.6%
Underlying Assumptions      Prices remain constant at      Project benefits remain
1982 levels.                 constant at 1989 levels.
Comments: Present situation does not permit realistic projections, as agricultural production in the
last 3 years was affected by high inflation, political insecurity and frequent drastic macro-economi:
policy changes. To minimize distortions, the actual rate of return estimate was based on a scenario
that considers all benefits constant at 1 988 levels. (See Appendix 1.)
C. Studies
Studies         Purpose as Defined at     Status             Impact of Study
Appraisal
Forestry and fauna   Define sustained man-    Completed.    Application by MA initiated,
inventory.          agement of 90,000 ha                   but discontinued for lack of
of forests for commer-                 resources.
cial forestry.
Soil survey         Soil survey and classifi-   Completed  Basis for: (a) research and
cation of 60,000 ha.     120,000 ha   agric. development in project
(200%).       area; and (b) Alto Mayo (Left
Bank) Project Phase 2 feasibili-
ty study (concluded).
River flows moni-    Determining final design   Completed.   (a) Irrig.scheme concluded; (b)
toring study        of Yurongos irrig.                     implementation of hydrometric
scheme.                                registers in most important
Mayo tributaries.
Acid soils reclama-   Determine reclamation  Completed.   (a) demonstrated acidity reduc-
tion study          technique for 25,000 ha                tion through irrigation; (b)
of acid soils.                         basis for reclamation program
of 150 ha in Phase 2.
Socio-economic      Development of native    Completed.    Study delivered to DGC. No
studies             communities.                           consequence.
Project Phase 2     Development of Mayo      Completed.    No follow-up
Feasibility study  left bank



- 28 -
Table 7: COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS
Covenants           Subject           Deadline for     Status        Comments
Compliance
4.01/d       Establish Credit Commit-   Six months    Completed     Satisfactory
tee                      after first   10/83
IFAD disb.
4.01/e       Establish Revolving Fund   7/31/83      Completed      Delay has not
in Banco de la Naci6n                  01/84          affected opera-
tions
4.03/a       Contractual arrangements  6/30/85       Completed      Satisfactory
with INIPA and ONERN                   82/83
4.04/a       Employ consultants in     Undated       Incomplete     Satisfactory
various fields
4.04/a       Hire consultant to assist   Before begin-  Completed   Satisfactory
in operating forest clear-   ning opera-    11/83
ing equipment            tions
4.05         Economic analysis of     06/83          Completed      Satisfactory
unstudied roads                        82/83
4.06         Prepare study on         09/30/84       Completed/    Satisfactory
Yurongos scheme for                    approved
Bank review                            08/84
4.07         Consultation with Bank   Before con-    Completed      Satisfactory
on site selection for crop   tracting  08/83
research station
4.08         Prepare TORs for M&E     Before carry-   Completed     Satisfactory
studies and program for   ing out ditto   08/83. IFAD
IFAD and Bank review     studies       cons. assis-
tance provid-
ed in 01/84.
Basic data for
studies sub-
mitted to
Bank 03/85
4.1 0/b      Establish Monitoring and    09/23/83    Completed      Satisfactory
Evaluation Unit                        09/83
4.10/d       Prepare Project Comple-    Within six   Not accom-
tion Report              months after   plished
closing date
4.11         Acquire land for construc-  Undated     Completed      Satisfactory
tion of facilities                     04/84



- 29 -
Covenants            Subject           Deadline for     Status        Comments
Compliance
4.12         Transfer of project estab-   Upon comple-  Not complet-   Policy is to
lished facilities to respec-  tion of aitto   ed      legalize trans-
tihe jurisdictions      facilities                    fers immediate-
ly after project
completion
5.02         Maintain records and     Audits six     Yearly audit    Reasonable
accounts and submit      months after  reports re-
audits to the Bank       end of year    ceived with 3-
4 months
delay
5.03         Ditto for Special Account  As above     Report includ-
in Banco de la Naci6n                  ed in 1984,
85 and 86
reports
5.04/a and b  Establish system of water  Undated     Preliminary    Implementation
charges for operating                  proposal in    unsatisfactory
schemes                                11/82. Updat-
ed system in
06/87
5.06/c       Furnish Bank program to   06/30/85      Not accom-    Concerned
transfer roads mainte-                 plished        local authorities
nance to appropriate                                  do not have
authorities;                                          capacity to
01/1986                      take over
Make transfer effective                               maint. opera-
tions.
5.06/d       Maintain road equipment   Undated       Workshops      Project used
and establish workshops                not completed  workshop of
land clearing
equipment.
Maintenance
was satisfacto-
ry.
5.07/a       Furnish annual mainte-   7/31/83 and   1983, 84, 85,  Satisfactory
nance report and budget   each year    86 and 87
on roads completed       after         reports re-
ceived.
5.07/b       Furnish budget for expen-  Undated      Completed in   Satisfactory
ditures for roads                      10/31/87



- 30 -
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (Staff Weeks)
FY      FY      FY     FY      FY      FY     FY      FY      FY      FY      Total
198   1982    198    198    198    198    198   1988    198    199
1               3      4       5       a      7               9       0
Through Ap-    75.7   111.3           -      -       -          -       -       -              187.0
praisal
Appraisal         -     39.4    15.6      -      -       -      -       -        -      -      55.0
through
Board
Approval
Board             -       .           -      -       -       -          -                        -
ApprovaL
through
Effecti-
veness
Supervision       -              4.9   21.7   9.4    18.9   13.9    9.1        5.5      -      83.4
Total           75.   150.   20.5   21.    9.4    18.    13.    9.1    6.5              -      325.5
7      7               7               9      9
B. Missions
Mission Type           Month/        Number of    Days In the        Special.       Perfofm.       Types of
Year         Persons         Field          Repre-         Rating         Problems
1/                                       sented 2/           3/             4/
Preparation 1                04/81           n.a.           n.a.           n.a.             -
Preparation 2                07/81           n.a.           n.a.           n.a.             -
Preparation FAO/CP           02/82            5              28          Irr,A,O,           *
Hwy,E
Appraisal                    03/82            5              19        A,lrr,Hwy,E          -
Supervision 1                02/83            1              4               A              1               F
Supervision 2                08/83            1              9               A              1             n.a.
Supervision 3                09/83            1              10              A              1               F
Supervision 4                10/83            1              19             FM              1             n.a
Supervision 5                01/84            1              9               A              2               F
Supervision 6                03/84            1               1             Hwy             1             n.a.
Supervision 7                07/84            1              10              A              2               F
Supervision 8                09/84            1              15             RP            n.a.            n.a.
Supervision 9                04/85            1              12              A              2               F
Supervision 10               04/86            2              24            Hwy,E            2               F
Supervision 11               05/86            1              9              Hes            n.a.           n.s.
Supervision 12               06/86            2              10          Edc,Irr          n.a.            n.a.
Supervision 13               07/86            1              12             Edc            n.a.           n.a.
Supervision 14               10/86            1              10             Ant           n.a.            n.a.
Supervision 15               11/86            3              17           Irr, E            2               F
Supervision 16               06/87            1               5             Irr             2               F
Supervision 17               10/87            2              17           A, Irr            2               F
Sigervision 18               12/87            3              15         A, E, Irr           2               F
Supervision 19 (IFAD)        04/88            1               5              A             n.a.           n.a.
1/  Date of Return to Headquarters
2/  A = Agriculturalist; Ant r Anthropologist; E = Economist; FM * Farm machinery specialist; Hea
Health and Nutrition; Hwy - Roads speciaList; Irr * Irrigation engineer; RP * Resource planning
specialist; 0 = Organization specialist.
3/ 1 = Problem free or minor problem; 2= Moderate Problem; 3 * Major problem
4/ F = Financial; M = Managerial; T = TechnicaL



- 31 -
APPENDIX 1
NOTES ON ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.    At appraisal she economic rate of return (ERR) has been estimated at
about 18% and was based only on quantifiable benefits from crop and livestock
production, using four farm models (10 ha irrigated; 20 ha irrigated; 20 ha
rainfed and 40 ha dual purpose livestock) for the analysis. Other secondary
benefits were not included. Benefits were calculated on about 89% of project
cost items, excluding components with intangible benefits such as health,
education, studies on a second phase of the project and national mapping. The
period of analysis was 20 years and the exchange rate used was Soles 550 =
US$1.0 (renamed Intis in 1986).
2.    In spite of the availability of general data on production, cost and
prices no precise conventional ex-post economic evaluation can be carried out
as:
(a)   available agricultural production data for the Alto Mayo area do
not differentiate between benefits attributable to nroject
activities and those which accrued for extraneous reasons such as
accelerated population inflow, illegal land clearing, activities
from other projects, etc.;
(b)   no break down of the production area according to the four
different farm models is available. Yields and production cost
vary considerably between the various models and arbitrary
allocation of areas to models could result in gross distortion;
(c) soaring inflation, dual exchange rates and other administratively
induced market distortions do not allow a realistic conversion of
financial cost/benefits into economic cost/benefits (e.g. in 198,
about 16 Intis were equivalent to US$1 as compared to 187,885
Intis in 1990 at the official conversion rate, whilst parailel
rates were higher by a margin of 80 to over 200% and fluctuating
from month to month;
(d)   the general deterioration of the economy,  infrastructure and
internal security does not allow proper forecasting of project
impact over the 20-year analysis period. For instance, rice
production was to increase by 55,000 tons in Year 10 (1993)
instead it had reached already 69,000 tons in 1988 but gradually
fell off to 38,000 tons in 1990. Contrarily, an incremental
cassava and plantain production of nearly 11,000 tons was
anticipated whilst actual production gradually decreased by
35,000 tons between 1988 and 1990. The reasons for the decline
could inter alia be: discontinuation of project support, shift in
demand pattern and declining prices. Estimates on future trends
however are almost impossible to make since over the same periods
incremental maize and bean production increased from 3,000 tons
to 5,000 tons.



- 32 -
3     However, in a theoretical exercise, assuming a scenario unCer which
production results would be maintained at 1988 levels throughout the project
life, the economic rate of return has been estimated at 16.6 S. This scenario
reflects the hvoothetical case in which. besides Bank loan suspension, all
external disrunting factors such as the economic crisis. hyperinflation.
cuerrilla insecurity and drug menaces would have been averted and oroiect
imnlementation would have been concluded in 1988 and prooerlv operated and
maintained thereafter Basic data and assumptions underlying ERR calculations
are:
(a)   Data on cultivated area, yield. and volume of production of the
main crops (rice, maize, coffee,plantain and cassava) are those
collected for the Alto Mayo area by the MA Moyobamba district.
(b)   Border prices for rice, maize and coffee have been estimated
based   on   international   prices   in   constant   1985   US$.
Freight,insurance and internal transport cost as well as prices
for non tradeable products (cassava and plantain) were adjusted
using SAR price assumptions.
(c)   Project benefits were estimated on the basis of the economic
value of production by applying benefit/production ratios (
percentage of the margin per hectare to the value of production)
calculated from crop budgets prepared by the project unit. No
adjustments were introduced to estimate the economic value of
labor and inputs.
(d)   Total project costs have been estimated in US$ dollars at the
official exchange rate, on the basis of the Bank and IFAD
disbursements for all components, the GOP counterpart funds and
farmers contributione. The latter were estimated at 20% of the
total value of investments made with long term credit. Total
costs in nominal terms were then adjusted by the MUV index to
1985 constant values.



Alto Mayo Rural Development Project
lntemal Rate of Return
1982       1983        1984     1985      1986     1987      1988 1989-2000
('000 1985 USS)
Incremental net benefts                     -1933.67     3277.34   5749.52   5743.58   6653.54   7633.04    7633.04
Investment costs
IBRD loan                            0.00    3200.00     6100.00   5800.00   3000.00   4600.00    0.00       0.00
IFAD loan                            0.00     200.00      600.00   1300.00   3500.00   4500.00   1200.00    1600.00
GOP counterpait funds                0.00     1908.00    1984.00   1295.00   3867.00   5655.00   2396.00   848.00
Farrnes contributon 1/               0.00      70.00      222.50    325.25   1389.50    540.00    471.50   244.00
Total costs at currenti US                   5378.00     8906.50   8720.25  11756.50  15295.00   4067.50    2692.00
Total costs at 1985 USS              0.00     5308.98    8978.33   8720.25   9971.59  11801.70   2928.37    1952.14
Incremental balance                  0.00   -7242.65   -5700.99 -2970.73  -4228.00  -5148.16   4704.67    5680.90
Intemal rate of return
Assuming benefits remain at 1989 level        16.64%
1/ Estimated at 20% of kivestments finaced through long term credit.



- 34 -
AIo Mayo Rural Oereloomemn Poiecl                                25-oct-s1
Oatos Easisco5 o,e Anaisi,s Economac
1982      1983        1984        1985       1986     1987       1988     19>3-2000
1987. 1988/2
Are de Pfoduccion (Hira
arroz regsdo                 5803 DO      6600DO     1500 o   1620 00  15225 00  18190 00  23000 00   20580 00
asroz 2cano                  59 0o0       5000Do      490000   6230 00   26400   2932D0    175000         2341 LO
mizZ                         3817O        4*W000      3922DO   42950O   493500   5a0100oO   6WoD0O       590050
piltano                      3060 D       16O I0oO    1 rtO LO   2W000   234000   22398 DO   2398 00      2398 00
yuca                         2020D0        700         X100DO   2W000   2030D0   22930D   50200         139750
cate                          462D0        71000       815D0     950D0 1D96D0   138900    14DO    00      141950
2022100     196100o     2743700  3175500  28230.00  3297300  3510000    3403650
Rendimanmos (TrorVt)
arrozre.gdO                      380         350         3D0      4*W        4*0       480       4.10        445
rnz2 secano                      I 90        1.70        130        1 80      1.80     180       1.90        1 85
maiz                            2.C.         1.70        1 ao      200       2W9       23        1 70       2W9
piatano                         1050         8.19        '000      1000      1100     1200       10.30      11 15
yuca                            1150        65X          700       8W9      1400      15DO      12D0        1350
cafe                            0 50         0.20        0 40      0 50      0 50      0.70      0.70        0 70
Produccion C000torf
atlrz regdo                    22D5         2380        57D0      65 12     7004      87.17     9430        9158
arroz sc no                     9.61         9.8e        8.2e      1I21     4*6        528       3.33        433
maz                             7.3          680o        706       859       9'7    13.34       1020        110O
platano                         32.13       12ao         1800     2000      25.74     28.78     2470        26.74
yxc                            2343          4.20        9 10     1o6       28.42     3440       8.02       1817
eaft                            0.23         0.14        0 33      0 48      0.55      0.97      i.r2        0 go
Pr,cios al productor ( US$/Ton)
stroz regado                  34300        335D0       315O   277D0       23900    238aO    27800         29200
are:z acano                   343D0O       33500       31500    27700    239D0       23a00    27800        292DO
mail                          14800        178DO       I0 00    15500       17°00    101 W     120D0       124DO
piatano                         5800        580oo       5800      5a8O      58D0      58DO      s8oo        58O0
yuca                           79D0         7900        7900      79 00     7900      7900      7900        79DO
cafe                         1485 DO      1435 00     1Do00    1605 00   181  5 DO    965 0o   1 000 DO    895 DO
Valor bruto de t production (W0O USS)
srroe rsgde                  75638i3      797300      1795500  1803824  1673837  20745.98  2621540    26741fi5
arroz secamon                 329895      3303.10     290820   310828    112024   1256D7    924.35        126461
marz                         1129J3       1210.40     1270.73   1331 45   115479   li4757    122400       148332
piatano                      186354        742.40     104400    11600C    149292   166901    143257       155079
yucs                         1851.13       33180       71890   128400   224518   271721    47590          1490.43
cafe                          343 D4       203 77      521.60    762.38    994 62    93827    110635       68932
18048.12    13764.47    24118.43  25662.34  23746.12  28674 11  3137856    33400.12
Relscion Costo de OperacionNolor Pioduccion
arroz rgpdo                     0.77         0.77        0.70      0 65      0.62      08 8      0 78        0 70
arro eucArno                    0.86         0.8a        064       049       053       061       028         0.57
maZ                             08.5         0.85        0.57      0 42      0.52      0 49      0 30       0.53
platano                         0.0          0.50        0 40     0CA        0  0.30             0 50        0 43
yuca                            O.9         0 09        020       020       010       0.20      0 L         0.14
cafe                            0.0          .30         0 X       0.30      0 30      0.30      0 30        0.30
Boneficies rttos (000 US)
siro: regdo                   173983      1833.79     5386.50   631338   636058   6838.71   6291 70    811153
arroc mcano                   398A13       39837       93895    156420    52651    469.7    66553          541.67
maiz                          18847       tle 56       54641    77224    55430    58726    856so          695.08
platano                       931.77       371.20      62840    69600    74548   116831        71628       87878
yuc                          168453        30194       57512    101120   202086   217376    461.62        1286.74
catf                          240.12       14254       365 12    533.66    69523    656.79    77445        62252
5161.16     322750      843851  10910.69  1090475  1181470   976637    12136.43
Procro inbarnac,ontl (1 985USs)
arroz                         282D0        2740O       254D0     21600    17800    177DO    21700          231.00
maz                          1t5D00        1305DO      13700     112D0      74DO      5800      7700        810o
cafe                         297000       287000      320000   3210D0   3630O    193000   218000          1790Do
Bordorpncs                     148500       1435DO      190000    160500   181500    96500   1'I000         895DO
arro2nrgdo                    343DO        33500       315t0     277D0     2390Do    23800    278D0        29200
arrozmcano                    343DO        33500       3 0150    277D0     239D0     23800    27800        292D9e
maiz                          148DO        178DO       18O0      1550D    11700    101.OO      12000       124DO
plotano                         5800        5800         5800      5800      5800     5800       5800       5800
yuca                            79D0        7900        79D0      7900      7900      7900      79C0        790O
cafe (cf-5)                   1485D0      143500       1000DO   160500   1s8500    965DO       90S00      89D00
Prucies imarnos I productor
(usS/Ton)
arro2rrgdo                    329 DO       207 DO      227 DO    203 DO    255 DO    345 0o   163 Do       254 DO
arrozstcano                   32900        207D0       22700    203Do    255D0    345DO         18300      25400
m4iz                          22400        144D0       222D0      16DO    21900    27200    1640O         21800
pfata5il                       100 0       141.29      151.00    131290   267D0    244DO    22200          233DO
yuea                          221200       21ODO       101.X0    e8DO       179DO    183       14CIeDO     15600
cafe                          71800        52400       12091DO    1291i00   2e4 00   tO2000    834DO       927DO



rBRC) 6~4964
PE RU                                                                                                                                                                                         g
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                >                                                                                       N
5 A
.                                                                                                           _                                   _                                                     X     anX H~~~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A - 88  86
- '    \                <N..                                   A, ,,_ /
| - i>+ ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L M A\_SCOZ
Y-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
C.
-E--odo,                                                       TACCudA                                   'AA'                      ._                        _ ~       ~     '~\'<                                                                                      ^MpYC
__ _    E_.p.,n.                                                                                                                                                 s.OEE
--  -  D.ooyooeo, Bo,ydoo.-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      \  s
_ .-  Ina   onQl bourduls   .       -.                             sG                                                                    .¢      \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-7  "C



