Document of
The World Bank                21  ii :1
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3416-PE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$30 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR THE
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 19, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The exchange rate is being adjusted daily roughly in line with the differen-
tial between domestic and international inflation. The exchange rate and
currency equivalents in 1981 and as of November 15, 1982 were as follows:
Currency Unit = Sol (S/.)
Calendar 1981              November 15, 1982
US$1              S/. 426.60                   S/. 883.75
S/. 1             US$0.0023                   US$0.0011
S/. 1,000         US$2.34                     US$1.13
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BAP         -  Banco Agrario del Peru
(Agrarian Bank of Peru)
bpd         -  barrels per day
ERP         -  Economic Recovery Program
HCBM        -  Huallaga Central and Bajo Mayo Office
(Project Execution Unit)
IDB         -  Inter-American Development Bank
IFAD        -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
INIPA       -  Instituto Nacional de Investigacion y Promocion
Agropecuaria
(National Institute for Agricultural and Livestock
Research and Extension)
MA          -  Ministerio de Agricultura
(Ministry of Agriculture)
ONERN       -  Oficina Nacional de Evaluacion de Recursos Naturales
(National Resources Agency)
PPF         -  Project Preparation Facility
USAID       -  United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
- i -
REPUBLIC OF PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Peru.
Amount:              US$30.0 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:               Repayable in 17 years, including four years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:         The objectives of this project -- which would be carried
out in the northeastern Peruvian jungle highlands near
the Mayo Valley -- are to improve productivity, income
and general living conditions for about 12,800 families,
including 200 native Indian families, living in the
area.   Principal components of the project would be:
(i) provision of extension, credit, irrigation and other
agricultural support services; (ii) construction and
improvement of about 180 km of rural roads and provision
of associated maintenance equipment; (iii) provision of
land titles and local mapping; (iv) improvement of health
and education infrastructure; and (v) support for project
management, studies and technical assistance in various
fields, including forestry management, project monitoring
and preparation of a national topographic and resource
map of Peru using satellite imagery. The International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) would cofinance
the credit and project monitoring components.
Special Risks:       The complexity of the project and the number of
components to be implemented pose the risk of delays in
implementation. However, the executing agency has
experience in successfully carrying out a similar project
and technical assistance would be provided to assist this
unit with project implementation. The fact that the
project involves development of an environmentally
sensitive area encompassing indigenous settlements also
raises the risk of adverse environmental and social
effects. Special care has been taken with its design to
protect against this. In addition, the project's
environmental and social impact would be carefully
monitored during execution.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autoiaon



Estimated Costs                                   Local      Foreign   Total
US$ million
(a)  Agricultural Credit                      13.0       11.3     24.3
(b)  Road Construction and Maintenance         9.1       6.6      15.7
(c)  Other Agricultural Support Activities  5.5           5.4     10.9
(d)  Land Titling                              1.8       0.5       2.3
(e)  Health and Education Infrastructure    2.2           2.4      4.6
(f) Project Management, Studies and
Technical Assistance                   2.5        2.3       4.8
Base Cost                          34.1       28.5     62.6
Contingencies: Physical             3.3        2.5       5.8
Price               8.5        6.6     15.1
TOTAL PROJECT COST 1/                         45.9       37.6     83.5
Front-End Fee on Bank Loan                     -          0.44     0.44
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                      45.9       38.1     84.0
Financing Plan                                    Local      Foreign   Total
---  US$ million
World Bank                                     7.6       22.4     30.0
Government and Beneficiaries                  35.0        -       35.0
Cofinancing (IFAD)                             3.3       15.7     19.0
TOTAL                                         45.9       38.1     84.0
Estimated Disbursements
Bank FY                    1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
--- US$ million
Annual                      2.0    5.4    8.8    5.0    4.0    3.4    1.4
Cumulative                  2.0    7.4   16.2   21.2   25.2   28.6   30.0
1/   Project expenditures are exempt from taxes and duties.



- iii -
Rate of Return:              The economic rate of return is estimated at 18
percent for those components of the project with
directly quantifiable benefits. These represent
89 percent of total project costs.
Staff Appraisal Report:      Report No. 4058-PE, dated November 17, 1982.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR THE ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Peru for the equivalent of US$30 million to help finance
the Alto Mayo rural development project. The proposed loan would have a term
of 17 years, including four years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY _
2.        An economic report entitled "Peru-Major Development Policy Issues
and Recommendations" (Report No. 3438-PE) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 4, 1981. This part is based on the report's findings and on
those of economic missions to Peru in June and September 1981 as well as in
July/August 1982. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Natural and Human Resources
3.        Peru, the fourth largest country in Latin America, is divided by
the Andes mountains into three distinct regions: the coastal region (Costa),
with 46 percent of the population and most of the country's modern economic
activity; the mountain region (Sierra) with 44 percent of the country's
population; and the sparsely populated tropical rain forests east of the
Andes (Selva). The country's rugged topography limits trade between the
three regions.
4.        Peru's natural resources include large deposits of minerals--
particularly copper, iron, silver, and zinc-located mainly in the Sierra and
the southern Costa. There are also large phosphate deposits, located in the
northern Costa. Petroleum resources found in the jungle areas and offshore
are also substantial, but their full extent has not yet been ascertained.
Another major natural resource is the large fishing potential in coastal
waters, although the magnitude of the catch is subject to sharp fluctua-
tions. Only a small portion of Peru's total land area is arable, and most of
the soils suitable for intensive agriculture are already being farmed.
5.        Although Peru's energy resource base is relatively diverse, with
scope for expanding hydro and coal based power generation, petroleum is
expected to remain the major energy source in Peru through the rest of this
century. Peru's domestic oil production more than doubled between
1977 and 1981 to over 190,000 barrels per day (bpd), and it became a net
exporter of about 60,000 bpd. To enable Peru to remain a net petroleum
exporter, the Government has embarked on a strategy of accelerated secondary
recovery and exploration efforts to increase production and of rational
pricing policies to contain demand growth.   Prices for domestically consumed
petroleum products have been increased at regular intervals. In addition,
new legislation was enacted offering special tax incentives to domestic and
1/   This part is substantially unchanged from Part I of the Primary Health
Project President's Report of November 5, 1982 (Report No. P-3400-PE).



foreign investors, and the response has been positive. The Government
strategy is already bearing fruit with petroleum output expected to increase
in 1982 to an average level of 207,000 bpd.
6.        As a result of three decades of rapidly falling mortality rates,
Peru's population growth accelerated during the 1930-1960 period. Since the
early 1960s, birth rates have fallen gradually, mainly caused by the urbani-
zation process and improved education. But with declining death rates, popu-
lation continued to grow at about 2.5 percent p.a. between 1972 and 1981 and
is currently estimated at about 17 million. The 1981 census indicates that
fertility declined by 20 percent during the past decade and that the current
rate of population growth has dropped to 2.2 percent p.a. The census also
indicates that the reduction in population growth is most marked among the
65 percent of the population living in urban areas. The census information
has only recently become available and is still being confirmed but it
indicates a dramatic improvement in population prospects. The Government is
conscious of the need to continue to slow down Peru's population growth rate
and is supporting a family planning program. 2/
Past Development Policies and Performance (1968-80)
7.        Two successive military Governments, in office from October 1968
until July 1980, followed a development strategy aimed at promoting economic
growth and improving distribution of income and wealth. The pattern of asset
ownership in the economy changed drastically through nationalization and a
sweeping land reform, but many of the policies carried out after 1968 had an
excessive cost, and their implementation was inefficient.
8.        Expansionary fiscal and credit policies between 1968 and 1977
produced strong inflationary pressures and widening external gaps. The
current account deficit averaged US$1.1 billion per year in 1974-77, equiv-
alent to nearly nine percent of GNP. To finance this deficit, Peru accum-
ulated a massive external debt, which at year-end 1977 stood at almost US$8.4
billion (including short-term indebtedness), equivalent to two-thirds of
GDP. In 1977-78 GDP per capita dropped by over six percent and under-
unemployment rose from less than 50 percent during the early 1970s, to almost
60 percent of the labor force.
9.        Between 1975 and 1977, several unsuccessful attempts were made to
cope with Peru's deteriorating economic situation. By mid-1978 the economic
crisis had reached grave proportions, with a drop in real GDP and inflation
approaching 100 percent on an annual basis. Moreover, the private sector was
finding it increasingly difficult to open letters of credit for new imports,
and the banking system's net international reserves had dropped to a negative
level of US$800 million.
10.       Beginning in May 1978, the Government adopted a number of important
measures aimed at strengthening public finances, improving the balance of
payments and curbing inflation. The Government also negotiated a stand-by
arrangement with the IMF in support of the stabilization program.
11.       Major debt-relief operations carried out through the Paris Club and
with the Soviet Union and commercial banks in 1978 enabled Peru to reduce the
debt service burden for 1979 and 1980 by postponing repayment of about US$1
billion to the 1982-1986 period. In view of the strong balance of payments
performance in 1979 and 1980 (para. 15), the Government decided to forego
parts of the rescheduling options in exchange for slightly better conditions
for new loans from commercial sources.
2/   Population data presented in Annex I will be updated when confirmed
figures are available from the census.



-3-
12.       To overcome the economic recession, in late 1978 the Government
adopted a comprehensive Economic Recovery Program (ERP), which, in addition
to the above-mentioned stabilization actions, included measures to open up
the economy, promote non-traditional exports, strengthen the tax system by
broadening its base, and generally improve the efficiency of resource alloca-
tion in the private and public sectors. These policy changes--together with
a declining domestic market because of the recession--resulted in a major
reorientation of industrial development, with a large increase in the value
of manufactured exports from about US$200 million in 1977 to the US$750-800
million range in 1980-81 (equivalent to about eight percent of output). The
Government also drew up a public sector investment program that aimed at
redirecting investment towards projects of clear economic priority and with
positive effects on production and employment.  In support of the ERP, the
Bank approved a US$115 million Program Loan in May 1979.
13.       The Government's stabilization-cum-economic recovery program
resulted in a strong improvement in public sector finances in 1979.
Public sector current account savings rose from -0.5 percent of GDP in 1978
to about 3.7 percent of GDP in 1979, and the overall deficit was reduced from
5.7 percent of GDP in 1978 to 1.7 percent in 1979. In spite of Peru's
improved fiscal performance, inflationary pressures remained strong with a
consumer price increase of 67 percent in 1979. The more careful management
of public finances also had a positive impact on the balance of payments.
Moreover, an increase in petroleum exports and a substantial improvement of
Peru's terms of trade contributed to high overall surpluses of the balance of
payments in 1979 and 1980. At year--end 1980, the net reserve position had
improved to about US$1.3 billion, equivalent to about four months of
imports. Peru also made greater use of assistance from official bilateral
and international sources, thus improving the structure of its external
debt. Real GDP growth rebounded to 3.7 percent in 1979; in 1980, however,
growth dropped to 3.1 percent owing, in part, to a drought which affected the
agricultural sector. Because of a relaxation in fiscal discipline, the
public sector deficit increased in 1980 to six percent of GDP, keeping
inflation for the year at a high level--59 percent.
Recent Developments and Outlook
14.       In July 1979, the military Government promulgated a new constitu-
tion, written by a popularly elected constituent assembly. Elections were
held in May 1980, and following his electoral victory, President Fernando
Belaunde was inaugurated on July 28, 1980. His Government faced a
challenging economic and social situation with a number of acute problems
which had been disguised by the apparently solid financial situation.  These
included: high levels of under- and unemployment, particularly in urban
areas; higher underlying inflation than had been reported because of price
controls and deferred price adjustments for public goods and services; a
public sector deficit that had been reduced by freezing expenditures for
economic and social services (including education, health and housing);
a balance of payments with a substantial surplus, which, however, was partly
due to unusually high commodity prices and to the fact that import levels
were depressed and manufacturing exports high owing to the recession; and,
finally, deteriorated income distribution over the past several years
resulting in increased social unrest. This unrest has been manifested in
a growing terrorist movement which, if it continues, may threaten political
stability.



-4-
15.       The Government named an economic team committed to economic effi-
ciency, decontrol of the economy (including divestiture of some of the
State-owned enterprises), promotion of the private sector (including foreign
investment), and policies aiming at a more equitable sharing of the benefits
of development through job creation and specifically targeted social
programs. Its reliance on, and promotion of, private initiative, in parti-
cular, distinguish the present Government's philosophy and economic program
from that of its immediate predecessors.
16.       The Government has made important headway in a number of areas.
It was successful in accelerating import liberalization by eliminating non-
tariff barriers and lowering tariffs. At the same time, export incentives
were streamlined and revised to eliminate abuse and make the system more
responsive to exports of products with high manufactured content. The
Government also enacted new legislation for the agricultural, mining and
petroleum sectors offering greater financial incentives to investors.
Finally, it made significant institutional changes in the financial sector,
revised the interest rate structure through substantial upward adjustments,
and is preparing a new banking law which would allow further rationalization
and liberalization of the financial system.
17.       In an effort to improve resource use, the Government made
progress in correcting major price distortions. Food subsidies were greatly
reduced and most controlled agricultural prices were adjusted to
international levels. The marketing of agricultural products was
liberalized, and public utility and petroleum prices were adjusted at regular
intervals. Moreover, the Government endeavored to rationalize public
investment and its financing -- an effort that was supported by a Bank
sponsored Consultative Group meeting in May 1981.
18.      The above efforts were complemented by measures to strengthen public
sector institutions. The important public enterprise sector, for example,
was granted greater autonomy by transforming these enterprises into
State-owned limited liability corporations operating under private law. This
measure gives these companies, inter alia, greater freedom in fixing staff
compensation and, thus, helps them to recruit or to retain capable
personnel. Many of the above measures have already had positive short-term
effects, and they have laid the ground for medium-term structural adjustments
of the Peruvian economy.
19.       In 1981, GDP grew at about four percent.  The balance of payments,
however,deteriorated substantially as a result of declining export prices,
high interest rates on the country's debt with commercial banks, and a rapid
expansion of imports. The loss in net reserves amounted to about US$580
million, equivalent to about 2.5 percent of GDP. A major factor in the
deterioration of the balance of payments was the large public sector deficit
which reached about eight percent of GDP. On the positive side, some
progress was achieved in reducing inflation: while inflation on a December
1980-December 1981 basis reached 73 percent, during May-December 1981 it
decelerated to an annual rate of about 50 percent, mostly because of the
openness of the economy, the price dampening effects of an increase in
imports, and--to some extent--to a deceleration of the mini-devaluations.
During 1982, inflation is expected to reach 60-65 percent (which was also the
average rate during the first five months of the year). The Government is
aware that this level is still too high, however, and is following
restrictive demand management which it expects will result in a further drop
in inflation.



20.       Reducing the public sector deficit has, once again, become the
major challenge facing Peru's economic managers. While the deteriorated
export situation has had a negative impact on tax revenues, the 1981 deficit
was mostly the result of steep increases in expenditures and somewhat lagging
adjustments of petroleum and rice prices. Excess expenditures over initial
budget allocations were incurred mostly for investment projects of lesser
priority. To tackle the difficult public finance situation, the Government
is following a restrictive financial program for 1982 with tight credit
ceilings and limits to foreign indebtedness. The Government also trimmed the
public investment program in line with its investment priorities. The Bank
has an ongoing and frank dialogue with the Peruvian Government on these
issues. Moreover, in June, 1982 the IMF approved an SDR850 million
compensatory-cum-EFF arrangement to support Peru's stabilization efforts.
In spite of the difficult world economic environment, a slowdown in economic
growth (projected to be about two percent in 1982) and increasing social
tension, the Government is striving to adhere to the agreed-upon program and
to make the necessary adjustments in fiscal management to keep the economy
viable over the medium term. Peru's total debt outstanding to the IMF as of
June 30, 1982 amounted to SDR776.8 million.
21.       Based on cautiously optimistic assumptions with regard to economic
management, in the medium term the country is expected to have economic
growth of about 4-5 percent per year and a manageable balance of payments
situation. Peru's balance of payments could, however, become precarious if
the exportable surplus of oil declines. While measures are being undertaken
to speed up petroleum exploration and to increase manufactured exports, the
results of these endeavors may not come in time to countervail the potential
foreign exchange shortfalls. Against this background, there is a continuing
need for official development assistance, including local cost financing.
Taking the above factors into account, considering an expected debt service
ratio hovering around 35 percent of exports (which are relatively
diversified) and assuming that the authorities continue the initiated course
of economic policies, Peru is creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU 3/
22.       The Bank has approved 52 loans to Peru for a total amount of
US$1,329.8 million, net of cancellations. About 28 percent of the Bank's
lending to Peru has been for transportation (mainly highways and ports), 16
percent for agriculture, 25 percent for the energy sector, 13 percent for
mining and industry, about eight percent for education and urban development,
nine percent for a program loan in support of the ERP in 1979 and one percent
for technical assistance.
23.       Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and their
disbursement status as of September 30, 1982 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. As of this date, US$661 million was undisbursed.
Disbursements on Bank-financed projects moved slowly in the late 1970s,
primarily because of weak project execution capacity and a shortage of
counterpart funds that worsened as the economy deteriorated during this
period. Disbursements have improved, however, with vigorous efforts by the
Bank and Government to correct the situation by, inter alia, (i) opening a
Bank resident mission in Peru; (ii) restructuring a number of slow moving
projects; (iii) Government provision of adequate counterpart funds; and
3/   This part is substantially unchanged from Part II of the Primary Health
Project President's Report of November 5, 1982 (Report No. P-3400-PE).



- 6 -
(iv) Government creation of a special commission to monitor loan execution
and resolve administrative problems. These actions are bearing fruit.
Disbursements on project loans amounted to US$44 million in FY80, US$70.5
million in FY81 and US$75.8 million in FY82. This compares with average
yearly disbursements of US$27.5 million during FY77-79.
24.       The main objectives of Bank lending to Peru are to assist in (i)
the creation of the physical infrastructure needed to sustain and foster
economic development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial
sectors, i.e., petroleum, agriculture and mining; (iii) the strengthening,
through technical assistance loans and regular operations, of public sector
management and of local capacity to prepare, implement a-nd operate projects
effectively; and (iv) the improvement of living conditions for the urban and
rural poor. In the past, Bank lending concentrated on infrastructure in the
transportation and power sectors. More recently, the Bank's emphasis has
shifted to more directly productive fields--mining, petroleum, agriculture
and industry--to help Peru to strengthen its balance of payments. Lending
for social sector projects has also grown and will be further stepped up in
the future. The next operations that would be ready for the Executive
Directors' consideration include projects in health, agricultural credit and
primary education. As part of its assistance strategy, the Bank convened a
Consultative Group Meeting for Peru on May 25-26, 1981 to help the Government
arrange financing for its public investment program.
25.       Bank loans constituted an estimated 6.4 percent of Peru's total
public external debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1981, and
absorbed about 3 percent of the country's public external debt service in
1981. Assuming increased recourse to long-term bilateral and multilateral
aid by Peru, the Bank's share in the country's outstanding public foreign
debt by 1985 could reach about 10 percent, and its share of debt-service
would be around 4.5 percent.
26.       IFC commitments as of September 30, 1982 were US$55.8 million
(including US$15 million to the Southern Peru Copper Corporation for the
Cuajone Copper Mining Project) of which US$35.5 million is held by the
Corporation. A summary statement of IFC investments as of September 30, 1982
is presented in Annex II. In addition, investments in a mining project and a
venture capital company are now being considered.
27.       The other principal lending agencies active in Peru are the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) and the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development (USAID). Their total commitments as of December 31,
1981 were US$849 million and US$348.8 million, respectively, and their shares
of public debt service as of end-1980 were estimated at 0.6 percent and 0.5
percent, respectively. In its future lending, IDB is expected to emphasize
lending for agriculture, industry, mining, roads, and small scale irriga-
tion. USAID is expected to stress rural development and health.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Land and Water Resources
28.       Peru has a limited natural resource base for agriculture.  Of the
country's total land area of 1,285,000 km2, only about 3.7 million ha or



2.9 percent is arable and another 17 percent is natural pastureland.
Additional land could be brought into production, either by expensive new
coastal irrigation schemes or by providing basic infrastructure for more
remote areas, mainly in the Ceja de Selva, the jungle highlands in the Amazon
region east of the Andes. The proposed project would be located in this
area.
29.       Of the country's three principal regions, the 130,000 km2 Costa,
which consists mainly of desert terrain, is the major agricultural area.
Agriculture in the Costa is limited to river valleys, and most of Peru's one
million irrigated hectares are located in this zone. Most irrigation and
drainage systems, however, are old and inefficient, and the Bank is currently
financing two irrigation rehabilitation projects designed to help deal with
this problem (Lns. 1403-PE of 1977 and 1771-PE of 1980 -- see para. 46).
Where water is available, conditions are generally favorable for crop
production because of good soils and near optimal solar radiation and
temperatures. As a result, productivity and farm incomes in this region are
relatively high. The Costa produces over 40 percent of the country's crops,
including the major export crops--sugar and cotton--as well as rice, maize,
potatoes, citrus crops, olives and grapes.
30.       The Sierra consists of rugged mountains and high valleys.  Of the
zone's 335,000 km2, about seven percent are farmed and 43 percent are used
for grazing. The Sierra has about half the arable crop land in Peru, but--
because of the difficult topography, the severe climate and generally
primitive farming techniques--producti-vity is low and there is little scope
for putting new land into production. Most agricultural production is for
subsistence, and there is little use of fertilizers or other inputs. There
is a potential, however, for improving crop and livestock productivity
through research, extension and the increased use of production inputs.
31.       The sparsely settled Selva east of the Andes accounts for 64 per-
cent of Peru's total land area (about 81 million ha). The region comprises
two quite different sub-zones: the Ceja de Selva -- the highlands on the
eastern slopes of the Andes; and the Selva Baja -- the jungle area around the
Amazon and its tributaries. Most of the soils in the Selva Baja are clas-
sified as marginal and are suitable only for grazing and forestry. However,
soils in the Ceja de Selva are of better quality and can be used for crop-
ping.   Arable land in this zone is estimated at 4.5 million ha of which
600,000 ha are currently being exploited. Fruits, coffee and tea are the
main crops, although there is good potential for livestock, rice and oil palm
in some areas. Development has been hampered, however, by poor transport and
other infrastructure. The Government has given priority to development
projects in this area, since they constitute some of the best prospects for
expanding Peru's agricultural frontier (paras. 37-40).
Agricultural Sector Performance and Government Policies
32.       The agricultural sector in Peru underwent a major decline during
the 1970s. In part, this was due to a serious drought from 1978-80, but the
sector's poor performance was brought about primarily by negative Government
policies. These included: (i) an agricultural pricing policy which did not
provide adequate incentives to producers; (ii) imposition of an inefficient
State-run marketing system; (iii) failure to effectively organize and manage
agrarian reform enterprises; (iv) insufficient credit and the dismantling of
the extension and research support services for the sector; (v) a requirement



- 8 -
that food crops be grown in place of non-food export crops, primarily cotton,
for which Peru enjoys a comparative advantage; (vi) the concentration of
public investment in large-scale coastal irrigation projects with very long
gestation periods; (vii) insecurity of land tenure owing to a far-reaching
land reform; and (viii) failure to support agriculture sector educational and
training institutions, so as to insure that they had the teaching staffs and
equipment necessary to produce an adequate supply of well-trained profes-
sionals.
33.       In 1981, agriculture contributed about 9 percent to Peru's GDP and
employed about 40 percent of the labor force, as compared with 17 and 48 per-
cent, respectively, in 1970. The value of food production in constant prices
increased by an average of 0.7 percent per annum during this period. The
value of crop production actually declined at an average annual rate of -0.6
percent in the 1970s, while livestock production increased at 3.3 percent,
largely because of the rapid growth of the poultry industry. During the same
period, population grew at an average of 2.9 percent per annum. As a result,
nutritional standards suffered, and the country's dependence on imported
foodstuffs increased.
34.      The volume of food imports--consisting mainly of wheat, rice and
other grains, dairy products and vegetable oils--increased by a total of over
20 percent between the early 1970s and 1980. At the same time, agriculture's
contribution to exports--mainly sugar, cotton and coffee--fell dramatically.
By 1980, the volume of major agricultural exports stood at only about 22 per-
cent of the 1970 level. In spite of these trends, Peru continued to maintain
a positive though shrinking balance of trade in agriculture through the
1970s. The combined deficit in 1980 and 1981, however, totaled about US$300
million.
35.       By the late 1970s, the military Government had recognized the
gravity of the problems facing the agricultural sector and the potential long
term economic and social impact of its decline. It began, therefore, intro-
ducing measures to reverse this trend. Consumer price subsidies on most
products were reduced or eliminated so as to make higher farmgate prices
possible, the requirement that food crops be grown was eased, and the
rebuilding of agricultural service agencies began. The Belaunde Government
has accelerated this effort. It has eliminated remaining consumer subsidies
except for a subsidy on rice which is now being phased out. Export taxes
have been reduced substantially and are scheduled to be fully phased-out by
1983. An agricultural promotion law was passed in 1980, which: (i) concludes
the agrarian reform expropriation process; (ii) permits some mortgaging of
agricultural land to facilitate increased commercial credit; (iii) provides
selected tax incentives to investment; (iv) permits the private import and
export of most agricultural products and inputs; and (v) opens up marketing
to private participation. Finally, the Government has reorganized and
strengthened sectoral institutions to improve the provision of services and
the execution of projects. The Bank is actively assisting in this effort and
has recently made loans to support improvements in agricultural research and
extension activities (para. 45) and to help the National Agrarian University.
36.       These policy improvements, together with better weather
conditions, have had a significant beneficial impact on agricultural
production. Between 1980 and 1981, agricultural output grew by over 12
percent, with production increases of 67 percent in rice, 38 percent in corn
and 21 percent in potatoes. A further increase in output of about five
percent is expected in 1982. However, there is a limit to how much can be
achieved through improving productivity in the traditional agricultural areas
in the Costa and the Sierra. Because of this, Peru's agricultural frontier
needs to be expanded.



-9-
Rural Development in the Ceja de Selva
37.       Because it is one of the few areas with good, arable land which is
relatively unexploited, one of Peru's highest priorities is to develop the
Ceja de Selva. In order to further this effort, the Government is supporting
a number of rural development projects and some of these are already under-
way. These rural development efforts are concentrated in two areas: the
Mayo valley in northern Peru and the Selva Central, east of Lima.
38.       The Mayo valley, which has an area of about 770,000 ha, is about
800 km north of Lima and is being developed rapidly by settlers from the
Costa and the Sierra. The area's population has now reached about 70,000 and
production comes mainly from small-scale farmers. This region is seen as
having good potential for production of rice, fruits, coffee, tea, beef and
oil palm, some of which may be exported. Part of the area --around the lower
reaches of the Huallaga valley -- is currently being developed with financial
assistance from USAID. A special unit has been formed in the Prime
Minister's Office to oversee development of this area. This unit -- the
Huallaga Central and Bajo Mayo Office (HCBM) -- has been responsible for
preparation of the proposed Alto Mayo project.
39.       Development of the second area mentioned in paragraph 37, the Selva
Central, is important because it is relatively close to Lima and its climate,
soils and topography allow it to be used for a range of agricultural
purposes. The area already produces over 25 percent of Peru's output of
coffee, oranges, bananas and avocados. The long range development plan for
the Selva Central envisages a large expansion in this production. The devel-
opment would involve six major valleys which ultimately would open over
3 million hectares of agricultural land to production and permit settlement
of over 700,000 people. As a first step, USAID is assisting the Government
with the execution of a rural development project in the Pichis Palcazu
valleys. A project unit in the Prime Minister's office is responsible for
this effort. This unit is also working -- with assistance from IDB as well
as a nummber of countries, including Canada and Germany -- to prepare other
rural development projects in the Selva Central, which are expected to get
underway shortly. In addition, the Bank is assisting in the preparation of a
project in this area with funds from its eighth highway project (Ln. 2091-PE
of 1982).
40.       Development of the Ceja de Selva is also being supported through a
series of projects designed to improve transportation links with the rest of
the country. The first of these operations was the Bank-financed Lima-Amazon
transport corridor project (Ln. 1196-PE of 1976), which financed the first
all-weather road connecting the Sierra with the Selva.  Linked with this, the
Government is gradually constructing the "Marginal de la Selva", which would
be an all-weather road running from the north to the south of the Selva on
the eastern slope of the Andes.  The Bank is supporting the improvement of
some priority sections of the Marginal de la Selva under its eighth highway
project (para. 39). IDB is also helping to improve road access to the Selva
under a recent highway project. Finally, the Bank-financed aviation develop-
ment project (Ln. 1963-PE of 1981) is supporting the improvement of four
airports at important regional centers in the Selva.
Institutional Framework
41.       The Ministry of Agriculture (MA) is generally responsible for
formulating the Government's sectoral policies and programs. Under a 1981



- 10 -
reorganization, the task of carrying out public sector agricultural and rural
development programs was made the responsibility of: (i) four administra-
tively autonomous institutes under the MA -- the most important of which is
the National Institute for Agricultural and Livestock Research and Extension
(INIPA); (ii) a number of independent project authorities which administer
major irrigation projects; (iii) departmental development corporations which
are responsible for small-scale local projects; and (iv) special project
units located in the Prime Minister's office -- like HCBM -- which prepare
and carry out rural development projects in the Ceja de Selva.
42.       Specialized services to the sector are provided by a public market-
ing company and the Agrarian Bank of Peru (BAP), which is the main source of
agricultural credit. Until recently, the marketing company had a monopoly on
marketing rice, cotton and fertilizers and on importing grains and powdered
milk. These monopoly operations are being phased out however, although the
Government will retain a presence in marketing as a check on private
traders. BAP is a Government-owned institution with branches in all parts of
the country. It provides about 85 percent of the institutional credit to the
agriculture sector with the balance coming mostly from commercial banks and
State development banks. In 1981, BAP's loan portfolio was about US$524 mil-
lion, but this represented only 90 percent of the 1975 portfolio in real
terms and was not sufficient to meet the sector's needs. Between 80 and 90
percent of BAP annual lending is short term production credit, and--in
1981--48 percent of its new loans went to cooperatives, 43 percent to farmers
with more than 20 ha and nine percent to small farmers.
43.        Since 1980, BAP's lending has been expanding, reflecting the
increased Government priority for the sector. BAP has also begun to give more
attention to small farmers. A problem affecting the Bank's operations,
however, has been the continued use of subsidized interest rates for BAP's
lending. Using a low-cost discount line from the Central Bank and capital
transfers from the Government, BAP has been lending at effective interest
rates averaging 45 percent while recent inflation has averaged about 65 per-
cent on an annual basis.  BAP's reliance on subsidies from the Central
Government has constrained the funds available for agricultural lending. The
Bank's dissatisfaction with this policy has meant that we have not been able
to finance agricultural credit in Peru. The Bank has maintained a dialogue
aimed at resolving this issue with the Government in the context of discus-
sions on a possible agricultural credit project for Bank financing. This
dialogue has recently had some success. In November 1982 the Government
increased BAP's effective rates to about 53 percent, on average, with a view
to moving to commercial rates (i.e. over 70 percent) by mid-1983. In view of
this progress, the Bank recently appraised a possible sixth agricultural
credit project.
Sectoral Investment Strategy
44.       The Government's sectoral investment strategy, as reflected in its
1981-1985 public investment program, is (i) to continue development and
rehabilitation of irrigated coastal areas where there is a large sunk invest-
ment in deteriorated, inefficient irrigation infrastructure; (ii) to develop
the potentially rich Ceja de Selva; and (iii) to assist the rural poor,
particularly in the Sierra, through rural development projects.   The
Government is also committed to building up its agricultural credit and
research and extension programs to provide better support to the agriculture
sector.



- 11 -
Previous Bank Operations
45.       In order to help spur Peru's agricultural development, the Bank has
made 13 loans to Peru totalling US$219.0 million. Five of them, in the
1954-1973 period and totalling US$55.0 million, were for agricultural credit
and were channelled through BAP (105-PE, 162-PE, 257-PE, 415-PE and 933-PE).
In general, BAP's performance in executing these operations was good. The
Performance Audit Report (Sec M81-465 of June 2, 1981) for the fifth project
(Ln. 933-PE of 1973) concluded that the project's rate of return exceeded
that estimated in the appraisal report (30 percent vs 26 percent). It noted,
however, that the Bank failed to use the loan as an effective instrument in
credit policy issue discussions (e.g., interest rate levels) with the
Government. Processing of a sixth loan was held in abeyance until recently
when a mutually satisfactory agreement on interest rates was reached (para.
43). Also, the fifth project suffered from the deterioration of the research
and extension services in the 1970s. The research and extension project
approved earlier this year (Ln. 2150-PE of 1982) will finance the rebuilding
of these services.
46.       Two loans (67-PE of 1952 and 98-PE of 1954), totalling US$3 mil-
lion, were for farm machinery imports. Another two (Loans 114-PE of 1955 and
418-PE of 1965), totalling US$24.4 million, financed irrigation works and
land settlement in the San Lorenzo area within the Chira-Piura basin. The
Performance Audit Report (Sec M78-43 of January 18, 1978) for the San Lorenzo
project financed by Ln. 418-PE concluded that the project achieved its basic
goals of increasing agricultural production and the incomes of rural poor.
The audit noted, however, the need for provision of better maintenance of
works, of a strong project unit, and agricultural support programs for irri-
gation projects. These findings were taken into account in the design of the
two most recent Bank-financed irrigation rehabilitation operations: the
First Irrigation Rehabilitation project and the Lower Piura project (Loans
1403-PE of 1977 and 1771-PE of 1979 for US$25 and US$56 million, respec-
tively). In addition, in 1980 the Bank approved its first rural development
loan, a US$15 million operation for the Puno zone in the Sierra. Finally, in
1982 the Bank provided a US$40.6 million loan to support re-establishing the
agricultural research and extension system. The status of Bank-financed
agricultural projects currently in execution is discussed in Annex II.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.       This would be the first Bank-financed rural development project in
the Ceja de Selva. The project was prepared by HCBM in conjunction with
representatives of the various regional agencies expected to participate in
the project. A feasibility study of the proposed project was completed in
early 1982 with the assistance of the FAO/IBRD cooperative program. The Bank
helped finance this preparation work with a US$500,000 PPF advance. A Bank
mission visited Peru to appraise the project in March 1982. The appraisal
mission's report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Alto Mayo Rural
Development Project" (No. 4058-PE, dated November 17, 1982) is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Annex III contains a
Supplementary Project Data Sheet. Negotiations were held in Washington from
November 10, 1982 to November 12, 1982 and the Peruvian Delegation was headed
by Mr. Luis Reategui of the Ministry of Economy.
The Project Area
48.       The project area consists of 120,000 ha in the upper Mayo valley in
northern Peru (see the attached map).   The area to be developed lies in a



- 12 -
valley located about 800-900 meters above sea level in the eastern foothills
of the Andes. The two main towns in the project area are Moyobamba and
Rioja. The population of the area amounts to about 73,000 and has grown
rapidly during the seventies as transportation links have been established
and spontaneous migration has accelerated. Many of the settlers are farmers
with prior experience in other parts of the country; these hard-working indi-
viduals have made an immediate impact on increasing agricultural production
in the area.
49.       Nearly 50 percent of the project area contains relatively good land
suitable for cropping while another 20 percent is suitable for grazing. The
climate is subtropical and semi-humid; although there is substantial annual
rainfall (about 1,500 mm), the local famers use the tributaries of the Mayo
river to provide supplemental irrigation. The main crops produced in the
area are rice, maize, beans, yuca and plantain; about 50,000 tons of these
were produced in 1981. Average farm size of the settler families is about
13 ha and average income in the area is about US$300 per capita. A large
number of these families have incomes below this level and about 60 percent
of the settlers have incomes below the absolute poverty level. There are
nine communities of native Indians from the Aguaruna tribe living in the
valley. These communities comprise about 200 families in total, with an
average land holding per family of just over 300 hectares. Although these
tracts are large in comparison with the holdings of the average settler, they
are needed for the Indians to protect their life style -- which depends on
having an adequate area for hunting and foraging. The project has been
designed to ensure that the Indian communities benefit from the development
of the area, through direct participation in the project components, while
still preserving their cultural identity.
50.       Living conditions in the project area are poor.  Although 70 per-
cent of the population own their own houses, these tend to be primitive wood
and mud structures -- often with palm leaf roofing -- which lack floors,
water and sanitary facilities and are not protected against insects, rodents
and other animals. Dysentery and other internal and respiratory diseases are
common. Development of the area has been so rapid that social infrastructure
is needed -- water supply and sewerage facilities are inadequate and popula-
tion growth has outstripped the capacity of local health facilities and the
schools in the area.
Project Objectives and Description
51.       The objectives of the project are to improve incomes and living
conditions for the 12,800 rural families in the project area by expanding
local agricultural production and improving the region's physical and social
infrastructure base. Eight thousand seven hundred farming families --
including the 200 families living in native Indian communities -- would
participate directly in the agricultural development components of the
project. All families would benefit from the infrastructure improvements in
the area. The project would coordinate area development carefully so that
(i) the physical environment would be protected; and (ii) local native
communities would be incorporated into area development. If successful, the
project would provide a model for a development approach which could be
expanded to other areas of the Ceja de Selva.
52.       The project would consist of:
(a) an agricultural credit program for the farmers in the area;
(b) construction and improvement of access roads in the project
area and support for establishment of a road maintenance
program;



- 13 -
(c) provision of complementary productive support activities
including agricultural extension and research services,
irrigation, land clearing equipment, storage and fisheries
facilities and forestry services;
(d) local mapping and land titling;
(e) construction and improvement of health centers, health posts
and primary schools; and
(f) support for project management as well as studies and
technical assistance -- including project monitoring,
preparation of a follow-up project and preparation of a
national topographic and resource map of Peru using satellite
imagery.
53.       Agricultural credit, the project's single largest component, would
absorb about 39 percent of project costs. Because current credit interest
rate policies are not satisfatory (para. 43), the Bank would not finance this
component. The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) would
provide co-financing for this component under an SDR 17.9 million loan
(US$19.0 million equivalent) for which negotiations with the Government have
been completed. The execution of the IFAD Loan Agreement and the appointment
of the Bank, by IFAD, as cooperating institution to administer the IFAD loan
would be conditions of loan effectiveness (Section 7.01(c) of the draft Loan
Agreement). Most of IFAD's loan ($18.6 million equivalent) would be
channeled through BAP to finance production inputs and on-farm investments
including small irrigation works, storage facilities, land clearing and
levelling, pasture establishment, farm machinery, cattle, draft animals and
on-farm operating expenditures.   BAP would carry out the credit component on
behalf of the Government; it would lend at its normal terms and would receive
a four percent management fee. The Government would enter into a Subsidiary
Agreement with BAP, satisfactory to the Bank and IFAD, defining: (i) the
terms under which IFAD funds and the Government's counterpart funds would be
provided to BAP; and (ii) the policies and procedures to be followed in
implementing this component of the project (Section 4.02 (a) of the draft
Loan Agreement). BAP would establish credit by-laws, in accordance with the
Subsidiary Agreement, covering the policies to be followed in executing this
component. Signing of the Subsidiary Agreement and approval of the by-laws
would be conditions of effectiveness of the Bank loan (Section 7.01(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement). In addition, for the purpose of reviewing credit
policies and monitoring this component, a credit committee, made up
of representatives of HCBM, INIPA, BAP and area farmers, would be
established within six months of the first IFAD disbursement. This committee
would meet at least quarterly and would provide the Bank with a report on its
findings and recommendations (Section 4.01 (d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
54.       The access road component would represent 25 percent of total
costs. HCBM would construct about 86 km of new roads and would upgrade about
95 km of existing roads (which are little more than dirt tracks). All roads
would be constructed or upgraded to an all-weather, gravel standard in order
to provide year-round access to the main towns in the area, the principal
farm communities and the main production areas. The project also includes
engineering services for final design and supervision of construction of
these roads. Design engineering for about 90 percent of the roads has been
completed and was financed by a PPF advance (para. 47). Designs for the
remaining road sections would be carried out once their economic
jlistificrtionr has been confirmed.  HCBM would present this evaluation



- 14 -
to the Bank for review by June 30, 1985 and the Bank would not disburse funds
against these remaining sections until their economic justification has been
shown (Section 4.05 and Schedule 1, para. 4(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Civil works under this component would also include construction of three
small boat landings in the Mayo river which could be used to move cargo in
and out of the area.
55.       Satisfactory maintenance of these roads is important and, there-
fore, the Government has agreed to ensure that roads in the project area
would be maintained and repaired.   This maintenance would be the responsi-
bility of the local government authorities -- with help from a maintenance
support unit (see below).   To assure this, agreements have been signed by
local authorities committing them to maintain roads under their
responsibility (Section 5.06(a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
road maintenance support unit would be established under HCBM. The project
would also provide for: (i) purchase of road maintenance tools and
equipment; (ii) construction and outfitting of a small equipment repair shop;
and (iii) technical assistance and training for road maintenance staff.
HCBM would present to the Bank for comment, by June 30, 1985, a program to
transfer the maintenance support unit to an appropriate local authority, and
this transfer would then be carried out by January 1, 1986 (Sections
5.06(c)(v) and 5.07(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, from 1983
onwards, the maintenance support unit's annual program for the forthcoming
year and the next year's budget for road maintenance in the project area,
would be presented to the Bank for comment (Section 5.07(a) and (b) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
56.       Other production support activities included in the project would
represent 17 percent of total costs. The most important of these, represent-
ing nine percent of total costs, would strengthen INIPA's agricultural exten-
sion and research services in the area. More specifically, it would provide
for construction of a local office for INIPA at Rioja and seven additional
facilities needed to support extension work in the area. The project would
also provide support for equipping and staffing these facilities, vehicles
for INIPA staff and in-service and external training programs. The design of
this extension component follows the lines of the extension activities being
supported in other regions of Peru under the Bank-financed agricultural
research and extension project (para. 45). As with that project, the aim is
to support the training and visit system of extension, which has been
successful in other countries in Latin America. INIPA's agricultural
research activities in the area would also be supported through the construc-
tion and equipping of two research stations which would carry out studies on
improving both crop and livestock production in the area. The project also
includes INIPA's incremental operational costs, including tteaining. The site
for one of the two research stations is not yet finalized. The contract for
construction of this center would not be awarded until the Bank has been
consulted on the proposed site (Section 4.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
57.       The irrigation works under the production support component would
consist of construction of a small dam and a main canal to divert water from
the Tonchima river to creeks and small irrigation canals financed under the
credit component. The area to be served by these works would be about 1,500
ha. The feasibility study of this component indicates that it would have a
base cost of US$1.5 million. Prior to construction, however, further study
of river flows would be done and this might yield a cheaper solution. After
this further study, HCBM would submit final designs to the Bank for review
before September 30, 1984 (Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). The
water charges for these works would be maintained at a level sufficient to



- 15 -
fully cover operating and maintenance costs and as much as practicable of
investment costs in view of the users' ability to pay. In this respect, HCBM
would submit a proposed system of charges to the Bank for review within three
months of the award of the contract for construction of the works. After
giving due consideration to the Bank's views, the system for water
charges would be implemented within three months of completion of the
works. Finally, charges would be reviewed annually by MA's regional
irrigation office -- and adjusted as warranted thereafter -- to take account
of the effects of inflation and any changes in the users' ability to pay
(Sections 5.04 (a) to (c) of the draft Loan Agreement). The project would
also include provision of additional staff, office space, vehicles and
equipment for the district office responsible for irrigation works in the
area.
58.       The land clearing equipment to be purchased by HCBM under the
project would consist of ten crawler tractors with associated equipment and
spare parts. These would be used by HCBM or rented to individual farmers.
Because the soil in the project area is fragile in places, special equipment
would be provided so that land clearing could be done carefully. In
addition: (i) operators would be trained in the use of the equipment before
it is put into operation; and (ii) HCBM would obtain full cost recovery on
its rental operations (Sections 4.04 (a) and 5.04 (d) (i) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
59.       The storage facilities built by HCBM under the project would
provide sufficient capacity for about 3,000 tons of maize seed and fertil-
izers.  These facilities would be tranisferred to an appropriate Government
agency on completion of the project (para. 71).
60.       Under the fisheries sub-component, HCBM would construct facilities
for fish farming. Once completed, these would produce fish for consumption
and young fish (fingerlings) which would be sold to local farmers for growing
in their own ponds. Fingerlings produced in the facilities would be sold, by
the Ministry of Fisheries, at prices sufficient to recover the full cost of
of production (Section 5.04 (d) (ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
61.       The forestry sub-component would be aimed at strengthening the
effectiveness of forestry management and conservation efforts in the area.
In order to do this, the project would provide for construction, equipping
and incremental staffing of three local offices for the national forestry
agency as well as two forestry police control points. It would also include
the purchase of the necessary vehicles to help with forestry control and
funds for a public awareness program aimed at educating the local population
on the need to protect forestry resources. Finally, under this component the
MA's forestry department would carry out an inventory of forestry
resources in the project area and prepare a development plan for them.
62.       The local mapping and titling component -- representing four per-
cent of total costs -- would cover the preparation, by MA, of detailed maps
of the project area, which are necessary so that titling can be completed.
MA would also prepare less detailed maps of the entire Alto Mayo valley,
which would provide the basic information for cadastral, land preparation,
land protection and conservation work. The project would support a program
designed to provide titles to almost all settlers in the project area, as
well as the one native Indian community that does not yet have title. This
is important if settlers are to have the security to use long-term credit to
improve the productivity of their holdings.



- 16 -
63.       The project would include a social infrastructure component which
would represent seven percent of total project costs. The health sub-
component would introduce a primary health system into the area using the
same basic concept -- i.e., preventive health care promoted through increased
use of health aides -- whic- 1-s being introduced into four other regions of
Peru under the Bank's propoced Primary Health Care project. 4/ More
specifically, the health subcomponent would provide for constructing and
equipping four health centers and 11 health posts in the project area, as
well as training of some of the health staff who would be assigned to these
facilities. Training of the remaining medical staff for these - many of
whom currently work in the local hospitals -- would be done under the primary
health care project. In addition to improving health standards, the project
would provide water supply to some of the communities and install latrines in
these areas.
64.       The education sub-component would cover construction and/or comple-
tion of primary school buildings and housing for teachers in about 40 commun-
ities. While there is, currently, a shortage of teachers for the schools in
the area, this is expected to be overcome using graduates from three regional
training facilities which have recently been opened up. This component also
includes funds for school equipment and teaching materials (including bilin-
gual materials for native communities).
65.       Support for project management as well as studies and other
technical assistance would represent eight percent of total costs. It would
include assistance for HCBM's local office in Moyobamba through construction
and equipping of offices, housing and dormitories for staff and construction
of a small field office in Nueva Cajamarca. It also includes vehicles,
contracting of additional staff and incremental operating and maintenance
costs. In addition to the studies mentioned elsewhere in this report
covering forestry (para. 61), river flows (para. 57) and agricultural
research (para. 56), the project would include a semi-detailed soil survey
and a land classification of the project area (which would be used to guide
future development), studies of the impact of the project on the native
communities (para. 72) and a feasibility study for a possible follow-up
project. The terms of reference for all studies would be approved by the
Bank (Section 4.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
66.       Finally, the technical assistance component of the project includes
funds for the preparation of a national map of Peru using satellite imagery.
Peru has urgent need of improved map coverage since resource maps of the
country are limited and basic topographical maps -- at scales useful for
planning, engineering or development purposes -- cover only the western third
of the country. Improved mapping of the country would permit more effective
regional and development planning and hence improve design of future develop-
ment projects for the country.
67.       Technical assistance provided under the project would require about
55 staff months of expatriate support and 84 staff months of local consultant
support. The average monthly cost of consultants, including travel and
subsistence is estimated to be about US$10,000 for foreign experts and
US$2,000 for local experts. All consultants financed under the loan would
have qualifications acceptable to the Bank and would be hired in accordance
with Bank guidelines under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
(Section 4.04 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
4/ See the Primary Health Project President's Report (No. 3400-PE) dated
November 5, 1982.



- 17 -
Project Cost and Financing
68.       Total project cost is estimated at US$83.5 million.  This does not
include taxes and duties as investments in this area are, by law, tax
exempt. The foreign exchange component of the project is estimated at
US$37.6 million, or about 45 percent of total project costs. US$5.8 million
has been included for physical contingencies, reflecting an average of
nine percent of the base cost of the project. Price contingencies are based
on projected international and local price increases (in dollar terms) of
eight percent in 1982 and 1983, seven and a half percent in 1984, seven
percent in 1985 and 1986 and six percent thereafter. Local cost
contingencies were calculated in US dollar equivalents on the assumption that
variations in the exchange rate would compensate for the difference between
local and international inflation.
69.        Total financing required for the project is US$84 million includ-
ing a US$443,350 front-end fee.   The proposed Bank loan of US$30 million
equivalent would represent about 35 percent of the estimated financial
requirements for the project, including $21.9 million in foreign costs, the
front-end fee and US$7.6 million in local costs. Bank financing of local
costs is justified by: (i) the importance of the project in developing a
potentially highly productive frontier region in Peru; (ii) the need to
improve social conditions in the project area; And (iii) the current fiscal
and balance-of-payments difficulties faced by Peru. IFAD would finance
US$15.7 million of foreign costs and US$3.3 million of local costs, for the
credit and monitoring components.  IFAD's loan would be made to the
Government and would have a 20 year term with interest at four percent. The
remaining US$35.0 million equivalent in local costs would be provided by the
Government and beneficiaries. A total of US$900,000 of the proposed loan
would finance retroactive expenditures for project start-up incurred since
March 1982. The main uses of these funds would be for providing office
facilities, vehicles and equipment for the HCBM unit in Moyabamba.
Project Execution
70.       HCBM would be directly responsible for executing most components of
the project except for the agricultural credit, research and extension and
mapping components which will be carried out with the assistance of
specialized agencies (see para. 71). Assignment of executing responsibility
to a project unit of this type -- i.e. one which reports to the Prime
Minister -- has proved to be the most effective way of executing rural
development projects in Peru. HCBM already has experience in
the successful management of the USAID-financed Huallaga Central project,
which should help ensure that the proposed Alto Mayo project would be
implemented smoothly. HCBM has established a technical directorate in
Moyobamba which would have responsibility for day-to-day execution of the
project and HCBM would continue to maintain a liason office in Lima (Section
4.01 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement) because experience with similar
projects has shown that this is needed to ensure that the project is properly
coordinated with other ministries. The project would be managed by
the Technical Director who would be located in Moyobamba. He would be under
the general supervision of the Executive Director of HCBM in Lima. Suitable
directors, who are fully satisfactory to the Bank, have already been
appointed, but assurances would be obtained at negotiations that the
Bank would be consulted on the qualifications and experience of any proposed
replacement for these positions (Section 4.01 (c) of the draft Loan
Agreement).



- 18 -
71.       HCBM would consult with officials of the various government
agencies normally responsible for the activities (e.g. the Ministries of
Transport, Agriculture, Education and Health) regarding issues (such as
design changes) which might arise during project implementation and would
turn over the facilities to these ministries once they are completed (Section
4.12 of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, two components of the
project depend on the active participation of legally autonomous agencies.
In these cases, HCBM would sign formal agreements with these agencies
covering their responsibilities, as follows:
(i) INIPA -- which would provide research and extension services and
execute certain studies;
(ii) the National Mapping Institute (ONERN) -- to carry out the soil
survey and classification and the national mapping component.
The agreements with INIPA and ONERN would be signed by June 30, 1983
(Section 4.03(a)(i) and (ii) of the draft Loan Agreement) and would have to
be satisfactory to the Bank.
72.       During execution, special care would be taken with project monitor-
ing to ensure that project's objectives are being achieved (para. 77). The
IFAD loan would provide US$400,000 equivalent to help finance project
monitoring. The Technical Directorate would set up a monitoring unit within
six months of the signing of the IFAD loan agreement (Section 4.10(a)(i) of
the draft Loan Agreement). The unit would work with INIPA in monitoring not
only the execution of the physical components of the project but also the
success of the agricultural development activities and the social and
environmental impact of the project. The funds would be used to finance the
studies of the native communities, technical assistance and salaries for the
monitoring unit. The terms of reference of these studies would be agreed
with IFAD.
Disbursements and Procurement
73.       The proposed loan would be disbursed over six years against the
following eligible expeditures: (i) 85 percent of expenditures on civil
works; (ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for imported vehicles and
equipment; (iii) 90 percent of total expenditures for locally-procured
vehicles and equipment; and (iv) 100 percent of total expenditures for
cartography, aerial photography, technical assistance, training and
studies. Road works, with a total value of about US$17 million would be
procured under international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. Land clearing equipment, except for two units to
be financed retroactively, with a total value of US$1.8 million would also be
under ICB procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. In ICB, local
suppliers and those from Cartagena Agreement member countries (or any other
regional trade agreement acceptable to the Bank of which Peru is or may
become a member) would be accorded a preference representing the difference
between the prevailing duty actually applicable and the duty applicable to
goods imported from non-member countries, or 15 percent on the c.i.f. price,
whichever is lower. The regional preference would not be applied, however,
if a domestic manufacturer was determined to be the lower bidder after
application of the domestic preference. Most of the remaining vehicles and
equipment and civil works, with a total value of about US$3.1 million would
be too diverse to be packaged for ICB and would therefore be procured through
local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. The Bank would



- 19 -
retain the option of permitting some civil works to be done under force
account. Equipment which cannot be grouped into packages exceeding US$50,000
would be purchased through local shopping, up to a value of US$200,000.
74.       Government agencies in Peru have had difficulty in executing civil
works components of Bank projects in the past because they sometimes have not
had the funds needed to pay civil works contractors promptly while waiting to
be reimbursed by the Bank. In order to permit more rapid provision of funds
for the roads component of the project, the Borrower would establish, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, a dollar-denominated special
account in the Banco de la Nacion into which funds from the proposed Bank
loan would be advanced (Sections 3.07 (a) through (e) of the draft Loan
Agreement). This account is expected to consist of an estimated three months
Bank disbursements for road works at any time. By March 31, 1983, the
Government would also, for its part, establish a revolving fund -- in the
Banco de la Nacion and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank --
which would be used to pay the contractors. This second fund would consist
of not less than two months payment needs and would be replenished by the
Government with its counterpart funds -- and withdrawals from the special
account each time a payment is made (Section 4.01 (e) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The Bank's initial deposit in the special account would not be
made until the revolving fund was established and the Government's initial
deposit made (Section 3.07 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Benefits
75.       The rate of return for the F;9 percent of the project with quantifi-
able benefits is conservatively estimated at 18 percent. The main quantifi-
able benefits would be the additional agricultural production in the area
that would occur as a result of the project. Sensitivity analysis shows that
project benefits could be reduced by about 50 percent, or costs increased by
about 50 percent and the economic rate of return would still be over 12 per-
cent.
76.       The main agricultural development investments (credit, etc.) would
benefit about 8,500 farm families (50,000 people) in the area. Through these
investments, the area under crops and pasture would be expanded from about
26,000 ha to about 52,000 ha, and agricultural production would increase by
nearly 80,000 tons per year. The main product, rice, would increase by about
55,000, tons thus saving foreign exchange of about US$9.1 million annually.
In addition, production of maize, cassava, beans, milk and beef would
increase. As a result, average incomes of the farming families in the area
would double. The project would also provide about 12,800 families (73,000
people) -- about 60 percent of whom live in absolute poverty -- with urgently
needed access roads and social services which, because of the recent rapid
development of the area, are grossly inadequate. Improved management and
technical support in the areas of forestry and soil conservation would
help guard against environmental damage, which often is a result
of spontaneous development of agricultural frontier areas of this type. The
native Indian communities in the area would also participate directly in the
agricultural development components of the project and these communities have
been consulted fully on all aspects of project design (para. 77). This
should improve their incomes considerably and help gradually integrate these
families into the local economy, while helping to preserve their cultural
identity. Finally, the project would help further strengthen a key regional
development agency (HCBM) and would serve as a prototype for future
development activities in the Ceja de Selva.



- 20 -
Project Risks
77.       The complexity of the project raises a risk that delays could occur with
project implementation. However, the fact that HCBM has previous experience in
successfully carrying out a similar project -- which was completed ahead of
schedule -- should reduce this risk. Furthermore, technical assistance would be
provided for a number of specialized aspects of project execution. The fact that
the project involves development of an environmentally sensitive area encompassing
indigenous settlements, raises the risk of adverse environmental or social
effects. Special care has been taken in designing the project to protect against
environmental damage and to plan development in a way which will protect the
interests of the Indian communities. Under the monitoring activity, the project's
environmental and social impact will be carefully watched during project execution
so that any problems which do arise can be promptly identified and acted upon
(para. 72).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
78.       The (i) draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Peru, the Banco de
la Nacion (which under Peruvian law must be a signatory to all external loans to
the Government) and the Bank; and (ii) Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
79.       Special features of the project are referred to in the text of this
report and in Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness of the loan would be
the signing of the IFAD Loan Agreement, the appointment of the Bank as
co-operating institution to administer the IFAD loan and the signing of the
subsidiary agreement with BAP and approval, by BAP, of the credit by-laws relating
to the project. Disbursements against the final 20 km of roads to be constructed
would be conditioned upon the Bank's review of an analysis of the economic
benefits of these.
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
81.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
November 19, 1982



- 21 -                                           AiSNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PERU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE5GES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                            - MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL           1285.2                                 MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     305.5              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 290.0        470.0     930.0                  1902.0                    2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    417.3        662.7      716.1                  1259.9                    2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOPULATION, KID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 10181.0    13461.0   17379.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 46.3         57.4      67.4                    65.7                      47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       27.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         48.8
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2080
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        7.9         10.5      13.2                    35.2                      83.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     33.3        45.0       55.5                    92.5                     155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.6        44.3       42.9                    39.7                      31.1
15-64 YRS.                         52.0        51.7       53.8                    56.1                      61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.4         3.9        3.5                     4.2                       7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.4          2.8       2.6                     2.4                       1.6
URBAN                              5.1         4.9        4.2                     3.8                       3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.5         41.5       35.9                    31.4                      23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    20.0          14.8      10.9                     8.4                       9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.3          3.0       2.4                     2.1                       1.6
FARILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
POOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          96.0       102.0       77.0                   110.0                     116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   98.3        97.2       97.5/c                 108.4                     125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          64.0        60.1       59.2/c                  66.0                      92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       28.0        25.1       24.0/c                  34.0                      35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     37.8        20.2        9.5                     5.6                       9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   47.4         53.1       58.1                    64.2                      67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          162.9       119.7       87.7                    64.2                      65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             14.6        35.0       48.3                    65.6
URBAN                             30.2         58.0      60.0                    78.9
RURAL                              0.8          8.0      25.0                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         36.0      34.0                    59.3
URBAN                               ..         52.0      51.0                    75.3
RURAL                               ..        16.0         ..                    30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2011.7       1904.9    1532.4/c                1617.3                    1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     2205.Od    1000.5      676.177                1063.5                     634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            425.1        469.6     538.3/c                 477.4                     286.8
URBAN                            273.8/e     524.9      426.47c                 679.8                     192.0
RURAL                                ..     3055.2    5705.2/c                 1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        19.0      23.0/c                  27.3                      20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.9          4.8/f
URBAN                              4.8          4.97       .
RURAL                              4.9         4.67T
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.3          1.9/f
URBAN                              2.0          1.77?.
RURAL                              2.7          2.47?.
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             26.0         32.0/f
URBAN                             50.7        54.3/f       .
RURAL                              4.2          2.77r



- 22 -                                                          ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
PERU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 83.0        103.0     112.0                     104.3                     102.4
MALE                  95.0       111.0      115.0/c                  106.4                     107.1
FEMALE                71.0        96.0      108.0o h                 103.3                      99.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 15.0         30.0      50.0/c                    41.3                      60.2
MALE                  18.0        34.0       53.0o7                   40.4                      66.4
FEMALE                13.0        26.0       46.0/c                   41.8                      54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  19.9          17.1       18.3/c                   33.7                      31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            33.6         35.5      40.2                      29.9                      25.8
SECONDARY                          12.3         17.3      29.2                      16.7                      22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        61.0         72.5/f    79.7                      79.1                      75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.8         17.1      18.6/c                    42.8                      51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        108.0        135.1     147.5                     270.5                     157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.2         29.3      50.2                     107.7                     123.7
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..       123.3      51.4/c                    63.7                     112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  6.4            ..         ..                      2.7                       4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3186.8       3891.8    5149.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   21.2         20.8      23.2                      24.4                      36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              52.5         48.0      40.0                      31.3                      38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.6         18.4      18.5                      23.9                      25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 31.3        28.9       29.6                     33.6                      44.5
MALE                                 49.6         45.8       45.5                     50.4                      56.3
FEMALE                               13.2         12.0       13.7                     16.8                      32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5         1.7        1.6                      1.3                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT Of PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   39.0/S
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  64.4Th        61.0J/f
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2 57s         1.97        .
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    8.07j         7.07        .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..     235.0/c
RURAL                                 ..          ..     18O.07E                   184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..     293.0/c                   518.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..     200.7/c                   371.1                     406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      49.0/c
RURAL                                 ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
la   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977;  /d 1964;  /e 1962;  /f 1972;  /g Personal income within labor force.
May, 1982



- 23 -                                                                              ANNEX I
D7TIIOF scow. 1rooams                                                             Page  3  of  5
Notes;  tloftogh rtel  ars are dreos  frs torens  ate..rally jotssd  rite me               ioitto    a   -c l"Iale, i  etood also  ht notd tet they ey hto   -   ote--
-aloslyco rteites   of rio  1tok of etaderdise  d  fit1tcio                       tad co..cepts 050  by di,ffeetto-       reoo   aleto   the tote             T. i. da Itta..   os
theIsts,. o.olol to dt-t.rh   orde.  o         nr.       I.Ai..t. iteds, aa  hitareTrie  iterat   etior differ t  heeL _                  oatts
ri.otesessrut  r  (i) the s-a  c-,ty 5rotp of the eubjeor -cotaty and  (i) a c-ttr  getw  emit s-t-e  higher ae-ragetoe   thIt the t--er   stoop
of the  _bj_c  i--ttr  (excpt for    "015it boon    oil  epo-rare" stoop there "Iiddlt I.c. .  North Afri-t an  Middle dor  it  ite-  btsoeo    of ares
tod It to  toLtee, ceoioo  ea  h    -oriesd to r                     -o .S nta.. of ttIndicato  to  Tnathe.     -Thet          Ioete .o ar    ..i.osftl in, coePeto  the volt-  of
too  L.iod -cco      tro iha a s the  _itoe      Ily tedrferoc   proo..F.
Otto  tittoosont eq...)                                         Poroletlan  tot  oeticel set - total  orbon . thercocci- Poyplat itt  total
Tot-l - Total t_rf-  aIta oorii               .od ares  od iloladetae   1979 data.                      ota.cd   oa)0lotei            tpthi=sp  tics  ta-sro   hospital rode
OAri-olira ..     ett. tso tItiolrealrca so  teprar-tilp  or p- -an                   Iy                cotal   nrtlcodrbt    eta   o   rctue    oeIolaOe
foI  rpe -    attes  seret cad kitohote gard-o  or to lie  falloe; 1979 dat,tailrttn   err. btoettas_ae ee helie ters   sraaotI=   otef fd
hy dt I..e. ore phy. 1015.   poeiihet    todr    rrci-pal lyceo
GNP Pin CAPITA (tail   GNIP per cap iote   ar.a   orreot takr ,pcic-. -o-                                 dial -ore ace oa   oaaa             trl htoepital.,    -         ioes . tlode health
c-lated  cy -se      cerlt  ehad as World teakAtlee  (197940 beeiei; l1960.                             aod  -etoL   cntt  o    ereerl     s _ = Y-fed  tyaIptesii' hot  'Ip
170, dat18    aa                                                                                      sedlclatl  rot  toe,eirie.acl  ih otfar It-patient toom
EtERGY COtSUtQFTION PEt  CAPITA - oool  oooeio   f -coetial  tons   (co                                   clc-1 porposes oteb heirl                     WHloe uO. potil- l  p ter Ihoeitl
ted 1,It.ot.ytrbo.vc,a   a ....tydro                     . -tclo  artad o  oa I zIro-                   aI earsl h.octt le  loca  or total           eite  tad tedro-  iod.L earcir
itririty   I                              I..eooico   qto   pe  capita; 1960. 1970, tot 19l9             eter.  Stec-cl ted'hospital. e  c  ~LtcIdsd .oly totrd           otL.
date.                                                                                                 oteleics- Per Htapital tod - Totl-          seo    dseit   oo  di-h-fec5e
foo  hospitals  dlorde4 hbisy      e a  ofta.
Pc'PILACIOt AND V1ITAL STATISTICS
Tocal Pocplalito , fid-fear. (thooetodr) -aof Jaly 1; 19611, 1915,. ad 19110                       110119190
dardI                                                                                              An'r.a  Sieo2roeod  cea.cotathl                            -ttl  arise. ard toce-
di yrer.   defhitco-  of -rac  Irsde tay etffe  tco tr-ilitt  of oar                               art thea  cab  e-I..  A ioa,rdero  lte   -y  or-y tot he intioded in
eag otoc;19it. 970fO. ted  1960 data                                                       etc hedertld forec. irclp.ep.s..
tosioProtct- or                                                                                Arerep  ootar of PIrTc   oar coos-Iota               rboc-s. and  1-e1-trpava
Po a iati  teat100  - Cacre..  papo,lariat etoJlnciao   rce hatd 00 1980                      hoc of porene  per roa  in aTL  e . V              -dace  occapiat  -on.tt-el
total popolatto  hy age  ed see cod their eetality  seafertlIty ese.telige    epaotileiy.  dtllnaetld.'-poenaoee-                                                          otoestd
Prlctc    ptesteea  for  -rtllty  ctetterripe  of  hthre  level  tatsLWnopedpe.
lag  I tie ropecteoy s   tf     ilaraen   atcttt  a  a  aspire  brace                            acest  tlecriaeI"rcert of delli,oseI                            -bool,oro, otO  toed   -
les   a   easll I P-csr    rbItin   at 77.5 years.  Th. pars-                          Cot.to  ioa  a.tlpotiaec-aip11    cipqtaneea  percentage
ase, -o  fertiItIy ost  aleo  -ee   thrs   Itol  aaaia   slo   i                               of t-ti, otbot. tot tool d..ell ineerti-elv.
tact  EoaDUatCasltdota   he  vn    abatat  iorclp                                             IIATION
at etltyic oefrProj tatto    tparyea.                                                      Adi-bere  lEtl11eot tatL-
Plocro   1-ootlv  - r.cotetlotarp  popolalior there  Lc to groh  iaa-                        Poeay   tioo  -              -otltl  tnd tea-Ic- Crat    ca.tl   heftl
er's  t otitree  Itetoalto te dtelt  are.   tt dce te  ag   Orrolorees-              craleert  f el  a ge att he  riscp  lesl O  paccetoge ofoteprtiy
1,Its choctac. iThq'Ia ie ecive    al    ftrftt Iapttn    el  o  to1                                  rIatpsho-p    oaale;tr_lolcoe                               tte    pa6I
-tt n-e   oeh,t b.ele of the pra7ectad  chceoartrit  of the   ootoc                                     otet  popil   t    lt   rsoecte official eccoal  g
10crYeeelS0O.lideh. tIaof d-Iiofetiktrtetarrpace-S-cdatoataol -at.l.aclte.d f.sl-Coq"tt_dos-it"lt:oeco daty
too-at -1  ..tr Ypoeulr la  Is rta...hd - The pee  nba  -recototy papocartoen                           pro-c4sa teotrl.  -aerbe                -hr-esin  tot nho   lortrc Love  for yPis
010011 itleosacted.                                                                                  onalof ia -'7 years oft ge; cateontact. .er   5eoeralytp
Pco do. '2.- Md-y... popolorit per aqtar  rottc(100 hectaces) Iof                                   V_cocIdol_   or-leo   (-.r-atotos-oed'rv    - V-c-t.o-a  lestot  o...
focl de1   190  1P  ahe 1979 dare.                                                                 .ecoo    ceheitol   ,ledsttO.  or octet te-gra   echopnr  It4epad-
Per 09  t.                   I-ltloolla   - Coe-ott setlee  faI ptoloa   Ice                         at pora I'ldl,eat o  cttddpiehtae
cr1   16, 1970 the 1979 dera.                                                                IPool-reo  erc eta      rio     y   and deote     - T,:If edeteroldIn
?patolatit- Ste S-t-ocot  Ipercne  - _ChIldren  10-14 ysc.e..  entkhing-ap   115-                       -rsytd stoonsy levels dIiMdedbp    ~ o              s ce        oriths
ha (dre .dd rstcd (itS psore ad ...c  de I easres  of nod-pea  PoPo-                            cato-p-tdinglaa.
Latoo ;16.1970. and19110 dera.                                                                    hal 2c  5Iterstooat  (cerafze 1-   - Littsdtlte  Ilaetredod.a.it..
to"PI,"" t, et  rc G       reccee   - rate    --Iata  &-oh  oars  of coral sIt-                          .t.retgto   oIaol   aaait  go1   erS   h  ovr
ycd-  popoetloc  fcc 195000  190TO            dh lyToS
pcctotlo   Ocotit  eer  coravt. -r...                      .....eaetttae   of -".e poet.-   CONiSUMPTION
loas    Irt  ta-n  Iost .hoaoa   - datoal live hirtch  per thoas...d of old-pee                     Ioe             ...i le  the   tight pt....re;Isacloa   taclorcee. itero-..t
poplatoc;196 .  970  ac  19110 d-.a.                                                           rc Ioy    !cil  e..
Crate DeaL  lt tots    , 17cchoosa) - htadol deoce  per thoto..nd. ai d-pea...l  tcLost  (Pee thotao"                                        vltae(-oltpt    cci eftIPdol
,popIoletin; 1961. 1970. aIt1990dat.                                                                   btr-ettos    to geerltpl.      c  e   hote  of paple tt;et dltt f-'
boos tprd_iat   al _-Ave_an   vots-  of doaghitersI ote  atll hear It                               1!,:cetsed rseor  Iatontn   eti  pecy                 atr  elecr         oo.i
her tasa   -op -Oaelo  paciod it sc   op.          eae   prteor is-ep- if lae-                        notc    nrfa;   aaitrco   Yeert tap  -a  oe coeperbleett
clIcy otteep ...ll II las-pa    -ocgsrdacgtL Ia 160  1970, sod 1990                                 tola.rrieshol eee   I icate,R,
reallyPlatcts-Cstr    ceccer of -c tat  ssoc)      Peln .ro   or eandltorieadI   nc bnIegtrra - a  of                                                 I- nets    ..s Itefea.
oaas  ofceil-iscinaoge115-4 pace)ohoonei.-ith-cotrcol   doicespco                      ptolat Ier CIrcala  Ia   etc t ad ..   p pal-Lat tool -  casIC eaaecate Ilr
tIl eateted vase  It.`                  MOI. so..ntag.o gcarap.                             ncalarir af     d ''daiy.9eare  ioaarcnepc..df                odcpe   ois
potli-titia    dtvotd priseily  to reorie   ger-a  veg. i  It  otdet..t
F00) AND tNtTITION                                                                                        to is "Sa.lly" if it  appeare  .estt.            rtaseeI .
lodroo   toot  oadoahoe ee  Ctctt  (196-71-101  - tdoo of per -spitaantol             L-- loe ..Iota  Oce narsye  C.pica per tea-tost  n  he o.ahbr of
ptoooctiao   l   oo    o         lie    Pradacio  toto-t   eted. ar  fst.a.icossd                                    dotlg  the year. Inlac     inle   oesttedrive-inlve
ineteod of eta        hiba  dr    ldble"  oooeooteoe(..cft   a
-e   r   a laded).   grgt  trdtao           f eaIt  ttt    Is  ..e.  00                     CAtWP tRCE
collard1 testat  pttocr price-          l s   1991~~-6.1970, and 1989 data.                        Toa  Lbp   ot  (hosre   - ti-ot-ale   do   ptts  loc.itig
Par -sr It   oply of c"aIotl          prtedL of too      ari      owrd Iros                            armed foresth  toep ype   itt ro loota  toosasiese   steaa.   tc.
teey   ecita-a  of  _s  load -aP' lie   avilbl                  _tat.r    per canto                  -avringpoooca  o   llaseI                elli_te    oaron              ate   c
pee day.  Available soPpplie. api.   Ot-teL               praduatein. Iote  late                     oat -Np .a.abIe; 1960. 1970en  19110 dane.
soparte. ahe obope  in stak.  9s-  atyplise  stIteoisal last,rest.                                   Psl        oell-Psl   ao   focosa ..   rascape. of coral labo   rloe..
to-rtlo  tod It foad pro-esai. cod   se   in dotrbai.                       "eqice                    aicloe(Iec-                  Lbrfara   alceag         ,frerc.hootienta
eetanrentarot by 7A0 bes ..  0. piryinasl dload  far ..,-sl  tcL-                                      flbe             -  tit of tota  L labo  'fore   19'I97          Ot 99    t
ctr   te  ealh   ontdttneatrantl   oepcaor. htyneght.  gslocety    erontIh    Laa  foc    tsna.ae-ec  o.svf  Lociep
and  ee   tartboiaoofppatt. ea   llig   0peer  far a at.at                                       sad eett   t.atrah  aeae ..pepaeasn  of roest labor force
it..o.hoId  leve; 1961-15, .970 sod 1977 dan.                                                          16.17           t19    as
teet ccpic .tpply .i prtttel  (at,-  car torI - Prorlei  coarser of per c-pi-otri P- icer tooPc   ceca=       tarn, -els, td fed.                                     -Tcti ls too
"et torey af load p-t dap    OsreorPply of faod Le daflod sa sit"'.  t`-                             aativittraraetC.oa               I.rst t cat. -ale. oct fcsele  1abar forcea
qoircettetsI for al        rtotrio-s  J ee i  sad by USDA proide for  llsis -p-rceo.o.ee  of tta,   l   ah  fettle  potcro                                      f all .g.. .e.e. tiol
elocts   ofi   ct  of "tota  protei  per day the  00 area  of laed                   dh               1960. 1970'..an  19Sf dt.c.  Those ar   ..sed or ILI.s p-ctc ttit   cite
poa Iroeo f   tac    0ga 6ol   eaislpott                         ee   te-cfga  t    p-at:totc   of It. poalra tit Id"  tILe  tetod.AI
:,Ide  are  Ite   thl  chos  of 75 gra-a  rof      t   rrt h 1       0L""'' g  Ir ffiretetett  ftr- oat totl eac
actea  proaivasan aerep    f    hetcd.  -pro..ee  by  .h  to tot  mItt                      T,oeoi  Otesdnect RLa           -  tottofa poItciv  toter 15 codl 65 citove
Oar Id Food lo-e,; 19t1-.65. 19Pf et  197 aa,t  the toa ..                                                            t hobt force
P., caPtlt   potein toppLy ftosoio   ar  rles -retrain  sPpyly of food do-
oleed frctlaeea-oeei  greet pea dy, 196I-65. 1970 aed 1977 Sara.                                 1011090  IESTtIIfTtSf
Childaese  -4) atte dte (cr chotoodi - Aaol teeh. per  h..oa... dePreaso Ioitte nta   (bath Itcob  n                                              dl"    -Rttees   op richest
Y---oo .1Ayers  t  cchinlidr        leag  gaa,fo  at   eelpig   00ritpotet,cch-c10pccrtIpare  1  p40rt.ar  pore  A  pcte
tcleooI decit-  free  lfe  cale  1960  1970 oa  t990 tetLe.                                       of ho...ehotde.
4EaLTH                                                                                               700117Y TARGEf GROUPS
LIfe E-tElvy  rbrt    yep(      vrtr. et-e  of years of life   osatieg                               -h olet   et  e    r  aery oppco- .el  a ..... f   oeovaes
01 itireh    90  17   a 19     90dos.dd eh-id te  oesopretedl chil on- loarbi lacau  o.
lotao  trol'htt  (e   cooadl - -a.-a  teehe of lofoor. andeeto   pear                                 -inll-rd Ahe_lote P_ot  Iota   L-te  111  tre$ P cplel-dra    t-t  .rot
ofatpe   loeo    Ie   tic;160   90  v   96   aa.tcloepone   oc                                                             eelliatlctelvl  o  n  hya  ite
occeestoS l.Otr(eet of1.   "'W'oio  I-Otl 'W ce.aotrl-vn roritralp d1tos   Ie hposesoio-l                                                               .. roefod  tt-iceat Is  at1
tat of people  total. ortcv. ahe octet) totelt pecsodaile access.t..eelsIof-fordshl
osteropplp  int ldas tretsd   oc-aa   isreh  orotsee   a    attat.ts                      atttt  esto   'ooe    ls   ly                  Il  e   elIa:thlddd5 
p   .trtoeeo  cit cl teepeI ct. e  pcpi.. .... ia. ie.looethzoctr     pohtrd                     pe----dRolIct      o Pi.-tty tt  I      rr- t laoS1  Is doctor   lea. the  focl
to  at  eestooped sdiproocentae   arr01  tt  .depI  f-ltc-e   clita                        toa-t'-p.
toreeto  rtror  Ictesal ~c oeva  r                                              -oploilel -Ioto--atita.rheIcrali
peretrge   ofther  eepoc vep'ph   a tans h'  to "ei     tpos  sep  laal.oldsadrrlpp11.C,:                                                               ~.
tI   aLlec .i.det         draposal, nieb  c  t.  .-tfp  droes.yo          hi aocera
a'::!e'Y'          yots-dt  eea               rtatso  tttits   a    la
lAr  oteI       ros
rootitptPiteiia -bPrlta    ito    paoe   fpatIelgpp  -Ioat   o    o  dDt    l.cb
o tteqo -lt!dfotateie   boola   dcctyInvl.Iodl   tleaotPolo  oeDrce
ofoeia   t   tt.ri ..a Peoa- t apala to EOvdo   r  ctto dpof. preyt -ingSOd16
vorsiog.... stahor..l..taci,oIis



9172     77713     79 72    19715     1976     197       2978      2979     2940           -l- 192           1
722777, 7177774279 973)             2252.~~~~~~~~~~~9 lI: I37I   222.7I W 27. 1   1722.9   2117.9   2799.9   4266.4   439.9.       42 I7          79.
1923727 (777274279 9767        1272.9   1222.7   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~2262.    30222-7   2925.7   269.    227.2 9292I 92 I            4952.0          52.
30.770772 9. ~~~~~~ 72.7 27UU--1      5~~~~0.2    -5.9 -64.   -237.9   -887 .2   -559.6    329.8   19471.2    675.7                -04.8          -227 .3
-1229   -79U.9         -26.    -4U.    392 -U.            57.       973 -U.                    -9U.           2687.9
27972772~~~~~~0 P.7..7U. ~~~~-7-.         227 -7.    -2.7    IU4.               U72.9   -59.        93.3 -225                  5U.               7.
37 .7275 4.7 P76277 821.7 to.7.    ~~~~~~~~-52.2    -93.  -2U.2   -29.6  -298-9   :-24.    -U27.2  :-259.    -52.                 -628               .
6.1.-7    74772777                                 37.7   -29.    -927.5  -7532.8  -291.9   -926.2   -292.9    293.29    -4.2                  -2595.9        -2692.
271317.77 8277227 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     24.2      29.1    22.9    325.7    272.8         32.1     272.      62.      26.9              273.9          32.2.
37.6o72...73                        287.2~~~~~~~~~~~~~II  967.2   7772.    1292.2   17442  22.4  9421. U.8   7322.3    1232.7     12..7
92777272.2727                     -137.2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _97.9   -719.    -292    754   -462 -246.2   -679.2    953.3            19.6...
72.3 67777.779                     ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~129.  762.5    759.6    93.9 99.0    92.     95.9   1692.1     277.2             227.2         2572.
0716771729273                 77.1     27.2      87.7     62.3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1:,  279 7.  92.8    91.2 282731.                           22
* 3~~~~7~~327.7777               -50.9    -28.5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~ -27:.9  5  -75.2    -44       732       79.2      7.               172.7            7.
7277 877777172                     ~~~~~~      ~~~~   ~~~~-37.7  9.,3    72.7  27.9  12.  -2.2    -72.2  3.2      63.5             242.7           62.
7777377.7. 72p20.O          23.7   -726.7    743.5   -152.2   -357.0    -97.5    -75.5    792.0    266.3                  267.9          122.30114  '7  1-
77672, 72727.2 (9231                 ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~-86.9    -91.61   -92.5    -15.6  0   0     -262.2      05.72      3.1              63.7          107.3
72.74. 27 . I    .     3~~~~~~..  ..       -5.2    -7.       :216    571           2.4     367       -.2 7209           022.3              58.1          -92.
1.72792 78 272.2.7772 729.722  977  I7,74   /  -1.    71.5    2931I  -237.0  -757.4    27.   -21025.           553.    726.               794.             2.
229774.263232 22478                   7972~    ~~~~~    ~~~~~ 7973  M97  725  1976    7977     1979      7979      7992             299            2985         2972-76    1!972-92    196-25    2992           199
8773~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 75.7                  25.      96.      79.1:5    21.      183    1.1 1629     19.       72.2.            442.9          597.7        32.         73.~3        7.         65           .
377727 777.,~7 477372          15.9     47.3      47.2      04.2    726.2    743.        90.1    157.7    259.4              470.2          95.7         67.9        13.7       19.7         6.272.
8777777,~~~ 277472 .73 3727272~~~~7279~~  77.7  "7.     99.2    227.4      262.      269.9     95.       170.0    26.                23.4,          36.2       626        -37          2.           I..
17797..37.37 3772.                   ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~332.6    339.6    564.1    922 602.0    6269 52747. .9 9711.3                                   798.          15.        70.         76.         22:.6       27.2
3.plo.2 474.3~~~~~~~~~~~~          197.7 ~~~~~ 317.7    429.2l    750.0    67.      6.        382      676 1252                  11.             38.           60         7.          2.           92        3.
077727 03j7.727273~~ .73977-277720277 4722  151.7    169.6    638.5  ~160.7    272.5    473.1    7'21.2    3003 307.5         321.          34.           9.          5.         2..                     4.6
776.7 2747. 77.7.6.1                 812~~~~~~~~~~~5,.2   13."9 1919.    2390.7   2792.    266.7   7604.5   2232.71   3061.7        3915.3         5824.         260l.7                 2.7,         9.         77.5
7777~~7747 3727727721                 297.9    967.7    553.1    637.2    522.31    532.       46.        66.3    926.5             7035.2         7694.61      146.1       12.74       74.9        2~1.7       22.3
57.  4772                                                    : 77742  77271 7126 70  2462.    372.0I  220.    2624.4   20709.1   2279.2   3908.2  45.         586          2.           74         7.         0.          0.
71...                                             219.5    1337.7l    201.8~   355.2l     1 77.   2,79.     267.8    237.0    76.135.                           303.2        -5.2         3.0         9.2        4.          :2.
3779..                         49.1      33.9     34.8      53.2    171.0    196.3    766.2    344.2    247.3                226.7          228.6        27.953       8.9:10.3               3.1 337
60oo..                                222~~~~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~ ~~.18.  325.7 30.  155.7    227.0    362.2    408.6   06 7.5    751.6  526.4       7 065.5        4.8       74.2         7.2         6.4        72.6
272772                                27.2      73.3      2.0.9   766.3      65.7      72.5     92.9 .2   2g   57Z2.47               52..          574.3.1      74.3 ,1.                              .          .
39578 927.7.7.                       789.~~~~~~~~~~~~~::3    225.     22292.  23.'366  I3.     2966      402.0    628.              572.7         1236.7        23.9         7    ~     1.           50        2.
P77771727., 1,73. .74 0.7072347..  2.5   75.0     26.2      37.3      53.3     52.2    176.0    645.73    797.5.626.4                       816.4        66.2 99.7               0.7        77.33       77.2
527.73 .047.                                3.        252      563       2.2      133.0    221.0    330.2    677.       037.6             69.           1229.5        492.0       77.1        151.4       727         9.
336727 4772.         196.6    200.7    357.7    365.9    204.7    179.6    759.6    217.0    107.7                  793.2          395.6         0.2-1.7715.284.7                               7.3
.7722 4773.                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~925.0   1722.    7530.0   7229.7    739.05  1725.    1947.    3271.0o  389.3   32497.0       5981.7         9.5        70           9235.                 2.
277927977 60,77772,                  ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~277.9    235.4    325.0    303.5    3951    412.2    256.3,    577.6    625.6     757.7         1329.4        76.7       77.5        13.9        15.0        72.0
773.4.0778. 272 277-9.7677 6077477272  1152.9   1347~I.4. a 160.    167.- 742 2778          09.    6266.1    595.2               404.7          094.3         17.69        73          97       10.          0.
1.373 2299927772226  7974  2975  1976  7977     1979      7979     7992                                                  7902      2373       1974       1975     1976       1677       7972      2977       7620~~~~~~~.972 -3  11~  175  1   ~l 1 7 ~ 9 6  9 ~
1923                                  2~~~~~~           ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~26.0  0  77. 60.7  7.9    772.0  60.0  20922  3239272.009
372727973727.7727.7                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~25.9  42.2    223.4  4224  33.5    73.7      99.6
399.2    329.7    643.5    434.9    022.        533 3    76.7.         73276   4.6227272 
170724.7.                            ~~~~~~    ~~~~~ ~~~~~~139.2  92.2    313.7    399.5  73.3 266 369        o  726. 7I47d3                        754.7    1427.7    2~227,.7      706 36.            477.       5402.    5927.       6204.2
747,770,1 27.70673477,               ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~596.2    432.9    799.8    360. 72. 867      585          6722702.7.24558                                   2377.2    323.0      203.    1555.         277        797     7969        97.
67,3,                                 ~    ~ ~       ~ ~       ~ ~~~~        ~    ~ ~~         ~    ~     ~~~~-  -  -  6.  0 -  -  7227265.,2        6.        39.I7.                 N4.      5.       633        797       632       12.
77.917 1-77                                  7375.9    947.2   192.3   178.4    229.    72517.7        71.           777295.                                             2.        1.         9.        9. 246.5            79.9   9243.1        526.7
0997 7209086 7847767 072697~ ~ ~ ~~~~~,:    1                      1          1:6       16:1 26:1             17:
33386064 2807 12712772723 3,2y7  077.3274479 .. of 2.o. 31, 2722~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e                                                :,l       1                       9       :~            8 
3774 C7oop                                   359.4         5.2                                           2.29 672,72.0.76073. 27277277=            75.5      22I.9      24.6       20.5     23.5       35.5       24.6     37.5        42.4
37777073641.772727                           7~~~~ ~ ~~55.  2.
077777.97,7.~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ 2243.2               4'2.22937347667
2151:'7    ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~    ~ ~ 797  .690.772.209                               174        2.        1.          46       73.2      23.9       2.         56        2.
.3371 876223941.7 2.60                      6~~~~~~~~~~~~~203.6  107.7                                                                              7         17         1                                        1          51          ,:
477.. 36.6./722728. 79772. 8767  ~25.3   28.7       43.6       76.6     75.91      42.2       42.61    42.3        32.59
Tr29  777.r8.710.9-  70771  977         67        2.         26.7      22.2    26.5        23.         43        7.         ..
T2727.o.8. -4U. -0.6o,...              34.3       42.       60.7       67.2      20.9      26.7       70.       76.7      -27.9
I.7  472  0s./7.  26.            35          .3        0.2       7.,4      2.2        0.        3.0       5.5        77.6
292 I30/00                             42.5       9.3        5.9        1.9      4.0        3.6        3.4      2.0          .
-27444777720/09                          12.5        97         57        12        4.7        3.6       72.4      4.          59
2320 0.67 230.227236.69 3.0.06.  9.5      4.         4.         4.2     4.3         3.          .553                2.9
82764777.246   72./b 2237.                95         91         27        4.2       4.3        3.4       3.5       72.5        7.6
933729,        - 777777.72229.-8777   47772-7-0--72797482



- 25-
"0006.Mt20999                                             965           2970          1975          2976         297           279           297984A                      199'            3995          M(5-o         97-0        9-5Zl
3.29o   f 06d l.1927plo.05
* OooOo  Foodopo                      ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~8902.  10695.6  1969   1471          13639.6       157.           202           4152           525            192559                         -6          53-22
loo.. Ooo..olo Oooo. 70952        8291.6         20825.6       131~~~~~-29.9  -1367.7     136509.6      13334. 9      -o58.9        15389.0        15399.          293502             .6.                    25               221
loots                                     1842.2         2290.1        2985.4        9997.7       2726.0        1899.7        2086.90       5024 il     3 9  3529572.2.                                  0.           .99
fopoot9                                  ~~~~~~     ~    ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~2394.73  2616.9  299.9  1999.9  7129.5  292.         2522          2579.5         2632.9          2,99.            .4.51         1 ,5                         5.
R..ooro. 4~p  9.o. of Toado A03o.o4 (-~ ..aplo.,    29.9  -590.7  2325.6         968.3        577.9        -906.        -2925.2.-206.9                  25.72290.9                      o..          .
Sot.A Sos.o..6896                     665.5         66~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~         ~~~~~~69.2  2132.5  2166.  2227.2  2277'2.3  126935      220.           129.5.5579...19..                                                          8.
lon.2.oot                                2~~~~~     ~    ~~~~~~~      ~~~~           ~~~965.1  2597.9  32020  2422  2944 'l 279.  292.      2398.9         2926.51         9749.7           9. 55                   025*
Oo.e.olc 6.oooo                           29~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'32.53 240  96 22072.9                467          2026          025.2         2924.8         2459.2          5562.9           23          1.5          491 
092 99*00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~69909 ~~~              ~               6         1                                                                                                       3         -
99018  X. 00 92..   (2977   2002
I      Jof9..  o.                                         79.6           205.0         80.2          94.7        i 20.           06          249           23.            22262.
0887    76028         5.6,2  800!                                                                                           1.629 9201102422
0097   .98  00  20  9085839T 992f OS                                                    PO.20 f                no                                      Pocootof          006Pestof                                                      009
0827  906                                                         2o00.oSosaI                                 Rt-.             00 3fhoooaoo             9T.2 -0O  SDlo.4o~o90
2970         90          29         90           7202.260                               2729              ~     2           i7 T 1950                         199           7(o
46554.(Aool. 91.6004)                                2534.2       2478            73       22.0        -0.           022.19      2048.9:       49.       4.2        1.            52.         6281.5       36.2       2.          -(.
200209(.0o60, -.oo.  9.02--   02.0)                         263        4722.4         36.5      392           3.9           269.2     2072           2.        95         90          99.          534          186       206.92.
009060.0 (.20 006.0.2                        6290~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~.9  6299.2  46.2  59.2       4.5          24697.6    2328.3'        95.6     42.5        5.           902.8      260.2         157.2     1222.9       -2.9
9o6.0/409999.                                8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          ~~~~~~845.3  22368.3  208.0  209.0  3.0  4288.6   5623.5        202.     2002.2       0.           2121.8    22203.5        222.0     20.0           0.4
(.   9oo   f 509....   4,9)                            2963           2970         2975         2970        20977        2979           2979      1990        2991          1992
500.00 0.oo3.2                                                               240           4.0          23.        2,3.5        14.~3         280         9.          26652
0400006 109.9000409              22.6           00.1          26.6          24.8       06.9         25.8         20.6        26.0        26.5          25.5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.  3:  0.
5000.06 0.o0o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.          0.9 ~~~~~~~    2.5          -.9          -.          -5.         -15            32          2.2         0.25
C.plo.O 9.908000oo0.                           5~~     ~     ~~~~          ~~~~         ~~~~~~~.9  3.7  45 .5 35  .2           3.7        4.7          4.21
EotoOo.2 fl.0.0.opo 392.t)                    ~~~~           ~~~~          ~~~~         ~~~~~~1.0  0.9 0.  2.9  9.0  2.2     -2.7         9.3          0.0
3.. 9.o....  . 98. T-    o.... fo.004                         968           2975          2876        27            98:                        09921 09V5..  imct
9.           6.            629.                     6.9                                                                       2992  olo.
44r900000                                                      3.6            4.4           .8            .3        3.60.8111
O6.o  --oo.0  -.oo...                                          5.             4.8          5.2           3.2        27                           00024. P2.j257.:2                                               1.
I                            d. ooO.  20000   .f.o...         90.4          42.07         069           5.          5222.6o9.  9402.  .02 80020                                        4         42.              0.3
009.68                                                    9.4           22.3         20.9          .5         2.28090                                                                      2689.4           20.2
Othoo                                          2.8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  3.5  6.2  355         2.59..00.o    ooos6o                                                       2347.~2          25.0,
-oo  540-9 ...p.940oo                                      20.           2990    2.0       0         290-0      270.0
T2   0.                                    21284.2          20M
cO m.62 000                                               2973        2-9'9        2925        1675         1970         1970       2977         2877        2987         1679         1679        2979         2902         1682 
7 86020oos of Sol.. 00000.00004~ ~ ~~~~~~~                 2.           9.          6.3isi,                                                       i          3            ' i                          7:,
90 060.0  of) .pootoOl,                                                                                                                           :0           6             ~,                       0            9
Moo.y .00 9.o.03oo.9                           99~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~25.3  220.0  292.  242.0       266.3        260.9       22.         223.         540         962          096.2         25.9       292.           2275.
Coosop  oO .  Wosot  S . (2977-290)                  37.5        43.          54372622.                                                                 5.9227                                             422.4
Io.oPl.100  o60.95                                                   2.          23.7                     33.95                   361.057867502                                                                               3.
~~~~-lit 1. "  5,:"  -':,                                                 23:,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~60060 9 16



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
A.    STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of September 30, 1982) 1/
Amount
Loan                                                         (less cancellations)
Number     Year           Borrower             Purpose         Bank    Undisbursed
--- US$ million ---
27 loans fully disbursed                                       409.2
949       1973    Republic of Peru        Education            24.0         1.5
1196       1976    Republic of Peru        Transport            76.5        17.0
1215       1976    Republic of Peru        Power                35.6         4.1
1281       1976    CENTROMIN               Mining               39.7         3.9
1283       1976    Banco Vivienda          Urban Dev.           21.6         8.0
1358       1977    COFIDE                   Industry            35.0         3.2
1403       1977    Republic of Peru        Agriculture          25.0        19.0
S-11       1978    Republic of Peru        Preinvestment         8.8         1.7
1771       1980    Republic of Peru         Irrigation          56.0        46.0
1806       1980    PETROPERU               Petroleum Prod.    32.5          20.9
1812       1980    Republic of Peru        Rural Dev.           15.0        13.1
1888       1980    Republic of Peru        Preinvestment         7.5         5.1
S-19       1980    SIDERPERU               Technical Asst.       5.0         4.6
1963       1981    CORPAC                  Aviation             58.0        56.9
1968       1981    COFIDE                   Industry            60.0        53.0
2018       1981    ELECTROPERU              Power               25.0        24.9
2064       1981    Central Reserve Bank  Industry               26.0        26.0
2091       1982    Republic of Peru         Transport           93.0        93.0
2117       1982    PETROPERU                Industry             5.3         5.3
2139       1982    SEDAPAL                  Water Supply        40.6        40.6
2150       1982    Republic of Peru        Agriculture          40.6        40.6
2179       1982    ELETROLIMA               Power               81.2        81.2
2195       1982    PETROPERU                Petroleum           81.2        81.2
2224       1982    Republic of Peru 2/   Technical Asst.    10.2            10.2
Total                                                   1,312.5
of which has been repaid                                197.2
Total now outstanding                                   1,115.3
Amount sold                           18.3
of which has been repaid            18.3                  -
Total now held by Bank                                  1,115.3
Total undisbursed                                                     661.0
1/   Since September the Bank has approved a US$17.3 million loan to Peru for the
Higher Agricultural Education Project. This loan was approved on November
1982 and will be signed shortly.
2/   Approved but not yet signed.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.    STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1982)
Type of
Year                Obligor                        Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1960         Industrias Reunidas, S.A.         Home Appliances   0.2         -      0.2
1960        Luren S.A. and
Ladrillos Calcareos, S.A.       Bricks              0.3      -       0.3
1960        Durisol del Peru, S.A.             Building
Materials          0.3       -       0.3
1960; 1962  Fertilizantes Sinteticos, S.A.  Fertilizers            4.1       -      4.1
1962; 1968  Cemento Andino, S.A.               Cement              2.3      0.2     2.5
1964; 1967  Cia. de Cemento Pacasmayo          Cement              1.1      0.5     1.6
1975         Southern Peru Copper Corp.        Mining             15.0       -     15.0
1978        Cia. de Minas Buenaventura         Mining              2.0      0.5     2.5
1980        Cia. Minera San Ignacio
de Morococha, S.A.              Mining              2.7      0.5     3.2
1981         Sogewiese                         Leasing             3.0      0.1     3.1
1981        Consorcio Energetico de            Power
Huancavelica                    Transmission        4.5       -      4.5
1982        Palmas del Espino                  Palm Oil           15.0       -     15.0
1982         Sociedad Minera
Gran Bretana S.A.               Mining              3.0      0.5     3.5
Total gross commitments                              53.5      2.3    55.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                             19.9     0.4    20.3
Total held by IFC                                    33.6      1.9    35.5
Total undisbursed incl.
participants' portion                               7.1       -      7.1



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of September 30, 1982)
Loan 949-PE:      Education Project; US$24.0 million Loan of December 5, 1973;
Effective Date: March 5, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project has experienced serious difficulties and is now about 40
months behind schedule owing to start-up problems including weaknesses in the
project unit and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. In order to resolve these
problems, the project has been modified to reduce its scope, increase the Bank
disbursement percentage, create a revolving fund and improve administrative
procedures (see President's Memorandum R79-59 of March 27, 1979). As a result,
the pace of project execution improved substantially and the project has now been
completed except for preparation activities for a second education project. An
extension of the closing date until February 28, 1983 is now being considered for
such preparation activities only.
Loan 1196-PE:    Lima-Amazon Transport Corridor Project; US$76.5 million Loan of
May 27, 1976; Effective Date: August 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Construction of the project's river ports component is almost
completed, although with some cost increases because of start-up difficulties.
There were serious delays in contracting for civil works under the road component
because of slow procedures and limited Government implementation capacity. These
problems have been largely overcome and construction is now underway on all
project components. The project has been modified so as to reallocate funds for
the purchase of road maintenance equipment and eliminate improvement of those road
sections which cannot be completed within a reasonable time (see President's
Memorandum R79-88 of April 27, 1979). Although the project is moving well, an
extension of the closing date will be necessary to permit its completion.
Loan 1215-PE:    Fifth Power Project; US$36.0 million Loan of September 20, 1976;
Effective Date: November 18, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The slowdown of demand in ELECTROLIMA's market in the wake of economic
difficulties as well as procurement problems, have delayed the project's power
distribution component and completion is expected about a year behind schedule.
Serious delays were also experienced in getting the technical assistance program
of the loan underway; however, all consultants have now been retained, and with
strong support from the current staff in the Ministry of Energy and Mines the
program is now well advanced. Because of the delays, the Closing Date has been
extended to end-1982.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
NNNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan 1281-PE:    CENTROMIN Mining Project; US$40.0 million Loan of December 6,
1976; Effective Date: May 24, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Initiation of the copper mining component was delayed by about two
years because of the lack of local counterpart funds owing to the recession of the
late 1970s. CENTROMIN is now proceeding with the project with support from
additional Government counterpart funds, as well as a supplementary IDB loan and
commercial bank borrowing to cover inflationary cost increases. Engineering,
procurement and mine development activities on this part of the project are
well-advanced. The mine-water treatment plant has been completed.
Loan 1283-PE:    Urban Sites and Services Development Project; US$21.6 million
Loan of October 12, 1976; Effective Date: January 10, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Administrative difficulties, particularly the need to reconcile
Peruvian procedures with Bank guidelines for procurement, delayed the project by
about one year. All components are now moving ahead well and disbursements stand
at over US$13.0 million. Because of past delays, however, the Closing Date will
have to be extended to permit completion of the project.
Loan 1358-PE:    Industrial Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan of January 28,
-1977; Effective Date: March 30, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Peru's economic recession led to a contraction of investment and to
lower than anticipated demand for the loan in the late 1970s. In view of this,
the Borrower--the National Development Bank (COFIDE)--agreed to finance projects
identified by commercial banks and other financial institutions, which would also
guarantee these loans and provide some loan servicing. With this action and
improving economic conditions over the past two years, demand for the credit line
has increased, and it is now fully committed.
Loan 1403-PE:    Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$25.0 million Loan of May
20, 1977; Effective Date: August 2, 1977; Closing Date: June
30, 1983.
Because of the weakness of the project unit, there was a long delay in
completing the designs for civil works in the six valleys where irrigation systems
are to be improved. The unit has been substantially strengthened over the past
few years, the design phase is now complete and construction has started. The
project, however, is now several years behind schedule.
Loan S-11-PE:    Water Supply and Power Engineering Project; US$8.8 million Loan
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: June 27, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The main components of this project consisted of the feasibility study
for the Mantaro water transfer scheme and a master plan for Lima's water system.
The Mantaro study has been completed, and all other components are being
implemented satisfactorily.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan 1771-PE:    Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$56 million Loan
of February 4, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
Project implementation is underway and proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1806-PE:    Petroleum Rehabilitation Project; US$32.5 million Loan of April
28, 1980; Effective Date: September 30, 1980; Closing Date:
January 31, 1983.
The project got underway more slowly than expected because of the weak
implementation capacity of PETROPERU. All project components, however, have now
begun and execution is proceeding well.
Loan 1812-PE:    Puno Rural Development; US$15 million Loan of April 28, 1980;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Although there was a delay in making this loan effective, project
activities are now underway. Consultants for the extension program have been
hired and irrigation system designs are being prepared.
Loan 1888-PE:    Bayovar Engineering and Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5
million Loan of August 21, 1980; Effective Date: December 22,
1980; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983.
The feasibility report for the phosphate fertilizer project has been
completed and final project preparation activities are now underway.
Loan S-19-PE:    SIDERPERU Technical Assistance Project; US$5.0 million Loan of
December 15, 1980; Effective Date: April 16, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
A consultant's report evaluating SIDERPERU's expansion plans has been
reviewed. A plan of action to deal with the findings of this report is being
discussed with SIDERPERU.
Loan 1963-PE:    Aviation Development Project; US$58.0 million Loan of August 19,
1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
Procurement activities for equipment have begun.
Loan 1968-PE:    Second Industrial Credit Project; US$60.0 million Loan of
August 19, 1981; Effective Date: February 25, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985.
About US$10 million of this loan has thus far been committed.



- 31 -
ANNEX il
Page 6 of 6
Loan 2018-PE:    Power Engineering Project; US$25 million Loan of August 19, 1981;
Effective Date: February 25, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Final design of a number of projects included in this loan, including
the Yuncan hydroelectric project, are now underway.
Loan 2064-PE:    Small-Scale Enterprise Project; US$26 million of June 16, 1982;
Effective Date: August 17, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Initial subloan requests are now under review.
Loan 2091-PE:    Eighth Highway Project; US$93 million Loan of June 4, 1982;
Effective Date:                     ; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
Loan effectiveness has been delayed because of the difficulty
encountered by the Government in meeting the loan agreement condition ot
installing qualified candidates for senior positions in the Highways Directorate.
This problem is now close to resolution.
Loan 2117-PE:    Oil Refinery Engineering Project; US$5.3 million Loan of
September 17, 1982; Effective Date: December 20, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Consultants are now being selected.
Loan 2139-PE:    Lima Water Supply Project; US$40.6 million Loan of June 4, 1982;
Effective Date: September 15, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1988.
Initial project execution activities are underway.
Loan 2150-PE:    Agricultural Research and Extension Project; US$40.6 million
Loan of September 17, 1982; Effective Date: December 29, 1982;
Closing Date: March 31, 1988.
Some project consultants, to be retroactively financed, have been
contracted.
Loan 2179-PE:    Sixth Power Project; US$81.2 million Loan of September 17, 1982;
Effective Date: December 20, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1988.
Initial project execution activities are now underway.
Loan 2195-PE:    Petroleum Production Enhancement Project; US$81.2 million Loan of
September 17, 1982; Effective Date:                 ; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987.
Initial project execution activities are now underway.
Loan 2204-PE:    Public Sector Management Project; US$10.2 million Loan of
; Effective Date:              ; Closing date:
December 31, 1985.
The loan was approved by the Executive Directors on September 30, 1982.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project: 18 months
(b) Project prepared by: HCBM with assistance of FAO/IBRD cooperative
program
(c) First presentation to the Bank: June 1981
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: February 28, 1982
(e) Completion of Negotiations: November 12, 1982
(f) Planned Date of Loan Effectiveness: March 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) as conditions of effectiveness: (i) IFAD would appoint the Bank as
cooperating institution to administer the IFAD loan and (ii) the
Government would sign the Loan Agreement with IFAD and the
Subsidiary Agreement with BAP for the credit component. BAP would also,
prior to effectiveness, approve credit by-laws relating to this
component. In addition, a credit committee comprising representatives
of the key local agricultural interests would be established within six
months of the first disbursement on the IFAD loan. This committee
would meet at least once a quarter thereafter (para. 53);
(b) HCBM would, by June 30, 1985, give to the Bank the evaluation
of the final 20 km of roads included in the project. As a condition of
disbursement this evaluation would have to show the roads to be
economically justified (para. 54);
(c) the Government would ensure that roads in the project area would be
maintained; in this respect, this would be arrived through
agreements which HCBM has signed with local government authorities.
HCBM would present to the Bank for comment, by June 30, 1985, a program
to transfer the maintenance support unit's equipment and workshop to an
appropriate regional authority and implement this program by January 1,
1986. In addition, from 1983 onwards, the maintenance unit's annual
program and budget for maintenance of roads in the project area would
be sent to the Bank for comment (para. 55);



-33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) INIPA would consult with the Bank on the site for the crop research
station prior to award of a contract for its construction (para. 56);
(e) by September 30, 1984, HCBM would submit final designs for the
irrigation works to the Bank for review. The water charges for these
works would be sufficient to recover 100 percent of operating costs,
including maintenance, and recover, to the extent feasible given users'
ability to pay, the full investment cost. The proposed tariffs would
be given to the Bank for review within three months of award of the
construction contract for these works, would be implemented within
three months of completion of the works and would be adjusted annually
(para. 57);
(f) HCBM would set charges for rental. of land clearing equipment at a
level sufficient to recover its full costs (para. 58) and the
Ministry of Fisheries would set the prices of fingerlings at a
level sufficient to recover full production costs (para. 60);
(g) HCBM would maintain a liason office in Lima and the Bank would be
consulted on any change in the Executive or Technical Director of
the project (para. 70) and HCBM would, by June 30, 1983, enter into
agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, with INIPA and ONERN covering
their respective participation in the project (para. 71);
(h) within six months of the signing of the IFAD loan, HCBM would set up a
monitoring unit (para. 72); and
(i) in order to facilitate Bank reimbursement of roads expenditures, a
dollar-denominated special account -- into which loan funds would be
advanced -- would be established in the Banco de la Nacion.   By
March 31, 1983, and before Bank funds were advanced, the Government
would also establish a revolving fund -- for disbursement of the
counterpart funds for the roads component -- in the Banco de la Nacion
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The revolving
fund would be maintained at a level of at least two months' projected
expenditures for civil works (para. 74).






BED 16496
r  ;  ;   ecutot7  '      JULY 1982
P E R U                                                          /:                          r  g /  O ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ >  L O R E T O~~~~~~~~~~~L  RE  
PERU                                                                                                                                t                       t
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
\; '  !    !_- z  ~~~~~~~~ 9\    X             <          g                          M      .  ;    - 6    nr.- ttAPTO 
SMARTIN
UA LIBERTADt
-               I                                                                                                      - t < t r/ ~ ANCASH
y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                           t'-'-                                                   )    
.1                ,                                                                                                           hLJ      _ \ PA/S C O  2
U                                                -       ->~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HUA\ 
FAsco 
e   <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
5-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
. ~   ~       ~      @~& S '~~                                                                                                                                     <-Kf                     I to llro cele      YTM ~ Z         .k 1. \/N/,y\ s!SNRF
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J                                                                                          /
SYSTEM =~H                                                                                             JEPELSACO
- -  entmEr Joudt e,AmMlhEtERS                                                                                                                  z,4fg) 
- o  ,                                                                              o        _      _
S. u.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~          t2t



