Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4058-PE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 17, 1982
Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Projects Department
Agriculture 4
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1       =          Peruvian Soles S/. 550
S/. 1,000             US$1.82
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)           =           10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)          =           2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton)                 1,000 kg  = 0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
BAP         Peruvian Agricultural Bank
CGIAR       Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research
CIAT        International Center for Tropical Agriculture
CIPA        Agricultural and Livestock Investigation and Extension Center
DCCN        Directorate of Campesino and Native Communities
DS          Directorate of Services (TD)
DWE         Directorate of Works and Equipment (TD)
ECASA       National Rice Marketing Enterprise
ED          Executive Directorate of the Project
ENCI        National Enterprise for Marketing Inputs
HCBM        Huallaga Central - Bajo Mayo Project
IFAD        International Fund for Agricultural Development
INAF        National Institute for Expansion of Agricultural Development
INFOR       National Forestry Institute
INIPA       National Institute for Agricultural Research and Extension
MAG         Ministry of Agriculture
MTC         Ministry of Transport and Communications
OAAM        Alto Mayo Aguaruna Organization
OGCAR       General Office of Cadastral and Rural Affairs (MAG)
ONERN       Office for Evaluation of Natural Resources
SENAMA      National Agricultural Machinery Service (INIPA)
SMS         Subject Matter Specialist in Extension Service (INIPA)
TD          Technical Directorate of Project



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ..........................................   1
General ........................................................    1
Resource Base ............. .....................................    1
Government Policies.                                                  2
Previous World Bank Participation.                                    2
II. THE PROJECT AREA.                                                          3
Location and Access.                                                  3
Regional Context.                                                     3
Resource Base ...............  4
Settlement.                                                           5
Present Agricultural Situation.                                       7
Infrastructure.                                                       8
Institutions and Agricultural Services .........................  10
III. THE PROJECT .13
A. Introduction .13
B. Brief Description .14
C. Detailed Features .15
Farm Development and Credit .15
Irrigation .15
Land Clearing Equipment .17
Access Roads .17
Extension and Research .19
Storage .20
Fisheries .21
Forestry .21
Health .21
Education .22
Project Technical Directorate .22
Studies .23
Technical Assistance .24
Local Mapping and Titling .25
National Mapping .25
Native Communities .26
D. Project Costs .27
E. Project Financing .29
F. Procurement .30
G. Disbursements .31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Peru
in March 1982. The mission comprised Messrs. M. Wilson and J.E. Fernandez of
the Bank, and M. Raczynski, J.E. Coaldrake and S. Romanoff (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
_their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
IV.   CRGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT         .       ............................   32
Executive Directorate .....                       .     .     ...          .......   32
Technical Directorate .............. 0 ................ , ,   ,, ,         33
Credit                              ....  34
Access Roads ....... ....                            ,                    34
Operation and Maintenance ...... .                                         34
Agreements with I mplementing Agencies ..........................   34
Accounts and Auditing .. .................................,.,. 35
Monitoring and Evaluation ................... . . ....  ...   36
Project Reporting                   . . . ............ 36
V.    AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION                 ...                                   .................   37
Land Use and Cropping Patterns .......................                     37
Yields and Production ......                              .............   38
Labor Demand ........................   39
Marketing and Prices         rs............                                40
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .40
General.. .......                                           .40
Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact               ..41
Economic Rate of Return Estimate               ....41
Sensitivity Analysis               ...               .42
Project Risk. ....... . .42
Environmental Impact                        ....                           43
VII.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   ...43
ANNEX 1:  Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File ..                  46
ANNEX 2:  Key Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluation            .     .47
TABLES
1    -    Irrigation Component:  Metereological and River and
Canal Data (2 pages) ..............................
2    -    Irrigation Component:  Cost Summary, Investment
Schedule, Schedule for Incorporation of Land into
Irrigation (2 pages)................................
3    -    Irrigation Component:  Yuracyacu System...............
4    -    Irrigation Component:  Irrigation District............
5    -    Land Clearing Equipment:  SENAMA......................
6    -    Access Roads: Estimated Costs of Road Improvements
(3 pages)...........................................
7    -    Access Roads:  Proposed Road Standards................
8    -    Extension:  Civil Works Investments*..................
9    -    Extension:  Equipment, Vehicles and Operating Costs...
10    -    Extension:  Staff Requirements........................



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
TABLES
11    -    Research :  Civil Works Investments...................
12    -    Research :  Vehicles, Equipment and Machinery.........
13    -    Research :  Operating Costs ..........................
14    -    Research :  Staffing..................................
15    -    Storage ...........................................
16    -    Fisheries Component...................................
17    -    Forestry Component....................................
18    -    Health Component (2 pages)............................
19    -    Education Component...................................
20    -    Project Technical Directorate:   Investments...........
21    -    Project Technical Directorate:   Staffing..............
22    -    Project Technical Directorate:   Incremental
Operating Costs.....................................
23    -    Technical Assistance, Studies, Training...............
24    -    Local Mapping and Titling Component...................
25    -    National Mapping Component............................
26    -    Project Component Costs by Time.......................
27    -    Summary Project Account by Component..................
28    -    Summary Project Account by Time.......................
29    -    Disbursement Schedule.................................
30    -    Implementation Schedule...............................
31    -    Model 1:  10-ha Irrigated, Farm Budget................
32    -    Model 1:  10-ha Irrigated, Yields, Production &
Production Value....................................
33    -    Model 1:  10-ha Irrigated, Operating Expenditures.....
34    -    Model 2:  20-ha Irrigated, Farm Budget................
35    -    Model 2:  20-ha Irrigated, Cropping Pattern, Yields,
Production & Production Value.......................
36    -    Model 2:  20-ha Irrigated, Operating Expenditures.....
37    -    Model 3:  20-ha Rainfed, Farm Budget..................
38    -    Model 3:  20-ha Rainfed, Cropping Pattern, Yields,
Production & Production Value.......................
39    -    Model 3:  20-ha Rainfed, Operating Expenditures.......
40    -    Model 4:  40-ha Dual Purpose Livestock Farm...........
41    -    Prices:  Financial and Economic.......................
42    -    Economic Analysis:  Rate of Return and Sensitivity
Analysis (2 pages)..................................
CHARTS
1    -    Irrigation District
2    -    Technical Directorate Irrigation Group
3    -    Project Organization
MAP
IBRD 16496 - Peru: Alto Mayo Rural Development Project






I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General
1.01      The performance of the agricultural sector in Peru in the 1970s was
poor. At a time when the population was increasing at 2.8% p.a. (4.1% in
urban areas), the value of total agricultural production rose at only 0.7%
per annum compared to 2.5% p.a. between 1950 and 1970, and in real terms
actually declined by 0.6% p.a. in the decade of the 1970s. In the same
period, the volume of food imports increased by over 20%, and today agricul-
ture constitutes 11% of GDP compared to 15% in 1970. Employment in the
sector currently stands at about 41% of the labor force, despite significant
emigration from depressed rural areas (especially in the Sierra) to urban
areas where employment opportunities are also inadequate.
1.02      The generally poor performance of the agricultural sector can be
attributed largely to a sweeping land reform and considerable Government
intervention following the military takeover in 1968, 1/ compounded by the
effects of a three-year drought between 1978 and 1980. With the return of a
constitutional Government in 1980, high priority has again been given to
agricultural diversification and to increasing agricultural production and
policies designed to achieve these goals have already been put into effect.
Resource Base
1.03      Peru's agricultural resource base is limited compared to other
Latin American countries. Of the total geographic area of about 1.3 million
km2 (128.5 million ha), only about 3.0 million ha are currently in agricul-
tural use, of which about 1.2 million ha are under irrigation and 1.8 million
ha rainfed. Of the balance, about 22.0 million ha are natural grassland.
There are three well defined topographic and climatic zones - the Costa, the
Sierra and the Selva.
1.04      The Costa, coastal zone in the west of Peru, is a narrow 3,000 km
long belt of flat desert plains, sand dunes and dry, heavily eroded Andean
foothills. Approximately 50% of the population live on this 13 million ha
(about 10% of the total area) and agriculture is limited to highly productive
irrigated coastal valleys. The climate is ideal for a wide range of crops
such as sugar, rice, cotton, corn, potatoes, citrus, olives and grapes.
However, most of the existing irrigation systems are old, inefficient and
poorly drained, and land loss to waterlogging is serious. Although
Government is taking steps to rehabilitate and renovate existing systems,
this is a slow and costly process.
1/   A detailed discussion of Agrarian Reform and Institutional Aspects of
Agricultural Production in Peru is presented in "An Economic Review of
the Agricultural Sector in Peru", Bank Report No. 3550-PE, dated
June 30, 1981 (green cover).



- 2 -
1.05      The Sierra, Andean Highlands zone, covers about 27% of the total
land area (33 million ha) and has about 44% of the population. It consists
of steep mountains reaching over 5,000 meters above sea level and high
valleys located between the mountains. Although over half of Peru's cultiv-
ated areas are in the Sierra (about 2.3 million ha), this represents only
about 7% of the Sierra's total area. About half the remaining area (14.3
million ha) is used for grazing or natural pastures on steep slopes at high
altitude.  Annual cropping predominates and is limited to one short cropping
season from about November to March. While there is little scope for bring-
ing new land into production, there is some potential for improving produc-
tivity through extension, research and use of production inputs. However,
recent trends indicate considerable migration of the farming population from
the area to both the coastal towns and to the Selva.
1.06      The Selva, the tropical forest zone east of the Andes mountains
covers about 63% of the total land area (about 81 million ha) but accounts
for only 10% of the total population. It comprises two sub-zones: the
eastern slopes of the Andes at medium altitude - the Ceja de Selva; and the
Amazon jungle - the Selva Baja (Lower Selva). Although most soils in the
Lower Selva are classified as marginal and suitable only for grazing and
forestry, soils in the Ceja de Selva are generally of better quality and are
concentrated primarily in four river valleys. With the construction of a
Trans-Andean Highway System and oil exploration, the Selva has been gaining
in economic importance over the last decade, and the related migration of
experienced, commercially motivated farmers from the Sierra to the Ceja de
Selva, in particular has provided considerable impetus to agricultural devel-
opment. This dynamic development has led to the conclusion that the Ceja de
Selva is likely to be an important new agricultural frontier with potential
to help meet the rapidly rising food needs of the large urban populations
along the coast.
Government Policies
1.07      The previous Government had a policy of intervention in the agri-
cultural sector, the present Government does not. Consequently, intervention
in agricultural marketing processes, price controls and consumer subsidies
have been substantially reduced, and a more balanced allocation of develop-
ment resources throughout the country is in the process of being made. The
greater role foreseen for the private sector would have a particularly strong
effect on the Ceja de Selva region.  Government has also adopted a Sneral
policy to improve agricultural supporting services throughout the country to
encourage farmers to produce efficiently; during the agrarian reform period,
research services were allowed to languish and extension virtually dis-
appeared. Government's 1981-82 National Plan for Development, in defining
objectives and actions to be implemented on a short-term basis for stabiliz-
ing the national economy,  calls for increased development of rural and
regional projects in frontier areas and the Ceja de Selva. The proposed
project, which is located in the Ceja de Selva, therefore, responds to one of
Government's important development priorities.
Previous World Bank Participation
1.08      The Bank has made 12 agricultural loans to Peru.  Five of them, in
the period 1954-73, totalling US$55.0 million, were for agricultural credit



- 3 -
and were channeled through the Peruvian Agricultural Bank (BAP) (105-PE,
162-PE, 257-PE, 415-PE and 933-PE).  In general, BAP performance has been
acceptable and disbursements on the last loan (933-PE) have been completed.
Two otber loans (67-PE of 1952 and 98-PE of 1954), totalling US$3 million,
were for farm machinery imports.  Loans 114-PE of 1955 and 418-PE of 1965,
totalling US$24.5 million, financed irrigation works and land settlement in
the San Lorenzo area within the Chira-Piura basins. Owing to managerial
problems, inadequate counterpart funding and shortage of water, the second of
these loans encountered considerable difficulties and took 11 years to
disburse but, nevertheless achieved its basic goals and produced important
benefits (Project Performance Audit Report, SECM-48 of January 1978 and
Impact Evaluation Report of October 1981).  A third irrigation project (Loan
1403-PE) of US$25 million approved in 1977 financed the rehabilitation of
drainage and irrigation systems in six valleys in the southern part of the
Coastal Zone. Another irrigation rehabilitation project in the Lower Piura
area in the northern part of the Coastal Zone was approved in 1980. Both of
the latter have experienced early management problems but implementation is
progressing satisfactorily. The most recent loans approved by the Bank wre
for an integrated rural development project in the Sierra (Puno Rural
Development), which had experienced administrative start-up problems but
which are now being remedied, and a National Agricultural Research and
Extension Project, which was signed on September 13, 1982.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Location and Access
2.01       The Alto (Upper) Mayo Valley, situated in San Martin departnent, of
which Moyobamba is the capital, runs in a northwest-southeastern direction
and is the last valley on the foothills of the Andes before entering the
lower Amazon basin (Map IBRD 16496). The area proposed for development under
the project, is located at about 800-900 m above sea level in the provinces
of Moyobamba and Rioja. Access is mainly by road from Olmos (about 600 km to
the west) and from Tarapoto about 100 km to the east.  Construction of the
road began in the 1960's and was completed in the early 1970's.
Regional Context
2.02       San Martin is a Department in the Ceja de Selva region, which has
experienced rapid agricultural development in the last 30 years. Prior to
1950, agricultural production was primarily for local consumption, however,
construction of an airport at Tarapoto, in 1950, allowed produce to be flown
to Lima at which time settlement began in the Huallaga Central and Lower Mayo
valleys based on coffee and cotton production. In the late 1970's these
valleys were the target of an agricultural development project financed by
the US Agency for International Development, the experiences of which wre
taken into account in the preparation of the current project. The Alto Mayo
Valley in the northeast of the Department remained isolated until the early
1970s when construction began in the area on the "Marginal de la Selva"
highway. With the knowledge that a road to the coast was under construction,
settlers spontaneously migrated into Alto Mayo beginning in 1973, reaching a
peak in 1976 and 1977. They came from the Departments of Amazonas, Cajamarca



- 4 -
and Piura, and many were rice farmers who already had experience in irriga-
tion. As a result, they developed the easily divertible streams (particu-
larly the Yuracyacu, a small tributary of the River Mayo), and on land
adjacent to flat fertile areas, they dug canals and also cleared forest for
rainfed crops (rice, maize, foodcrops) under shifting cultivation.  In
contrast to the established agricultural population, the newcomers were
commercially motivated.
2.03       Government encouraged this settlement and land was made available
free. A rudimentary extension service was started in 1973, an agency of the
Agrarian Bank was opened in Rioja in 1975, and in 1977, the National
Agricultural Machinery Service (SENAMA) began to provide services in land
clearing and levelling. Government also encouraged rice production in the
Ceja de Selva by paying higher farmgate prices than in the Costa, and eight
of the nine Aguaruna native (indian) communities in the valley were given
inalienable titles to prevent invasion by new settlers. The Alto Mayo
Irrigation District, with headquarters in Rioja, was created in 1973, and in
1978, under the Government's decentralization program, regional headquarters
of all ministries were located in Moyobamba.
2.04       It is now recognized by farmers and authorities alike that after
this pioneering decade of the 1970s, the current need in Alto Mayo is for
consolidation".  Basic infrastructure is still inadequate (particularly
feeder roads and irrigation systems), agricultural supporting services
(research, extension, credit) need improvement, only a fraction of farmers
have titles to their land, living conditions are primitive, disease is rife
and educational facilities are inadequate. Also, action is needed to allow
native communities to participate in the local economy. Although production
would likely continue to increase for a time under its own momentum, even
without new investments, longer term progress is likely to be affected by
production reversals expected to result from permanent damage to the fragile
agroclimatic environment. If unchecked, shifting cultivation would progres-
sively incorporate poorer and poorer land as is observed in many tropical
countries.
Resource Base
2.05       Topography and Soils.  The Alto Mayo basin lies between two ranges
of hills (northeast and southwest), and of its 770,000 ha, 74% (570,000 ha)
has slopes in excess of 25%, while only 15.5% (120,000 ha approximately) are
less than 5% slope. Most of these bottom lands, which constitute the project
area, lie on the right bank of the river Mayo. The alluvial bottom land
soils reflect their origin in the acid sandstones of the northeast range and
characteristically vary from shallow to medium depth, moderate to poor
permeability, moderate to poor fertility with acid to very acid pH. There is
also an impermeable clay layer below the surface which is high in aluminum.
Studies on potential land use capabilities (discussed in detail in a consul-
tant paper on file) indicate the following classification of soils in the
area:



-5-
Suitability                    Class           Area           %
Cropping                       II, III        57,000         47
Permanent Pastures,
some Forestry                V              43,000         36
Forestry                       VII             7,000          6
Protection/Preserve            VIII           13,000         11
Total                              120,000        100
2.06      Climate.  The climate may be classified as "semi-humid
subtropical". Temperature and humidity vary little throughout the year (22°C
- Table 1) however, nightime temperatures can drop below 15°C in any nDnth,
which is critical for the rice crop, especially during flowering. Rain falls
in all months of the year and totals between 1,200 and 1,700 mm, with a
distinct reduction during May through August and peaks between October and
March, and potential evapotranspiration varies little throughout the year
(100 mm/month). Although rainfall is sufficient in quantity and timing for
satisfactory rainfed cropping, analysis of monthly rainfall shows that preci-
pitation is less than optimum for rice-needs in half the months of the main
growing season for rice (October to May). This is one reason why new farmers
in Alto Mayo have, wherever possible and at their own cost, adopted supple-
mentary irrigation for rice.
2.07      Water Resources.  The numerous small, right-bank tributaries of the
Mayo which cross the project area, drain the northwest side of the valley and
bring adequate quantities of water (Table 1). Water is also of high quality
as the high calcium content of these streams which originate in the lime-
stones of the northwestern hills is of potential benefit to the acid soils of
the area. Although these small rivers are minor tributaries of the Amazon
and would therefore constitute international waters, withdrawals for irriga-
tion purposes are so minute relative to the total Amazon flow that inter-
natonal water rights issues are not expected.
2.08      Forestry.  Data on forestry resources are scarce in the Alto Mayo
Forestry District. However, FAO and the Office for Evaluation of Natural
Resources (ONERN) have carried out reconnaissance surveys on 770,000 ha in
the Alto Mayo basin which have classified 77% of the area as forest land and
concluded that most of the latter should remain as forest for conservation
reasons and only about 90,000 ha should be considered as exploitable.
Neither local data on yields nor forest inventories are available, however,
the Moyobamba Forestry District estimates that extraction of controlled
timber (for the main species including tornillo (Cedre linga catenafornis)
cedro (Cedrela sp) and moenas (Nectandra sp)) rose from about 1,000 mi5 in
1976 to about 36,000 m3 in 1980.  Extraction is simple.  There are about
26 fixed sawmills set-up along the roadside, six portable sawmills, and a few
extractors using only chainsaws.  As of 1981, 60 extraction permits had been
allocated in the high forest and 25 in the agriculture areas.  At present
felling is selective in the high mountains; however, population pressures
make it urgent to enforce existing laws to ensure that classic erosion
problems do not develop.  Support of enforcement agencies is proposed under
the project (para 3.26).
Settlement
2.09      Population and Migration.  Preliminary results of the June 1981
census indicate that the total population of Moyobamba and Rioja provinces is
about 73,000 (50,000 involved in agriculture), a 135% increase over the 1972



- 6 -
census figure of 31,000.  Although Government estimates that most of the
agricultural land in the area is already claimed, arriving families are still
able to find land in adjacent parcels or through subdivision of existing
lots. Settlers have also begun to occupy land outside the project area along
the left bank of the Mayo. Arriving settlers often work as laborers for
about a year until they find land suitable to their needs, and there is also
seasonal migration during periods of land preparation, transplanting and
harvesting of rice. The latter workers from the Andean highlands or the
Costa are often relatives of already established settlers who come to help
their families during peak seasons. Although data on incone levels are
scarce, current estimates indicate values in excess of subsistence needs.
2.10       Land Titling and Tenure.  All virgin land in the Selva belongs to
the State, however, settlers may acquire it through direct purchase from the
State or through free allotments. At present, Government estimates that all
available land outside native communities (para 2.11) is privately held.
Although data for the project area is poor, it is estimated that about half
of the presently held private land in the provinces of Moyobamba and Rioja
has been acquired through direct purchase. The balance has been alloted to
associations, including native communities on both banks of the river and a
production cooperative at Segunda Jerusalem, which is presently being sub-
divided and distributed among its members. As of 1981, about 1,500 (18%) of
the estimated 8,500 farm families (excluding native communities) held title
to their land and an additional 2,800 (33%) have "certificates of owner-
ship". The latter were created for credit purposes, and only certify that
the farmer cultivates a number of hectares but this area does not necessarily
coincide with the total surface claimed. Approximately 4,200 families (49%)
have neither title nor certificates of ownership. Data on the average farm
size are also scarce, however a partial survey carried out during project
preparation estimated that about 85% of settler holdings were 20 ha or less,
and about 60% of the total settler area was estimated to consist of indivi-
dual holdings less than 20 ha and about 30% between 20-50 ha.
2.11       Native Communities.  Nine Aguaruna tribal communities live in the
Alto Mayo basin, eight of which hold legal titles to their land and the title
of the remaining community (San Rafael) is being processed. The communities
comprise about 180 families, or 1,450 people, on about 60,000 ha of land of
which about 17,000 ha are considered suitable for some type of agricultural
production. The livelihood of the tribal population is based on farming a
total of about 500 ha planted with bananas, yuca, rice and maize, and on
hunting, fishing and gathering of nuts and fruits in the forest. Although,
according to Peruvian legislation, the land declared as native community
cannot be sold, expropriated or mortgaged, the increasing settlement in the
area has resulted in growing pressure on tribal land. The large area per
family is being partially remedied by regular if limited migration of
Aguaruna from the Alto Maranon area to the north. The latter are accepted by
the local groups as equal members of their communities. Most of the groups
lack technical and financial support for their cropping plans and basic
services in health and education to improve their living conditions. Disease
and malnutrition is common. The agency responsible for Aguaruna activities
in MAG is the Directorate of Campesino and Native Communities (DCCN), how-
ever, the communities themselves have an independent organization -- the Alto
Mayo Aguaruna Organization (OAAM). A detailed study of the Aguaruna in the
project area is on file (Annex 1).



-7-
Present Agricultural Situation
2.12      Land Use.  The dynamic increase in agricultural development in the
last decade has mainly taken place on the alluvial soils of the valley bottom
where settlers have cleared the forest and developed irrigated rice. In
parallel, dryland agriculture has increased the cultivated area on the peri-
phery of the valley with rainfed rice and maize as the principal cash crops.
Forest land has been cleared by hand, bullocks and also bulldozers. The
latter has, in some instances, caused damage by compaction and by exposing
the infertile subsoil horizons. Based on the farm survey carried out during
project preparation, actual land use in the approximately 120,000 ha project
area is approximately 16% crops (20,000 ha) mainly rice, maize, beans, yuca
and plantain, 5% grazing (6,000 ha), 10% fallow (12,000 ha) and about 69%
forest, reserve, flooded land or unproductive area (82,000 ha). Typically,
each settler is still in the process of developing his holdings. The most
progressive settlers irrigate rice under good land preparation techniques,
appropriate cultural practices with token use inputs (fertilizer and plant
protection chemicals). Dryland farms are less developed with annual crops
rotated with bush fallow and the use of inputs is limited. Livestock fanming
is based on unimproved pastures on lands unsuitable for annual crops, and
there are about 700 pairs of draft oxen and about 2,000 head of cattle kept
primarily for beef production. Although mechanization is in its infancy, it
is developing rapidly; however, most operations are still performed by hand
labour or animal traction.
2.13      Labor.  Most farms are family-labor oriented, however, hired labor
is used during peak seasons (transplanting and harvesting) and for forest
clearance. Given the present status of land development, labor availability
is considered adequate with seasonal immigration but future expansion of the
agricultural area is likely to require labor-saving technology as proposed
under the project's credit activities.
2.14       Crop Calendars, Yields and Production.  The key crop in the area,
rice, is either directly sown for rainfed production or transplanted for
irrigation. Rice is mainly grown between November to June/July, and other
food crops between July/August and February. Current local rice varieties
typically have long growth periods of up to seven months and an average yield
of about 3.5 t/ha. Rainfed rice and maize yields are estimated at about 1.7
t/ha, cassava at 6.0 t/ha and plantain at 8.0 t/ha in the first few years
immediately following land clearing. In 1981, total crop production in the
Alto Mayo valley was estimated at about 50,000 tons, of which rice totalled
about 30,000, and maize, beans, and plantain about 20,000 tons.
2.15      Fisheries.  Although there have been successful attempts by farmers
in the past to construct and operate simple earth fishponds to improve their
diet, such programs failed when the supply of fingerlings stopped. The
Regional Office of the Ministry of Fisheries operated a fish station at
Mashuyacu near Rioja, until it was destroyed by floods in 1979, and since
then the Ministry has lacked funds for reconstruction.
2.16      Irrigation.  The expansion of supplementary irrigation for rice has
been the single most significant agricultural feature in Alto Mayo in recent
years. Development has taken place entirely by private initiative without
public irnvestment or technical assistance, although the Ministry of



-* 8 -
Agriculture (MAG) has, through the establishment of the Alto Mayo Irrigation
District, assisted in the formation and registration of irrigator commissions
(comisiones de regantes). Irrigation district figures indicate that between
1977 to 1981, the number of irrigators rose from 208 to 896 and the area
irrigated rose from about 860 ha to about 5,200 ha.
2.17      The canal network is primitive and lacks control structures, and
about 70% are natural drains or creeks. Brushwood and/or stone structures
divert the water into the irrigation canals and most distribution networks
lack drop structures and suitable canal offtakes. The relatively flat topo-
graphy has so far kept erosion to a minimum, but the risks will increase as
more difficult areas are incorporated. In the absence of control structures,
water runs continuously in the canals and discharges depend on the river
flow. Regular high floods often destroy the diversion structures and/or
damage the canal network as excess water enters the system causing flooding
of agricultural land and sedimentation in canals. Conversely, during low
river flows, farmers have difficulty distributing water rationally.
2.18      Rainfed rice yields of 1.7 tons/ha can be roughly doubled after
adoption of irrigation, mainly because: (a) evapotranspiration requirements
are assured during dry spells; (b) weed growth is reduced; (c) high calcium
content waters applied to acid soils have a pH neutralizing effect; and (d)
irrigation water protects the crop against low nightime temperatures during
flowering. The prevailing custom is to fill and drain rice basins up to
three or four times during the first 40 days of plant growth, even if rain-
fall meets evapotranspiration needs.
2.19      Although there is currently no water charge, operators run and
maintain their own networks and contribute labor for canal clearing or
structure rehabilitation; they also contribute towards financing of works. At
present, there are 13 officially recognized irrigation commissions in the
project area, of which 12 have been legalized (received their persona
juridica). The highest authority of a commission, the Assembly, comprises
all irrigators on a particular canal, who elect a six member Executive
Directorate: President, Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer and two
"Vocales", who each serve for a period of two years.  The Alto Mayo commis-
sions have financial resources from initial fees, interest on capital, loans,
legal donations and contributions of beneficiaries for the construction of
civil works. Several commissions keep saving accounts with local banks, and
all hold regular duly recorded meetings and maintain accounts.
Infrastructure
2e20      Roads.  Peru's Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) is
nominally responsible for planning, design, construction and maintenance of
all roads in the country, however, it is a weak institution which focuses its
resources on expanding and improving the main road network and some of the
more heavily used departmental roads. Even the main road network itself is
inadequately maintained and minor roads and tracks receive only sporadic
emergency maintenance from MTC departmental work forces. By default, respon-
sibility for minor road improvement and/or maintenance in the project area
has passed to local authorities. The District centers and outlying farm
communities are served by a largely unplanned network of minor roads and
tracks of heterogenous quality, and although traffic volumes are low (less



- 9 -
than 20 vpd), the poor quality access adversely affects all services and farm
activities. The SAR for Peru's Eighth Highway Project (Loan 2091-PE)
describes MTC's capacity constraints and proposed improvement measures in
detail.
2.21      Marketing, Prices and Storage Facilities.  The two main crops
produced in the project area, rice and maize, are marketed through Government
marketing organizations. The National Rice Marketing Enterprise (ECASA),
which currently has a monopoly on rice marketing and distribution, is a
subsidiary of the National Enterprise for Marketing of Inputs (ENCI) which
markets maize and fertilizers. However, marketing activities in Peru are
presently in a state of transition, since the Government's new policies call
for a larger private sector participation. ECASA buys directly from farmers,
but contracts rice milling with private entrepreneurs who have ample rice
storage and milling capacity (para 5.08).
2.22      At appraisal Government had a policy of fixing prices for rice,
maize, and fertilizer products and effectively enforcing them. Prices for
rice to consumers and producers were set by ECASA and maize and fertilizers
by ENCG. Both institutions controlled the marketing channel and import-
export operations,including storage facilities and transportation. However,
both ENCI and ECASA are running high financial deficits in their operations
due to the large subsidies involved in the setting of prices. As a result,
GOP plans to eventually phase out operations of both institutions, permitting
the marketing operations to be performed completely by private entities and
allowing prices to be determined according to the forces of supply and
demand. Since appraisal Government has moved to implement this program by
liberalizing the market for fertilizer and inputs (Supreme Decree DS 072-82
MAG, dated June 25, 1982).
2.23      ENCI formerly bought all maize produced in the project area and
distributed fertilizer and maize seed either directly to farmers or through
two authorized agents in Rioja and Nueva Cajamarca. Although input supplies
to the region are reliable, ENCI lacks warehouses and its present storage
capacity amounts to only 500 tons in Nueva Cajamarca and 600 tons in
Moyobamba, with an additional 2,000 ton under construction at Nueva
Cajamarca. Other agricultural products - bananas, cassava and beans - are
sold freely in the market place as are meat and milk.
2.24      Social Infrastructure.  Living conditions in the project area are
poor. Although more than 70% of the population own their homes, these are
primitive wood and mud structures, often with palm leaf roofing, which lack
floors, ceilings, windows and protection against insects, rodents and other
animals. Dysentery, parasitosis, gastro-intestinal and respiratory diseases
are common, and disease prevention and control programs suffer from inade-
quate infrastructure. Domestic water supply systems are often inadequate
and/or contaminated, and a lack of latrines has added to the spread of
parasitism in the area. Two 27 bed hospitals, one in Moyobamba and one in
Rioja serve the project area and an ongoing expansion of the Moyobamba
hospital would raise the total area capacity to about 77 beds. Of the 11
health posts in the project area only four are considered sanitary, three are
unfinished and the remainder are primitive structures without floors,
furnishings or basic services. All lack sufficient basic equipment.



- 10 -
2.25      Education facilities are also substandard and inadequate for the
demands of a rapidly growing population. Of about 162 classrooms, 101 are
unfinished or require complete rehabilitation, and 61 are considered unsafe
and only fit to be demolished. Although the goal is to provide primary
education to all, and all children are expected to attend, it is estimated
that only about 30% of the present adult population has finished primary
school, 40% has incomplete primary education and the balance have never gone
to school. Data on 35 communities (excluding the nine native communities) in
the project area indicate that between 1980 and 1981 alone, the number of
pupils attending primary school rose by 18% (4,720 to 5,600). To handle this
workload there were approximately 132 teachers in these communities in 1981.
According to Ministry of Education regional data, an additional 54 teachers
would be required to meet even present needs . Fortunately, beginning in
1982, the output of teachers from three new regional training institutes
(Normals) at Moyobamba, Tarapoto and Chachapoyas is expected to reach about
310 per annum and therefore Ministry officials in the region do not antici-
pate teacher shortfalls during the implementation period, which is expected
to begin in 1983.
Institutions and Agricultural Services 2/
2.26      The new organic law of the agricultural sector issued on January
18, 1981, is causing major changes in the regional organization of the agri-
cultural sector. In the project zone the new Agrarian Regional Directorate
XIII: San Martin of the Ministry of Agriculture (MAG) has its headquarters
in Moyobamba. Its operational units comprise the Alto Mayo Forestry,
Agricultural and Irrigation Districts with headquarters in Moyobamba, or
Rioja, and all lack adequate technical staff, offices, equipment and funds to
satisfactorily perform their tasks.
2.27      The Forestry District personnel are responsible for controlling and
upholding laws, and approving extraction contracts. In technical affairs,
the Forestry Institute (INFOR) provides support, and the Forestry Police, an
arm of the Civil Guard, supervises extraction and transport of timber along
the main highway.
2.28      The National Institute for Agricultural Research and Promotion
(INIPA) is a semi-autonomous institution established in January 1981 to over-
see agricultural research, extension, farm mechanization and rural marketing
development. This unique role of coordinating research and extension in one
agency will be of particular benefit to the project. Administratively, INIPA
divides Peru into 20 Agricultural and Livestock Investigation and Extension
Centers (CIPA). The project area is within CIPA-X, and there is a research
center near Tarapoto, which currently services the needs of Alto Mayo,
although the ecological conditions in the two areas are quite different. A
subsidiary field demonstration unit was recently set up in Alto Mayo at Rioja
and rice variety trials have begun. Extension services are, provided by INIPA
2/   For a detailed review of Institutional Aspects of Agricultural
Production in Peru, the reader is referred to Bank Reports No. 3550-PE
(An Economic Review of the Agricultural Sector in Peru) dated June 1981
and 3789-PE (The Peru Agricultural Research and Extension Project) dated
April 12, 1982.



- 11 -
provided by INIPA through its three agencies at Moyobamba, Rioja and Nueva
Cajamarca, each of which are divided into extension sections. Although
recent small-scale building construction and provision of a limited number of
motorcycles have increased the effectiveness of agency chiefs, additional
qualified staff, facilities and support services are still needed. INIPA's
Agricultural Machinery Service (SENAMA) also operates a sub-center and
workshop at Rioja from which it rents machinery for land clearing, destump-
ing, levelling and road making. However, because of SENAMA's poor perfor-
mance in minimizing destructive practices during its operations, an agreement
was reached in October 1982 between INIPA and HCBM which transferred respon-
sibility for operating SENAMA equipment in the Huallaga Central and Lower
Huallaga areas of San Martin Province to HCBM.
2.29      The Agrarian Bank (BAP) is a Government-owned institution with 18
branch offices, 54 agencies and 34 field offices nationwide. BAP provides
approximately 85% of the institutional credit to the agriculture sector; 10%
is provided by commercial banks and the rest comes from other development
banks and direct Government allocations. BAP's main source of short-term
resources is the Peruvian Central Bank (BCR) through its discount
facilities. The limited amount of long-term loans has generally been made
with support from external sources such as World Bank or Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) loans. Summary financial statements for BAP at
December 31, 1980 and 1981 are as follows:
Balance Sheet
1980          1981
Audited     Unaudited
Assets                                         -- I-lion Sojes)---
Cash and bank deposits                           2,854        10,907
Loan portfolio including interest
and commissions                              119,678       238,141
Investments                                      5,519         5,637
Other assets                                     1,147         6,381
Representing                                   129,198       261,066
Liabilities
Deposits, savings and payables                  23,202        42,024
Central and other banks                         58,718       100,595
Other liabilities                               13,541        13,709
95,461       156,328
Equity                                          33,757       104,738
129,198       261,066
The above reflects a doubling in the loan portfolio between 1980 and 1981
(15% in real terms), financed mainly by additional equity and Central Bank
financing. Currently, the Central Bank rediscounts about 30% of the total
annual lending at an interest rate of 29% to BAP compared to 46% when it
rediscounts to private and mixed banks. Increased lending at favorable
rediscount rates resulted in a 1981 profit of S/. 9,900 million (adjusted
estimate) compared to S/. 152 million in 1980. After discounting for



- 12 -
inflation (70% in 1981), BAP's increase in total assets in real terms over
1980 values was about 17% in 1981.  However this followed a period of decline
in real terms between 1975 and 1979.
2.30      A comparison of inflation rates in Peru compared to BAP average
on-lending rates to farmers for 1979, 1980, and 1981, respectively, indicates
the following: inflation - 67.7%, 59.2%, 70.0%; and on-lending rates -
31.5%, 31.5%, 49.5%. Inflation rates for 1982, 1983 and 1984 are estimated
at 65%, 55% and 50%, respectively, and BAP's current (1982) average
on-lending rate is 49.5%. Between 1978 (i.e., completion of the Bank-
supported fifth credit loan to Peru) and mid-1982, the Bank tried unsuccess-
fully to convince BAP to modify its subsidized interest rate policies.
During this period, we were unable to finance either a new credit project or
credit components within rural development projects in Peru. However, very
recent discussions have begun to bear fruit with BAP agreeing to implement a
phased removal of subsidies by mid-1983. This schedule, however, still does
not allow the Bank to commit funds to agricultural credit activities at this
time. The Bank has, nevertheless, indicated a willingness to consider
reentering credit financing when it sent an appraisal mission to Peru for a
possible Agricultural Credit VI project in October 1982. A Bank commitment
to such a project would depend on BAP satisfactorily completing its program
on interest rates. Consequently, since present policies are still not fully
acceptable to the Bank, we would not participate in credit activities under
the Alto Mayo Project.
2.31      BAP maintains an agency in Rioja and is currently the only source
for long and short term agricultural credit in the project area. Although
private banks have offices in the area ( Banco de Credito, Banco Industrial
and Banco Amazonico), they have not yet participated in agricultural
financing. Over the 1980/81 year, BAP made 2,398 loans (US$2.7 million
equivalent), of which 2,306 were short-term (US$2.6 million equivalent),
practically all for rice production (US$2.4 million equivalent). The balance
of 92 medium-term loans (SI. 0.1 million) were mainly for land clearing and
levelling of rice areas. This relatively small number of medium-term loans
reflects a shortage of funds, not a lack of demand. Provision of credit
would be a prime objective of the project. BAP's Rioja office has an overall
credit recovery rate of about 95% which reflects the dependable nature of
rice production in the area. By Government decree, Alto Mayo, at appraisal,
received subsidized credit (32.5% interest) since it is considered a new
development area. Although proposals under review would raise absolute
interest rates, it is expected that preferential rates would still be applied
to the project area.  Preferential lending is being considered for low income
producers but high income producers would be required to meet the commercial
cost of funds. Most farmers in the project area would probably qualify for
preferred lending rates.
2.32      The Alto Mayo Irrigation District technical staff (Chart 1)
comprise a district chief, and various agricultural technicians in charge of
the different sectors of the district. However, since the area has only
recently been developed and since staffing, offices and equipment are
limited, Irrigation District personnel restrict their activities to the
organization of farmers into committees and commissions. Irrigators
presently operate in large part under their own guidelines.



- 13 -
2.33      The Executive Directorate (ED) of the Huallaga Central - Bajo Mayo
Project (HCBM) is an important rural development agency in the region with
headquarters in Tarapoto about 180 km east of the project area (para 2.02).
HCBM is responsible for the USAID-supported Huallaga Central Project, which
is a Special Project in the Prime Minister's Office. As a result of the
latter linkage, the ED enjoys financial autonomy, independence from
Government pay scales, and freedom to follow special procedures for procure-
ment of civil works, goods and services.  It operates the Huallaga Central
project mainly through signed agreements (convenios) with participating
public and private sector agencies to whom it channels project funds from the
Central Bank, Ministry of Finance or from international financing agencies.
The Alto Mayo project would be implemented in a similar manner. Considerable
experience has been gained in recent years with this integrated rural devel-
opment project in the Ceja de Selva, and in June 1981 the ED set up a
regional office, with a Technical Directorate and skeleton staff, in Alto
Mayo. The latter group assisted in all facets of project preparation.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
3.01      The Government of Peru has requested Bank assistance in financing
an area development project in the Alto Mayo Valley of northeastern Peru.
The project was prepared by the ED of the Huallaga Central-Bajo Mayo project
in conjunction with an FAO/IBRD CP mission which visited Peru in September
1981 (Report No. 4/82 PER II, dated 29 January 1982). The project would use
an integrated approach to the solution of production problems and the
provision of social services to the population living in the area.
Implementation of an agriculture development program, reinforcement and
further construction of basic infrastructure, and provision of basic
education and health services are expected to increase agriculture production
and productivity and raise the health and education status and the standard
of living of area families. This approach is justified for this project,
considering the pioneer stage of development in the area and the weakness of
Government services in the zone.
3.02      The main project objectives are:
(a) to support Government's policy to increase agricultural production
in the Ceja de Selva by consolidating existing settlement in areas
of proven agricultural potential in the Alto Mayo Valley;
(b) to provide infrastructure and technical and social services in
the form of a system which can be replicated elsewhere in the Ceja
de Selva;
(c) to coordinate area development in order to enhance and to prevent
excessive deterioration of the physical environment;
(d) to minimize the detrimental impact of recent settlement on native
tribal communities, and thereby improve their chances of surviving
alongside the local culture; and



- 14 -
(e)  to make use of, and improve coordination between, existing institu-'
tions to promote development within the area.
B. Brief Description
3.03      The project, which would be a prototype for development of the Ceja
de Selva, covers an area of about 120,000 ha and would benefit a total of
about 12,800 families (8,700 of whom would be farmer settlers and Aguaruna
natives). It involves:
Key Activities:
(a)  short and medium term credit to cover on-farm development, purchase
of farm machinery, equipment, construction of small on-farm
irrigation structures, and operating expenditures;
(b)  construction of a small diversion structure and main canal to
dominate about 1,500 ha in the Yurongos scheme;
(c)  supply of land clearing equipment for rental;
(d)  access road improvement and construction over about 181 km (86 km
new, and 95 km improved), acquisition of maintenance tools and
equipment, and training of district and project road maintenance
staff; and
(e)  establishment of an applied research capability and a
strengthened extension service in the area;
Essential Complementary Activities:
(f)  storage construction for maize seed and fertilizers;
(g)  repair of an existing, and construction of a new, fisheries
facility to produce fingerlings for farm fishponds;
(h)  strengthening of forestry authorities to enforce protection
legislation, to carry out basic inventories of forest resources,
and to monitor changes in these over the project implementation
period;
(i)  improvement of health and education infrastructure through a
program of construction/renovation of primary schools and
establishment of a primary health care system;
(j)  studies to monitor the project's impact on tribal groups, to
prepare a follow-up project, and to monitor environmental changes;
(k)  training and short-term technical assistance in specialized fields;
(1)  local mapping and land titling over the entire 120,000 ha area,
involving about 8,500 settler holdings and nine native communities;
and



- 15 -
(m) national mapping to prepare a new map of the country based on
satellite imagery.
3.04      The project would be implemented over five years and would be
administered by HCBM's Executive Directorate in Tarapoto (with a liaison
office in Lima) and its Technical Directorate for Alto Mayo in Moyobamba.
Project activities would be managed mainly through implementation agreements
with various governmental and private agencies, which would be strengthened
for purposes of the project.
C. Detailed Features
Farm Development and Credit
3.05      The project would provide agricultural credit to about 3,900
farmers (46% of the total) in order to assist them to gradually incorporate
more land on their individual holdings into agriculture. Credit is an impor-
tant project activity and would be provided for small-scale irrigation
network construction, land clearing and levelling, on-farm development,
procurement of tractors, farm machinery and equipment, pasture establish-
ment and purchase of cattle and draft animals. Long-term credit would be
based on farm investment plans elaborated with the assistance of TD and INIPA
extension credit personnel (para 4.04).  Short-term credit for on-farm
operating expenditures such as purchase of seeds, fertilizers, chemicals,
machinery rental and labor remuneration would be assigned on the basis of a
financial analysis prepared by BAP staff and estimates of specific needs by
farm type (model) are discussed in Section V.
3.06      Long-term financial resource requirements are estimated at about
US$23.0 million equivalent, and short-term requirements at US$8.0 million
equivalent over the project period. Under the project, cofinancing from the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) would meet about 70%
of long-term and 30% of short-term needs. Assurances were obtained at nego-
tiations that credit would be disbursed only against farm plans prepared by
BAP in cooperation with farmers and TD and extension personnel. All subloans
proposed for financing under the project would be forwarded by BAP to the ED
for review, and all processing of such subloans for reimbursement under the
IFAD loan would be carried out by the ED. Administration of the credit
component would also be subject to the policy initiatives generated as a
result of the Bank's ongoing dialogue with Government on the proposed
Agricultural Credit VI Project.
Irrigation
3.07      Two types of investment would be supported:  small projects
financed through credit to individual farmers or groups but without public
investment, mainly along the Yuracyacu River (7,000 ha) but also along other
small rivers (2,500 ha); and the Yorongos scheme (1,500 ha), which would
require some public support in the construction of headworks and a main
canal.



- 16 -
3.08      The Yuracyacu and other small-scale systems would improve existing
small-scale irrigation on about 5,000 ha and increase the irrigated area on a
further 4,500 ha, mainly by increasing the area irrigated on farms which
already irrigate.  Hydrologic regimes are considered sufficient (Tabl1  1),
sample designs were reviewed at appraisal, and a program of work for the
first year of the project has been prepared. The types of works to be
installed would be river offtakes, sand excluders, diversion and measurement
structures, and lateral head regulators. All would be of simple design,
making use of local materials to the extent possible, (especially hard-
woods).  Structures would be designed for a flow of 1.5 liters per second per
ha, which would permit flexibility in operation.  Detailed costs for small-
scale irrigation improvement and expansion are given in Tables 2 and 3.
3.09      The Yorongos Scheme would require construction of headworks and a
main canal to deliver water from the Tonchima river (Map) to several creeks
in order to irrigate about 1,500 ha, of which about 230 ha would benefit from
improvement to areas which are currently irrigated in a simple wqay.
Government proposes to construct the headworks and main canal with public
funds, and diversion and distribution systems from creeks would be carried
out by farmers, financed through credit. The Technical Directorate
Irrigation Group (para 4.02 and Chart 2) has prepared a satisfactory, prelim-
inary feasibility study and designs covering all works, including those to be
carried out through credit, which indicates that the Yurongos scheme is
viable on its own merits (IRR above 20%). The Irrigation Group estimate the
base cost of the scheme at about US$1.5 million; however, it is felt that
additional detailed study of river flows and further evaluation of design
parameters would be useful before tenders for the canal are prepared. This
additional time, no more than two years, may result in a cheaper solution.
Details are given in Table 2.
3.10      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (a) Government would
seek to recover the full investment cost through water charges over the life
of the Yurongos investment under prevailing interest rates; (b) farmers would
be required to cover 100% of operation and maintenance costs; and (c) final
designs on the Yurongos canal and draft tenders would be prepared for Bank
review by September 30, 1984. The ED presented a draft proposal to the
Bank at negotiations on how Government proposes to levy charges to cover
operation and maintenance and repayment of investment costs on the Yurongos
scheme (this would be updated to take into account farmers contributions
based on their schedule of repayment for long-term credit before the canal
system becomes operational as discussed in para 6.02). An assurance was
obtained at negotiations that these charges would be implemented within three
months of completion of the works.
3.11      Irrigation improvement and extension schemes to be financed by
agricultural credit would be identified by irrigators' commissions and the
Alto Mayo Irrigation District. Surveys, preliminary designs, and cost estim-
ates have already been prepared by the TD Irrigation Group. Each loan
request would be supported by a project report for the financing agency and
financial assistance would be required only for structures; the farmers them-
selves, or their own hired staff, would do the earthworks for canal construc-
tion or rectification. The overall objective of the irrigation program would
be to irrigate about 11,000 ha of land by full development in year 5, of
which about 5,770 ha would be new areas and 5,230 ha improved (Table 2).  The



- 17 -
project would strengthen the Irrigation District in its new organization
(Chart 1) and would provide additional staffing, office space, vehicles and
equipment, and operation and maintenance costs (Table 4).
3.12       Important functions of the TD Irrigation Group would be to super-
vise all irrigation-related activites and to work closely with the district
in training staff.  In addition, although monitoring of river flows under the
project would be the responsibility of the Irrigation District, the TD
Irrigation Group would be responsible for constructing and equipping the
stations and would supervise the collection and evaluation of the data.
Land Clearing Equipment
3.13      The project would purchase 10 crawler tractors, with associated
equipment and spares for hire to farmers by the Executive Directorate at
standard rental charges which would aim to cover all costs (Table 5). To
date there has beet no private sector interest in establishing contracting
services for land clearing, and since the ED is now responsible for operating
SENAMA equipment elsewhere in San Martin province (para 3.28), project
efforts will be focussed on the Technical Directorate. Upon completion of
the project, this equipment would be handed over to SENAMA or the relevant
public sector agency. Experience with the limited number of heavy equip-
ment operated until recently by SENAMA, has been mixed and the potential risk
of mixing lower soil horizons with sometimes shallow top soil layers
would, therefore, be addressed under the project. Although erosion problems
in the relatively flat valley bottomlands are not considered to be serious,
there is a potential for damage outside the project area as trees are felled
on the steeper slopes. Consequently, project procured equipment would
include shear blades and root-rakes as well as spare parts but would not
include standard bulldozer blades which, if used for levelling, as is common
at present, could exacerbate the problem of removing top soil horizons on
certain plots. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that: (a) a consul-
tant would be hired to train operators in the use of project procured equip-
ment especially the above attachements which are not currently available in
the area; (b) bulldozer blades would not be used for land levelling; and
(c) the Executive Directorate would obtain full cost recovery on its rental
operations.
Access Roads
3.14      The objectives of the access road component are to:  provide year
round road access to district centers, main farm communities, and selected
river landings; progressively improve road access to farms; and establish
improved access road maintenance, organization and management. Details of
investments are given in Tables 6 and 7, and summarized below:
(a)  improve about 95 km of existing access roads and construct
86 km of new access road sections (including alignment
improvements);
(b)  construct three river bank boat landings;
(c)  provide consultant services for detailed engineering and
supervision of construction;



- 18 -
(d) purchase road maintenance tools and equipment;
(e)  construct and outfit a small, equipment repair workshop;
(f)  train district and project road maintenance staff; and
(g)  start the operation of a maintenance support unit.
3.15      Road improvement and construction standards are shown in Table 7
and road locations appear on the map. Boat landings would consist of
concrete paved ramps, between high and low water levels, with small, cable-
attached, floating, unloading platforms. Detailed engineering of road works,
being prepared by consultants engaged under the PPF, were substantially
completed by negotiations. Road maintenance tools and light equipment would
be suitable for predominantly manual road maintenance by the communities and
farmers, and for occasional mechanized help from the maintenance support unit
with a small equipment pool and workshop (para 3.16). During negotiations,
assurances were obtained relating to the satisfactory maintenance of these
access roads.  In this context it was agreed that the annual program and
minimum budget levels for maintenance would be forwarded to the Bank for
review. Training would be provided in programming, and execution and
management of appropriate manual maintenance for access roads with low
traffic volumes. Most of the project's road sections would be contracted
in years 1 and 2 (151 km: 88%), the grouping of which was confirmed at
negotiations. The balance of 12%, which are located in areas of as yet
unconfirmed development potential, would be contracted in year 4, and
assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government would present to the
Bank for review by June 30, 1985, an analysis of benefits to support
construction in these areas. The latter roads would be subject to the same
evaluation criteria as the original 88%.
3.16      Maintenance of roads to be improved under the project would be the
responsibility of participating municipalities or districts, with guidance,
training and assistance provided under the project (para 4.05 and Annex 1).
Nominated district personnel would receive training and would be provided
appropriate tools and light manual equipment. Transport vehicles and
mechanized assistance would be provided by the support unit as required by
District work programs, which would periodically be reviewed and agreed with
project maintenance staff. The project maintenance equipment pool would
provide gravel in stockpiles and occasional reshaping or blading of
surfaces.  The Districts would be required to pay, in accordance with a
schedule of charges, at least a part of the operating and maintenance costs
of the equipment used for maintenance. The workshop financed under the
project, would be centrally located near Rioja, and would support mainte-
nance, operation and minor repair of community and project pool vehicles and
equipment. The maintenance support unit with its equipment and workshop
would eventually be transferred to an appropriate local authority. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that not later than June 30, 1985, a
program for the transfer would be presented to the Bank for comments and that
the transfer, per se, would take effect no later than January 1, 1986.



- 19 -
Extension and Research
3.17      The project would build upon the capabilities of INIPA in its
unique position of coordinator for both extension and research activities in
Peru. Project support would follow the guidelines set out in the Bank-
assisted Peru Agricultural Research and Extension Project.
3.18      Extension:  The Training and Visit (T&V) System of extension would
be implemented in the project area by INIPA's CIPA-X regional headquarters in
Tarapoto. This system would involve regular visits at fortnightly intervals
by extension workers ("sectoristas") to selected contact farmers. The
sectoristas would be supported in their work by extension supervisors and
extension subject matter specialists (SMS), agroeconomists and credit promo-
tion officers. These supporting staff would be the personnel used in fort-
nightly in-service training sessions and would maintain close liaison with
the research personnel, who would also be involved in the training sessions.
Training would be an integral part of INIPA's strategy to integrate research
with extension. INIPA would also draw on resources of other Government
institution projects to avail itself of specialized expertise in training of
its extension staff. 3/ The number of SMSs would be raised from four to 11,
and the number of extension workers would be raised from 11 to 35.
3.19      The project would therefore provide direct financial support to the
development of the extension program through:
(a)  the construction of a zonal headquarters at Rioja (610 m2), three
agency complexes at Nueva Cajamarca, Rioja and Moyobamba
(1,170 m2), and four sector/extension centers at Yuracyacu,
Soritor, San Fernando and San Juan (400 m2), all of which would
have associated housing facilities (Table 8);
(b)  the purchase of 6, four-wheel drive vehicles, 18 motorcycles,
3 motorboats, and office and field equipment for the facilities
outlined above in (a) (Table 9);
(c)  incremental salaries (8 professional, 24 technical, and 8 clerical
and lower level staff) and operating costs of the program (Table
10); and
(d)  the cost of in-service training programs, short courses and
external training (Table 23).
3.20      Research:  Under the project, a crop research station would be
constructed at a site near Rioja. The research program would concentrate on
(a) breeding for short maturity rice varieties, resistance to Pyricularia
oryzae, and Zogatoces orizcola, and tolerance to low temperatures; (b) rice
production techniques including broadcasting vs. transplanting under irriga-
tion, plant protection, and land preparation; (c) crop mechanization
practices - two-wheel IRRI-type tractors would be tested for applicability in
3/   A more detailed discussion of the T&V system is given in the "Peru -
Agricultural Research and Extension Project," - Report No. 3789-PE,
dated April 12, 1982.



- 20 -
the area; (d) rice seed multiplication; (e) testing of available hybrid germ-
plasm for maize; (f) replication of crop management practices on maize
already obtained by the National University La Molina in recent studies else-
where in Peru; and (g) double cropping and crop rotation.
3.21      Livestock research under the project would be supported by  estab-
lishing a livestock substation at Calzada (near Moyobamba) to carry out
applied research under actual grazing conditions. One major thrust of the
livestock program would be an attempt to test livestock/pasture systems for
the "Shapumbales" (very acid soils), which are estimated to cover about
20,000 to 25,000 ha in the valley and which, on preliminary examination,
appear to offer potential for extensive livestock production systems.
3.22      In order to achieve the crop and livestock research objectives, the
project would finance investment and incremental operating costs on the two
research stations (Rioja and Calzada) as follows:
(a) construction of office, laboratory, storage and accommodations
at Rioja (1,965 m2) and Caizada (970 m2) (Table 11);
(b) purchase of additional land at Rioja (40 ha), if the site which
has tentatively been identified proves unsuitable (Table 11);
(c) purchase of scientific, agricultural and technical equipment for
both centers (Table 12);
(d) purchase of 7 four-wheel drive pickups, one passenger vehicle,
and 9 motorcycles (Table 12);
(e) provision of incremental salaries and travelling costs (9 profes-
sional staff, 10 technicians, 11 clerical staff and drivers, and 15
laborers, excluding seasonal needs) and operation and maintenance
of incremental investments (Tables 12, 13 and 14); and
(f) provision of in-service and external training and education of
staff (6 man years of overseas MS fellowships, 9 man years of
local MS fellowships, 60 man months of short-term overseas train-
ing, and 60 man months of attendance at scientific meetings)
(Table 23).
3.23      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that, prior to awarding
the contract for construction of the crop research center, the Bank would be
consulted on site selection.
Storage
3.24      In order to meet storage needs for maize seed and fertilizers in
the area, the ED would construct under contract a total storage capacity of
about 3,000 tons at sites to be determined at the local level.  These
facilities would be handed over to the relevant public sector agencies upon
completion.  Construction of the first stores is under way.  Details are
given in Table 15.



- 21 -
Fisheries
3.25      The project's fisheries component aims to improve the protein
content of the local diet and diversify agricultural production into farm
fish ponds by financing the construction of two Ministry of Fisheries
stations: Marona (7.5 km from Moyobamba) and Mashuyacu (8 km from Rioja).
Preliminary layouts of the respective facilities have already been com-
pleted. Species to be grown are already found in the zone; however, exten-
sion support would be provided by three incremental technicians financed
under the project and located at the stations. The Marona station, which was
established in 1980 but not fully developed for lack of funding, would
produce about 100,000 fingerlings and 5,000 kg of fish per year. At
Mashuyacu, which was originally developed in 1966 but destroyed by floods in
1979 when a dyke failed, the objective would be to produce about 60,000
fingerlings and about 3,000 kg of fish per year. An assurance was obtained
at negotiations that sale prices of fingerlings would ensure full cost
recovery of the production costs. Total project investments in fisheries are
detailed in Table 16.
Forestry
3.26      Extraction of forest resources in Peru is well covered by several
laws. Project support would therefore be aimed at strengthening Forestry
District and Forestry Police effectiveness to enforce this legislation and to
provide technical services. Detailed investments are given in Table 17, and
summarized below:
(a)  construction of offices for the Forestry District at Rioja, Nueva
Cajamarca, and Moyobamba (200 m2 total) and for the Forestry Police
control points at Aguas Verdes and Pacayzapa (80 m2 total);
(b)  purchase of 4 four-wheel drive vehicles, 21 motorcycles, 3 motor
boats and 22 basic equipment sets for district and police staff;
(c)  provision of incremental staffing of Regional Directorate and
District offices (2 professionals, 9 technicians, 6 clerical and
other staff), and operation and maintenance of the investments; and
(d)  carrying out of an inventory of forestry and fauna resources
with the Agrarian Region XIII including actual and potential wood
production and associated costs in the valley; preparation of an
extension program with pilot scale testing of forest management
plans; and implementation of a public awareness program to educate
the local population on the need to conserve and protect forestry
resources.
Health
3.27      The project would support the expansion of  Government's primary
health care program in the project area since the proposed Bank-assisted
Primary Health Care Project focuses outside the project area. Designs of
facilities to be constructed would be similar to those financed under the
latter project. The primary health care proposed under the project utilizes
community volunteers and field nursing auxiliaries who operate from a health



- 22 -
post under the direction of a nurse. The nurse would plan, organize and
supervise the activities of the team; give demonstration on hygiene and
sanitary improvement; train health staff; and monitor health progress in the
community. She would also refer cases to health centers, which would be
staffed with physicians, nurses and auxiliaries and would provide ambulatory
and hospital care. Difficult cases or cases requiring long stays would be
referred to hospitals in Moyobamba or Rioja. Details of investments and
locations of health centers and health posts are given in Table 18 and
summarized below:
(a) construction of 4 health centers and associated housing at Nueva
Cajamarca, Jepelacio, Yuracyacu and Soritor (740 m2 each);
(b) construction or completion of 11 health posts and housing
(125 m2 each);
(c) construction or improvement of water supply to 20 communities;
(d) construction of about 3,000 latrines;
(e) purchase of 2 ambulances (for Yurongos and Nueva Cajamarca) and
equipment for 4 health centers and all 15 health posts;
(f) training for all project area field nursing auxiliaries and also
community volunteers located in the native communities (120 staff
in total).
Preparation of designs of facilities, identification of locations, and
procedures for contracting of construction are well advanced on this
component.
Education
3.28      Project support to primary education, outlined in Table 19, is
summarized below:
(a) construction and/or completion of school buildings and housing
for teachers in a total of about 44 communities (9 of which are in
tribal areas). Classrooms are designed at about 45 m2 for every
35 pupils and individual family housing is included to stimulate
staff to live permanently in the rural communities. Designs have
been prepared and are under review by the Bank; and
(b) equipment and teaching materials (including bilingual materials
for native communities) for each of the 44 schools.
Project Technical Directorate (TD)
3.29      The TD, which already has a skeleton staff under short-term
contract in Moyobamba to oversee day-to-day running of the project, would
receive the following specific support:
(a) construction of offices (700 m2 total), housing and dormitories
(1,000 m2 total) at Moyobamba and a field office in Nueva Cajamarca
(Table 20);



- 23 -
(b) purchase of 13 vehicles, 7 motorcycles, and technical and office
supplies and equipment (Table 20); and
(c) contracting of additional staff (21 professionals, 25 technicians,
8 clerical and 12 support staff), and operation and maintenance
funds for investments (Tables 21 and 22).
Studies
3.30      Since the Alto Mayo Project is the first stage in a development
process for the Alto Mayo Valley and is part of Government's long-term
strategy for the Ceja de Selva, it is important to continue to study impor-
tant aspects of this development. The project therefore proposes to carry
out the following studies, primarily through experienced entities, in
accordance with the schedules shown in Table 23:
(a) a forestry and fauna inventory study (by MAG Directorate of
Forestry and Fauna) on about 90,000 ha which have been identified
from FAO/ONERN studies as being suitable for commercial forestry;
(b) a semi-detailed soil survey and land classification (by ONERN)
of about 60,000 ha (35,000 ha inside the project area on the right
bank and 25,000 ha outside the project area on the left bank of the
Mayo River) on a scale of 1:25,000;
(c) studies to monitor river flows (by the TD Irrigation Group) would
be part of the regular activities of the TD under whom river
gauging stations would be constructed. These stations would,
however, be handed over to the Irrigation District for operation.
This process would be especially important in determining the final
design of the main structures on the Yurongos canal scheme (para
3 .09);
(d) a study on reclamation of the approximately 25,000 ha of acid
soils - Shapumbales (by INIPA and TD) which would concentrate
on: (i) commercial-scale testing of reclamation practices such
as application of limestone, rock phosphate and micro elements
(e.g. Bo, Mg); (ii) evaluating the effect of irrigation water from
area rivers which already exhibit high pH; and (iii) the role of
pasture in the reclamation process;
(e) two socioeconomic studies on the development of native communities
in the area (by DCCN in the Ministry of Agriculture), outlines of
which are on the project file (Annex 1); and
(f) a feasibility study on a second phase project (consultants).
Preliminary studies of possible components for a second-phase
project would be carried out by TD staff, assisted by consul-
tants. It is proposed that these preliminary studies would be
reviewed by a Bank identification mission (in year 4 of the
project), which would define, with the project authority, the
elements of the second-phase project. The latter mission would
also prepare terms of reference for a feasibility study to be
prepared by consultants during year 4.



- 24 -
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that terms of reference for each of
these studies would be satisfactory to the Bank.
Technical Assistance
3.31      In view of the many components in, and the prototype nature of, the
project, technical assistance would be needed to ensure effective implementa-
tion. Therefore the project would provide 55 man-months of consultant
expatriate support, details of which are given in Table 23 and summarized
below:
(a) Technical services (16 man-months total). Support would be
required on an as-needed basis on technical issues and aspects
of crop and livestock production. The project expects that this
assistance would be provided by international research institutes
in the Consultative Group for International Agriculture (CGIAR)
system, especially the International Center for Tropical
Agriculture (CIAT);
(b) Soil Conservation/Management (6-man-months total). Support would
be required over a 3-year period to advise INIPA and ED staff on
aspects of soil conservation and management in the project area;
(c) Land Clearing Techniques (2 man-months total). Support would be
required to train and advise operators on the use of land clearing
equipment on the soil types found in the project area;
(d) Monitoring and Evaluation (8 man-months total). A consultant
would be required to set up, supervise and evaluate a monitoring
and evaluation system, with follow-up to prepare data for the
consultant study on a Phase II project;
(e) Appropriate Technology (6 man-months total) support to advise
native communities on available appropriate technology and to
assist in its procurement and demonstration;
(f) Agronomist (8 man-months). Support would be required for work
exclusively with native communities and relevant extension
personnel on how best to improve native community agricultural
practices; and
(g) Social Scientist (9 man-months). Support would be required to
advise the Executive Directorate over a 3-year period on the
project's impact on native communities and settler families. In
the latter case the consultant would also assist in
formulating a program to establish watershed committees which
it is proposed could monitor felling of trees in the watersheds of
their irrigation areas.
3.32      The project also envisages about 7.0 manyears of local consultant
support.  This includes a total of 6 man-months over the five-year project
period to evaluate health delivery systems to the native communities; and
about 6.5 manyears of local roads contract specialists (2) to work in the TD
Roads Unit on the organization and management of minor road maintenance. The



- 25 -
latter specialists would be responsible for setting up training programs,
operating the equipment pool and its workshop, and providing technical assis-
tance and supervision to the districts in their road maintenance work.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that all consultants would operate
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (drafts in Annex 1) and
that selection of individuals would be subject to prior approval by the
Bank.
Local Mapping and Titling
3.33       In MAG, the General Office of Cadastral and Rural Affairs (OGCAR),
is responsible for identifying farm boundaries and carrying out cadastral
surveys and the Agrarian Reform Office awards and adjudicates titles. Both
agencies retain regional offices in Agrarian Region XIII and both operate
under a wide range of legislation listed in the project file (Annex 1).
3.34      Local Mapping.  The project would prepare topographic maps for
about 100,000 ha of the project area at a scale of 1:10,000. These maps
would be most useful for agricultural development especially in the irriga-
tion areas where contour lines would be outlined at 1-meter intervals, while
the balance of the area would have 5-meter intervals. Aerial photography in
support of this exercise is being carried out under the direction of OGCAR
and financed under a PPF advance. After these maps are produced, OGCAR would
carry out additional aerial photography over the entire 770,000-ha Alto Mayo
Valley to produce 1:30,000 scale maps. The latter would update information
on the general ecosystem and would provide basic information for cadastral,
land preparation, land protection and conservation work for follow-up invest-
ments. In addition to this support, the project would also assist in devel-
oping satellite remote sensing capability in OGCAR, specifically to monitor
developments in the Alto Mayo Valley and San Martin Province in general.
Since OGCAR staff would be contracted to carry out these activities, the
project would finance the incremental staffing costs associated with the
local mapping component, as shown in Table 24.
3.35      Titling.  The project would support a program to provide titles to
about 95% of the settlers in the project area (i.e., approximately an addi-
tional 6,000 families) and all nine native communities. This would result in
the number of titles for settler holdings being increased from current levels
of about 1,500 up to about 8,100, in addition to providing title to the last
of nine native communities (San Rafael) and officially registering all nine.
This action would not only ensure legal security to the title holders and, in
the case of settler areas,mitigate against excessive fragmentation of hold-
ings into small, uneconomic farm units, but it would also facilitate the
process of obtaining long-term credit. Although farmers can obtain credit
with certificates of possession, land titles, which legally define bound-
aries, make it easier to substantiate farm plans used in credit applica-
tions. Project titling support would therefore take the form of incremental
operating expenditures for the Agrarian Reform Department of MAG, including
staffing, as shown in Table 24.
National Mapping
3.36      Peru has poor map coverage:  resource maps are limited, and basic
topographic maps, at scales useful for planning, engineering or development
purpuses, cover only the western third of the country. The vast majority of



- 26 -
the remainder of the country has map coverage at a scale of 1:1 million which
is only suitable for general orientation. About 36% of the country has topo-
graphic maps at scales of 1:100,000, 2% at 1:200,000 and only 14 map sheets
have been produced at the 1:250,000 scale. The remainder of the country,
which includes much of the Sierra and most of the Selva Region, is covered
only by unrectified aerialphoto mosaics or planimetric maps (27%), by prelim-
inary surveys (8%) referred to as "levantamientos irregular o expeditivo," by
side-looking aerial radar imagery (12%) (SLAR), or by small scale maps
(15%). None of these products provide contour lines, spot heights or eleva-
tions nor are they based on sound horizontal geodetic controls. Furthermore,
since photo mosaics are film products they are relatively costly, are
frequently subject to security controls and are not always readily avail-
able. Conversion of such data to map form (litographic products) would
permit more effective regional planning and project development.  Conse-
quently, the project would purchase 73 computer compatible tapes, derived
from NASA high density tapes, to cover the entire country.  These tapes would
be converted to photographic images, onto which roads, railroads, dams, and
major town names would be superimposed. These photomap copies, once
corrected, would be color separated, annotated with the geographic grid
information (latitude-longitude) and would be presented in a 1:250,000 scale
map format. A total of approximately 80 individual map sheets would be made
of Peru in addition to a four-sheet map of the whole country at the 1:1 mil-
lion scale. All reproduction materials and tapes would be shipped to ONERN
for final full production runs and distribution. The ED would coordinate
this component through an agreement with ONERN. The Bank's senior resource
planning adviser would also provide technical assistance to the ED and
ONERN. Details are given in Table 25.
Native Communities
3.37      Measures aimed at safeguarding the nine native communities in the
project area and specific assistance provided to ensure their participation
in the local economy have not been treated as a separate activity under the
project but have instead been included as part of the relevant project
components. Key support activities are summarized below:
(a)  construction of primary schools in each of the nine communities
and provision of bilingual teaching materials (Table 19);
(b)  construction of three health posts at Bajo Naranjillo, Shimpiyacu
and El Dorado communities to service the nine groups. In addition,
the project would support a vaccination program, construction of
household water supplies, and monitoring of water quality in the
areas (Table 18);
(c)  provision of bilingual extension support (one agriculturalist, two
technicians) exclusively for the communities to be stationed at
Nueva Cajamarca (Table 10);
(d)  construction of an urban marketing center and office (Casa Nativa)
in Moyobamba, plus an office for OAAM in the Bajo Naranjillo
community (Table 20);
(e)  purchase of small implements and appropriate technology for
agricultural and domestic use in the communities (Table 20);



- 27 -
(f)  provision of land titling support to ensure that the last untitled
community receives title and to officially register all nine
communities' titles and install boundary markers;
(g)  provision of training of village-level health workers and tech-
nical training of community members in carpentry and similar
technical skills (Table 23);
(h)  provision of technical assistance in small-scale fish pond farming
(Table 16), appropriate technology, agronomy, social science and
health (Table 23);
(i)  monitoring and evaluation of the project's impact on the communi-
ties, which would involve direct participation of the tribal groups
themselves; and
(j)  studies by DCCN on land titling processes and general tribal
development (Table 23).
3.38      Coordination of native community support activities would be the
direct responsibility of the Technical Director, who would employ a social
scientist in the monitoring cell of the Technical Directorate (TD) to coor-
dinate the various activities impacting on the native communities (para
4.08).
D. Project Costs
3.39      Total project costs, including contingencies, are estimated at
about US$83.5 million as summarized below. Base costs refer to October 1982
values, physical contingencies are estimated at 15% for on-site work and
construction in the civil works program, 10% on incremental operating costs
other than salaries and wages, and 5% on equipment and transportation. A 20%
physical contingency has been applied to the Yorongos irrigation proposal
since it is still at a feasibility stage of preparation. Although Peru has
and continues to, experience very high domestic rates of inflation, it uses a
system of regular adjustment in its exchange rates relative to hard
currencies which approximately covers the differential between domestic and
international inflation. Therefore price contingencies in the project costs
are calculated on US dollar base values and are estimated at 8%, 8%, 7.5%,
7.0%, 6% and 6% for 1982 through 1987, respectively, which projects the
annual percentage increase in US$ terms expected to occur based on past
experience in the region. Since the Ceja de Selva and hence the project
area, are considered development areas, they are exempted from taxes under
Government Law No. 15600 (1975) and Decree No. 22179 (1982), therefore no
taxes or duties are expected on project investments. A total of 11.6
manyears of consultancy support would be provided at a cost of US$10,000 per
man-month for expatriates (4.6 manyears) and US$2,000 per man-month for
locals (7.0 manyears). Detailed project cost statements, including credit
subtotals for irrigation activities, are presented in Tables 26-28.



FEPU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FPROJECT COST SUMMARY
,SOL '000)                        (US$ '000)            % of
---------------------- --------------------------- Foreign  % of Total
Local       Foreisri       Total       Local   Foreisn   Total   Exchanre Base Costs
A. CREDIT
LONG TERM                                    4W731t303.1  5y203,212.5  9i934y515,6 8602.4  9i460.4 18,062.8          52 .4       28.9
SHORT TERM                                   2,384,074.0  1g021,746.0  3Y405Y820.0  4?334.7  1,857.7  6,192.4         30.0         9 q L
Sub-Total CREDIT                                7115f377,1  6,224f958.5 13Y340,335.6 129?37.0 11,318.1 24,255 .2        46.7        38.e
5. IRRIGATION                                     544,024.0    357,816.0    9O0Y840.0    989.1    650.6  1Y639.7         39,7         2,8
C. LAND CLEARING EQUIPMENT                        1011000,0    909,000.0  1,010,000.0    183.6  1,652.7  1838,4         90.0         2.°
P. ACCESS ROADS                                 4t?82y775,0  3,6550975.0  8,638,750.0  9,059.6  6Y647,2 15,706.8         42.3        25.1
E. EXTENSION & RESEARCH                          7980,738.6  17191i442,4  37172181.0  3,601.3  2,166.3  5,767.6          37.6         9.2
F. STORAGE                                        108T0000.    72,000.0    180,000.0    196.4    130.?    327.3          40.C         0.5
U, F-ISHERIES & FORESTRY                          414,374.0    382,476,0    796b850.0    753,4    69514  1,448,5         48.0         2.3
H. HEALTH & EDUCATION                           1,211,070.0  1,316y13040  2,527Y200.0  2y201.9  2,393.0  4,594.9         52.1 7I3                    oo
1. PROJECT ORGANIZATION                         1Y1440460,0    4 232I10.0  1y567?570.0  2,080.8    769.3  2,850.1        27.0         4.6             1
J. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE? TRAINING I STUDIES       161,380,0    5750920,0    737y300.0    293.4  1047.1  1,340,5         78,1         2.1
,. LOCAL MAPPING & TITLING                        951,144.0    290O056.0  1,241,200.0  1,729.4    527.4  2,256.7         23.4         3.6
L  NAIIDONAL MAPPING                               30Q844.0    277,596.0    308,440.0       56.1    504.7    560-0    9Q.0            0.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                             180745Y186.7 156r76,479.?  34,421.666.8 349082.2 28,502.7 62P584.8        45.5       100.0
Ph,sieal Continlencies                         17824f146.2  1,390,001.7  3,214,147.8  3Y316.6  2r527.3  5y843.9         43.2         9.3
Price Continrericies                           4,873,144.3  3P632,733.4  SY305,577.7  80496.6  6,605.0 15,101.6         43.7        24.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                              25,242,477.1 20y699.214.9 45,?41,692.1 45,895.4 37,634.? 83y530.3         45.1       13.5
Front End Fee                                            -    243r375.0    243,375.0          -    442.5    442.5    100Q0           0.7
Total FINANCING REQUIRED                         25,2424477.1 20,9427589.9 46Y1855067.1 45,895,4 38,077.4 83,972,8         45.3       134. 2
November 15, 1982  16:37



- 29 -
E. Project Financing
3.40      The proposed Bank loan would meet about 60% of total costs of
non-credit components. This would cover 100% of foreign exchange (US$21.9
million) and about 28% of local costs (US$7.6 million) in non-credit
activities. A project preparation facility (PPF) totalling US$0.5 million
has already been approved and would be refinanced from the loan after
effectiveness. A front-end fee of about US$450,000 would be capitalized and
included in the loan. The project would be cofinanced with the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) which would contribute SDR 17.9
million (about US$19.0 million equivalent): US$18.6 million equivalent to
credit activities and US$0.4 million equivalent for monitoring and evaluation
activities. A breakdown of financing is shown below:
Financing Plan
US$ million
World
Government    Farmers   Bank    IFAD   Total
Credit:
Long-term                          6.6           2.5        -     16.2    25.3
Short-term                         5.6           0.9       -       2.4      8.9
Subtotal (credit)                 12.2           3.4       -      18.6    34.2
Irrigation                           1.3            -        0.7      -       2.0
Land Clearing Equipment               -             -        2.3      -       2.3
Access Roads                         4.4            -       16.3      -      20.7
Research and Extension               4.7            -        2.6      -       7.3
Storage                              0.2            -        0.2      -       0.4
Fisheries and Forestry               1.2            -        0.6      -       1.8
Health and Education                 2.6            -        3.4      -       6.0
Project Organization                 2.7            -        0.8     0.2      3.7
Technical Assistance,
Training, Studies                   -             -        1.4     0.2      1.6
Local Mapping and Titling            2.2            -        0.6      -       2.8
National Mapping                     0.1            -        0.6      -       0.7
Front-end Fee                         -             -        0.5      -       0.5
Total                             31.6           3.4      30.0    19.0    84.0



- 30 -
F. Procurement
Civil Works
3.41      Construction contracts for access roads totalling about US$12.0
million would be procured by international competitive bidding (ICB).
Roadworks would be awarded in four small contracts (averaging about US$3.0
million each) to permit smaller firms, to whom the project roads might be
more interesting, to compete. Larger qualified firms would be eligible for
more than one contract.
3.42      Construction of the main canal for the Yorongos Irrigation Scheme
is estimated to cost about US$1.5 million equivalent; consequently, detailed
design and all procureaent documentation would be subject to prior review by
the Bank. However, since Peru has experienced contractors capable of
handling such works, local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures, satisfactory
to the Bank, would be acceptable.
3.43      The balance of civil works contracts for offices, housing, research
stations, primary school and health care facilities, and small-scale irriga-
tion works are not of a scale which is liable to interest foreign contrac-
tors; therefore, LCB procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, would be accept-
able. Civil works may also be executed by use of force account by the
Borrower provided, however, that in respect of civil works estimated to be
equivalent to or greater than US$200,000 equivalent, the Borrower shall seek
prior approval by the Bank before executing such work by force account.
Contracts for the construction of the Rioja research station, and any
combined packages of works in excess of US$500,000 would be subject to the
Bank's prior review of procurement documentation. Health facilities,
schools, office buildings, water supply facilities and other works would be
designed by the TD in consultation with the local representatives of the
Ministries of Health and Education. The ED would organize bidding and would
supervise the construction of the works. In some instances, facilities would
be partially constructed by villagers' voluntary labor under the supervision
of the ED.
Goods
3.44      Equipment and workshop tools related to the access road component
would be procured by locally advertised competitive bidding which is appro-
priate for the small volume of goods involved. Major suppliers of equipment
have established agencies in Lima and all would be required to have equip-
ment, repair and spare parts supply services available in or near the project
area. Farm machinery equipment provided under the credit component would be
procured by farmers through normal commercial channels. Procurement of land
clearing equipment totalling about US$1.8 million would be carried out by
international competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Procurement of vehicles and motorcycles would be carried out by LCB proced-
ures satisfactory to the Bank. Domestic and regional preferences, acceptable
to the Bank, would apply to the procurement of goods under the project.
Furniture and supplies, and scientific and technical equipment would be
grouped; orders under US$50,000 would be by prudent shopping procedures in
accordance with local regulations acceptable to the Bank, and packages over
US$50,000 would be subject to LCB. The total value of scientific and



- 31 -
and technical equipment as well as furniture and supplies procured through
direct negotiations is not expected to exceed US$200,000 during the project
period.
Services
3.45      Consultants and expatriate assistance would be hired on the basis
of qualifications and experience relevant to job descriptions and in accord-
ance with Bank guidelines dated August 1981. Scholarships extending for one
academic year or more and external travel associated with technical training
financed under the loan would need the prior approval of the Bank. Assur-
ances were obtained at negotiations that the provisions of this and the
preceding paragraphs on procurement would be followed.
G. Disbursements
3.46      The project would be implemented over five years and disbursements
under the Bank loan would extend over six years (Table 29). The disbursement
schedule has a higher rate of disbursement, especially in early years,
compared to historical profiles for agriculture and rural development
projects in the region. The proposed rate is justified because of:
(a) HCBM's experience in coordinating a similar project in the region;
(b) advances made in preparing designs for access roads and small-scale
irrigation schemes, and the initiation of land titling activities, all
financed under the PPF advance; and (c) strong Government commitment as
evidence in the fact that the project has special status in the Office of the
President of the Council of Ministers. Disbursements would be fully
documented and categorized as follows:
Category                        Item                        Amount
(US$ million)
I         Civil Works:
85% of total expenditures                    18.6
II         Vehicles and Equipment:                          4.8
(a) Directly imported
100% of foreign expenditures
(b) Imported and procured locally,
90% of local expenditures
III         Cartography and Aerial Photography:
100% of total expenditures                    1.2
IV         Technical assistance, consultants,
training and studies:
100% of total expenditures (excluding
monitoring and evaluation)                 1.4
V         Project Preparation Facility:
refinancing amounts due                       0.5
VI          Front-end Fee                                   0.4
VII          Initial Deposit Special Account                 1.0
VIII          Unallocated                                     2.1
Total                                          30.0



- 32 -
Bank loan funds would be channelled through the Ministry of Economy and
Commerce directly to the ED, which would be responsible for reviewing all
budgetary requests for counterpart financing. Retroactive financing of up to
US$0.9 million (about 3% of the loan amount) is recommended for costs
incurred after appraisal (March 1, 1982) for: construction of a TD
headquarters; irrigation studies; land clearing equipment (maximum of two
units); storage facilities; national mapping; and goods for extension and TD
components.
Working Fund
3.47      In order to ensure timely payments to small contractors under the
civil works component, it is proposed to establish a Working Fund with a
Special Account being opened in Banco de la Nacion. The funds available in
the Special Account would be used exclusively to reimburse the borrower for
the Bank's share of local expenditures under the access roads civil works
component thus alleviating delays due to governmental budget constraints.
The initial deposit made by the Bank. into the Special Account would be
estimated to cover the Bank's share of three months expenditures for access
roads civil works.  This amount was agreed upon during negotiations.  The
borrower would claim reimbursement of the Bank's share of expenditures from
the Special Account upon presentation of fully documentated withdrawal
applications, which in turn would be forwarded to the Bank, by the
participant bank, for replenishment into the Special Account. The procedure
for recovery of the initial deposit would commence once the withdrawn balance
in Category I (Civil Works) reaches twice the amount of the initial deposit
at which time subsequent amounts claimed would be reduced. The Bank would
require a monthly statement of the Special Account which would reflect
transactions during the previous month.  Similar facilities are included in
the Bank's Eighth Highway Project (Loan No. 2091-PE).
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Executive Directorate (ED)
4.01      The Alto Mayo Special Project organization has already been set up
under the existing Executive Directorate of Huallaga Central and Bajo Mayo
Project (HCBM) in the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers by
Supreme Decree No. 031-81-PCM dated July 21, 1981. Chart 3 outlines the
project organization. HCBM would retain authority for both the Huallaga
Central and Alto Mayo projects but would delegate day-to-day operation of the
project to the Technical Director Alto Mayo located in the project area at
Moyobamba. The HCBM Executive Director's functions with respect to Alto Mayo
would therefore be to:
(a)  ensure that planning, programming, and implementation conformed
to the loan agreements with the Bank and IFAD;
(b)  ensure that all resources necessary to carry out the project were
available in a timely manner;
(c)  sign agreements with the participating agencies (para 4.07); and



- 33 -
(d)  approve plans and programs of its Technical Directorate, and
approve and sign contracts required for project execution
(para 4.02).
To ensure effective coordination of the project with the participating
agencies, an assurance was obtained at negotiations that the ED would
continue to maintain a liaison office in Lima.
Technical Directorate (TD)
4.02      The Technical Director Alto Mayo, who is already in place, would be
responsible for the efficient implementation of the project, on behalf of the
ED to which he would report directly. The Technical Director would head four
sections: Works and Equipment (DWE), Services (DS), Administration, and
Planning and Evaluation. In addition, he would be responsible for coordin-
ating aspects relating to the native communities. Specific responsibilities
for the key sections of the TD shown in Chart 3 are summarized below:
(a) the Directorate of Works and Equipment (DWE) would be responsible
for: technical supervision, control and coordination of all civil
works under the project (including land clearing) and procurement of
equipment; preparation, review and making recommendations to the ED
on award of contracts for civil works and equipment; training in
road maintenance and provision of road maintenance assistance by the
project; coordination of irrigation activities; and preparation of
progress reports on works for which it is responsible;
(b) the Directorate of Services (DS) would be responsible for: prepara-
tion of the agricultural credit agreement and its specific require-
ments with the financing institutions (para 4.04); supervision of
the credit, agricultural machinery use, marketing, extension and
research, land titling, local mapping, and evaluation of natural
resources components with the respective implementing agencies; and
preparation of progress reports on the above components, including
qualitative as well as quantitative analysis;
(c) the Sub-Directorate of Planning and Evaluation would: aggregate and
update the Integrated Development Plan for Alto Mayo; program works
and activities to be developed under the Project; modify plans and
programs as evaluation deems necessary; evaluate project impact and
make appropriate recommendations; prepare draft terms of reference
for studies; evaluate additional subprojects and requests for incor-
poration in a follow-up project; and propose technical assistance on
as-needed basis and assist participating agencies in the selection
of candidates for training courses; and
(d) the Sub-Directorate of Administration would be responsible for
budgeting, accounting, personnel, supplies, and support
services;
4.03      Although difficulties often occur in attracting qualified personnel
to field assignments, the project considers that the state of development of
facilities in tne towns of Moyobamba and Rioja, plus the housing and trans-
portation being financed under the project, should provide the necessary



- 34 -
incentive to work in the area.  The key staff positions in the Technical
Directorate and INIPA have already been filled by personnel on short-term
contract. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that, in the event
Government removes the Executive Director or the Technical Director from
their respective positions, the Bank would be afforded the right to review
the qualifications of any replacements who may be proposed for these
positions.
Credit
4.04      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that a credit subcommittee
would be formed within six months of the first disbursement of the IFAD
loan with the objective of regularly analyzing (at least at quarterly
intervals) the supply, demand and delivery aspects of credit and production
inputs. Representatives of the Agrarian Bank (BAP), the CIPA director,
credit specialists of the ED and INIPA's extension service, and beneficiary
farmers would participate in the subcommittee. BAP credit staff would work
together with TD and extension staff to prepare development plans, especially
for irrigation purposes to ensure soundness of criteria and financial viabil-
ity. The internationally-recruited credit coordinator under the Extension
and Research Project would be consulted on organization of the credit assis-
tance program for Alto Mayo. Signing of a Subsidiary Agreement with BAP,
including supporting approval of credit by-laws, would be a condition of Bank
loan effectiveness and IFAD loan effectiveness. Signing of the IFAD loan
agreement per se, would also be a condition of loan effectiveness.
Access Roads
4.05      The ED has entered into tripartite agreements, satisfactory to the
Bank, with district mayors and provincial sub-prefects, concerning district
responsibilities for executing road maintenance (October 1982).  Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that these would be enforced.  The DWE in
the Technical Directorate would be responsible for management of contracted
services, and with the latter support would manage and supervise civil works
construction by contractors.  Technical approvals and assistance in road
matters would be provided by MTC's departmental engineer, who would be
assisted by a contracted engineer (6 man-months) financed under the project
(para 3.32).
Operation and Maintenance
4.06      Responsibility for operation and maintenance of works constructed
by the ED under the project is summarized as follows: (a) irrigation works
by farmers themselves either through their own labor (small scale schemes) or
through payments to the Irrigation District (Yurongos scheme) (para 3.10);
(b) access roads initially by a project-financed maintenance support unit
which would be handed over to local authorities no later than January 1, 1986
(para 3.16); and buildings, offices, housing, etc., by the respective
agencies benefitting from these structures - ED (para 3.29), INIPA (paras
3.19 and 3.22), Agrarian Region XIII (para 3.26), ENCI (para 3.24), and the
regional offices of the Ministries of Fisheries (para 3.25), Health (para
3.27), and Education (para 3.28).
Agreements With Implementing Agencies
4.07      Although HCBM is fully responsible for all aspects of project
implementation, in order to facilitate internal coordination of the project,
it would enter into agreements with public and private institutions in a



- 35 -
manner similar to that currently practiced under the Huallaga Central
Project.  Specific agreements include:
(a) Farm Development Credit: with BAP. This would be covered under a
Subsidiary Agreement to the IFAD loan agreement (paras 3.05 and
4.04);
(b) Access Roads: with MTC to provide technical assistance in
selection of consultants, evaluation of bids, and review of
detailed engineering (Annex 1);
(c) Irrigation District: with Agrarian Region XIII to strengthen and
improve the Alto Mayo Irrigation District (para 3.11);
(d) Agricultural Research and Extension: with INIPA (paras 3.13,
3.17);
(e) Local Mapping and Land Titling: with OGCAR for mapping and
cadastral survey and with Region Agraria XIII for land titling
through its Agrarian Reform office (paras 3.34 and 3.35);
(f) National Mapping: with ONERN (para 3.36);
(g) Forestry District: with the Region Agraria XIII to strengthen the
Forestry District (para 3.26); and
(h) Studies: with ONERN, the Directorate of Compesino and Native
Communities (DCCN) in MAG, and contracts with consulting firms for
a second-phase project feasibility study (para 3.30).
The only agreements which would be required to be finalized under conditions
of the Bank loan are the following: with INIPA and ONERN by June 30, 1983;
and with BAP as a condition of effectiveness. Assurances were obtained on
the above at negotiations, at which time draft documents were reviewed.
Furthermore, assurances were obtained that the Bank would be consulted on any
changes in the positions of Executive or Technical Director.
Accounts and Auditing
4.08      HCBM has its own internal audit and the TD has its own budgeting,
accounting and auditing facilities. INIPA and BAP also have internal audit,
budgeting and accounting facilities, and would prepare separate accounts for
the project. Consequently, in addition to the two sets of accounts to be
prepared by INIPA and BAP, the HCBM would prepare separate project accounts
for Alto Mayo operations for each of the following components: access roads,
storage, local mapping and titling, forestry, fisheries, technical assis-
tance, and training and studies. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that an external audit satisfactory to the Bank would be carried out, and
that certified copies of externally audited accounts would be forwarded to
the Bank within six months of the close of each financial year. The Special
Account (para 3.47) would be audited each fiscal year by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and a report of such audit would be furnished to the
Bank not later than six months after the end of each such year.



- 36 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.09      A monitoring unit would be set up in the TD Directorate for
Planning and Evaluation, assisted by a consultant and INIPA, to monitor
execution of project components, agricultural development activities,
improvements in living conditions, and physical and environmental changes.
This unit would be staffed by at least four professionals with agronomic,
economic, sociological and statistical orientations who would collect and
analyze information and alert management to problems as they may emerge, and
provide a basis for the annual planning exercise. Initial indicators and
time-phased targets established prior to project execution would provide a
benchmark for comparisons to targets adjusted during every annual planning
exercise and to actual results.  Implementation information would be provided
to the ED by the executing agencies on a quarterly basis and annual reports
would be submitted, through the HCBM to the Prime Minister's office and to
the financing institutions. The reports, which would be consolidated on a
microcomputer to be provided under the project, would provide a comparison of
numerical targets with actual performance (in terms of key actions completed
and costs).  In addition, information on the impact of project would be
supplemented by field supervision and interviews. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the ED would establish this monitoring unit no later
than six months after signing the IFAD loan agreement. An outline of key
indicators to be monitored is given in Annex 2.
4410      Project evaluation activities would involve periodic in-depth
attempts to assess the effect project financed services and infrastructure
development are having on the natural environment and on the incomes and
welfare of those families the project is supposed to assist. Overall evalu-
ation work would focus on:  a mid-term review of program execution as of
March 31, 1986 (to be completed by June 30, 1986); and a completion report,
giving an interim assessment of project impact which would be provided to the
Bank within six months of the final completion date of the project. An
assurance on the latter was obtained at negotiations.  INIPA would be respon-
sible for evaluating both the research and extension functions being devel-
oped under the Alto Mayo project, which would include feedback to SMS staff
on pests, diseases and other production constraints.  A monitoring and evalu-
ation unit has been established in the Department of Planning of INIPA, which
would be directly involved in, and would coordinate all monitoring activities
of, INIPA with regard to the project.  The ED would also be responsible for
ad-hoc special studies, to be commissioned during program execution, which
would investigate particular issues which arise during implementation. It is
expected that some aspects of the evaluation activities would be contracted
to local agencies with adequate research capacity.
Project Reporting
4.11      An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the ED would prepare
and send detailed annual reports on project progress to the Bank within three
months of the completion of the period under review.



- 37 -
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
Land Use and Cropping Patterns
5.01      Agricultural development under the project would primarily result
from expansion of the irrigated and rainfed area and by improvements in
productivity on areas which are currently under cultivation. New areas would
become available through continued forest clearance on existing holdings and
by the permanent cultivation of areas which are currently under bush fallow.
No fundamental change in cropping pattern or intensity is assumed during the
project development period as no changes are likely until the area actually
farmed on individual holdings is fully utilized. However, in the longer
term, the area offers considerable scope for double cropping. Development is
envisaged to take place on the better soils (Classes II and III) in the flat
bottom lands of the project area since the techniques and economics of
utilizing the problem areas (acid soils and inundated areas) are not yet
proven.  However, development of the latter areas, would be important fields
for study under the research component of the project.
5.02      The estimated project impact on land usage is outlined below:
Without
Project       With Project    Change
- - - - - - - - (ha)
Irrigated Rice
- Levelled                      3,850           11,000        + 7,150
- Unlevelled                    2,950              -          - 2,950
Subtotal                        6,800           11,000        + 4,200
Rainfed Crops
- Rice                          5,800           17,000        +11,200
- Maize/Beans                   5,100            8,000           2,900
- Plantain/Cassava              2,300             3,900       + 1,600
Subtotal                       13,200           28,900        +15,700
Pasture
- Improved                      1,400            8,700        + 7,300
- Natural                       4,600            3,100        - 1,500
Subtotal                        6,000           11,800        + 5,800
Total Crops and Pasture              26,000           51,700        +25,700
Fallow                               12,600            4,000        - 8,600
Forest and Other                    81,400            64,300        -17,100
Total Area                         120,000           120,000           -



- 38 -
The net increase in agricultural area (crop plus pasture) is thus expected to
approximately double, to about 51,700 ha, with the fully levelled irrigated
rice areas and rainfed rice areas increasing by about 190%. The latter
reflects the expected continued dominance of rice in the cropping system.
5.03      The principal improvements to agricultural practices expected to be
introduced by the extension, research, and credit programs are: reduction in
the period of sowing of irrigated rice by development and use of improved
varieties (long-term goal) and mechanization for land preparation and
harvesting (short-term goal); improvement in nursery techniques to allow
rice to be transplanted within 25 to 30 days after germination; improved
irrigation water control through provision of control structures and improved
land preparation; reduction in shifting cultivation; improved plant protec-
tion; use of certified seed of improved varieties; regular replanting of
plantain areas; and establishment of cultivated pastures.
Yields and Production
5.04      Yields.  Average yields are expected to improve to levels already
being achieved by better farmers in the area as follous:
Without        With
Project       Project      Increase
- - - - - - -(t/ha)- - - - - - - -
Levelled irrigated rice                      3.5           4.2           0.7
Rainfed rice                                 1.7           2.5           0.8
Maize                                        1.7           2.1            0.4
Beans (in association with maize)            0.2           0.5            0.3
Gassava                                      6.0           8.0           2.0
Plantain                                     8.0          12.0            4.0
Livestock - carrying capacity in
animal units/ha               0.8           1.9           1.1
- milk yield (1/lactation)        840         1,750            910
5.05      Incremental Production.  Based on farm model analysis, production
is expected to increase gradually; however, at full development (year 10), it
is estimated as follows:
Without Project    With Project   Increase
- - -            ('000 tons) - - - - - - - -
Rice                                      35.0                90.0          55.0
Maize and beans                            6.5                10.4           3.9
Cassava and plantain                      23.7               34.6           10.9
Beef                                       0.1                 0.6           0.5
Milk                                       1.3                 8.9           7.6
Total                                  66.6              144.5          77.9



- 39 -
Incremental production estimates assume that the present situation reflects
the future without project case and that there would be no change to the net
value of production over the project development period if project invest-
ments were not made.  The justification for this position is that although
the area under crop is likely to expand somewhat, even if project investments
are not made, the following serious constraints would tend to reduce produc-
tion per hectare, namely:  (i) the inability to effectively market products
due to poor feeder roads, hence raising post harvest losses; (ii) without
technical assistance on land clearing, levelling, and sound soil conservation
and fertilization programs, average yields per hectare are likely to decline
over time; and (iii) without long-term credit, which at present is virtually
unavailable to farmers, investments in necessary on-farm development, and
machinery and equipment purchase would be greatly curtailed, thereby further
slowing the intensification process.
5.06      As shown below, incomes of project beneficiaries are considered
sufficient to provide an incentive to farmers to participate in the on-farm
development works and other project programs. Results are based on farm
models shown in Tables 31 to 40, which are considered representative, bearing
in mind that the actual investment mix may vary.
Full Development Farm Family Income
Farm Size                                        Income
and Type                        Without Project         With Project
   -      - - - - - (US$)   
10 ha irrigated                      3,180                   5,300
20 ha irrigated                      6,100                 11,300
20 ha rainfed                          870                  4,900
40 ha livestock                      1,500                   6,500
Labor Demand
5.07      The project is designed to reduce the demand for manpower during
peak periods by increasing the use of machinery and equipment (most notably,
small 25 to 35 hp tractors). However, because of the expanding area under
cultivation, labor requirements are still expected to rise and all crop-based
farms (Tables 31 to 39) are expected to need hired labor. At full develop-
ment, operations are expected to need a total of about 3.6 million mandays of
labor (approximately double current levels of about 1.8 million man-days) of
which about 0.7 million man-days (19%) is expected to be hired, and the
balance of 2.9 million man-days (81%) would be family labor. This reflects
an increment in hired labor demand of about 0.6 milIlion man-days, which,
based on the present status of labor supply in the area, is likely to be met
by underemployed persons in the valley, continued use of the seasonal and
semi-permanent immigrant workforce, and by continued immigration into the
area.



- 40 -
Marketing and Prices
5.08      The largest individual increase in crop production would be for
rice, at about 55,000 tons per year (about 37,000 tons milled), which repre-
sents only about 12% of 1981 imports of rice and, hence, there should be no
problem of marketing the production in Peru. Private enterprise has
vigorously responded to recent increases in rice production in the valley
even though processing quotas are assigned by ECASA. At present there are
nine mills (eight private) with a total processing capacity of 23 tons/hour
and storage capacity of 35,000 tons. Two more private mills are under
construction which will raise the storage capacity to about 60,000 tons.
This capacity is considered adequate for future project needs.   The rela-
tively small quantitative individual increases in output of other crops and
livestock products are expected to be readily absorbed by the increasing
population and rising living standards in the Alto Mayo valley.
5.09      Prices of inputs and farmgate prices of crop and livestock products
used in the farm budgets are those prevailing in the project area (Table
41). At appraisal farmgate prices in the project area were about 8% above
coastal prices (US$315 vs US$291 per ton paddy equivalent). However, these
are still below equivalent international farmgate prices (US$338 per ton
paddy equivalent). In the event that Government (ECASA) should phase out its
price fixing operations in the marketing of rice, selva farmgate prices would
tend to rise in an attempt to approach international farmgate prices.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
General
6.01      The main agricultural development investments would benefit about
8,500 farm families in the area through provision of essential credit and
such support services as extension, research, input storage and land titles.
In the process, the area under crops and pasture would be expanded from about
26,000 ha to about 52,000 ha, and production of crop and livestock products
would be raised from about 67,000 tons to about 145,000 tons.   Production of
rice alone would be increased by about 55,000 tons, which represents a
foreign exchange savings of about US$9.1 million annually.  The project would
also provide about 12,800 families with urgently needed access roads and
social services which, due to the recent rapid development of the area, are
grossly inadequate. Furthermore, about 60% of families benefitting from the
project currently have an average income below the absolute poverty level.
Indirect benefits of improved management and technical support in forestry
and soil conservation would help mitigate against the frequently disastrous
depletion of the environment which is often associated with development of
new agricultural areas in the tropics.  Specific project support to native
Indian communities would ensure their participation in investment decisions
which impact upon them, and thereby would attempt to gradually increase their
participation in the local economy.  The project concept of building upon
existing institutional capability is expected to have considerable long-term
impact, since it is seen as a prototype for future development of the Ceja de
Selva. Furthermore, the project's Executive Director is also the Chairman of
the San Martin Development Corporation which is responsible for long-term
planning and development of the entire province.



- 41 -
Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact
6.02      Under the Peruvian Water Law (Decree 17752), irrigators should pay
water charges (based on volume) to finance operation and maintenance and a
reasonable part of investment costs of irrigation networks. Furthermore, the
Law for Agriculture Promotion and Development (Decreto Legislativo 2) indi-
cates that collected funds should be administered by Councils of Users (para
2.19) under Irrigation District supervision (para 2.31). The use of these
funds is limited to operation and maintenance, improvement of the irrigation
networks and to conservation. Under the project, costs of small-scale
irrigation projects on the Yuracyacu system would be recovered through credit
(para 3.05). On the Yurongos scheme, which would require small-scale public
investment for headworks and a main canal, assurances were obtained at
negotiations that Government's objective would be to recover about 100% of
investment costs, and 100% of operation and maintenance costs (para 3.09).
Based on farm models, it is estimated that Yurongos irrigation investments
could be recovered in about 20 years, at positive interest rates, with a
three-year grace period. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that a
study to determine the extent of water charges, which was prepared for review
at negotiations, would be updated upon completion of the Yurongos scheme
(para 3.10).
6.03      The impact of the project on Government's finances would be
limited. During the project period, the average yearly contribution would be
US$4.3 million including contingencies or 0.1% of the 1981 Central Government
expenditures. After project completion, recurrent Government expenditures
would not pose a serious burden since they would amount to about US$0.7 mil-
lion. Government revenues from the project would be very small since the
area has been declared by law to be tax exempt for a time which exceeds the
implementation period.
Economic Rate of Return Estimate
6.04      The economic rate of return has been estimated at about 18%
(Table 42) and is based only on quantifiable benefits from crop and livestock
production. Other secondary benefits were not included. The following
assumptions were used in the analysis: (a) the progressive development of
the various crops followed projections in the respective farm models and
investment plans; (b) prices for traded commodities were calculated according
to Bank projections for 1982 in constant prices and adjusted for handling,
processing and transportation costs to reach an average farmgate price; for
other products, prevailing farmgate prices were used (Table 41); production
costs associated with labor were adjusted to opportunity cost estimates;
family labor was considered to be 90% of the unskilled market price; hired
unskilled labor was estimated at 70% of its market price; subsidies for
fertilizer were eliminated; and other production costs were priced at local
market conditions on the grounds that this best reflects opportunity costs,
given the market structure and current Government prices; (c) the period of
analysis was 20 years; (d) the exchange rate used was Soles 550 = US$1.0
which was assumed to reflect its shadow price; and (e) calculation of the
economic rate of return includes costs of civil works, buildings and related
infrastructure required for project implementation. Also included are costs
of the technical assistance program, research, consultant services, training,



- 42 -
the necessary machinery and equipment for civil works and the maintenance
program for roads and irrigation systems and physical contingencies. Bene-
fits have been calculated on about 89% of project cost items. Components
with intangible benefits such as health, education, studies on a second phase
of the project, and national mapping were not included in the economic
calculation; however, a least cost approach was applied to these as well as
all other components. Likewise, no benefits have been assumed from the
fisheries activities since sales from the stations are expected to cover
production costs.  No incremental production is expected to result from
project investments in forestry nor from trees removed on the flat farmlands
during land clearing since the species remaining in these areas are low grade
and uneconomic to transport for processing.  Separate economic analyses were
carried out on the Yurongos irrigation scheme (rate of returr above 20%,
reference para 3.09) and for four subregions in the access roads component
(Annex 1).  In the latter case, all road sectors produced a rate of return
estimate above the opportunity cost of capital and the average rate was about
20%.
Sensitivity Analysis
6.05      A sensitivity analysis to test the impact of changes in costs,
benefits, prices or other factors was also made (Table 45). Switching values
tests indicate that the rate of return is not particularly sensitive to
changes in costs for research and extension, roads and project administra-
tion. Project benefits could be reduced by 48% and the economic rate of
return would still remain above 12% (the opportunity cost of capital in
Peru). The rate of return is more sensitive to rice price and yield changes,
but prices would have to decrease by about 26% and yields by about 27% to
lower the economic rate of return to 12%. The main factors which could delay
project benefits -- adverse weather and institutional problems -- would not
influence any specific parameters in isolation (individual crop yields or
area cultivated) but would have a general impact on all crop benefits; thus a
switching value test on the assumption of delays in reaching full agricul-
tural development was performed. This indicated that a delay in benefits of
about three or four years would be required to cause the ERR to drop to 12%.
The latter assumes that cost outlays would occur as planned.
Project Risk
6.06      Government commitment to development of the Ceja de Selva, and
HCBM's experience in implementing the Huallaga Central Project suggests that
the chances for project success are good. The Alto Mayo Valley is already
settled; it has a good agroclimate and its population is enterprising. Apart
from the inherent institutional risks in coordinating an integrated project
of this type, the main problems which might occur are (a) adverse effect on
the environment from frontier development, and (b) frictions between the
settler population and native communities caused by increased arrivals of new
settlers. The project includes sufficient components to minimise these risks
and the design is flexible enough that if changes are needed during implemen-
tation, these can be accommodated within the Technical Directorate. Project
housing and transportation support is also provided to ensure that qualified
manpower will continue to be attracted to the project area.



- 43 -
Environmental Impact
6.07      Agricultural development efforts in frontier areas like Alto Mayo
always risk affecting the environment adversely.  In the present case, the
project strives to minimize adverse effects by concentrating agricultural
development in ecologically stable areas where experience and agricultural
information is available and avoiding ecologically fragile areas. Farm
development would aim to minimize destructive practices, particularly in
forest clearing and agricultural techniques. The project would also
strengthen the forestry district and the forest police, enabling them to
enforce prevailing legislation on timber extraction and reforestation.
Deforestation and erosion would be further monitored through aerial photo-
graphy and satellite imagery. An effective agricultural extension service
would inform farmers on the rational use of fertilizers, plant protection
chemicals and herbicides, stressing safety in application and handling. This
would minimize contamination of natural water resources and construction of
domestic water supply systems and wells would improve sanitary conditions
thereby helping to prevent uncontrolled spread of disease. A more detailed
discussion of enviromental impact is presented in a working paper in the
project file (Annex 1).
VII.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)  credit would be disbursed only against farm plans prepared by the
participating banks in cooperation with farmers and extension
personnel (para 3.06); and that a credit subcommittee would be
established, within six months of the first disbursement under the
IFAD loan, which would meet at least quarterly to discuss the
allocation of financial resources and related issues (4.04);
(b)  on the Yurongos scheme:  Government would recover 100% of operation
and maintenance costs from irrigators and seek to recover the full
investment costs; the ED would update its proposal presented at
negotiations on water levies/charges in the light of conditions
prevailing in the area after construction is complete, and would
implement these within three months of completion of the scheme;
and final designs of the canal would be prepared for Bank review by
September 30, 1984 (para 3.10);
(c)  ED would hire a consultant to train drivers on how to operate
project-procured land clearing equipment; would not use bulldozer
blades on project-procured land clearing equipment; and would
obtain full cost recovery on its operations (para 3.13);



- 44 -
(d)  for access roads:  the maintenance support unit's annual program
and minimum budget levels would be presented in advance to the
Bank, and Government would carry out an analysis on the final
20 km of roads by June 30, 1985 (para 3.15); not later than
June 30, 1985 a program to transfer the maintenance unit's equip-
ment and workshop would be presented to the Bank for review with
actual transfer occurring no later than January 1, 1986
(para 3.16); and tripartite agreements on maintenance would be
enforced (para 4.05);
(e)  INIPA would consult the Bank on the site selection for the crop
research station before awarding the construction contract
(para 3.23);
(f)  the Ministry of Fisheries would set prices of fingerlings at such
a level to fully recover production costs (para 3.25);
(g)  all terms of reference for studies would be cleared by the Bank
(para 3.30);
(h)  all consultants financed under the project would be selected and
would operate under terms and conditions, and terms of reference,
satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.32);
(i)  ED would abide by the procurement provisions for civil works,
goods, and services (para 3.41 to 3.45);
(j)  a special account would be set up, according to procedures satis-
factory to the Bank, to speed up payment to civil works contractors
(para 3.47);
(k)  the ED would maintain a liaison office in Lima (para 4.01) and that
the Bank would be consulted on any changes in the positions of
Executive Director and Technical Director (para 4.07);
(1)  ED would enter into satisfactory contractual agreements with INIPA
and ONERN by June 30, 1983 (para 4.07);
(m)  certified copies of audited accounts would be sent to the Bank
within six months of the end of each fiscal year (para 4.08); and
(n)  the ED would provide the Bank with:  (i) a draft completion report
within six months of the project closing date (para 4.10), and (ii)
annual reports within three months of the end of the fiscal year
(para 4.11).
7.02      The conditions of loan effectiveness would be that:  BAP had
entered into a satisfactory subsidiary loan agreement, with approved by-laws,
covering the IFAD-supported credit component of the project; and that the
IFAD loan agreement had been signed (para 4.04).



- 45 -
7.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$30.0 million, of which about US$443,000 is a
capitalized front-end fee.
November 17, 1982



- 46 -
ANNE X 1
PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supporting Documents in Project File
1.   FAO/World Bank CP Preparation Report No. 4/82 PERII dated 29 January,
1982 (2 volumes) - includes list of laws impacting on the project.
2.   Preliminary Feasibility Study on Yurongos Irrigation Scheme - "Proyecto
de Irrigacion Yurongos" - 3 volumes, by Proyecto Especial Alto Mayo
dated Moyobamba, May 1982.
3.   Technical Report:  "Soil, Conservation and Environmental Impact" by
J.E. Coaldrake, June 1982 (consultant to appraisal).
4.   Technical Report:  "Aguaruna Tribal Communities in Alto Mayo" by
S. Romanoff, June 1982 (consultant to appraisal).
5.   Staff Working Paper:  "Access Roads Component," July 1982.



Aettea n   2111m
ALTO bAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENTPROJECT
Key todc Cotrs for  KDi rotxn and iEIval;noO I!
Totroiret UbJetoinee                Key QOerteedy Ircdiostor             fodlraoetnefot OrtofM te,lostiocts
- levotoce loog-ierocoredit           - RostYr of boon eppitostione       - U=ti rest date
tipoff                              - Rosero of boons hsdeaoOt)   cFtooil     ntepepsetiotooscto
- lsyrooo  loco ;rooesolog            - breskdoet of toorteere            - Tesnnd foo oredie
provedorec                          - Mactinge of Credit tol2ttre
- Ereted frolgcted eoe                - Rstebr te fevedled                - Titer flf Vear
- Rostber ftc Irrircted             - Yield Ui rriRef ion
- tticsobarRlan  for esosi-socie    -iStetiR  of forTonoe
Leed Clf0fiyg
-Mtistele deirlsteteltcond            -tostbeoofreoieleord                -dareereerYrsoneettoltkdeone
oleertoo prooredorer                - teeter of ptree of seohiocoy    -Rostber of sperroteteoeteitot
ore reitig oe doseo
- ToclioRn toorsee rEfeped
ivooto itodf
- icrooot Rtltty ofsaotes             -ficrofroed.                           PrYpertleoYsof  ioipsi rtad
reRds                                 -ciih eoeioeer fog deeigos           teicork Reihg scintosired
- isprote toed soiooeoeooe                ooepletad                        - techl ferser teteflffed if reeds
veptbititt  if tie coofoipelitlec     -ci wit spreceseot  tonsorctiti too  s0oved otdeo yrojeoi
iriticird                       -ote  oitsl -eeelthet eteces  proolded
-ci  rier onsrootiro tosrieted    - Ucicffy of oied Mafoteteooc erofoe
- Es oF reed etfhchrseicled           troooded
sallu   oaiteiacte oerrtces   -tAveraRe iesftt  ot eelected rocds
- toiret sooth                    - EcLoteoeco  ooetlks
- I  'st ee                'ItY
- CeoirdtoCl-  050  ee
- Prlreetoe of Octec grettos,         - MActiee of local olfltee          - Prodoofteity  feotic for orops
It order to erneofeeorew              oreretfeeci                        MYneber fersere ederefeg ore
crrioottorelireohefioec             - Meeter of fcrs teoel cert-           teoteiotes
-torocceae tee of sodero ftptLe         etuteesfeoxteeieofcc              - 00cc oleoted to o00p
-teefat rarcete to obtici  oredit    -Roster of greotp esseteed           - ScelfefotloT  etch exteralot
- forodUoo  fsprooed fete scteageecc   - tCrotoMh RtOrcusse
- itorrece ctfioiee  coa=d dotreerh     - Iodfotdoclly                     - Persers inesotefetteroer
if eateoiot coerivce                - Roster or roref orsfrt               te log eceicted
- Roilcete ferRets noouse gRnotes       oseqeste yrirosedt                - lee of sodeto n lpoc
cod escTointioos to solve deoclon-   -et vith onescsero                 - Perotiirsatiot of cicee to
sent pritfea  of to_snttit            - ectt oofy eoekfoM ospita cc        yodototove  ro
-Roeterferseeeret-rdd    n- SeoefsI ergroopSfor oCet
- Ctiset gotti soetloga              coooyeretie oTSoOiRP peojefte
- tester desoeetration pfoee        - Aoeepteooe hispeon of toorftico.
heihedooeofootrsielta
- Efteosfon tosporenti st/fsrr
- Adcpisileottloo  ostittietes        - yEiesoeteiterleYtteiittiot    - neleosnoo  ofrerpertseotsto eeds
sod tofefoct Ion YeotolYdts         - Roster ttoroctvtioes plots          of aseef  fersere
to reRNlo                        - Roster                                          -hersisene  - Ratetatt serolose oteftsnoe  td ice
- teoestlgtetepoteenttalteeworepe fofo£teted                                of rececrot reeoles
.dr ...letles- toetioded                                                 - Ueeiifr if Teceerti tetfactoertkee
- Teoteeo teotoiqoec to rercit        - tester prof eesiooe  stICfd
csnetoatble leongterfotieNPti-        Ctontreoted
tlon if region                     - Roster  fteld fey,  teld
Ittot Rotpyi
- tkprooe ontees ef ccil farcrrs    -Rester cqll Cabrers osfIf            -isee        o Ch fe In  - ffbitffe  of soder-
- f..r...e.staeilfff of hlghte        -     tu-ryeror   p es  if ItotI-
Recifty ple-t Ig   -Ateril,I Rqoft-                                     - rbser if foptt sotefy stores to
sriieed tiesloel forofe fn                                                tafIer
prtijot Iref
be ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~h.t                            ll.d
- feprios tte otnesrge oi yreneo-    -aostber or hssfii yesisfoesfth    - Peotft1ee ft errs of toftonetoe of
ttce ftesfttc enofes                  ecenre -                             Iteirfi post/renters
- isErone ete inyIctr  if end           - frtfeited                        - Roster of *edlsfa  ontsoteertloe
aceooeetooeursigee hesltt            _-nonstrooeed                       - rrseeoouyeordYqpllryiofeererolston
servlees~~~~ to Coll ose                                       - btes  if stoces to sereloces
-tiNetr ofthssfoopsosi teed-    -UQsistYoPssdloslettsrtdsNes
aces Erefeed                      - eisQlit, of -ttsendstre.fetoe
- etoeRer oP fsslfes retsoed-P-rseV*eeo  Of hesitttsttsed.ota
to r'etttrotisntef m   ty         - iosoltE suortoe  for fissti pest
teclh0 poet otetndntis
Corel octor tjnppjy
-tetpcndeteitehllftp of toed          -toenbrec ter-eopplr sycocaR         - Chenge IntIodeottiof ettet-brotn
qutlity drfnkior ester to             - lootet eela desgnerd               Olnaseo
... 1liurooeltotsauleeo- ntlattr                 ......               . Ch- m,ei ofd  --fdtleeieo     itf free
-Rg dooelooIndeooeoCsofeate-            -rosplotttedd fotinotloRnd         odtfoisrstte-
torte dlteaecetn rorlretooee -nduser of asctes oreretere                -feb iporio   o drlnki Irerl pioterlrie
-rdeed-mitttd  Vttfi                                         f...c
- Roxstr of rseemseroesliefo -lnvetsge  oSf lerates
roetite aeotnteeate to teet  -oner5Rooeosf/ienrftielrf
-  etid                           - Olti, of 4,toteocore
- srinceths                       - Conopnittotypirt forefetes
-oetago-oeetteifloter,
- Uttttft of estnoeonone
- t-oniireopyoet  for ID   ree
- Intorese rotsrofearnreYtfcol        - N0er of sotools/ofes5roeise -rop-ontOoote  for stodeots
aetrltoitiit                          oenetroortd                        - AoaIptenee end ore of neio irrvo-les
- Is prooo the toelttin efrors i      - Roster of efotonts In aenoet       - Oualteef  ofCieooOetretologi
trisetoosdeveifen                   - rotiroisiftloesittp                -VCCCntoCO  if irrened teacohere
- Cesootq ClysoVfotscptoli IT MAlOn
TitI,   of ectiif
- .r.e..et  end foci dty  uetfeteti-n
-  tooatose the nortoes pre joon     -fTlee Retween end of ret ortloR    - Atoeroof  releocoote  ttselfneattof
activittes                  p~~~entodernd fasocoot of Year-      0oortetiryreptrfs
- totes  trootess oftereroeto,          nerlO  neferi                     - Yf feitoseners if TO teoconoee  fn
irtweeno agentfee  sod hetweon      -tester if TD steff Cleft ilelte    Identiftyfor end stoftetg yrihless
loosi, eotresnd fodeoell1stels        tneoostszonth, foertet             - Unciteref qoerCreryrryetteerad
-roreieretotnttroetd  for tip         ontonnRseevloetienrttortt
OnotOittetOlutRtti                - Unifier of reicntenehfr tetoero PT
- Title itt ot tolIUIOR               - Roe er tillee  ceroiffld          - Tegree of treReteenttlo  of hlty
- toserO of ire Iteolved
1/ teefe fdcatore eo.l  Ietoole on ocCure consenicy md irstoos err yVitr  Io Atner I.  Cehet ctyoponeor  not
listed eotid te sotleot to orifeole to te deoneytop ty nth rerpeotfee 9trvcies envotted in isnIeseitteeoo
tFhttLoovoFtoevofooibt dtoO.r ..Lo<l 'tore  ndNtitoO otooooCVofrttt.



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Componlent: Meteorological Data
Jan.      Feb.     Mar.      Apr.       May       June      JUIY     A.         Sept.    Oct.       Nov.      Dec.    Annual
TepEerature i n  C (1964-79)  I/
Maximum Average            27.1      27.2       97.2      27.5      27.6      27.4      27.1      27.4      27.6      27.9      27.8      27.3      27.4
Average                     22.6      22.6      22.6      22.7      22.6      22.1      21.6      22.4      22.4      22.8      22.9      2Z2.9     22.5
Minimum Average             17-9      18.2      18.2      17.9      17.5      16.7      15.9      i6.2      16.8      17.7      18.0      18.0      17.4
Frequency of Low
Temperatures   2/          4/12      3/14      3/13      4/13      4/13       6/12     11/13     12/13      8/12      6/12      2 13      2/12
Relative Humidity
Monthly Average            87        87        87        87         86        86        86        84        85        85        86        86        86
Evapotranspiration (mm)   /
E,T.O. Daily  3/           3.1       3.0       3.0        2.9       2.9       2.9       2.7       3.0       2.9       3.2       3.2       3.1       3.0         l
Average monthly and Annual Precipitation (mm)
Moyobemba                   140       107       153       131        88        74        59        59       111       131       120       106      1.279
Jopolacio                   141       126      203       154        97        91         75        87       133       160       137       121      1 525
Soritor                     158       150      209       181        145        94        75        98       118       172       166       177      I1 743
Rioja  4/                   140       144      175        160       120        82        82        77       116       165       '54       122      1.537
Yuracyacu (64-76)           112       86        127       135        96       81         67        66        80       126        85        93      1,149
Naranjillo (75-79)          i14        86       177       142       114        86        87        92       106       151       178       120      1,453
Monthly and General Probabilij_ty(m)
Rioja  4/      2 0/         188      209       223       214       163        119       109       H1I       169       220       204       155      1705
50%        140       143       175       159       120        82        82        77       116       165       !54       122      1,531
8 07         92        78       126       105        77        45        55        43        84       Ill       105        90       1,358
Days With Precipitation: Monthly and Annual Average
Rioja                      14.1       13.?      15.5      14.8      11.5     9.5        10.0      10.8      12.6      13.9      12.5      12.9    151.3
1/  3ioja
2/  Number of months of the 1964-77 period in which the absolute minimum dropped belovw 15 C (e.g. 4 events in 12 etc.)
3/  Calculated by Blaney-Criddle method - FAO Handbood 24.
4/ Without July to December, 1974 values which appear unreliable.
June 7, 1982                                                                                                                                                9



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Component:  Average Monthly River and Canal Flows
1980                                                                            1981                                                                            Extremes--
Oct.       Nov.       Dcc.       Jan.       Feb.         Mar.        Agr.       Maiy       June       July       Aug.       Set         Oct.       Nov.         Dec.       Peak        Low
A. Rivers
Maranjo                                                           29.0         37.0       44.0       17.5       32.3       10.8        15.2       13.7       37.6        32.5       23.9         99.9         7.3
_          _          _.         -          (6)          (7)        (10)       (10)       (14)       (12)       (10)       (9)         (6)         (8)        (1)           _          _
Tumbano               _          _          _          2.0         2.2          4.0        5.2        3.7        4.9        2.5         3.2        2.1        5.1         7.2         4.2        17.4        -
_          _ -       (3)         (7)          (12)       (13)       (10)       (15)       (12)       (9)        (8)         (7)         (8)        (1)           _          _
lalanjillo                       -          _         25.0        26.0        27.0       40.0        26.1       47.2       17.8       18.9       13.7        18.9        16.6       11.6        105.1        7.4
_          _    ~    -          (12)        (12)         (15)       (12)       (15)       (16)       (58)       (50)        (9)        (8)         (10)       (1)           _          _
Soritor             12.6        7.2       10.2        8.6         13.2        13.7       12.4         9.7       15.0        7.2        8.5       10.3       11.4         11.4       15.3        32.9         3.2
(6)         (2)       (4;)       (11)        (13)         (17)       (13)       (14)       (16)       (18)       (10)        (8)        (7)         (9)         (1)__
Yuracyacu            3.8       18.2       27.3       20.0         14.7        16.2       16.2        12.9       14.8        5.5        5.4        4.2        8.3          7.1       13,1        40.0         2.2
(6)         (4)       (2)        (14)        (22)         (26)       (20)       (23)       (24)       (19)       (19)        (26)       (25)        (25)        (3)          -          -
Negro               23.9       12.1       13.0        11.0        15.4        20.0       20.0        20.8       18.1       15.5       17.4       16.3       16.3         18.3       19.4         28.3        7.9
(1)         (1)       (2)        (8)         (10)         (20)       (17)       (14)       (20)       (19)       (12)        (12)       (8)         (11)        (3)          -          -
Roimero              -          -          -          4.4          2.9         2.8        2.8        3.1         3.1        2.9        2.3        2.1        2.1          2.8        2.7        10.5         1.5
_    -          -         (7)          (11)        (17)       (30)       (16)        (17)       (20)       (12)       (8)        (12)         (11)       (12)          -          -
Uquihua              -          2.0        -           2.1         1.7         7.0        7.0         7.8        6.5        3.0        1.5        1.4        3.5          2.2        2.5        20.2         0.6
-          (6)        -         (6)         (6)          (20)       (16)       (11)       (15)       (19)       (12)        (12)       (6)         (18)        (1)          -          -
Tonchima            89.0       51.0       38.0       23.0        102.0       103.0       79.0       57.2       82.6       40.6        44.7       45.4       38.1       136.5        44.4       430.9        14.4
(3)         (1)       (3)        (9)         (12)         (20)       (14)       (12)       (20)       (19)       (13)       (12)        (6)         (7)        (1)           -          -
Indoche              -          -          -          -            -           -          -         17.7       12.6         7.0        5.3        8.4        7.7        17.8        12.4        57.4         2.0
(6)        (11)       (14)       (13)       (18)       (4)          (8)        (1)          _
B.  Canals
La Union             -          -          -          0.40         0.60        0.50       0.40       0.36        0.27       0.15       0.19       0.21       0.29         0.26       0.54         -
M-chc      -          -          (16)        (22)         (26)       (20)       (23)       (24)       (24)        (19)       (26)       (25)         (25)       (3)         -                  ±
Michuco
Michuco              -          1.1        1.2        1.0          1.1         0.9        0.9        0.92       0.97       0.79       0.61        0.46       0.80        0.68        1.43        -e
-          (1)        (1)        (18)         (14)        (17)       (19)       (23)       (24)        (24)       (19)       (24)       (21)         (25)       (3)         _          -
1/ Peak and Lowest evcr recorded.
Jitne 7, 1982



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Component: Cost Summary and Investment Schedule-
1         2          3         4          5        Total                        Financing
21                    -------------------- (Soles million) --------------------
I.  Irrigation Schemes-
a. Yuracyacu
Civil Works Structures                46.0      46.0       46.0       47.0       -          185.0      Credit to commissions
Labor for canal alignment             31.0       31.0      31.0       32.0       -          125.0      Farmer contribution
Subtotal                              77.0      77.0       77.0       79.0       -          310.0
b. Expansion of Other Small Schemes
Civil Works Structures                 -        10.0       30.0       40.0      20.0        100.0      Credit to commissions
Labor for canal alignment              -         8.0       22.0       30.0      15.0         75.0      Farmers contribution
Subtotal                               -        18.0       52.0       70.0      35.0        175.0
c. Yorongos
Headwork and main canal                -          -         -        637.9        -         637.9      Government financing - recovery through
water charges:  100 -/. over project life
(20 years) at prevailing interest.
Civil works and structures             -          -         -         56.6      56.6        113.2      Credit to commissions
Labor for canal alignment              -          -         -         28.8      28.8         57.6      Farmers contribution
Subtotal                               -         -          -        723.3      85.4        808.7
Total Civil Works                         46.0       56.0      76.0      781.5       76.6     1,036.1
Total Labor Canal Alignment               31.0       39.0       53.0      90.8       43.8       257.6
Total Cost                                77.0       95.0     129.0      872.3      120.4     1,293.7
II.  Irrigation District-/
Incremental Staffing                      40.0       40.0      40.0       40.0       40.0       200.0      Public financing
Civil Works                               11.2        4.2       -          -          -          15.4
Vehicles and Equipment                   102.5        -          -         -          -         102.5        "        " 
Operation and Maintenance Cost            20.5       21.1      21.3       21.3       21.3       105.5                C"
Subtotal                                 174.2       65.3      61.3       61.3       61.3       423.4
III.  TD Irrigation Group-/
Incremental Staffing                       7.0        7.0       7.0        7.0        7.0        35.0
Equipment                                 19.0        -         -          -          -          19.0
Operation and Maintenance                  3.8        3.8       3.8        3.8        3.8        19.0
Subtotal                                  29.8       10.8      10.8       10.8       10.8        73.0
D River Gauging Station
Civil Works                                7.3        3.8       -          -          -          11.1
Equipment                                 10.1        6.1       -          -          -          16.2
Maintenance                                0.3        0.6       0.6        0.6        0.6         2.7
Subtotal                                  17.7       10.5       0.6        0.6       0.6         30.0                                                     w s
aq
l/  Physical Contingencies applied to Yurongos scheme: 20%.
2/ Operation and maintenance cost of irrigation schemes about 57. annually of cost starting upon completion of construction.
3/ See Table 4.
4/  1 hydraulic engineer, 1 topographer, 2 drivers, 2 sets of draining equipment, 3 sets of topographic equipment.



- 51 -                         Table 2
Page 2 of 2
PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Incorporating Land into Irrigation
Year
1      2       3       4       5     Total
  - - - - - (hectares) - -      
Small Scale Projects Through Credit
Yuracyacu
Improvement                      1,000  1,000  1,000  1,000    -         4,000
New                                800    800    800    800    -         3,000
Other Areas
New in native communities             -       -               -   200      200
Other new                          -       200    300    400    400   1,300
Other improved                     -       100    300    400    200   1,000
Yorongos Scheme
Areas improved                     -        -       -     230    -         230
New areas                          -        -             500    770   1,270
Sub-totals Improved Areas   1,000  1,100  1,300  1,630    200   5,230
New Areas                        800  1,000  1,100  1,500  1,370   5,770
Total                          1,800  2,100  2,400  3,130  1,570  11,000



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Component: Yuracyacu Scheme Investments
Canals of Commissions
Alto Plan-   Planta-   Conste-   Canaan
Union   Galindona    Michuco   tano Yacu    noyacu    lacion    -Morito   Ucrania   Huaro   Total
I. Structures
Head works               33.1       7.7          33.1         7.7         7.7       12.0       7,7        15.0      7.7
Measurement Structure    1.0        0.5           1.1         0.5         0.5        0.5        -          0.5       -
Bridges                     -        -            6.3          -                      -          -               -
Division Structures        3.0      3.0           5.6          -           -          -         -           -        -
Culverts                  0.2        -            1.7          -          0.2        0.3       0.3         0.2      0.3
Lateral head
controlers - gates        1.1      0.5           5.0         0.5         0.5        1.1       0.5         0.5      1.0
Sub-total                38.4      11.7          52.8         8.7         8.9       13.9       8.5        16.2      9.0
Physical Contingencies
3.8      1.2           5.3          .9          .9        1.4        .9         1.6       .9
Sub-total                    42.2      12.9         58.1         9.6         9.8       15.3        9.4        17.8     9.9    185.0
II.  Earthwork'-/                  7.7        -          80.9           -        10 5         -         1.5        13.4       -     114.0
Total
299.0
1/ Only for canal improvement. This work would be carried out by farmers own labor and would not constitute credit. Assumes only
50% of all inprovements would actually be made.
I!



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Component: Irrigation District Costs
(Million Soles)
1/                                                                             - - - - -  -        - - - Year - -  __ __   _ _ _ _
Activity -                                                 Units          Unit Cost       1           2         3        4         5        Total
Incremental Staff Costs
Director                                                      1              5.0          5.0        5.0      5.0       5.0       5.0
Agriculturalist                                               2              4.2          4.2        4.2       4.2      4.2       4.2
Civil engineer                                                1              4.2          4.2        4.2      4.2       4.2       4.2
Tecnicians                                                    7              2.4         12.0       12.0      12.0     12.0      12.0
Other specialists                                             7              1.1          7.7        7.7       7.7      7.7       7.7
Chaufers                                                      3              1.1          3.3        3.3       3.3      3.3       3.3
Secretaries                                                   3              1.2          3.6       3.6        3..6     3.6       3.6
Subtotal                                                                        40.0       4c.0      40.0      40.0      40.0     200.0
Offices   2/                                                        2
Rioja                                                       loom2            0.07         7,0         _         -
N. Cajamarca                                                 60m             0.07         4.2         -         -        _         _
m2
Moyobamba                                                    60m             0.07          -         4.2        -        _         _
Subtotal                                                                        11.2        4.2                                     15.4
Vehicles
Pickup                                                        3             10.0         30.0         -         _        _
Motorcycles (2) 3/                                            7              1.0          7.0         -         -        _         _
Boat                                                           1             4.5          4.5       _-__-
Subtotal                                                                        41.5                                               41.5
Equipment
Office                                                       3              10.0        30.0         -         -         -         -
Topographic                                                   3              5.0         15.0         -         -         -        -
Technical                                                     5              1.2          6.0         -         -         -        -
Measuring equipment                                           2              5.0         10.0         -         -         -        -
Subtotal                                                                        61.0         -         -         -         -       61.0
Total                                                                                                   44.2      40.0      40.0     40.0      317,
Operation and Maintenance Costs
20%7 vehicles/equipment                                                                  20.5       20.5     20.5      20.5      20.5
5% infrastructure                                                                          -         o.6       0.8      o.8       o.8
Subtotal                                                                         20.5       21.1      21.3     21.3      21.3      105.5
Grand total                                                                                                                                    423.4
1/ Values in parentheses reflect existing situation.
2/ Rioja office shared with Extension service.
3/ Rented from Technical Directorate.



- 54 -                           Tale 5
PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOP1MENT PROJECT
Land Clearing Equipment: SENAMA
Equipment                 #       Unit
Type                Units      Cost       1        2       3      4       5         Total
- - - - - - - - (Soles million) - - - - - - - - - - -
Crawler Tractor-         10          62   310(5)  186(3) 124(2)    -         -            620
Root Rake                10           6    30(5)   18(3)  12(2)    -         -             60
Shear Blade2/            10           6    30(5)   18(3)  12(2)    -         -             60
Spares, Tools, 3
Miscellaneous-                            40       50      60      60      60           270
Base Cost                            410      272    208       60      60         1,010
Physical Contingencies                21       14     10        3       3            51
Total Cost                           431      286    218       63      63         1,061
1/ Equivalent to D5B with guards for cab, radiator and hydraulic cylinders
2/ Equivalent to type KGB blade
31 Includes maintenance grinders for blades tractor spares and tools and spares for blades.



- 55 -                        Table 6
Page 1 of 3
PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Access Roads: Estimated Costs of Improvements
~~~~ ~(IJSS '000)  
Description
Length (km)           Road       Cost
Contract Group I                            Improved    New   Total    Type    (US$'000)
1. Marginal-Perlamayo                          1.0       6.3    7.3        I          605
2. Marginal-Boca Soritor                       9.0       -      9.0        I          585
3. San Fernando-Yuracyacul/                    3.5      1.5    5.0         I         510
4. Marginal-Florida                            1.2       2.8    4.0        I          320
5. Nueva Cajamarca-Ucrania                     4.0       -      4.0        I          200
Sub Total                              18.7      10.6   29.3                 2,220
Contract Group 2
6. Marginal-Road 7 (belkw)                     2.0      3.8    5.8         I         465
7. Marginal-Yuracyacu                         10.0       -    10.0        I/Il        550
8. Marginal-Posic                              3.6       -      3.6        II        145
9. Posic-Rio MNegro                             -       7.4    7.4         I          590
10. Rioja bypass                                 -       1.8    1.8         I           75
11. Rio4a-Nueva Tabalosos                      10.0       8.7   18.7       I/I      1,105
Sub Total                               25.6      21.7   47.3                 2.930
Contract Group 3
12. Marginal-Riego Tangumi-Rio Mayo             5.0       9.0   14.0        I          865
13. Yantalo-Huascayacu                           -        9.0    9.0        I          450
14. 1joyobairba-Yantalo2/                       5.0      1.0    6.0         I         830
15. Pto. Tahuisco-Mioyobamba                    0.2       3.8    4.0        I          280
Sub Total                              10.2      22.8   33.0                 2,425
Contract Group 4
16. Road 17 (below) - Habana                    1.4        -     1.4        II          90
17. Calzada-N. Esperanca                       20.2        -    20.2       I/III   1,175
18. Moyebamba-N. San Miguel3/                  18.5       9.5   28.0       I/II    _1940
Sub Total                              40.1       9.5   49.6                 3,205
Total 4 Groups                         94.6      64.6  159.2                10,780
Eventual Gtoup
19. Marginal km 477-4 km south                   -       4.0    4.0         I          280
20. Habana-5 km west                             -       6.1    6.1         I          420
21. Road 1.7-Rio Indoche                         -       4.4    4.4         I          345
22. Calzada-Jct. Road 13 (above)                 -        7.5    7.5        I          565
Sub Total                                -       22.0   22.0                 1,610
Total All Groups                       94.6      86.6  181.2                12,390
e-=a3  ====C e=====t:z3
11 llc1u es T20 m bridge; 2/ Includes 40 m bridge;  3/ Includes 2 - 15 m brfdges.
November 10, 1982



- 56 -
Table 6
Page 2 oF-
PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Access Roads: Tentative Equipment List
(US$)
Estimated
A. Maintenance Support Unit                                        Cost (Us$)
1 - Motorgrader                                                  80,000
1 - Tractor dozer (D-4)                                          80,000
2 - Wheel Tractors with loading buckets                          60,000
3 - Dump Trucks (4 cu.m)                                          90,000
1 - Vibratory Roller (towed)                                     15,000
1 - Steel Wheel Roller (towed)                                   10,000
1 - Lubrication Trailer                                          15,000
5 - 4 wheel drive pick-up trucks                                 50,000
Spare Parts                              " 60,000
Total                                 460,000
B. District Workforces (4 groups)
4 - Utility (tool) Trailers                                       16,000
4 - Pedestrian Vibratory Rollers                                  24,000
4 - Water Tank Trailers                                           20,000
4 - Water Pumps (2-inch)                                           6,000
4 - Motorcycles                                                    6,000
12 - Wheelbarrows                                                   2,000
12 - Sets Tools (shovels, picks, bars, rakes, etc.)                 6,000
80,000
Parts and Miscellaneous                   10,000
Total                                  90,000
Total A + B                           550,000



- 57 -                                   Table 6
Page 3 of 3
PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Access Roads: Maintenance Workshop Requirements
(US$)
'Workshop Characteristics
Yard Area 100 m x 50 m (Fenced)                       5 s°° °m2
Shop Size 6 bays of 3 m x 7 m                           126 m2
I-bay used for office and parts storage                  20 m2
1/2 bay used for tool storage                            10 m2
Hard Stand 20 m x 8 m                                   160 m2
Fuel Storage Tank                                       500 gal
Estimated cost           $ 100,000
Workshop Equipment and Tools
Mobile Air compressor 125 cfm
Mobile Welding Unit   200 amp
.Hydraulic Press          40 ton
2-Trolley Jacks
4-Bottle Jacks
Vices
Hand Electric Drill (1/2 inch)
Hand Tools                              Estimated cost            $ 50,000



Table 7
- 58-
PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Access Road: Proposed Standards
Road Types-/
I                  II                  III
Alignment Criteria
(a) Horizontal:         Min. Curve            follow               follow
Radius = 12 m        existing              existing
alignment            alignment
(b)  Vertical           Grade to be 0.5 m higher than normal water level or
0.3 m higher than maximum water level, whichever controls.
Road Width (m)
Surface                      4.5                 5.0                  5.5
Shoulders                    none                none                 0.75
Cross-Slope (%)                 4%                 4%                surface 4%
shoulder 10%
14.axiinum Grade (>2
Flat terrain                  6%              follow               follow
Rolling terrain               7%              existing             existing
Broken terrain                8%              grade                grade
3/
Stream CrossinSs-L        Pipe culverts        Pipe culverts       Pipe culverts
Paved fords         Paved fords          Paved fords
Small bridges       Small bridges        Small bridges
River Crossins            1-lane bridge        1-lane bridge       I-lane bridge
Tl/Type I applies to new construction and existing road platform '-4.5 m wide;
Type IT for existing road platforms 5.5 m to 6.0 m wide; Type III for exist-
ing platform .b 8.0 m wide.
2/ Minimum grade 0.5%.
3/ Small bridges (L e- 10 m) only where depth of water makes paved fords im-
practical.



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Extension: Civil Works Investments
Unit
Unit           Cost           1            2           Total
(m2)                          (Soles '000)
a. Zonal Center (Rioja)
Office Complex                      200             75        15,000          -          15,000
Workshop                             50             75         1,875        1,875         3,750
Housing Complex                     280            100        18,000      10,000         28,000
Garage/Store                         80             75         3,000       3,000          6,000
b.  Extension Agencies (3)1/
Office Complex                       80             75         9,000       9,000         18,000
Housing Complex                      80            100        12,000      12,000         24,000
Garage                               30             75         3,250       3,500          6,750
Stores                              200             75        22,500      22,500         45,000
2/
c. Extension Centers (4)
Entire Complex                      100             75        15,000      15,000         30,000
Total Civil Works                                             99,625       76,875       176,500
1/ Nuevo Cajamarca, Rioja, Moyobamba.  Possible savings in construction at Rioja due to construction
of zonal center.
2/ Yuracyacu, Soritor, San Fernando and San Juan.



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Extension: Equipment and Operating Costs
Unit
Units         Cost              1           2           3          4           5          Total
(Soles '000) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
a. Vehicles!'
4WD Pick-up/Jeep                   6          8,000           24,000 (3) 24,000 (3)    -            -           -         48,000
Motorcycles (125 cc)              18          1,000           10,000 (10) 8,000 (10)   -                        -         18,000
Motor boat                         3          4,500            9,000 (2)  4,500 (1)    -                                  13,500
Subtotal                                                43,000      36,500         -           -           -         79,500
b.  Furniture and Equipment
0\
Office                             8          2,000            8,000       8,000         -          -           -         16,000
Field/Training                     8          2,500           10,000      10,000         -                      _         20,000
Miscellaneous2/                    8          1,000            4,000       4,000         -           -          -          8,000
Subtotal                                                22,000      22,000         -           -           -         44,000
c. Operating Costs
Civil Works                        5% of investment            5,700      10,200      10,200     10,200      10,200       46,500
Vehicles                          20% of investment            7,200      13,800      13,800      13,800      13,800       62,400
Office Materials                   8            250/yr.        1,000       2,000       2,000      2,000       2,000        9,000
Subtotal                                                 13,900     26,000      26,000      26,000      26,000      117,900
Total Costs                                                   78,900      84,500      26,000      26,000     26,000      241,400
1/  Specific vehicles for native community work include are LWD pickup, two motorcycles and two boats.
2/  In addition, based on consultant's recommendation, equipment would also be provided to the native communities from the budget of the
Technical Directorate as shown in Table



PERU
AlTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPPMENT PROJECT
Extension: Staff Requirements
------------------------Year------- --- - ----------------------------
No.    Unit         1                   2                3                 4                  5            Total
Existing  Cost    No.    Cost        No.    Cost        No.    Cost       No.    Cost        No.    Cost      Cost
Zonal Headquarters                       - - - - -- - -    - -rillion Soles) - - - - - - - - -                                        - - - - - -
Director                          1      5.0       1       5.0       1       5.0       1        5.0       1       5.0               5.0      25.0
Subject Matter Specialists        4     4.2      111/   46.2        11      46.2      11      46.2      11       46.2      11     46.2      231.0
Administrator                     -      3.1       1       3.1       1       3.1       1        3.1       1       3.1       1       3.1      15.5
Livestock Tecnician               2     2.4       2        4.8       2       4.8       2       4.8       2        4.8       2      4.8       24.0
Secretary                         -      1.2      2        2.4       2       2.4       2        2.4      2        2.4       2      2,4       12.0
Driver                            -      1.1      2        2.2       2       2.2       2        2.2      2        2.2       2      2.2       11.0
Janitor                           1     0.9       1        0.9       1       0.9       1       0.9       1        0.9       1      0.9        4.5
Extension Agencies
1. Moyobamba:
Agronomist                    1     4.4       1        4.4       1       4.4       1       4.4       1        4.4      1       4.4       22 0
Tecnician                     5     2.4       8       19.2      8       19.2       9      21.6      13       31.2     13      31.2     122 4
Secretary                     -     1.2       1        1.2      1        1.2       1       1.2       1        1.2      1       1.2        6.0
Driver                        1     1.1       1        1.1       1       1,1       1       1.1       1        1.1      1       1.1        5.5
Agronomist                    1     4.4       1        4.4       1       4.4       1       4.4       1        4.4      1       4.4       22.0
Tecnician                     3     2.4       6       14.4       6      14.4       7       16.8     10       24.0     10      24.0       93.6
Asst. Administrator           1     1.3       1        1.3       1       1.3       1        1.3      1        1.3      1       1.3        6.5
Secretary                     1     1.2       1        1.2       1       1.2       1       1.2       1        1.2      1       1.2        6.0
Driver                        I      1.1      1        1.1       1       1.1       1        1.1       1       1.1      1       1.1        5.5
Guard                         1     0.8       1        0.8       1       0.8       1       0.8       1        0.8      1       0.8        4.0
2/
3.  Nuevo Cajamarca -
Agronomist                    1     4.4       2        8.8      2        8.8       2       8.8       2        8.8      2       8.8      44.0
Tecnician                     1      2.4     10       24,0      10      24.0      10       24.0      10      24.0    10       24.0      120.0
Secretary                     -     1.2       1        1.2       1       1.2       1       1.2       1        1.2      1       1.2       6 3
Driver                        -      1.        1       1.1       1        1.1      1        1.1       1       1.1      1       1.1        5.5
Total - total staff cost                                 148.8             148.8              153.6             170.4            170.4      79 .3
- incremental staff cost                          106.3              106,3             111.1              127.9           127.9      579.5
Plus 10% Viaticos (on total)                              14.9               14.9              15.4              17.0             17.0       79.2
Total Incremental Cost                                   121.2             121.2              126.5             144.9            144.9      658.7
1/  Includes are SMS in each of the following activities:  soils, livestock, irrigation and drainage, mechanization,
rice, maize, nursery and fruit crops, and sociology, in addition to a group of three individuals working
as a credit committee.
2/  Includes two bilingual tecnicos and one agronomist to work exclusively with native communities.



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Research: Civil Works Investment
#I          Unit
Units         Cost           1           2           Total
-              (Soles '000) -     - - - -
a. Crop Station (Site to be selected)
Administration                   160m 2           75         8,000       4,000       12,000
Library                            75m2           75         3,000       2,625        5,625
Technical Complex                35°m2            75        16,250     10,000        26,250
Laboratories                     200m            100        12,000       8,000       20,000
Service Complex:                      2
Stores                         250m2            75        12,000      6,750        18,750
Machinery Shed                 200m2            75         9,000       6,000       15,000
Garage                          80m2            75         4,000      2,000         6,000
Security and Support           180m             75         8,000      5,500        13,500
Housing Complex:                      2
Director                       120m12          100         6,000      3,000         9,000
Other                          200m            100        14,000      6,000        20,000
Cafeteria/Kitchen              150m             75         7,000      4,250        11,250
Water, Sewer                        1          3,800         3,800         -           3,800
Miscellaneous:
Experimental Areas               3          40,000(total)23,000      17,000        40,000
Internal Roads                              12,000         7,000      5,000        12,000
Land Purchase                   40 ha        1,500        60,000         -         60,000
Subtotal                                                   193,050      80,125      273,175
Physical Contingencies (15%)                              28,950     12,025        40,975
Total (Crop Station)                                       222,000      92,150      314,150
b. Livestock Unit (Calzada)
Office/Technical Complex         250              75        12,000       6,750       18,750
Livestock Buildings/Stores       400              50        12,000       8,000       20,000
Housing - Director               120             100        12,000         -         12,000
Miscellaneous                     200             50         6,000       4,000       10,000
Subtotal                                                    42,000     18,750        60,750
Phvslcal. Continvenciea (15x)                              630        2 8009  0
Total (Livestock Station)                                   48,300      21,550       69,850
Total (Research)                                           235,050     98,875       333,925



- 63 -                                 Table 12
PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Research: Veli- es, Equipment and Machinery
Unit
Units           Cost          1          2            Total
- - -         (Soles '000) - - - - - - -
a.  Crop Station
Vehicles
Pick up 4WD                        5            8,000        24,000(3)  16,000(2)    40,000
Carry all/Suburban                 1           14,000        14,000         -         14,000
Motorcvcles (125 cc)               9            1,000         6.000(6)   3,000(3)      9.000
Subtotal (Vehicles)                                    44,000      19,000        63,000
Farm Machine7
Crain drier                        1           17,000        17,000         -         17,000
Grain cleaner                      1           12,700        12,700         -         12,700
Thresher                           1            9,000         9,000         -          9,000
Cultivator                         1            5,000         5,000         -          5,000
Tractor 4WD (25-35hp)              2           10,500        21,000         -         21,000
Sprayers                           5            1,700         8,500         -          8,500
Discs                              2            1,500         3,000         -           3,000
Weigh Scales                      Set           3,000         3,000         -           3,000
Electrical Equipment (20kw)        1           10,200        10,200         -         10,200
Pump (5")                          1            8,000         8,000         -           8,000
Trailer (2 ton)                    1            1,400         1,400         -           1,400
Miscellaneous 1/                   1            5,000         5,000         -           5,000
Subtotal (Farm machinery)                             103,800         -         103,800
Furniture and Equipment
Office                            Set          23,000        14,000       9,000       23,000
Laboratory                        Set          41,000        30,000      11,000       41,000
Publication/Mass Media            Set          17,000        13,000       4,000        17,000
Subtotal (Furniture/Equipment)                         57,000      24,000        81,000
Subtotal (Crop Station)-Base Costs                          204,800     43,000       247,800
Physical Contingency (5E)                              10,200       2,200        12,400
Total Costs                                                 215,000      45,200       260,200
b. Livestock Station (Calzada)
Vehicles - Pick up (2WD)           2            8,000         8,000(1)   8,000(1)    16,000
Electrical Equipment (5kw)        Set           4,000         4,000         -           4,000
Office Furniture/Equipment        Set          10,000         5,000       5,000        10,000
Laboratory Equipment              Set          10,000         5,000       5,000        10,000
Field Trails 2/                   30            6,000        90,000(15) 90,000(15)  180,000
Scale                              1           10,000           -        10,000        10,000
Miscellaneous                      1            3,000         3,000        _            3,000
Subtotal (Livestock)-Base Costs                             115,000    118,000       233,000
Physical Contingency (5%)                               5,800       5,900        11,700
Total Costs                                                 120,800    123,900      244,700
Total Research                                              319,800    161,000      480,800
1/ Includes two-wheel drive tractors (IRRI-type) for testing.
2/ Testing of dual purpose cattle production scheme on 30 x 40 ha farms.  Initial
investment includes: 10 cows or in-calf heiges (3 Zebu x Swiss), one bull,
improvement of pasture throughout, but intensively on a 5 ha block, 0.5 km new
fencing, construction of a cattle shed, and veterinary and milking equipment.
3/ Includes funds for metereological equipment for SENAMA I to be located on the
two centers.



PERU
PJ.TO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPENT PRO.IECT
Research:  Oper n  Costs (Excld    Salaries and Wages)
                            Year- - - - - - - - - -  Ye.,
i   2           3               4                  5                 Total
 -     -  ~ ~ ~-   - -(Sules '000) _--
Operating Coats (Exc1clud Saines & Wagss)
1.  0114 of vehicles euipent machnry
(52% of investment)
-  Crop Station                            43,000           52,000         52,000            52,000           52,000            251,000
-  Livestock Station                         5,250          11,150         11,150            11,150           11,150             49,850
Subtotal                                   48,250           63,150         63,150            63,150           63,150           300,850
2. Office Materials and Supplies
-  Crop Station                           2.500            2,500           2,500            2,500             2,500              12,500
-  Livestock Station                      1,000      _      .ooo           1,000            1,ooo             1,ooo              5,000
Subtotal                                  3,500            3,500           3,500            3.500             3,500             17,500
3.  Buildine Maintenansce (5% of
investment)
-  Crop Station                         11,100           15,700          15,700           15,700            15,700             73,900
-  Livestock Station                     2,400            3,500           3.500            3.500             3.500             16,400
Subtotal                                13,500           19,200         .19,200           19,200            19,200             90,300
4. Laboratorv Material s
-  Crop Station                         4,000             5,000          6,000            6,000             6,000             27,000
-  Livestock Station                   1_500  2                            000            2.000             2.000       .      9500
Subtotal                                5,500            7,000           8,000            8,000             8,000             36,500
5   LibrarY Pblications and
S_tbscriptions
-  Crop Station                        1,000            1,000           1,000            1,000             1,000              5,000
-  Livestock Station                     300              300             300              300               300              1,500
Subtotal                               1,300            1,300           1,300            1,300             1,300              6,500
6   Field and Promotional l_M&rjaLs*
Crop Station                        4,500            6,500           7,500            8.500             8,500             35,500
-  Livestock Station                   1,500            2,000           2,500            2,500             2,500            11,000
Subtotal                               6,000            8,500          10,000           11,000            11,000             46,500
7. Miscellaneoos_
-  Crop Station                       5,000            6,700           6,800            6,900             6.900              32,300
- Livestock Station                      800           1,500     _     _1,600           1,600  1_,00                             00
Subtotal                              5,800            8,200           8,400            8,500             8,500             39,400
Total Costs
- Crop Station                      71,100           89,400          91,500           92,600            92,600             437,200
- Livestock Station                 12,/50           21,450          22,050           22,050            72,050              100,350
Subcoial                           8,w0            l[0,850         113,550         I14,650            i14,650             537,550



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAI, DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Research - Staff eiuirements-/
Year
No.       Unit          1              2             3              4              5
Position                                    _xisting    Cost       No.   Cost   No.   Cost   No.   Cost   No.   Cost   No.   Cost    Total Cost
- - - - - - - -                       (Million Soles) - --
Director                                       1          5.0       2    10.0    2    10.0    2    10.0    2    10.0    2    10.0                50.0
Agronomist                                    2          4.2        8    33.6    8    33.6    8    33.6    8    33.6    8    33.6              168.0
Veterinarian                                   1          4.2       1      4.2    1      4.2    1       4.2    1       4.2    1      4.2         21.0
Animal Scientist                               -          4.2       1      4.2    1      4.2    1       4.2    1      4.2    1       4.2        21.0
Livestock Technicians 2/                       1          2.4       6    14.4    8    19.2    8    19.2    8    19.2    8    19.2               91.2
Laboratory Technicians                         -          2.4       -       -      3     7.2    3       7.2    3       7.2    3      7.2         28.8
Laborers - Permanent                           2          1.1      12    11.0   17    16.5   17    16.5   17    16.5   17    16.5                77.0
- Seasonal                           -          0.7      10      7.0   10      7.0   10       7.0   10       7.0   10      7.0         35.0
Drivers/Tractor Operators                      -          1.1       1      1.1    4      4.4    5       5.5    5       5.5    5      5.5         22.0
Administrator                                  -          3.1       1      3.1    1      3.1    1       3.1    1       3.1    1      3.1         15.5
Assistant                                      -          1.3       2      2.6    2       2.6    2      2.6    2       2.6    2       2.6        13.0
Secretaries                                   -           1.2       4      4.8    4      4.8    4       4.8    4      4.8    4       4.8        24.0
Mechanic                                       -          2.4       1      2.4    1       2.4    1      2.4    1       2.4    1       2.4        12.0
Total - total staff cost                                                  98.4         119.2          120.3         120.3          120.3       578.5
- incremental staff cost                                           87.7         108.5          109.6          109.6         109.6        525.0
Plus 10% Viaticos (on total)                                               9.8          11.9           12.0           12.0          12.1         57.8
Total Incremental Cost                                                    97.5         120.4          121.6         121.6          121.7       582.8
1/ Includes staff at Crop and Livestock Stations.  Livestock staff comprise  - Director (1), Veterinarian (1), Animal Scientist (1), Livestock                      a
Technicians   (8), Laboratory technician (1), permanent laborers (3), driver (1), assistant administrator (1),  ecretary (1).
2/ Peruvian delegation to negotiations noted that number of livestock technicians should be raised by furhter six.  This increase would have
to be substantiated/confirmed in the final budget requests submitted by INIPA.
November 17, 1982



- 66 -                               Table 15
PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Storage -/
Proposed                                      Unit            Year
Location                            Unit      Cost        1          2         Total
(tons)    ------------(Soles '000)------------
Rioja                               1,500      60      90,000         -        90,000
Moyobamba                           1,500      60          -        90,000
Total                          3,000              90,000      90,000    180,000
1/  Construction concept involves 500 ton modules to facilitate future expansion.
Stores to be used primarily for maize and fertilizers. which will be
kept in separate modules.



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fisheries Component
  -   - - - - - -  - - Year - - - - -
Unit
Units           Cost           1             2            3             4             5               Total
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - (Soles '000) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
A. Investments
1. Civil Works
(a) Marona Station
- Fencing                                             1,800        1,800              -             -             -            -              1,800
- Roads                                               4,000        4,000              -             -             -             -             4,000
- Service Infrastructure 1/             120m2            75        9,000              -             -             -            -             9,000
- Fish Tanks                             10             850        8,500              -             -             -             -             8,500
- Collector canal/secondary
drains                               730.2         6,000         4,400             -             -             -             -             4,400
- Water Supply                                        4,800        4,800              -             -             -            -              4,800
- Development of Rice Fisheries
area                                   5Om2            75        3,750             -             -             -             -             3,750
Subtotal                                                               36,150             -             -             -             -            36.150
(b) Mashuyacu 2/
- Improvement of Access Road                          3,600             -        3,600              -             -             -             3,600
- Service Infrastructure 3/             1OOmZ            75             -        7,500              -             -            -              7,500
- Fish Tanks                              6             850             -        5,100              -             -             -             5,100
- Rehabilitation of dyke                             13,500             -       13,500              -             -            -            13,500
Subtotal                                                                    -       29,700              -             -             -            29,700
Total Civil Works                                                         36,150        29,700              -             -             -           65,850
2. Vehicles and Equipment
(a) Marona
- Office and Laboratory Equipment                     7,500        7,500              -             -             -             -             7,500
- Carryall 4WD                            1          14,000       14,000              -             -             -             -            14,000
- Feed Plant                              1           5,500        5,500              -             -             -             -             5,500
- Electrical Equipment                   lOkw         6,000        6,000              -             -             -             -             6,000
- Tools and Miscellaneous                 Set         2,500        2,500              -             -             -             -             2,500
Subtotal                                                               35,500             -             -             -             -            35,500
(b) Mashuyacu
- Office and Laboratory Equipment                     3,000             -        3,000              -             -             -             3,000
- Electrical Equipment                    2kw         2,000             -        2,000              -             -             -             2,000
- Pick-up 4WD                             1           8,000             -        8,000              -             -             -             8,000
- Tools and Miscellaneous                 Set         2,500             -        2,500              -             -             -             2,500
Subtotal                                                                    -        15,500             -             -             -            15,500
Total Vehicles and Equipment                                              35,500        15,500             -              -             -            51,000
B.  Incremental Operating Expenses
1. Incremental Staff 4/                                                                                                                                              H
- Technician - Morona                          2          2,400         4,800         4,800         4,800         4,800         4,800            24,000
- Mashuyacu                     1          2,400              -        2,400         2,400         2,400         2,400             9,600
Subtotal                                                                   4,800         7,200         7,200         7,200         7,200            33,600
2. Operation and Maintenance
- Civil Works                    5% of investment                       2,100         3,800         3,800         3,800         3,800            17,300
- Vehicles                      20% of investment                       1, 600        1,600         1,600         1,600         1,600             8,000
Subtotal                                                                3,700         5,400         5,400         5,400         5,400            25,300
Total Operating Expenses                                                    8,500       12,600        12,600        12,600        12,600             58,900
1/  Office, laboratory, guard post, insulation tanks and aquaria.
2/  Site selection to be reviewed by civil enigineer.
3/  Office, laboratory, and store.
4/  Staff to provide technical assistance for farm pond scheme, as well as work on the stations.



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Forestry Component
               --- ---Yea                               
Unit
Units          Cost             1             2             3             4             5               Total
('000) - - - (Soles million)  - - =
A. Investments
1. Civil Works
(a) Foresry District
- Main Office (Rioja)                    802            75             6.0                         -                           -                 6.0
- Office Nuevo Cajamarca                 6Dm2            75             -             4.5           -                           -                 4.5
- Office Moyobamba                       60m2            75             -             4.5                         -             -                 4.5
(b) Forestry Police Controls
- Aguas Verdes                           40m2            75             3.0           -             -             -             -                 3.0
- Pacayzapa                              40m2            75             3.0                         -                           -                 3.0
Subtotal (Civil Works)                                                     12.0           9.0           -             -             -                 21.0
2. Vehicles and Equipment
(a) Regional Directorate
- Carryall 4WD                             1             14.0          14.0           -             -             -             -                14.0
- Motorcycles (125cc)                      3              1.0           2.0           1.0           -             -             -                 3.0
(b) Forestry District
- Carryall 4WD                             1             14.0          14.0           -             -             -             -                14.0
- Pick-up                                  1              8.0           8.0           _-                                        -                 8.0
- Motorboat                                1              4.5           4.5           -             -             -             -                 4.5
- Motorcycle (125cc)                      10              1.0           5.0           1.0           2.0           2.0           -                10.0
- Basic Equipment Set                     10              1.0           5.0           1.0           2.0           2.0           -                10.0
(c) Forestry Police
- Carryall 4WD                             I             14.0          14.0           -             -             -             -                14.0
- Motorboat                                2              4.5           9.0           -             -             -             -                 9.0
- Motorcycle (125cc)                       8              1.0           8.0           -             -             -             -                 8.0
- Basic Equipment Set                     12              0.5           6.0           -             -             -             -                 6.0
Subtotal (Vehicles and Equipment)                                          89.5           3.0           4.0           4.0           -                100.5
Total Investments                                                             101.5          12.0           4.0           4.0           -               121.5
B. Incremental Operating Expenses
1. Incremental Staffing
(a) Regional Directorate
- Forestry Engineer                        1              4.2           4.2(1)        4.2(1)        4.2(1)        4.2(1)        4.2(1)           21.0
- Forestry Technician                      1              2.4           _             2.4(1)        2.4(1)        2.4(1)        2.4(1)            9.6
- Secretary                                1              1.2           1.2(1)        1.2(1)        1.2(1)        1.2(1)        1.2(1)            6.0
(b) Forestry District
- Forestry Engineer                        1              4.2           4.2(1)        4.2(1)        4.2(1)       4.2(1)         4.2(1)           21.0
- Forestry Technician                      8              2.4           7.2(3)        9.6(4)       14.4(6)       19.2(8)       19.2(8)           69.6
- Secretary                                3              1.2           1.2(1)        3.6(2)        3.6(2)        3.6(2)        3.6(2)           15.6
- Driver                                   I              1.1           1.1(1)        2.2(2)        2.2(2)        2.2(2)        2.2(2)            9.9
- Peons                                    1              1.0           1.0(1)        4.0(4)        6.0(6)        8.0(8)        8.0(8)           27.0
Subtotal (Staffing)                                                        20.1          31.4          38.2          45.0          45.0              179.7
2. Operation and Maintenance
Civil Works                       5% of investment                      0.6           0.8           0.8           0.9           0.9               4.0
Vehicles and Equipment           20% of investment                     17.9          18.5          19.3          20.1          20.1              95.9
Subtotal                                                                   18.5          19.3          20.1          21.0          21.0            -99.9
Total Operating Expenditures                                                   38.6          50.7          58.3          66.0          66.0             279.6
C. Studies and Promotions (INFOR/District Personnel
Inventory; Wood Production Survey; Extension
Program: Pilot Fnrest Management Plans; Public
Awareness Program (para 3.26d)                                                 37.0          37.0          64.0          64.0          10.0             212.0



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Health Component: Investments 1/
-            -Year r- - - - - - - -
Unit
Units          Cost          1             2             3             4           Total
- - - - - - - - - - - - - (Soles million) - - - - - - - -            - -
Primary Health_Care Support
1.  Civil Works
-  Health Centers 2/                               lx740Om2        0.090m2  133.2(2)          h6.6(1)        66.6(1)        -           266.4
- Health Posts
- New -        - in towns 3/                    7xl25m2         0.075/m2    28.2(3)         9.4(1)        -            28.2(3)        65.8
-      - in tribal areas 4/                    2xl25m2          0.050/1m2     6.3(1)        -             6.3(1)        -             12.6
- Completion - in towns 5/                          1           1.8           1.8(1)        -             -             -              1.8
- in tribal areas 5/                         1           1.5           1.5(1)        -                            -             1.5
-  Water and Sanitation - H. Center                     4          3.0            6.0           3.0           3.0           -            12.0
- H. Posts                 ll           1.8           9.0           3.6           t.8           5.4           19.8
- Rural Water Systems
- Conduction - new 6/                               7          36.1          72.2(2)      108.3          72.2(2)         -          252.7
- improved 7/                        5          19.2          38.4(2)       19.2(1)       19.2(1)       19.2(1)        96.0
- manual pump 8/                            65           0.4           5.6(14)       7.2(18)       7.6(19)        5.6(14)      26.0
-  Letrines                                        3,000           0.01          7.5(750)       7.5(750)      7.5(750)      7.5(750)   30.0
Total (Civil Works)                                                            309.i         224.8          184.2          65.9         784.6
2.  Equipment and Vehicles
-  Ambulance 9/                                         2         15.0           15.0(1)       15.0(1)        --             -3 0.0
- lealth Center
- Electrical Unit 1/                                4           5.5          11.0(2)        5.5(1)         5.5(1)        -            22.0
- Furnitrure/Equipment 1/                           4          57.0         114.0          57.0          57.0            -          228.0                    o'
- Radios (2-way)                                    4           1.0           2.0           1.0            1.0           -             4.0
- Health Posts
- Electrical Equipment 1/ 10/                      15           1.4          14.0(10)       1.4(1)         1.4(1)        4.2(3)       21.0
- Furniture/Equipment 1/ 10/                       15           6.8          68.0           6.8            6.8          20.4         102.0
- Radios                                           15           1.0          10.0           1.0            1.0           3.0          15.0
- Miscellaneous in tribal areas 11/                 -           -             4.0           4.0            4.0           8.0          20.0
Total (Equipment and Vehicles)                                                 238.0           91.7          76.7          35.6         442.0
3.  Grand Total (Health) 12/                                                        547,7         316.5         260.9          101.5      1,226.6
1/  Units based on proposed Bank-assisted First Health Project for Peru, appraisal report under preparation.  Health
Center equivalent to Type "B" (includes surgical facilities).
2/  Year I - Nuevo Cajamarca and JIepelacio; Year 2 - Yuracyacu; Year 3 - Soritor.  Each unit includes living accomodations for
doctor and two staff (lOOm2).  Costs per m2 higher than health posts constructed with local materials since certain areas
will be constructed with improved materials.
3/  Year I - Yantalo, Yurongos, Posic; Year 2 - Tambo; Year 3 - San Fernando, San Juan, San Marcos.
Each unit includes 25m2 for living quarters.
4/  Year I - Shimpiyacu; Year 3 - El Dorado.5/  Atunplayo (town), Bajo Naranjillo tribal community.
6/  Year 1 - San Marcos, San Ferniando; Year 2 - Yantalo, Rabana, La Union; Year 3 - Yurongos, Tehuantinsuyo.  Total cost of seven
units = S/. 252.52 million, ranging between S/. 27.1 million - S/. 43.5 million depending on extent and type of works required.
Details in project file.  Investments for native communittes included in budget of Technical Directorate (Table 20).
7/  Year I - Nuevo Cajamarca, Posic; Year 2 - Soritor; Year 3 - Yuracyacu; Year 4 - Calzada,  Unit costs vary between S/. 13.6 million
- S/. 27.6 million (project file).
8/  List of 20 communities (13 townships, 7 tribal areas) in project file.  Additional support to tribal
areas described in para 3.37.
9/  Yurongos and Nuevo Cajamarca.
10/ All (15) health posts in area to be equipped.
1i/ Vaccination program for tribal communities Soles 4.0 million per year for five years.
12/ Excluding training shown in Table 23.



0                                                                                                                                                                               to    0
-.0.           toj  to                         to otooc      -.oOtooooto0o1 OoOototoOtoO           to toototoOto tototototooto to  tototototo to Ototo  0001000 totoooOtoOoOO)to  to
'0totootototo'0toto.-'o'0.-.to'Otoototototototoototototototototototototoototototoo  oto.ooooto.4'ototototototoototo.Otototototototototototototototototototototototototo  0    00  to
I to  Oto  ootototototototototototototototo to to to tototototototototototototototototototo  to                                                       to to  toOto 0
tIll                    to          tototo                                    00    oto      01100  B

to         toto           .400   to          to   Ototo         tototo-Oto    to        .to             040    to          0    OtoIto  to  II 0  000
to1   I Ototototo  titottttlt too tittiti tootot I- Ittltitotl 00.0                I totoototot Iltottiti   041   tIll  Ototot Ito itlilitotl               to  toOCtItoto-to
to         00             to to to  to       to  to to to                                                                          to  0   0.000
0            to to    01          toO4      0      00  toto   00         to               to to     0          tototo    to    Oto  toto  toO         to       .001000010
.               .  .      .          . . .                                          ooOoOtoto
0  "40  LtIttItot4ttttotllttt to--I titolit totottotot  toOl III Ito                  itiltltot'OtIttotttIII tototol Iltotli tototto'Ot Itotol tilt-  to   00  toto .0
0    0            to to    to          tooto    to    totototototo            to                                                                           to
0-'          0    to                                                                                                                                                         to
0    0                                                                                                                                                               0-.ttoto  00
0 000 t 00
0 Otoo'M
to    toto      oto  to to to             to                  00             to to   0 to 0 000
o                                                                                                                                                                                        o00ot.
to to  0                                                                                                                                                                             00  0.0'-
0    - 02,>01.zS1ASZJS2200t  tot
0000*0
.4 01                                                                         oototototoooo
'0            too   otootototototoOtotoooO.Otoootototototototootototo0ltototototototototototo0tto                                                                                 000  otoot
000,0 Ototo
OF-to 0 Oto 0'
.0 ,t                                                                                00  00000
0  0                                                                        0        000  0  00
0                              top  top      to  0                           0                              toj            B  0   'tt0 o0
0  0                    0                0  0   0          to                0  0         to          0               0  0  -0         0. 0   OOOOOtoO4to
0  0    0   0           0                0  to  to        to                 0  0   0   0             0               0  to  to         0  0   000000to
0  0   -I   0           0      0         4  tototoo.   0  to                0  0   to   0            0     0         It toto  toto  to. 0  0toto0'to00toto
0       0000           0  otoVtoolotlto.to[oo  0  0                         to       00  00         00   tol..  to 010  0   I000
I    b0to0OC                               toto-.-,  to tot.t  00        0       '        0       0000           to001ootoltoVtoltoto  0     010
to'    0          000    "0 000   0        000   000       10  000000           0   1000.
ooo.o-.Otoo  0000000 ooootoo   0  00                000000000                0 OtoOo  toO  0000000 0000toto   0   0            0000
00  00  0001,0   0  OOototOOOOtoO   0000..000000.000..'00.00   0 '00  00  001000  0  I'OtotocoOOotoO   00   to  00000   0001000                                    0 toto
0  to 0  0to00  Ototo  00 00    Ototo  00000000000   0  ooototo0o   0  0 to  oto  0  000   0000  " 0  to  0 to 0  too 00.000                1000000to
O:j                  0.0.0       C-tO  00    -00,0000.00          000000000    0  00               00.0       0'00  00    to0000000            000000000000   000
-                                                                                                 0   00  00  000
.0 000to'000000 000   1000o0000 000.0000000 to OtototodO 0                   .00.000.000000000   00000000000000.00   0001 Oootooo                      0000000000
00000000000 OtootoOotoOootoOto 00000000000to0000 000    000000000000 OOOtoOOoO000 00000000000000-4toOOO   to   0   oOto  00000
000.000.4.I0.tototo'0Ototo 0100   toO',totottototototo 00.tot- 0000000 0O0.0.to .000,4.400000000000    0    000000000
to                                                                          to                'I



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Education  Technical Data
No. of Project                           Project
Schools                         New Facilities           _                                  Students
New or                                                Actual               1986            New          Total Enrollment
Existing 1/  Re_nostruction         Classrooms 2/  Other 3/          Enrollment 4/          Estimate        Places           in Shifting 5/
Schucshuyacu                     1 (4)               1                    -              3                  185                518            333                  398
Jepelacio                        1 (6)               1                    2              -                  380                 508           128                  390
Marona                           1 (2)               -                    3              3                  150                 421           271                  323
Yantalo                          1 (4)               -                    2              4                  271                 522           251                  402
Calzada                          1 (7)               -                    2              2                  510                 618           108                  47 5
Habana  6/                       1 (5)               -                    3              3                  320                 505           185                  388
Soritor                          4 (25)              -                    5              5               1,036               1,458            422                1,122
Nueva Esperanza 6/               1 (2)               1                    -              2                  147                 260           113                  200
San Marcos 6/                    1 (3)               1                    _              1                  145                 302           157                  232
Nuevo Tabalosos                  1 (2)               1                    -              1                   79                 239           160                  184
Yorongos                         1 (6)               -                    3              2                  261                 461           200                  355
Posic                            1 (3)               1                    -              -                  124                 189            65                  145
Flor del Valle                   1 (1)               -                    2              3                   46                 153           107                  118
Tambo 6/                         1 (3)               1                    -              1                  160                 320           160                  246
El Porvenir                      1 (4)               -                    3              2                  152                 363           211                  279
Segunda Jerusalem                1 (7)               -                    3              2                  313                 379            66                  292
Azunguillo                       1 (4)               -                    1              2                  128                 225            97                  173
Sinamal                          I (1)               -                    3              1                   48                  72            24                   55
Valle Grande                     1 (4)               -                    2              2                  135                 302           167                  232                   -
Yuracyacu                        1 (8)               -                    5              2                  525                 818           293                  629
Ucrania                          1 (2)               1                    -              2                  131                 430           299                  330
Florida                          1 (2)               -                    2              3                   35                  45            10                   35
Nuevo Cajamarca                  1 (11)              2                    -              -                1,000              2,099          1,099                1,614
Plantanoyacu                     1 (1)               1                    -              2                   53                 195           142                  150
Patria Nueva                     1 (1)               -                    2              2                   50                  99            49                   76
San Fernando                     1 (7)               1                    4              2                  550              1,845          1,295                1,420
Tahuantinsuyo                    1 (3)               1                    -              2                  180                 445           265                  342
Perla Mayo                       1 (2)               1                    -              2                   62                 201           139                  155
Santa Clara                      I (1)               _                    2              2                   38                  51            13                   39
Palestina                        1 (1)               -                    2              3                   72                 147            75                  113
Leticia                          1 (1)               -                    2              3                   39                  43             4                   33
La Union                         1 (7)               -                    1              2                  280                 421           141                  324
Perla de Daguas                  1 (1)               -                    2              3                   60                 185           125                  142
San Juan                         1 (6)               1                    -              2                  294                 439           149                  338
BaJo Naranjillo 7/               1 (1)               -                    2              3                   60                  60            -                    60
Shampuyacu  7/                   - (1)               1                    -              2                   30                  30            -                    30
Alto Mayo 7/                     - (1)               1                    -              2                   35                  35            _                    35
Alto Naranjillo  7/              - (1)               1                    -              2                   25                  25            _                    25
Shimpiyacu  7/                   - (I)               1                    -              2                   33                  33            -                    33
San Rafael  7/                   - (1)               1                    -              2                   26                  26            -                    26
Morroyacu   7/                   - (1)               1                    -              2                   33                  33            -                    33
huascayacu  7/                   -(I)                1                    -              2                   30                  30            -                     30
El Dorado   7/                       1                                    -              2                   30                  30            -                    30
Total                        38                 23                   58              90               8,261              15,580         7,319               12,051
1/ Existing facilities in some instances will be replaced.  Values in parenthesis reflect classrooms in use, some of which would be replaced.
2/ Ratio I classroom:  35/40 pupils.  Classrooms in addition to complete new school model (6-8 classrooms).
3/ Housing, kitchens, multi-purpose rooms, letrines, office.
4/ 1982 Estimate of Regional Office of Ministry of Education.
5/ Assume 30% double shifting except on native communities.
6/ Data on enrollment estimated in part.
7! Native communities.
Source: Ministry of Education, Moyobamba and TD, March 1982



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Unit
tlnit      Cost            1             2              3             4              5           Total
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - (Soles '000) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1. Civil Works
Office Complex
-  Moyobamba                              50Dm2        75        37,500            -                                           -          37,500
-  Nuevo Cajamarca                        200m2        75            -          15,000                   -                     -          153500
Housing                                 7xl00m2       100        70,000            -             -              -             -           70,000
Dormitories                             3xl00m2        75        15,000          7,500           -              -              -          22.500
Miscellaneous!2                             5%                    6,250          1,250           -              -              -           7,500
Tribal Community Support-
-  Casa Nativa                            200m2        50         5,000          5,000           -              -              -          10,000
-  OAAM Office
- Miscellaneous                                                                                                                           3,000
lOOm2        30           250            500          500           500            500           2.250
2 Subtotal                                                134,000         32,250          500            500           500         167,750
2. Vehicles and Equipment
Pick-up 4WD                                 5       8,000        16,000         16,000        8,000             -             -           40,000
Carry all 4WD                               3      14,000        14,000         28,000                   -                    -           42,000
Jeep 4WD                                    5       7,000        14,000         14,000        7,000             -             -           35,000
Motorcycles (125cc) 3/                      7       1,000         2,000          3,000        2,000             -             -            7.000
Electrical Equipment-3/                     5kw    4,000          3,000          1,000           -                                         7- 4000
Office Equipment                            2                    15,000          5,000           -                             -          20,000
Miscellaneous  41                           5%                    3,200          3,400          900             -             -
Tribal Community Support-/                  9      10,000        18,000         18,000       18,000         18,000        18,000          90.000
Subtotal                                                          -       L_  -         800           1,0             8009,0
85,200        88,400       35,900         18,000        18,000         245,500
Total Cost                                                      219,200        120,650       36,400         18,500        18,500         413,250
Interior roads, garages, stores, etc., at Moyobamba and Nuevo Cajamarca (5% of base excl. native communities).
2/ Coordinated, and contracts awarded, by Technical Directorate.  Casa Nativa ini Moyobamba for storage and office ,iear market
and river. OMM office for administration and coordination, located in Bajo Naranjillo. Miscellaneous includes footpath
improvements (five communities) etc.
3/ Year I Moyobamba, Year 2 Nuev,, Cajamarca.
4/ For example, micro-computer hardware and software materials for project monitoring.
5/ List of support equipment needed by tribal commtnities would be drawn up by them in consultation with extension personnel
andi consultant sociologist. Preliminary estimiates include wells/roof tanks, maize depralners (9), rice ventilators, (9),
solar driers  (3), fish  pond materials  (9), platnting  tools, basic  tools  (nmactietes, axes, etc.)  low cost transport equipme(   t
well digging equipment, carpentry tools (9), motor boats (3), and possibly a truck (however, not before Year 3).
July 19, 1982



Q ~ ~ ~   ~   0 C  0 0:    - Ao                                          n.  oc                    -   Cot   p>B         H**        A ro  > ,
o~~~~~~~~~ r
N, C    _WNNW WNW W-~ W:_VL r H>   ~ ~    2      0t{ .0-             0.           N      W      CK    
r~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r2
s A D < C o W > C O               C   OQgc    zCaOo c+wO   OOC°     o   O  .  n~Oo^ C   I0 0        _     r   oc
-~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ [  I  C
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r ...  ooc  rc,o ~       ~
I   -  <
Co ~~~~~0  C  00010cm    0001001cC   0cc   OCO-...O                                        V.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~| l
cc  '0cc  00000  COCOOcO~ ~ ~~~~n I
c~ ~ ~ ~~o 0-   0000                       00I00                  0         000        coo
O  "10     C wW              l       b W 1.W           z w   A U In c O . -   C-c' 0   -c W- c o N           -    > C0
_I _
00cO               I     -           _'                   '            w           .w.-  .NWVWWAVNWC  Y l Y
C    I N  r           o             C>                         -                   . . .c000                   '       0      NWWO>>
O  1QO0 °CO0     000O -OCVO COcQO  \ OOC 000                         001  O OO OO COOOC     OcO Oc°OC      GO° 
0-                '0.''0-~~~~                       ~~~~~~~~~ cL  -cc -  



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pro-ject Technical Directorate:  Incremental Operating Costs
1          2           3           4          5           Total
-                           (Soles '000) - - - - - - - - - - - -
1.  Salaries and Wages 1/                       190,080    190,080    190,080    190,080    190,080          950,400
2.  Operation and Maintenance
-  Buildings 2/                               6,700       8,300       8,300      8,400       8,400        40,100
-  Equipment and Vehicles 3/                 13,900      30,520      37.700     41,300      61,400       184,820
-  Miscellaneous 4/                           6,000       6 6,0 00 6,00          6.000       6,000        30,000
Subtotal                                     26,600      44,820      52,000     55,700      75,800       254,920
Total Incremental Operating Cost            216,680    234,900    242,080    245,780    265,880    1,205,320
1/  Reference Table
21 5% of investment cost in Table
3/ 20% of investment cost in Table
4/ To cover costs of soil/water analyses incurred in water quality monitoring study. Incremental costs
associated with native community program (e.g. legal defence fund, etc.).
HA



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL _EVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance, Studies, Training
Unit              1             2             3             4            5                   Total
Item                                      Unit           Cost          No.      Cost  No.    Cost  No.    Cost  No.  Cost                        No.        Cost
 -                 -   - -  - - - (Soles million) - - - - - -    -             -  -
1. Consultants i/
a. oreign
-  Agronomist (NC)                              mm             5.5           3    16.5    2    11.0    1        5.5    1      5.5    1      5.5        8          44.0
-  Appropriate Technology (NC)                  me             5.5           3    16.5    1       5.5    1      5.5   1       5.5    -      _          6          33.0
-  Social Scientist (NC) 2/                     ne             5.5           4    22.0    2    11.0    1        5.5    1      5.5    1      5.5        9          49.5
- Specialist Services 3/
- Crops                                     mm             5.5           3    16.5    3    16.5    2    11.0    2    11.0   2    11.0              12         66.0
- Livestock                                 en              5.5          1      5.5    1      5.5    1      5.5    1      5.5    -      -           4         22.0
-  Soil Conser-ation/ManagereDt                 on             5.5           2    11.0   2    11.0    1         5.5    1      5.5   -       -          6          33.0
-  Land Clearing Techniques                     mm             5.5           1      5.5    1      5.5    -      -                        _          2          11.0
-  Monitoring and Evaluation                    em             5.5           2    11.0    1       5.5    2    11.0    1       5.5   2    11.0          8          44.0
L. local
-  Health Delivery Systees (NC)                 em             1.1           2  __2.2    1        1.1    1      1.1    1   _1.1    1   _1.1            6           6.6
Subtotal (Consultanuts)                                                          106.7           72.6          50.6         45.1           34.1                  309.1
2. Studies
-  Semi-detailed Soil Study (ONERN) 4/                                             35.0          35.0           -             -             -                     70.0
-  Monitoring and Evaluation of Water Quality                                       3.0           3.0           3.0           3.0           3.0                   15.0
-  Native Con.unity Actions
- Land Titling (DCCN)                                                          10.0           -             -             -             -                      10.0
- N.C. Development (DCCN)                                                      20.0          10.0           -             -             -                      30.0
-  Preparation of Second Phase Project 5/                                                         -             -            1              -                    110.0
Subtotal (Studies)                                                                 68.0          48.0           3.0         113.0           3.0                  235.0
3. Training
a. Technical Services 6/
-  Overseas Fellowships MSc                    nyr             5.5           -      -      2    11.0   2       11.0   2    11.0   -         -          6          33.0
-  Local Fellowships MSc                       nyr             0.7           -      -      -      -      3      2.1    3      2.1    3      2.1        9           6.3
-  Short Term Training Overseas                 mn             0.4          12      4.8  12       4.8  12       4.8  12       4.8  12       4.8       60          24.0
-  Scientific Meetings                          -              0.17         12      2.0  12       2.0  12       2.0  12       2.0  12       2.0       60          10.0
-  In-Service Training Programs 7/            courses          0.45         24     10.8  24      10.8  24      10.8  24    10.8  24        10.8      120          54.0
-  Short Term  Training (local)                                                     2.8.          8 8           2.88 2                      2.8                   14.0
Subtotal                                                                           20.4          31.4          33.5          33.5          22.5                  141.3
b. Technical Directorate
-  Short Tern Training (Local)                                                      2.0           2.0           2.0           2.0           2.0                   10.0
- Technical On-The-Job Training
for Farmers and Nstive
Communities 8/                            cour=es           0.5         i0      5.0  10       5.0  l0       5.0  10       5.0  10       5.0        50          25.0
Subtotal                                                                            7.0           7.0           7.0           7.0           7                     35.0
c. Native Community Health Post Personnel 9/
-  Nurse                                      courses          2.1           1      2.1    1      2.1                                  2                     4.2
-   Auxiliary 10/                             courses          3.7           1      3.7    2      7.4    2      7.4    -      -      -      -           5         18.5
-  Vigia                                      courses          0.2           3      0.6    3      0.6    3      0.6    3      0.6    3      0.6       15           3.0
Subtotal                                                                            6.4          fo.l           8.0           0.6           0.6                   25.7
Subtotal (Training)                                                                   33.8          48.5          48.5          41.1          30.1                   202.0
Total Base Cost                                                                      208.5         169.1         102.1         199.2          62.2                   746.1
I/ Adminstered directly by Technical Director. (NC) indicates pri-arily in support of native communities.
2/ 7mm on native community activities, 2 oanmonth on settler issues especially estoblishment of Watershed Committees.
3/ Short-term visits 2-3 seeks nf specialists, most likely from CIAT, etc.
'4/ Scale 1:25,000 of approximately 100,000 ha.
5/  Depending on Government priorities and project progress, conaultants could be hired to prepare a feasibility study for a Phase II project.
6/ Extension and Research, INIPA. Library services shown in Table 11.
7/ On T&V system.
8/ Practical courses on carpentry, welding, well digging, tractor maintenance etc. Courses usually given in field in Mopobambh training center.
9/ Nurse initial course (#32) 4 weeks; Auxiliary initial course (#225) 5 weeks: Vigia - 3 days.
10/ Training courses for auxiliaries at all 15 posts (60 staff) covered under the project, not only native communities.



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Local Mapping and Titling Component
Pre Project       1             2            3            4          Total
- - - - - - - - - 7- - - - - - -  (Soles miillion)----------
A. Local Mapping (OGCR)
1. Preparation Using PPF (Case A) Funds I/
-  Ground Control                                          15.8          -            -            -             -           15.8
-  Aerotriangulation                                        3.9          -            -            -             -            3.9
-  Restitution                                             19.4          -            -            -             -           19.4
-  Preparation of Maps                                     15.2          -            -            -             -           15.2
-  Miscellaneous                                            5.2          -            -            -             -            5.2
Subtotal                                                   59.5          --                                      -           59.5
2. Preparation Using PPF (Case B) Funds 2/
-  Aerial Photography, 1982                                41.3          -            -            -             -           41.3
Subtotal (Pre Project)                                    100.8          -            -            -             -          100.8
3. Aerial Photography of Entire Valley 3/                                   -          146.3           -            -          146.3
4. Remote Sensing 4/
-  Equipment                                                             -           40.0          -             -           40.0
-  Materials                                                             -            3.3          -             -            3.3
-  Training                                                              -            5.5          5.5           -           11.0
Subtotal (Remote Sensing)                                                -           48.8          5.5           -           54.3
5. Salaries and Wages 5/                                                   52.8         52.8          52.8                     158.4
Subtotal (Local Mapping) - Base                              100.8         52.8        247.9          58.3          _          459.8
- Physical Contingency              5.0          2.6         12.4           2.9          -           22.9
Subtotal (A)                                                 105.8         55.4        260.3         61.Z           -          482.7
B.  Titling
Incremental Operating Expenses 6/
-  Base                                                       96.0         96.0         96.0          96.0         96.0        384.0
-  Physical Contingency                                        4.8          4.8          4.8           4.8       _  4.8         19.2
Subtotal (B)                                                 100.8        100.8        100.8        100.8         100.8        403.2
C.  rotal Local Mappingand Titlin                                100.8        148.8        343.9         154.3         96.0        843.8
1/  PPF "Case A" advance (total US$0.5 million) of US$130,000 approved May 1981 to cover preparation of 60 topographic maps
of project area at scale of 1:10,000 based on 1978 aerial photography.
2/  "Case B" advance dated June 1982, includes US$75,000 to cover aerial photography of May/June 1982 of 40,000 ha of potential
irrigable rice area. Object to update 1978 existing aerial photography.
3/  1984 aerial photography of 770,000 ha Alto Mayo Valley to result in maps of 1:30,000 to allow an update of the general
ecosystem and for cadastral and land protection and conservation work.
4/  To develop capacity within OGCR to use and interpret satellite imaginery to monitor developments In the Dept. of
San Martin and the Alto Mayo Valley, in particular.  Costs include:  equipment (S/. 39.6 million) for analysis,
interpretation and processing; materials (S/. 6.0 million); and training (S/. 11.0 million).
5/  0GCR staff would be contracted to implement the local mapping activities.  Cost includes (Soles 17.6 million,
remuneraciones; Soles 16.7 million, bienes; Soles 16.4 million, servicios; Soles 2.1 million transferencias corrientes).
6/ Reforma Agraria staff costs (Soles 61.5 million, remuneraciones; Soles 9.3 million, bienes; Soles 16.8 million,
servicios; Soles 8.6 million, transferencias corrientes).  Aim to produce approximately 2,400 titles per year.



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National Mapping
--Year   -
1             2           Total
   - - - - (US$  °°°)
I.  Detailed Map Series - 80 Sheets (1:250,000 Scale)
a. Computer Tape Processing Costs
-  Satellite tapes of Southern Peru (40 tapes x $1,300)                     50.0            3.2         53.2
-  Satellite tapes of Northern Peru (41 tapes x $1,300)                     40.0           1.5          54.5
-  Photomap renditioning of Southern Peru                                   55.0           1.9          56.9
-  Photomap renditioning of Northern Peru                                   36.4          30.0          66.4
Subtotal                                                                   181.4          49.6         231.0
b. Map Compilation and Publication Costs
-  Cost of negative and positives - 2x80 sheets x $100 each                 12.0            4.0         16.0
-  Water-cote color proofs (80 copies)                                       1.0           5.0           6.0
-  Laser scanner color separations (utilizing Prolith G)                     8.0          70.0          78.0
-  Printing costs (1000 copies each)                                         7.0          30.0          37.0
Subtotal                                                                   137.0            -          137.0
Total A (Detailed Map Series)                                                 368.0            -           368.0
II. General Map Series - 4 Sheets (1:1 million Scale)
a. Map Compilation and Publication Costs
-  Photomap at 1:1 M scale in 4 sheets                                      10.0          21.4          31.4
-  Photomap reprint in four sheets                                           0.4           1.0            1.4
-  Cost of negatives reductions and reproductions                            3.0           2.0            5.0
-  Compilation and scribbing                                                 7.0           8.0          15.0
-  Water-cote color proofs 4 sheets 2 copies each = 8x250 ea                 0.5           1.5           2.0
-  Laser scanner color separations (utilizing Prolith C)                     3.0           3.0            6.0
-  Printing costs (5000 copies each of four sheets)                          5.0          15.0          20.0
-  Sepia half-tone rendition/printing (4000 copies ea x 4)                   1.0           3.0            4.0
Subtotal                                                                       29.9           54.9          84.8
2. Cartographic Supervision - Compilation, Printing & Shipping
-  Collation, shipping, insurance and supplies to IGN                        4.o          12.0          16.0
-  For 1982 May-December (8 months x 4000)                                  32.0           -            32.0
-  For 1983 January-December (12 months x 4000)                                -          48.0          48.0
-  Consultant Supervision (4 trips) for compilation                          6.0           6.0          12.0
Subtotal                                                                       42.0           66.0         108.0
Total B (General Map Services)                                                 71.9         120.9          192.8
Total                                                                         281.3         279.5         560.8
June 10, 1981



rPERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PRnJECT
Project Componrent by Time
SOL '000)
Base Costs                                       Tota1
1             2             3            4            5           SOL       (USt '000)
A. CREDIT
LONG TERM F                                    1333,700.4  2,05'9130.3 2,li       17568.4 2,175Y668.4 2l19O,348.1  9,934,'515i    18,062.8
SHORT TERM                                      319,450.0    612,691.0   751,299.0   8583000Q0   864,38a00   3,4050820.0    67l9214
Sub-Total CREDIIT                                1,653,150.4  2Y671,821.3 2,926Y967.4 30,33,668.4 3,054i728.1 13Y3407335.6   24r2'55_
B. IRRIGATION                                      594,7.720,0    307,120.0                         -            -    9017840.0   1639.-
C. LAND CLEARING EQUIPMENT                         410,000.0    272,000.0   20g8000,0    60r000.0    600O. 0  1,010000.0    17336.4
D. ACCESS ROADS                                  3,228,250.0  3,6222000.0   418,000.0   605,0000   765r500.0  8,63837'50.0   1'5706.8
E. EXTENSION 'a RESEARCH                         1,070,925.0    823,706.0   430,150,0   423,650.0   423s750.0  3,172181.0   5r7 6 7._
F. STORAGE                                           9V0000.0      90,000.0             -            -            -    180,000.0        327i3x
G. FISHERIES '2 FORESTRY                           258r850.0    159,100.0   140,1500.0   148,200,0    90,2000    796.,850.0   1448.3
H. HEALTH I EDUCATION                              918,200.0    697,900.0   '.23s700.0   287,400.0                -  2,527,200.0    4,594.9
I. PROJECT ORGANIZATION                            414,180.0    344,250.0   272s480.0   258,280.0   278380.0  1,567,Y570.0            ,850.1
J. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, TRAINING & STUDIES        206v740.0    167,340.0   100,340.0   1?7,440.0    65y440.0    737,300.0    1,340.5
K. LOCAL MAPPING I TITLING                         297,600.0    343,9000.  349,400.0   154,300.0    96,000.0  1,241,2000    2,1256.7
L. NATIONAL MAPPING                                308v440.0              -            -            -            -    308,440.0        560.8
Total BASELINE COSTS                               9,451,055.4  9,499,137.3 5,469,537.4 5,167,938.4 4,833,998.1 34,421,666.6   62,584.8
Physical Contirinencies                           925Y678.1    993,795.1   448,320,7   427r560.8   418Y793.0  3,214,147.8    5,843.9
Price Contirinencies                              5t8,836,7  1,568,693.4 1,496,951.8 2,082e955.4 ?.)..8,440.5  SY305v877.7   15.101.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                               10,895t570.1 12,061,l65.9 7i414Y809.9 7,678,454.5 7,891f231.7 45,941,692.1   83,530.3
Foreigra Exchar,se                              5,227i651.8  5,651,299.6 3,229,327.9 3,279,021.3 3,311,914.3 20,699,214.9   37.634.9
November 15, 1982  16:37



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Susmara Account b9 Pro-ject Cooponent
(SOL Millioni)
TECHNICAL                                     Physical
CREDIT                       LAND                                                                                 ASSISTANCE,    LOCAL                         Contingencies
-------------------CLEARING                         EXTENSION 0           FISHERIES I HEALTH I    PROJECT    TRAINING I  MAPPINGI NATIONAL
LONG TERM SHORT TERM IRRIGATION EQUIPMENT ACCESS ROADS  RESEARCH   STORAGE  FORESTRY   EDUCATION ORGANIZATION   STUDIES    TIT'LING  MAPPING   Total                     Z   Aso'snt
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
CIVIL WORKS                               2,484.9           -       517.0           -       7,250.0        510.4   180.0           06.9   1,916,7          167.0             -          -          - 13,113.7  15.2 1,992.3
VEHICLES, MACHINERY I EQUIPMENT           4,626.9            -        97.2   1,010,0               -       501.1         -        151.5      610.5         224.5             -       54.3          -  7,356.0   5.0   367.0
CARTOGRAPHY & AIR PHOTOGRAPHY                   -           -            -          -             --                                  ---                                    -      247.1    300.4    555.5  10.0    55.6
FURNITURE-                                            -            -          -            -                81,0                                   -           -          - -                              1.0   0.0      0.0
FOREIGN SCHOLARSHIPS                            -           -            -          -             --                                  ---                                 33.0          -          -     33.0   0.0       0.0
STUDIES 0 TRAINING                              -            -           -          -              --                    -        212.0          --                      395.2           -         -    607.2   0.0        0.0
FOREIGN CONSULTANTS                             -            -           -          -             --                     --                 -                   -        302.5           -         -    302.5   0.0        0.0
LOCAL CONSULTANTS                               -            -           -          -         772.7             -        ----                                              6.6           -         -    779,4   0.0       0,0
ON-FARM LOCAL INPUTS                      2,022.0                                                    -  -          -             -                                           -           -         -  2,022.0  10.0   202.3
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                       9,934.5            -       614.2   1,010.0        8,022.0       1Yl72.5   180.0         450.4   2,527.2           392.3        737,3      301.4    300.4 25,651.0  10.5 2,697.9
Physical Contingencies                      006.4            -       107.7       50,5       1,007.5        105.6    27.0           20.6      311.0          36.4             -       27.4      30.0  2,697.9   0.0         0,0
Price Coritingerncies                     3,009.2            -       72.0       174.6       1,525.4        121.3    20.6           73.9      468.4          56.7         167.1       30.7       17.0  5,824.9   9.2   535.2
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES               13,910.1            -       793.9   1,235.1       10,635.6       1,399.4   227.6         544.9   3P313.6           405.3        904.4      367.5    356.2 34,173.0   9.5 3,233.1
Foreiqn Exchange                          71063.1            -      373,7   1,111.6         4,341.6        892.0    91.1          356.4   1,692.4          333.4         704.0      330.8    320.6 17,731.3   0.0 1,412.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
SALARIES                                       -           -       100.0           -                    1317.0          -        213.3          -         950.4             -      939.8          -  3,600.5   0.0        1.0
MAINTENANCE I REPAIRS                          -    3,405.1         99.6           -         616.0        682.6         -        133.2          -         224.9             --                    -  5,162.2  10.0   516.2
Total RECURRENT COSTS                               -    3,405.8        207.6          -          616.0      1,999.7        -        346.5           -       1Y175.3             -      939.0         -  80770.7   5.9   516.2
Physical Continigencies                         -       340.6         10.0          -          61.6          68.3                  13.3          -          22.5                              -          516.2   0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                             -    lP156.3          14.9          -          86.7        562.7         -        104.3           -        331.5             -      224.7          -  2t481,0   5.7   142.6
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                       -    4,902.7        312.4          -          764.3      2,630.6        -        464.1           -       1529.3                   lt1164.5        -11,767.9   5.6   658.8
ForeiMn Exchange                                -    1470.8           73.0          -         458.6        604.7         -        117.5          -         220.0             -       23.3             2,967.9   0.0   261.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                          9,934.5    3,405.0         901.8   1,010,0        8,638.8       3,172.2   100.0         796.9   2,527.2         1P567.6         737.3   1,241.2    308.4 34,421.7   9.3 3,214.1 
Physical Contirigencies                      006.4       340.6        117.6       50.5       1,149.1         173.9    27.0          33.9      318.0           58.9             -       27.4      30.0  3,214.1   0.0        0.0
Price CoritinOencies                       3,089.2    1,156.3          06.9      174.6       lf612,0         684.0    20.6         170.2      460.4          308.1        167.1       263.5      17.0  0,305.9   0.2   677.0 
- - - - - - -- -   - - - - - - - - - -   - - - ---- - - - -   - ---- - - - --   -- - -- - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - -   - - - - -- - - - - -   - -- - - - - - -   -- - - - - - - - - - -   - -- - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - --   - - - - - - - -   - - - - -   - - - - - - -r'
Total PROJECT COSTS                          13,910.1    4,902.7    1,106.4   1,235.1          11,399.9       4,030.0   227.6       1,009.0   3,313.6         2F014.6        904.4   1,532.1    356.2 45,941.7   8.5 3,091.9
Forejigr Exchangae                         7,183.1    1,470.0         446.7   1,111.6        4,000.2       1,497.4    91.1         473,9   1,692.4           553.4        704.0       354.1    320.6 20,699.2   8.1 1,674.4
November 15, 1982 16:37



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sumeary Account bv Time
Base
Costs +
Price
Cont. on
Base Costs                         Base
(SOL Million)                       Costs   Foreign Excharige
Unit Cost  No. of  -------------------------------------------------   (US    ----------------
Unit (SOL '000)  Units       1        2         3        4       5      Total   Million)    X       Amournt
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
CIVIL WORKS                           No.   60-361.78  24,983  4Y309.9  4,670.6 1,471.0 1,360.5 1,301.7 13,113.7            28.3    40.0  5i245.5
VEHICLES, MACHINERY I EQUIPMENT       No.   70-62,000   5,332  1,824.4  1,S35.2 1,407.8 1,170.1 1,118.4  7t356.0            16.5    90.0  6,620.4
CARTOGRAPHY & AIR PHOTOGRAPHY         No.                     -    409.2    146.3         -        -       -    555.5        1.1    90.0    500.0
FURNITURE                             No.                     -     57.0      24.0        -        -       -      81.0       0.2    35.0      28.4
FOREIGN SCHOLARSHIPS                  No.        5,500        6         -     11.0    11.0    11.0         -      33.0       0.1   100.0      33.0
STUDIES I TRAINING                    No.   170-3,700       321    137.0    120.7   102.7   205.3    41.3    607.2           1.4    60.0    364.3
FOREIGN CONSULTANTS                   No.        5,500       55    104.5      71.5    49.5    44.0    33.0    302.5          0.7   100.0    302.5
LOCAL CONSULTANTS                     No.        1.100        6    428.5    243.1    12.1    50.6    45.1    779.4           1.6    50.0    389.7
ON-FARM LOCAL INPUTS                  No.    60-1.000   5,084    548.1    560.4   571.4   571.4   571.4  2Y822.8             6.5      1.6     45.1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                              7,818.7  7,682.8 3,625.6 3.413.0 3.110.9 25i651.0          56.3    52.7 13.528.7
Physical Contingencies                                        -    846.1    875.6   348.2   319.7   308.3  2.697.9             -    43.8  1l182.4
Price Contingencies                                           -    433.2  1 279.5 1,005.2 1.389.5 1.717.4  57824.9             -    51.8  3,020.1
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                       9,098.0  9.837.9 4,979.0 5.122.3 5,136.6 34,173.8          56.3    51.9 17,731.3          °
= == == = == = == = ==== = -= == == == == = == == == = == = == == = == = == == = == = === = == = == = === =  I
Foreign Exchan4e                                              -  4,769.1  4.972.7 2.690.8 2,672.3 2v626.4 17.731.3             -     0.0       0.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
SALARIES                                   800-50ooo       300    836.3    634.8   842.6   676.6   618.3  3,608.5           B.2     2.0      72.2
MAINTENANCE & REPAIRS                                        -    796.1  1,181.6 1,001.3 1,078.4 1,104.8  5,162.2          12.0    40.2  2,075.6
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                               1,632.4  1,816.3 1,843.9 1,754.9 1,723.1  8,770.7          20.2    24.5  2,147.7
Physical Continsencies                                        -     79.6    118.2   100.1   107.8   110.5    516.2             -    40.2    207.6
Price Cortinsencies                                           -     85.6    289.2   491.8   693.4   921.0  2,481.0             -    24.7    612.6
Total INCLUDIING CONTINGENCIES                                      1,797.6  2,223.7 2,435.8 2,556.2 2,754.6 11,767.9          20.2    25.2  2,967.9
Foreign Excharile                                             -    458.6    678.6   538.5   606.7   685.5  2,967.9             -     0.0       0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                 9,451.1  9,499.1 5,469.5 5,167.9 4,834.0 34,421.7          76.5    45.5 15,676.5
Physical Contingericies                                        -    925.7    793.8   448.3   427.6   418.8  3,214.1             -    43.2  1,390.0
Price Contingencies                                            -    518.8  1,568.7 1,497.0 2,083.0 2,638.4  8,305.9             -    43.7  3,632.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                 10,895.6 12,061.6 7,414.8 7,678.5 7,891,2 45,941.7          76.5    45.1 20,699.2
Foreigri Exchange                                              -  5,227.7  5,651.3 3,229.3 3,279.0 3,311.9 20,699.2             -     0.0       0.0
Noveeber 15, 1982  16:37



- 81 -
Table 29
PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Quarterly                 Cumulative
Project Year                               Amount                      Total
- - -   - - (US$ million) 
1983       March 31                         1.0                         1.0
June 30                          1.0                         2.0
September 30                     1.1                         3.1
December 31                      1.1                         4.2
1984      March 31                          1.4                         5.6
June 30                          1.8                         7.4
September 30                     2.2                         9.6
December 31                      2.6                        12.2
1985      March 31                          2.3                        14.5
June 30                          1.7                        16.2
September 30                     1.5                       17.7
December 31                      1.4                        19.1
1986      March 31                          1.1                        20.2
June 30                          1.0                        21.2
September 30                     1.0                        22.2
December 31                      1.0                        23.2
1987      March 31                          1.0                        24.2
June 30                          1.0                       25.2
September 30                     0.9                       26.1
December 31                      0.9                        27.0
1988       March 31                         0.8                        27.8
June 30                          0.8                        28.6
September 30                     0.7                       29.3
December 31                      0.7                        30.0
November 17, 1982



- 82 -                                                                  Table 30
PERU
ALTO MlAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Year
1                         2                                                      4 5                         5
1.  Crganization and Mana.ement_
Finalize Implementation Agreements
2,  Credit
Meetings of Credit Committees -                                                                                                                                              r
3. Irrigatior Atnivities
-  Small Scale Co-struotion (Tables 2 and 3)
-  Y_rongos - Update Feasibility Study
- Bank Reiew
- rloat lenders for Read-orks
- Award Contract
- Co.struction (Table 2)                                                                                                                             -
- Ti Proposal on Water Charges
4.  Lad Clearing Equipment (Table 5)
- ICB
-  telivery
Consultant Training
5.  Access Roads - (Anne  I - Wdrking Paper)
6. Extension - (Table 8)
Constraction:  - Zeal Center (I)
xtnension Agencies (3)
- Eniemelen Center=  (4)
i Research - (Table 11)
Site Selecti-n for Crop Station
C.o-tr-otion  - Two Station=
8. Storage (Table 15)
Construction - Rioj.
- M.yobemb.
9. Fish-ries (Table 16)
Con=sltant Study of Mashuyaca Site
Con=truction - Marona
- Mashuyacu
1D.  Forestry (Table 17)
Cosntruction of District - Main Office
- Regional (2)
11.  fealth (Table 2S)
Con-truction - Health Centers                                            6 2           I                                          _     _ _        _ _
- health Posts                                            6              I-t-1-t-3
12. Educatian (Table 19)
Construction of Primary Schools
13.  Technical Directorate (Table 20)
Con=truction -. My0bamba Comple.
- NReve Cejasaro- Complex
14.  Technical Assi=tance (Table 23)
15.  Studies (Table 23)
16.  Training (Table 23)
17. Local Mapping (Table 24)
Aerial Photography (770,000 ha)                                                       I
is.  Titling (Table 24)
19.  Rational Mapping (Table 25)
July 20, 1982



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PEOJECT
Model 1:  10 ha Irrigated, Farm Budget Analysis
(S.1P000)
W/O PROJ. -                       2            3            4            5            6            7           19
GROSS VALUE OF PRODUCT.
RICE                         2595.00      3390.80     4091.45      4385.55      4498.0C      4610.45      4722.90      4722.90      4722.90
O1HER                         464.00       502.83       537.15      583.83       621.80       664.13       686.25       686.25        686.25
SAlVAGE VALUE                   0.0          0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00       308.55          0.00
GROSS VALUE (000' SOLES)       3059.00      3893.63      .1628.60     4969.38     5119.80      5274.58      5409.15       5717.70      5409.15
INVESTMENTS
TRACTOR                         0.00      1925.00         0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00       1925.00         0.00
IRRIGATION                      0.00       210.00      210.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
LAND DEVELOP.                   0.00       361.78       180.89       180.89        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
HORSE                           0.00        70.00         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00         70.00         0.00
IMPLEMENTS                      0.00       132.00         0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        132.00         0.00
TOTAL INVESTMENT                0.00      2698.78       390.89       180.89        0.00         0.00         0.00      2127.00          0.00
OPERATION COSTS
AGRICULTURE                  1305.58      1972.90      2182.42     2251.77      2251.77      2251.77      2251.77      2251.77       2251.77  w
RECOVERY COSTS                  0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00       242.25       242.25       242.25       242.25        242.25   1
- - - - - - - - - - ~ ~ - - - - -   - -   - - - - - -   - - - - - -   - - - - - -   - - - - - -   - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - -
OPERATIONAL COSTS            1305.58      1972.90      2182.42     2251.77      2494.02      2494.02      2494.02      2494.02       2494.02
TOTAL OUTLFOW                1305.58      4671.68      2573.31     2432.66      2494.02      2494.02      2494.02      4621.02       2494.02
BENEFITS BEFORE FINANC.
TOTAL                        1753.42      -778.06      2055.29     2535.72      2625.78      2780.56      2915.13       1096.68      2915.13
INCREMENTAL                     0.00    -2531.48        301.87      783.30       872.36      1027.14       1161.71     -656.74       1161.71
FINANCING
LOAN RECEIPTS
LONG TERM                       0.00      2428.90       351.08       162.80        0.00          0.00        0.00          0 00         0.00
SHORT TERM                      0.00       662.00       210.00        70.00      242.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
LOAN PAYMENTS
LONG TERM                       0.00       546.50       521.61       382.52      300.68       245.81        t97.41       182.57         0.00
SHORT TERM                      0.00       959.90        94.50       336.00      210.00       350.90          0.00         0.00         0.00
NET FINANCING 1/                0.00      1584.50       -55.03      -485.72      -268.68      -596.71      -197.41      -i82.57         0.00
NET BENEFIT AFTER FINANC
TOTAL                        1753.42       806.44      2000.26     2051.00      2357.11      2183.85      2717.72       914.12       2915.13
FAMILY LABOR INCOMF          1083.16      1269.13      1372.44      1395.27      1395.27      1395.27      1395.27      1395.27      1395.27
ON FARM CONSUMP.              464.00       502.83       537.15       537.15      537.15       537.15        537.15       537.15       537 15
CASH FLOW                    2372.58      1572.74      2835.55      2909.12     3215.23      3041.97      3575.84       1772.24      3773.25  Ht
/ Adjusted for inflation.   Interest on Loan 45%.
June 8, 1982



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 1: 10 ha Irrigated, Cropping Pattern, Yields, Production and Production Value
WIO PROJ             1            2            3            4            5            6             7           19
A CROPPING PATTERN (ha)
RICE IRRIG. LEVELLED               3.00         4.00         5.50         6.50         6.50         6.50         6.50         6.50         6.50
RICE IRRIG. UNLEVELLED             1.00         1.00         0.50         0.00        0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
RICE RAINFED                       1.00         1.00        0.50         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
MAIZE                             0.75         0.75          0.75        0.75         0.75          0.75         0.75         0.75         0.75
BEANS                             0.75         0.75         0.75         0.75         0.75         0.75          0.75         0.75         0.75
BANANA                            0.50         0.50          0.50         0.50        0.50         0.50          0.50         0.50         0.50
CASSAVA                           0.50         0.50          0.50         0.50        0.50         0.50          0.50         0.50         0.50
FALLOW                            0.50         0.50         0.50         0.50         0.50         0.50          0.50         0.50         0.50
FOREST                            2.00          1.00        0.50         0.50         0.50         0.50          0.50         0.50         0.50
HECTARES                          10.00        10.00        10.00        10.00        10.00        10.00        10.00        10.00        10.00
B  YIELDS (ton/ha)
RICE IRR. LEVELLED                 3.50         3.70         3.80         3.90         4.00         4.10         4.20         4.20         4.20
RICE IRR. UNLEVELLED               2.80         3.00         3.40         3.60         3.80         4.00         4.00         4.00         4.00
RICE RAINFED                       1.70         1.80         2.10         2.30         2.40        2.50          2.50         2.50         2.50
MAIZE                              1.70         1.80         1.85         1.90         1.95         2.00         2.10         2.10         2.10
BEANS                             0.20         0.25          0.30         0.35        0.40         0.45          0.50         0.50         0.50
BANANA                             8.00         8.50         9.00        10.00        11.00        12.00        12.00        12.00        12.00
CASSAVA                           6.00          6.40         6.80         7.40         7.60         8.00         8.00         8.00         8.00
C TOTAL PRODUCT (ton)
RICE IRRIG.LEVELLED               10.50        14.80       20.90        25.35        26.00        26.65         27.30        27.30        27.30
RICE IRRIG.UNLEVELLED              2.80         3.00         1.70        0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
RICE RAINFED                       1.70         1.80         1.05        0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
MAIZE                              1.27         1.35         1.39         1.43         1.46         1.50         1.58         1.58         1.58
BEANS                             0.15         0.19         0.23         0.26         0.30         0.34          0.38         0.38         0.38
BANANA                             4.00         4.25         4.50         5.00        5.50         6.00          6. 00        6.00         6.00
CASSAVA                            3.00         3.20         3.40         3.70         3.80        4.00          4.00         4.00         4.00
TOTAL PRODUCTION                 23.43        28.59        33.16        35.74        37.06        38.49        39.25         39.25        39.25
D VALUE OF PRODUCT
RICE IRRIG. LEVELLED           1816.50      2560.40      3615.70      4385.55      4498.00      4610.45      4722.90       4722.90      4722.90
RICE IRRIG. UNLEVELLED          484.40       519.00       294.10         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
RICE RAINFED                    294.10       311.40        181.65        0.00         0.00         0.00          000          0.00         0.00
MAIZE                            153-00       162.00       166.50       171.00       175.50       180.00       189.00       189.00       189.00
BEANS                            52.50        65.63        78.75        91.88       105.00       118.13        131.25       131.25       131.25
BANANA                           128.00       136.00       144.00       160.00       176.00      192.00        192.00       192.00       192.00   a
CASSAVA                          130.50       139.20      147.90        160.95      165.30       174.00        174.00       174.00       174.00   a
GRoSS VALUE (000' Soles)       3059.00      3893.63      4628.60      4969.38      5119.80      5274.58      5409.15       5409.15      5409.15    0
June 8, 1982



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 1: 10 ha Irrigated, Operating Expenditures
(sr 'OO)-
W/O PROJ.              1            2             3            4             5             6             7            19
A. SEEDS
RICE RAINFED                       10.88         10.88         5.44          0.00          0.00         0 00          0.00          0.00          0.00
RICE IRRIGATED LEVEL.              32.63         75.40       103.68        122.53        122.53       122.53        122.53        122.53        122 53
RICE IRRIGATED UNLEVEL.            10.88         18.85         9.43          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
MAIZE                               1.92          4.89          4.89         4.89          4.89         4.89          4.89          4.89          4.89
BEANS                               4.35          6.53         6.53          6.53          6.53         6.53          6.53          6.53          6.53
CASSAVA                             0 00          3.33          3.33         3.33          3.33          3.33         3.33          3.33          3.33
Subtotal                    60.65        119.87        133.28       137.27        137.27        137.27       137.27        137.27        137.27
B. FERTILIZERS
RICE RAINFED                        0.00         21 03         10.51         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00 00                     0 00
RICE IRRIGATED LEVEL.              31.97         84.10       115.64        136.66        136.66       136.66        136.66        136.66        136.66
RICE IRRIGATED UNLEVFL.            10.66         21.03         10.51         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00          0 00
MAIZE                               0.00         15.77         15.77        15 77         15.77         15 77        15.77         15.77         15.77
BEANS                               0.00         15.77         15.77        15 .77        15.77         15.77        15.77         15 77         15.77
BANANA                              3.26          7.25          7.25         7.25          7 25          7.25         7.25          7 25          7.25
CASSAVA                             0.00          1.99          1.99         1.99          1.99          1.99         1.99          1.99          1.99   OD
Subtotal                    45.89        166.93        177 .44      177 .44        77 44        177 44       177.44        177 .44       177.44
C. INSECTICIDES
RICE RAINFED                        1.19         13.20         6.60          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
RICE IRRIGATED                     19.58         69.02        94.90        112.16        112.16       112.16        112.16        112.16        112.16
RICE IRRIGAT.UNLEVELLED            10 88         18.85         9.43          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00          0 00
MAIZE                               0.00         12.51         12.51        12.51         12.51         12.51        12.51         12.51         12.51
BEANS                               0.00         12.51         12.51        12.51         12.51         12 51        12.51         12.51         12 51
BANANA                              0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
Subtotal                    31.64        126.08        135.94       137.17        137.17        137 17       137.17        137.17        137.17
D. HIRED LABOR
RICE PAINFED                        0.58         40.89        20.45          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
RICE IRRIGATED l.EVELLED           82.65        248.99       342.36        404.61       404.61        404.61        404.61        404 61        404.61
RICE IRRIGATED UNLEVELLE            1.02          1.02         0.51          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0 00          0 00
Subtotal                    84.25        290.90       363.32        404.61       404.61        404.61        404.61        404.61        404 61
E. FAMILY LABOR
RICE RAINFED                      143.56        132.68        66.34          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
RICE IRRIGATED LEVELLED           482.85        643.80       885.23       1046.18       1046. 18     1046.18       1046. 18      1046.18       1046.18
RICE IRRIGATED UNLEVELLE          143.56        143.56        71.78          0.00          0.00         0.00          0. 00         0.00          0.00
MAIZE                             104.40        107.67        107.67       107.67        107.67       107.67        107.67        107.67        107.67
BEANS                              27.19         51.11        51.11         51.11         51.11        51.11         51.11         51.11         51.11 
BANANA                            104.40        107.67        107.67       107.67        107.67       107.67        107.67        107.657       107.67
CASSAVA                            77 .21i       82.65        82.65         82.65         82.65        82.65         82.65         82.65         82 65      E
F.RECDvSubtota                   1083.16       1269.13      1372.44       1395.27       1395.27      1395.27       1395.27       1395.27       1395.27    1,
Subtotal                     0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00        242.25       242.25        242.25        242.25        242.25
TOTAL OPERAT.(OOO'Soles)         1305.58       1972.90  .  2182.42        2251. 77     2494.02       2494.02       2494.02       2494.02       2494,02
June 8, 1982



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT POJUECT
Model 2: 20 ha Irrigated, Farm Budget Analysis
(S./'000)
W/O PROJ.            1           2            3           4            5           6            7           19
GROSS VALUE OF PRODUCT.
RICE                        5190.00      6781.60     8477,00      9342.00     9688.00      9930.20    10172.40    10172.40    10172.40
OTHER                        532.50       578.70      618.90       993.35     1045.90      1111 50      1141.00      1141.00     1141-00
SALVAGE VALUE                  0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0o00       609.24         0.00
TOTAL INFLOW                5722.50      7360.30     9095.90    10335.35    10733.90    11041.70    11313.40    11922.64    11313,40
INVESTMENTS
TRACTOR                        0.00      1925.00        0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00     1925.00         0.00
IRRIGATION                     0.00       210.00      210.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00         0-00         0.00
LAND DEVELOP.                  0.00       361.78       180.89      180.89        0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00   X
HORSE                          0.00        70.00        0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00       70.00         0.00
IMPLEMENTS                     0.00       132.00        0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00       132.00         0.00    I
TOTAL INVESTMENT               0.00      5625.16     1085.34       160.00        0.00         0.00        0.00      4061.50         0.00
OPERATION COSTS
AGRICULTURE                 2354.32      3618.58     4179.23      4478.51     4632.58      4632.58      4632.58     4632.58      4632.58
RECOVERY COSTS                 0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00      484.50       484.50       484.50      484.50       484.50
OPERATIONAL COSTS           2354.32      3618.58     4179.23      4478.51     5117.08      5117.08     5117.08      5117.08      5117.08
TOTAL OUTLFOW               2354.32      9243.74     5264.57      4638.51     5117.08      5117.08     5117.08      9178.58      5117.08
BENEFITS BEFORE FINANC.
TOTAL                       3368.18    -1883.44      3831.33      5696.84     5616.82      5924.62     6196.32      2744.06      6196.32
INCREMENTAL                    0.00    -5251.62       463.14      2328.66     2248.64      2556.44     2828.14      -624.12      2828.14
FINANCING
LOAN RECEIPTS
LONG TERM                      0.00     5062.64       976.81       144.00        0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00
SHORT TERM                     0.00      1264.00      560.00       359.00      639.00         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00
LOAN PAYMENTS
LONG TERM                      0.00       421.15     1358.62       998.31      772.00       632-57      487.47       450.82         0-00
SHORT TERM                     0.00      1959.20      308.00      1065.50      907.90       990.45         0.00        0.00         0.00
-                         -            -                                                                                _
NET FINANCING-                 0.00      3946.29     -129.81    -1560.81    -1040.90    -1623.02        -487.47     -450.82         0.00
NET BENEFIT AFTER FINANC
TOTAL                       3368.18      2062.85     3701.52      4136.03     4575.92      4301.61     5708.85      2293.24      6196.32
FAMILY LABOR INCOME         1922.72      2260.93     2582.83      2804.68     2839.47      2839.47     2839.47      2839.47      2839.47    n
ON FARM CONSUMP.             532.00       57a.00      578.00       578.00      578.00       578,00       578.00      578.00       578.00
CASH FLOW                   4758.90      3745.78     5706.35      6362.71     6837.39      6563.08     7970.32      4554.72      8457-80    L
V  Adiusted for inflation.   Interest on Loan 55%.
June 8, 1982



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJFCT
Model 2: 20 ha Irrigated Cropping Pattern, Yields, Production and Production Value
W/O PROJ.            I            2            3            4            5            6            7            19
A CROPPING PATTERN (ha)
RICE IRRIG. LEVELLED              6.00         8.00        10.00        12.00        14.00        14.00        14.00        14.00        14.00
RICE IRRIG. UNLEVELLED            2.00         2.00         2.00         2.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0-00         0.00
RICE RAINFED                      2.00         2.00         2.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0 00
MAIZE                              1.00         1.00        1.00         1.00         1.00         1.00         1.00         1.00          1.00
BEANS                              1.00         1.00        1.00         1.00         1.00         1.00         1.00         1.00          1.00
BANANA                            0.50         0.50         0.50         0.50         0.50         0.50         0.50         0-50         0 50
CASSAVA                           0.50         0.50         0.50         1.50         1.50         1.50         1.50         1.50          1.50
FALLOW                            1.00         1.00         1.00         1.00         1.00         1.00         1.00         1.00          1.00
FOREST                            6.00         4.00         2.00         1.00         1.00         1.00         1.00         1.00          1.00
HECTARES                         20.00        20.00        20.00        20.00        20.00        20.00        20.00        20.00        20.00   0
B  YIELDS (ton/ha)                                                                                                                                 I
RICE IRR. LEVELLED                3.50         3.70         3.80         3.90         4.00         4.10         4.20         4.20         4.20
RICE IRR. UNLEVELLED              2.80         3.00         3.40         3.60         3.80         4.00         4.00         4.00         4.00
RICE RAINFED                       1.70        1.80         2.10         2.30         2.40         2.50         2.50         2.50         2.50
MAIZE                              1.70        1.80         1.85         1.90         1.95         2.00         2.10         2.10          2.10
BEANS                             0.20         0.25         0.30         0.35         0.40         0.45         0.50         0.50         0.50
BANANA                            8.00         8.50         9.00        10.00        11.00        12.00        12.00        12.00         12.00
CASSAVA                           6.00         6.40         6.80         7.40         7.60         8.00         8.00         8.00          8.00
C TOTAL PRODUCT (ton)
RICE IRRIG.LEVELLED              21.00        29.60        3R.00        46.80        56.00        57.40        58.80        58.80        58.80
RICE IRRIG.UNLEVELLED             5.60         6.00         6.80         7.20         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
RICE RAINFED                      3.40         3.60         4.20         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
MAIZE                              1.70        1.80         .85         1.90         1.95         2.00         2.10         2.10          2.10
BEANS                             0.20         0.25         0.30         0.35         0.40         0.45         0.50         0.50          0.50
BANANA                            4.00         4.25         4.50         5.00         5.50         6.00         6.00         6.00          6.00
CASSAVA                           3.00         3.20         3.40        11.10        11.40        12.00        12.00        12.00         12.00
TOTAL PRODUCTION                 38.90        48.70        59.05        72.35        75.25        77.85        79.40        79.40         79.40
D VALUE OF PRODUCTION
RICE IRRIG. LEVELLED           3633.00      5120.80      6574.00      8096.40      9688.00      9930.20    10172.40    10172.40    10172.40
RICE IRRIG. UNLEVELLED          968.80      1038.00      1176.40      1245.60         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
RICE RAINFED                    588.20       622.80       726.60         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
MAIZE                           204.00       216.00       222.00       228.00       234.00       240.00       252.00       252.00       252.00    t
BEANS                            70.00        87.50       105.00       122.50       140.00       157.50       t75.00       175.00        175.00    o
BANANA                          128.00       136.00       144.00       160.00       176.00       192.00       192.00       192.00        192.00    ¢
CASSAVA                         130.50       139.20       147.90       482.85       495.90       522.00       522.00       522.00       522.00
GROSS VALUE (000' Soles)       5722.50      7360.30      9095.90    10335.35    10733.90    11041.70    11313.40    11313.40    11313.40
June 8, 1982



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 2: 20 ha Irrigated Operating Expenditures
(S. /'OO0)
W/O PROJ.              I            2            3             4            5             6             7            19
A. SEEDS
RICE RAINFED                       2i.75        21-75         21.75          0.00         0.00          0-00         0-00          0.00          0-00
RICE IRRIGATED LEVEL.              65.25        150.80       188.50       226.20        263.90        263.90       263.90        263.90        263.90
RICE IRRIGATED UNLEVEL.            21.75        37.70         37.70         37.70         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
MAIZE                               2.56          6.53         6.53          6.53         6.53          6.53          6.53         6.53          6.53
BEANS                               5.80          8.70         8.70          8.70         8.70          8.70         8.70          8.70          8.70
CASSAVA                             0.00          3.33         3.33          9.98         9-98          9.98         9.98          9.98          9.98
Subtotal                   111.31       236.78        274.48       297.08        297.08        297.08       297.08        297.08        297.08
S. FERTILIZERS
RICE RAINFED                        0.00        42.05         42.05          0.00         0.00          0. 00        0.00          0.00          0.00
RICE IRRIGATED LEVEL.              63.94        168.20       210.25       252.30        294.35        294.35       294.35        294.35        294.35
RICE IRRIGATED UNLEVEL.            21.31        42.05         42.05         42.05         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
MAIZE                               0.00        21.03         21.03         21.03        21.03         21.03        21.03         21.03         21.03
BEANS                               0.00        2i.03         21.03         21.03        21.03         2i.03        21.03         21.03         21.03
BANANA                              3.26          7.25         7.25          7.25         7.25          7.25          7.25         7.25          7 _25 
CASSAVA                             0.00          1.99         1.99          5.98         5.98          5.98         5.98          5.98          5.98
Subtotal                    88.52       303.59        345.64        349.63     .349.63         349.63       349.63        349.63        349.63
C. INSECTICIDES
RICE RAINFED                        2.38         26.39        26.39          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
RICE IRRIGATED                     39.15        138.04       172.55       207.06        241.57       24i.57        241.57        241.57        241.57
RICE IRRIGAT-LINLEVELLED           21.75        37.70         37.70        37.70          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
MAIZE                               0.00         16.68        16.68         16.68        16.68         16.68         16.68        16.68         16.68
BEANS                               0.00         16.68        16.68         16.68        16.68         16.68         16.68        16.68         16.68
BANANA                              0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
Subtotal                    63.28       235.48        269.99       278.11        274.92        274.92       274.92        274.92        274.92
D. HIRED LABOR
RICE RAINFED                        1.16        81.78         81.78         0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.010         0.00
RICE IRRIGATED LEVELLED           165.30       497.98        622.483      746.98        871.47       871.47        871.47        871.47        871.47
RICE IRRIGATED UNLEVELLE            2.03          2.03         2.03          2.03         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
Subtotal                   168.49       581.79        706.29       749.01        871.47        871.47       871.47        871.47        871.47
E. FAMILY LABOR
RICE RAINFED                      287.11       265.35        265.35          000C         0.00I         0.00         0.00          0.0.0         0.0.0
RICE IRRIGATED LEVELLED           965.70      1287.60       1609.50      1931.40       2253.30      2253.30       2253.30       2253.30      2253.30
RICE IRRIGATED UNLEVELLE          287.11       287.11        287.11       287.11          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.010         0,.00
MAIZE                             139.20        143.56       143.56        143.56       143.56        143.56       143.56        143.56        143.56
BEANS                              27. 19       51 .11        51. II       51. II        5i1. I       SI.1 I1S. II                51.1 IIS. 11
BANANA                            139.20       143.56        143.56        143.56       143.56        143.56       143.56        143.56        143.56
CASSAVA                            77.21        82.65         82.65       247.95        247.95       247.95        247.95        247.95        247.95
------I------------------------------------------------
Subtotal                  1922.72      2260.93       2582.83      2804.68       2839.47      2839.47       2639.47       2839.47       2639.47
F. PECOVFRY COSTS                                                                                                                                         l
Suobtotal                    0.00         0.00 .        0.0D          0.0`0      484.50       484.50        484.50        484.50        484.50    E
TOTAL OPERAT.(OOO'Soles)        2354.32       3618.58      4179.23       4478.51       5117.08      5117.08       5117.08       5117.08      5117.08    an
Jto   ,1982



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 3: 20 ha Rainfed, Farm Budget Analysis
(S./oo I I                  Yw
W/O PROJ.            t            2        -  3             4            5            6            7           19
GROSS VALUE OF PRODUCT.
RICE                          735.25      1245.60      1816.50     2785.30      3114.00      3243.75      3243.75      3243.75      3243.75
OTHER                         535.00       581.90       622.80      672.40       798.10       844.88       881.75       881.75       881.75
SALVAGE VALUE                   0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        102.24         0.00
TOTAL INFLOW                 1270.25      1827.50     2439.30      3457.70      3912.10      4088.63      4125.50      4227.74      4125.50
INVESTMENTS
TRACTOR                         0.00       550.00         0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00       550.00          0.00
ANIMALS                         0.00       680.00         0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
LAND DEVELOP.                   0.00       175.00       117.00      300.00       150.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
IMPLEMENTS                      0.00       131.63        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00       131.63          0.00
TOTAL INVESTMENT                0.00      1536.63       117.00      300.00       150.00         0.00         0.00       681.63          0.00
OPERATION COSTS                                                                                                                                    .0
AGRICULTURE                   831.68      1428.32      1646.98     2084.30      2288.06      2288.06      2288.06      2288.06      2288.06
OPERATIONAL COSTS             831.68      1428.32      1646.98     2084.30      2288.06      2288.06      2288.06      2288.06      2288.06
TOTAL OUTLFOW                 831.68      2964.95      1763.98     2384.30      2438.06      2288.06      2288.06      2969.69      2288.06
BENEFITS BEFORE FINANC.
TOTAL                         438.57    -1137.45        675.32      1073.40     1474.04      1800.56      1837.44       1258.05      1837.44
INCREMENTAL                     0.00    -1576.01       236.76       634.84      1035.47      1362.00      1398.87       819.48       1398.87
FINANCING
LOAN RECEIPTS
LONG TERM                       0.00      1382.97       105.30      270.00       135.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
SHORT TERM                      0.00       218.00       437.00      203.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
LOAN PAYMENTS
LONG TERM                       0.00       646.03       325.06      244.14       193.49       177.57       126.97        117.43         0.00
SHORT TERM                      0.00        98.10       512.75      725.00       294.35         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
-/----_-_-_-_
NEI FINANCING_/                 0.00       856.84      -295.51      -496.14     -352.84       -177.57      -126.97      -117.43         0.00
NET BENEFIT AFTER FINANC
_    _   _    _    _    _    _    _   _   _   _   _ - -
TOTAL                         438.57      -280.61       379.81      577.26      1121.19      1622.99       1710.47      1140.62      1837.44
FAMILY LABOR INCOME           791.7i       983.11      1115.79      1381.14     1519.25      1519.25      1519.25      1519.25       1519.25
ON FARM CONSUMP.              535.00       581.00       622.00      622.00       622.00       622.00       622l.00      622.00        622.00
CASH FLOW                     695.28       121.50       873.59      1336.40     2018.44      2520.24      2607.72      2037.87      2734.69
1/ Adjusted for inflation.   Interest on Loan 45%.
June 8, 1982



PLE RU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROOECT
Model 3:   20 ha Rainfed Cropping Pattern, Yields, Production and Production Value
W/O PROO -            1           2             3           4            5             6            7           19
A CROPPING PATTERN (ha)
RICE RAINFED                       2.50         4.00         5.00         7.00         7.50         7.50         7.50         7.50          7.50
MAIZE                              1.00         1.00         1.00         1.00         1.25         1-25         1.25          1.25         1.25
BEANS                              1.00         1.00         1.00         1.00         1.25         1,25         1.25         1.25          1.25
CASSAVA                            1.00         1.00         1.00         1.00         1.00         1.00         1.00          1.00         1.00
FALLOW                             5.00         3.50         2.50         2.00         2.00         2.00         2.00         2.00         2.00
FOREST                             6.50         6.50         6 50         5.00         4,00         4.00         4.00         4.00         4.00
PASTURES                           3.00         3-00         3.00         3.00         3.00         3.00         3.00         3.00          3.00
HECIARES                          20.00        20.00        20.00        20.00        20.00        20.00        20.00        20.00         20.00
B YIELDS (ton/ha)
RICE RAINFED                       1.70         1.80         2.10         2.30         2.40         2.50         2.50         2.50          2.50
MAIZE                              1.70         1.80         1.85         1.90         1.95         2.00         2.10         2.10          2.10
BEANS                              0.20         0.25         0.30         0.35         0.40         0.45         0.50         0.50         0.50
CASSAVA                            6.00         6.40         6.80         7.40         7.60         8,00         8.00         8.00         8.00
C TOTAL PRODUCT (ton)
RICE RAINFED                       4.25         7.20        10.50        16.10        18.00        18.75        18.75        18.75         18,75
MAIZE                              1.70         1.80         1.85         1.90         2.44         2.50         2.63         2.63          2.63
BEANS                              0.20         0.25         0.30         0.35         0.50         0.56         0.63         0.63         0.63
CASSAVA                            6.00         6.40         6.80         7.40         7.60         8.00         8.00         8.00         8.00
TOTAL PRODUCTION                  12.15        15.65        19.45        25.75        28.54        29.81        30.00        30.00        30.00
0 VALUE OF PRODUCTION
RICE RAINFED                    735.25       1245.60      1816.50     2785.30      3114.00      3243.75       3243.75      3243.75      3243.75
MAIZE                           204.00       216.00        222~.00      228.00       292.50       300.00       315.00       315.00       315.00
BEANS                             70.00       87.50        105.00       122.50       179.00       196.88       218.75       218.75       218.75
CASSAVA                         261.00       278.40       295.80        321.90       330.60       348.00       348.00       348.00       348.00   I
GROSS VALUE (000' Soles)        1270.25      1827.50     2439.30      3457.70      3912.10      4088.63       4125.50      4125.50      4125.50    j
June 8, 1982



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 3: 20 ha Rainfed O0erating Expenditures
(S./'000)
W/O PROU.            1           2            3           4            5            6           7           19
A. SEEDS
RICE RAINFED                    27.19        43.50       54.38        76.13       81.56        81.56        81.56        81.56       81.56
MAIZE                            2.56         6.53        6.53         6.53         8.16        8.16         8.16         8.16        8.16
BEANS                            5.80         8.70        8.70         8.70        10.88       10.88        10.88        10.88        10.88
CASSAVA                          0.00         6.66        6.66         6.66         6.66        6.66         6.66         6.66        6.66
  _                 _     _  _  _                                                     - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - - - - - - -
Subtotal                  35.55       65.38        76.26        98.01      107.25       107.25       107.25      107.25       107.25
B. FERTILIZERS
RICE RAINFED                     0.00        84.10       105.13      147.18       157.69      157.69       157.69       157.69       157.69
MAIZE                            0.00        21.03        21.03       21.03        26.28       26.28        26.28        26.28        26.28
BEANS                            0.00        21.03       21.03        21.03        26.28       26.28        26.28        26.28        26.28
CASSAVA                          0.00         3.99         3.99        3.99         3.99        3.99         3.99         3.99        3.99    1
Subtotal                   0.00       130.14      151.16       193.21      214.24       214.24       214.24      214.24       214.24     '
C. INSEC71CIDESl
RICE RAINFED                     2.97        52.78       65.97        92.37       98.96        98.996       98.96        98.96       98.96
MAIZE                            0.00        16.68        16.68       16.68        20.84       20.84        20.84        20.84        20.84
BEANS                            0.00        16.68        16.68       16.68        20.84       20.84        20.84        20.84        20.84
. . _          _            _   _  _  _                                                             - - - - - - - - - - -
Subtotal                   2. 97      86.13        99.33       125.72      140.65       140.65       140.65       140.65      140.65
D. HIRED LABOR
RICE RAINFED                      1.45      163.56      204.45       286.23       306.68      306.68       306.68       306.68      306.68
Subtotal                   1.45       163.56      204.45       286.23      306.68       306.68       306.68      306.68       306.68
E. FAMILY LABOR
RICE RAINFED                   358.89       530.70      663.38       928.73       995.06      995.06       995.06       995.06       995.06
MAIZE                          139.20       143.56       143.56      143.56       179.44      179.44       179.44       179.44       179.44
BEANS                            0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
CASSAVA                        154.43       165.30       165.30      165.30       165.30      165.30       165.30       165.30       165.30
_       - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - -- -   - -- - - - --   --   - _  _.3
Subtotal                 791.71      983.11      1115.79      1381.14     1519.25      1519.25      1519.25      1519.25     1519.25    m
0
TOTAL OPERAT.(OOO'Soles)       831 68   Z 1428.32       1646.98     2084.30      2288.06     2288.06      2288.06      2288.06      2288.06
June 8, 1982



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 4: 40 ha Dual Purpose Livestock
-  - - - - - - - - - - - Year - - -
No. of    Unit
Units         Units      Cost            1            2             3            4            5               Total
-                  -        - - - - - - (Soles '000) - - - - - -  - -
1.  Investments
Pasture Establishment                    ha(impr.)        15       90           1,350            -            _      -            -                    1,350
Buildings                                shed/corral       1    1,000           1,000            -            -            -             -             1,000
Fencing                                  km                0.5    370             185            -            -            -             -                185
Equipment                                set               1      500             500            -            -            -             -               500
Miscellaneous                                                     200             200            -            -            -             -               200
Breeding Stock - (ZebuxB.Swiss)    In-calf heifers   12           300          3,000           600            -            -             -             3,600
bull             1       400            400            -            -             -                             400
Subtotal (Investments)                                                      6,635         66010            -            -            -              7,235
Year 6
2. Operating Costs
Pasture maintenance                      ha               15       25                          375          375          375           375               375
Medicine, Vaccine, etc.                  AU           13-29         6                           78           96          120           138                174
Insurance                                3% of value in cow equivalents                        117          144          180           207               261
Maintenance of Investments               3% of value of bldgs.,fenc.,equip.                     51           51           51            51                51
Concentrate Feed - mineral block         AU           13-29         3                           39           48           60            69                87
- rice bran           3 kg/cow lactation day(S/.40 per kg)                  252          264           249          288                392
Bull Replacement                                                                                 -            _            _             _               400
Labor - All family                       manyears          2                                    (2)          (2)          (2)           (2)                (2)
Subtotal Operating Costs (excluding labor)                                                  912          978        1,035        1,128              1,740
3.  Sales
Cull Cows                                head         -1123    1/kg carcass                      -          200          200           400               600
Cull Bull                                head         ----1    1/kg carcass                      -            -            -             -               220
Steers                                   head         54467    1/kg carcass                    750          600          600           900             1,050
Milk                                     liter                        0.3                    2,530        3            4,174         5,184             _,925
Subtotal (Sales)                                                                         3,270        4,430         4,974        4,484             10,795
4.  Coefficients
Herd Size   -                            head                                                   20           23           28            33                 42
-                        animal units                                              13           16           20            23                 29
-                        cows in milk                                              10           11           11            12                 17
Weaning                                  %                                                      90           65           70            75                 75
Cow Cull Rate                            Z                                                       -            5           10            15                 15
Lactation - length                       days                                                  210          220          230           240               250
- yield                       I/day                                                   4            5             5.5          6.0                7.0
Mortality                      % (cows/heifers/steers)                                           3            2            2             2                  2
July 23, 1982



- 93 -                        Table 41
PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
r :e E : 7 ~~~~1/
Prices:  Financial'Atd'Economic-
Soles '000 Per Metric Ton
Financial                            Economic Prices
Prices                                (S/. '000)
1982         1983     1985        1990          1995
Rice             173              188.7       203.8    256.2        256.2         251.1
Maize            120               81.4         83.1     93.5        95.7          95.7
Beans            350             350          350       350         350           350
Banana            32              32           32        32          32            32
Cassava           43.5            43.5         43.5      43.5        43.5          43.5
Beef            1300'           1362         1327.6   1327.9       1328.3        1381
1! All prices in 1982 constant prices.
August 26, 1982



F'ERU
iLTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INCREMENTAL ECONOMIC ANAiLYSIS
(PERU *'000 SOLES)
2            3            4            5                                      8           20
FROJECT BENEFITS 1/
AGGREGAI'ED INC. EENEF.   -2742645.27 -3044494.55 -2539311.04  --7'66671.29  1327138.94  6258522.16  7958228.45 105255131.88
FROJECT COSTS
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                                                            ,,
IRRIGATION                   594720.00   307120.00           0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
RESEARCH g EXTENSION        1070925.00   823706.00   130150.00   123650.00   280000.00   115000.00   1-5000.00                0.00
ROADS                       3228250.00  3622000.00   ISOOO.00   605000.00   765500.00              0.00         0.00         0.00
ROADS MAINTENANCE            220000.00   352000.00    22000.00    11000.00    11000.00    11000.00    11000.00    11000.00
ST'ORAGE                      90000.00    50000.00        210.00        210.00       210.00       210.00       210.00         0.00
L-AND CLEARING               410000.00   272000.00   208000.00    60000.00    60000.00              0.00         0.00         0.00
MAPPING & TITLING            297600.00   343900.00   349400.00   154300.00    96000.00              0.00         0.00         0.00
FORESTRY & FISHERIES         258850.00   159100.00   140500.00   148200.00    90200.00              0.00         0.00         0.010
FROJECT ADMINISTRATION       414180.00   344250.00   272480.00   258280.00   278380.00   195000.00   195000.00                0.00
TECHNICAL ASSIST.&TRAIN.   206740.00   167340.00   100340.00    87440.00    65440.00    35000.00    35000.00                  0.00
Sub~tot31                   6791265.00  6481416.00  1511080.00  1748080.00  1646730.00   386210.00   386210.00    11000.00
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES       910029.51   868509.74   260104.72   234242.72   220661.82    51752.14    51752.14             1474.00
TOTAL COSTS                 77.01294.51  734992J.-74  2201184.72  1982322.72  1867391.82   437962.14   437962.14    12474.00
NET PROJECT BENEF.
NET                       -10443939.78-10394420.29 -4790495.76 -2748994.01  -540252.88  5820560.02  7520266.31 10512657.88'
tD 7-
NET PRESENT VAI JE AT 12.0% = 11072724.
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN       17.5%
1' Ire1u'A des or-fifT  irives tmpri,ts (credit) t OIM   oots of i rri3at iori



Table 42
Page 2 of 2
PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sensitivity Test
ERR            Present Value
Changes in Values of Parameter                  %              (000' Soles)
Most possible outcome                          17.5            11,072,724
Production logged one year                     16.1
Production logged two years                    14.5
Production logged three years                  13.0
Benefits down by 20%                           16.0
Irrigation costs increased by 35%              16.9
Total costs increased by 50%                   13.5
Opportunity
Switching Value                          Cost of Capital
Benefits reduced by 46.5%                      12%
Research & Extension costs increased
by 490%                                      12%
Roads investment increased by 353%             12%
Project administration costs increased
by 796%                                      12%
Economic prices for rice reduced
by 25.8%                                     12%
Productivity of rice reduced by 27.6%          12%
November 18. 1982



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation District
Chief     I/
(Rioja)
Monitoring/Studies                Secretary
Head, 2 technicians
Rioja
Regional Read   I/                                                                 Regional Head    l/
M4oyobamba                                                                      Nuevo Cajamarca
Secretary                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Secretary 
Sector Chief       2/           Sector Chief       2/       Sector Chief       2/      Sector Chief       2/       Sector Chief       2/
Moyobamba                     Nuevo Cajamarca                 Ucrania                  Yuracyacu                      Rioja
Soritor, Ocheque,               Michuco, Polopunta,         Alto Plantanoyacu,         Huara,                        Rioja,
Indane, Banos,                  Rio Sonitor/San             Ucrania Azungillo,         Constelacion,                 Yurangos,
Marona and future                 Juan,                     Naranjal/Porvenir,         Bajo Plantanoyacu,            Posic,
district on right               Las Union, Bajo             Galindona,                 Molino                        Rio Negro
bank of Rio Mayo                  Naranjillo                Valle Grande
and other new
areas.
I/ Ing. Agricola.
2/ Tecnico Agricola.



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Directorate Irrigation Group
Technical Administrator I/
Rioja
Secretary
Chief:  Sector 1 21             Chief:  Sector 2 3/              Chief:  Sector 3 3/              Chief:  Sector 4 4/
Agricultural Activities          Civil Works Activities          Civil Works Activities            Agricultural Activities
- Rioja                         - Michuco                        - Alto Plantanoyacu               - Huaro
- Yorongos                           Tahuantisuyo                - Ucrania, Azunguillo             - Constelacion
- Soritor                            San Fernando                - Naranjal, Porvenir              - Bajo Plantanoyacu,
Taime                       - Galindona                            Cuchiyacu
Patria Nueva                - San Juan, Alta Soritor          - Molino
Rio Seco                    - Valle Grande                    - Antamplaya (margen
- Polunpunta                                                          izuierda Rio Mayo)
- La Union
1/ Ing. Agricola.
2/ Tecnico Agropecuario.
3/ Obrero Especializado.



PERU
ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organization
Executive Director
Huallaga Central-Mayo
Internal                                                     echnical Director
Audit                                                          Alto Mayo
SubDirector                                                                SubDirector                                                     OD
Administration                                                            Planning & Evaluation
Unit Chief:           Unit Chief:                 Unit Chief:
Accounts and           Supply and                  Personnel
Budget                 Support Services
Director of Works                                                                      Director of Services
Su   rector Work;                                                                   [ ybDirector Serv
Unit Chief:                Unit Chief:               Unit Chief:                         Unit Chief:                Unit Chief:               Unit Chief:
Infrastructure                 Roads                  Irrigation                          Extension &                  Mapping                  Agricultural
Research                    Titling                  Equipment
Novembhr 17. 1982



ALTO MAYO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
H4II H U14 CF
[~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M: ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -H
H,11                                J F PE ACI~~~~~~~~~ H   FI0P
-3 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~.
4  1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                4'A'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~   E ,~
P,. ~ ~ ~ Jb,P. PYpCYC
5,Pd ,p,P,,,,,
["414- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    -



