Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
24 z          -                           Report No. 8353-CRG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (CDB)
FIFTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
MARCH 26, 1990
Trade, Finance and Industry Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by redpients only In the performance of
their officiikl dutes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS1
US$1.00   -   BDS$2.00 (Barbados)
-   BZ$2.00  (Belize)
EC$2.70  (Eastern Caribbean)2
G$10.00  (Guyana)
-   J$6.50   (Jamaica)
TT$4.25  (Trinidad and Tobago)
B$1.00   (The Bahamas)
LIST OF ACRONYMS
CARICOM  - Caribbean Community and Common Market
CARIFTA  - Caribbean Free Trade Association
CDB      - Caribbean Development Bank
CDF      - Caribbean Development Facility
CFC      - Caribbean Food Corporation
CGCED    - Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development
DFCs     - Development Finance Companies
EEC      - European Economic Community
ECCM     - East Caribbean Common Market
IDB      - Inter-American Development Bank
LDCs     - Less Developed Countries
MDB      - Multilateral Development Bank
MDCs     - More Developed Countries
OCR      - Ordinary Capital Resources
OECS     - Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
PATU     - Project Administration and Training Unit
PSIP     - Public Sector Investment Program
SFR      - Special Fund Resources
UK       - United Kingdom
UNDP     - United Nations Development Programme
USAID    - US Agency for International Development
VTF      - Venezuelan Trust Fund
I As of January 1990.
1 Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts-Nevis, St. Lucia,
St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Montserrat.



CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
FIFTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN/CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .................................... i-ii
I.   THE COMMONWEALTH CARIBBEAN--DEVELOPMENT ISSUES  ....                 ..........  1
A.   Background ..............................................   1
B.  Recent Economic Developments  ............................  3
C.  The Prospects  ........         ............. .....................   3
D. Economic Sectors ................................... 4
II. THE BANK'S ROLE TN THE COMMONWEALTH CARIBBEAN AND
COLLABORATION WITH CDB ................................... 6
A.   IBRD/IDA Role in the Commonwealth Caribbean--Historical                    6
B.   Future Bank Role in the Commonwealth Caribbean--
Opportunities and Constraints  ...........................    8
C.  The CDB Role in the Commonwealth Caribbean ....                  ..........  8
D.  Areas for Closer Collaboration Between the Bank and CDB.    9
E.   Experience with Past IBRD/IDA Lending to CDB ....                 ........ 10
F.   Closer Collaboration between the Bank and CDB--The
Memorandum of Understanding  .............................. 13
III.   THE CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT B.^NK (CDB)  ........................ 15
A.   Constitution and Objectives  ............................. 15
B.  CDB's Board, Management, Organization and Staffing ...... 16
C.  Operational Policies and Procedures  ..................... 17
D.   Past Lending Operations  .......          .......... ............... 20
E.   Lending Strategies  ............              .................. 27
Infrastructure  ..........              .................... 27
Agriculture ..............................  28
Industry and Tourism .............................. 29
Financial Intermediaries  .............................. 30
F. Lending Program for 1989-93 .31
G.   Financial Position and Performance  ...................... 33
H.   Projected Finan'-ial Position and Performance  ....              ........ 37
IV.   THE PROJECT . ................................................. 39
A.  Objectives ...............................                                39
B. Project Description ................................ 39
C.   Project Cost and Financing ..............................  40
D.   The IBRD Loan Features  ...............................   41
E.   The IDA Credit Features  ...............................   42
F. Subprojects/Subloans ................................ 43
C.   Environmental Assessments  ............................... 44
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Barbados in December 1989. The mission consisted of Messrs. Joon Bo Shim
(LATTF), Christian Delvoie (LA3IE), Roberto Cucullu (LEGLA), anu
O.H. Calika (Consultant, IA3TF).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (contd.)                                      Page No,
H.    Disbursements   ...........................................  44
I.    Procurement   .............................................  44
J.    Benefits  and  Risks   ......................................  45
V.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ............ ..  ................. 45
A.  Agreements to be Reached at Negotiations ....   ............ 45
B.    Recommendation   ..........................................  47
TABLES IN TEXT
3.1  Summary of Annual Loan Approvals by Source of Funds, 1984-88 .. 21
3.2  CDB Loan Approvals by Sector, 1970-88 ........... .............. 22
3.3  CDB's Lending to Infrastructure, 1970-88 ......... ............. 23
3.4  CDB's Lending to the Agricultural Sector, 1970-88 ............. 24
3.5  CDB's Lending to Industry and Tourism, 1970-88      . .    24
3.6  CDB's Projected Lending Programs (1989-94) ........ ............ 32
3.7 Arrears Position as of December 31, 1988 ...................... 36
3.8  CDB-Projected Financial Indicators    ..38
4.1  Estimated Costs and Financing Plan .41
ANNEXES
I.  Basic Indicators CARICOM Countries
II.  Memorandum of Understanding between Bank/IDA and CDB
III. CDB's Principal Loan Terms and Conditions
IV.  CDB Past Operations
Table 1: Distribution of Loans Approved by Sector
and by Fund (1970-88)
Tab,  2:  Characteristics of subloans made in the first
three operation
V.  CDB-Historical Financial Statements
Table 1: Summarized Balance Sheets 1984-88
Table 2: Summarized Statements of Income 1984-88
VI.  CDB-Statements of Resource Position as of December 31, 1988
Table 1: Ordinary Capital Resources (OCR)
Table 2: Special Fund Resources (SFR)
VII. CDB-Financial Projections (1989-93)
Table 1: OCR, Forecast Statement of Income and Expenses
Table 2: OCR, Forecast Balance Sheets
Table 3: OCR, Forecast Cash Flow
VIII.  Assumptions used in Financial Projections
IX.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of the Proposed
Loan and Credit
X.  Pipeline of IBRD and IDA Projects for 1989 through 1992
XI.  Organization Chart-Caribbean Development Bank
XII. Project File
MAP



CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (CDB)
FIFTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
LOAN/CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Caribbean Development Bank
Guarantors:          CDB borrowing member countries and the UK as guarantor
for the UK Dependencies.1
Beneficiaries:       Public and private entities and enterprises in CDB
member countries eligible for receiving Bank/IDA funds.
Amount:              $20.0 million IBRD loan
SDR 9.1 million IDA credit (US$12.0 million)
Terms:               IBRD loan to CDB - fixed amortization schedule:  17
years including a grace period of 5 years at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
IDA credit to CDB: standard, with 40 years maturity
(see (ii) below).
Onlending Terms:      (i) The proceeds of the IBRD loan would be relent by
CDB for subprojects in its member countries which
are creditworthy and would not have been graduated
from IBRD lending. The onlending interest rate
would be CDB's variable rate adjusted annually to
cover CDB's cost of borrowing and administrative
expenses. This rate is currently 9.3% plus a 1%
front-end fee. The amortization of the subloans
will be determined by CDB on project grounds.
(ii) The proceeds of the IDA credit, blended with IBRD
funds, would be relent by CDB for subprojects in
OECS countries which have sound economic policies
or would have agreed to adopt adjustment programs
acceptable to IBRD/IDA and CDB. Blending of
IBRD/IDA funds would be no softer than a 50:50
IBRD/IDA blend for national subprojects in OECS
countries and 33:67 for OECS regional subprojects.
CDB will relend the proceeds of the credit to the
OECS governments with maturities not exceeding 35
years. Guyana, when eligible, would benefit from
CDB relending of the IDA credit proceeds with
maturities not exceeding 40 years. The borrowing
governments would onlend IDA resources to
subborrowers on commercial terms so that the
benefit of IDA concessionary terms could accrue to
the governments. For both the IBRD loan and the
IDA credit, the foreign exchange risk would be
1/ Subject to confirmation by the UK and eligible dependent territories.



- ii -
borne by the CDB's subborrowers and governments,
respectively.
Project Description.
Benefits and Risks: Within a new framework, the Bank and CDB, with the aim
of improving the effectiveness of their aid and
increasing the efficiency of their operations in the
Commonwealth Caribbean, will progressively intensify
their collaboration. CDB will complement, and
eventually supplant, some current Bank roles in the
region in areas where CDB has a comparative advantage
over the Bank. This will enable the Bank, over a 3-5
year period (as CDB gained experience), to redirect its
manpower resources within the Commonwealth Caribbean
for policy advice, support of policy reforms and other
developmental work, including those areas of project
lending where it has a comparative advantage over CDB.
In support of this process, the proposed project would
(a) help CDB to improve its institutional capabilities;
and (b) provide it with additional lending resources in
support of its lending operations. In conformity with
CDB's recently formulated lending strategy, the
proposed IBRD loan and the credit will be relent by the
CDB in sectors (approved by IBRD/IDA) which will make a
maximum contribution to the economic development of
borrowers for public and private sector projects of the
types which the Bank itself normally finances.
Emergency recovery assistance (such as for hurricane
reconstruction) would be included.
Lending through the CDB will enable the IBRD and IDA to
support small projects in the Commonwealth Caribbean
which otherwise would be too costly to administer,
thereby increasing both the value and diversity of
operation in the region.  Risks that might adversely
affect the success of the project are: the weak
economic base of the region, prone to economic
uncertainties, which may slow down the implementation
of the CDB-financed subprojects. CDB's project
pipeline indicates, however, that high levels of
lending will be achieved in the next two to three
years. It is also expected that external financing for
local costs of projects and technical assistance will
continue to be provided to the region through the
Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development
(CGCED).
Estimated                  FY91   FY92   FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98
Disbursements:             ---------------- (US$ million) -----------------
Annual       0.6    2.6    5.0   7.8   7.0   5.2   3.0   0.8
Cumulative   0.6    3.2    8.2  16.0  23.0  28.2  31.2  32.0



CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (CDB)
FIFTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
I. THE COMMONWEALTH CARIBBEAN--DEVELOPMENT ISSUES
A. Background
l.Oi     The Commonwealth Caribbean consists of 12 independent
countries--Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica,
Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines,
St. Kitts and Nevis, and Trinidad and Tobago--and five UK
dependencies--Anguilla, Cayman Islands, Montserrat, Turks and Caicos
Islands, and the British Virgin Islands. It embraces a total population of
about 5.5 million.
1.02     Based on common interests, the Caribbean countriesl have embarked
upon a number of initiatives to construct a framework of cooperation in an
attempt to overcome the handicaps of small size, economic fragmentation,
and external economic dependence. An early attempt was made at integration
with the establishment of the West Indies Federation in 1958. This
experiment, however, was uuaBle to survivv.  Thereafter, the idea of
regional economic association was revived in the mid-1960s and culminated
in 1968 in the formation of the Caribbean Free Trade Association (CARIFTA).
Within this free trade area, islands of the Eastern Caribbean formed the
East Caribbean Common Market (ECCM). In 1970, the Caribbean Development
Bank (CDB) was established and in October 1972, CARIFTA member countries
decided to strengthen the integration movement still further by forming a
Caribbean Community and Common Market (CARICOM). CARIFTA provided member
countries with an enlarged free trade market and, hence, the opportunity to
capture the benefits of competition, specialization, and larger scale
production. CARICOM, which replaced CARIFTA, sought to deepen regional
integration by measures such as the establishment of a common external
tariff, a harmonized system of fiscal incentives for industry, and taxation
agreements. It called for coordination of national development planning,
rationalization of agriculture, joint development of regional natural
resources, and cooperation in other areas including health, education,
culture, transport, and the harmonization of foreign policy. While some
progress has been made in most of these areas, much still remains to be
done to attain Caribbean regional integration. In 1981, the ECCM countries
signed an agreement establishing the Organization of Eastern Caribbean
States (OECS)2 with a view to achieving deeper integration of their
economic, judicial, political, diplomatic and monetary relationships.
j/  The word "Caribbean," as used in this report, usually refers to the
Commonwealth Caribbean countries of the region.
/ The Organization of East Caribbean States (OECS) has as its members
Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia,
and St. Vincent and the Grenadines, plus Montserrat which is a UK
dependency. Together with other UK dependencies and Belize, they are
referred to as the less developed countries (LDCs) in the region.



These countries use a single currency (the EC dollar) issued and managed by
the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB).
1.03     In common with very few areas in the World, the Caribbean
countries pose unique economic development issues for the Bank.3 The area
as a whole is characterized by small open economies, highly vulnerable to
the vagaries of international prices and demand, as well as to natural
disasters (mainly hurricanes which frequently destroy production and
capital assets). This fragility is particularly pronounced in the case of
the OECS countries, of which the largest has a land area of only 293 square
miles and the most populated has less than 140,000 people. Typically,
external trade accounts for 70-85% of these islands' GDP, with experts
being limited to one or two major commodities. Because of the small size,
the economic fabric remains very simple and much less sophisticated than,
say, in countries with an even lower per capita income. Economic
diversification and private competition in most sectors are limited by the
absence of economies of scale. Financial markets are simple, or
nonexistent. Traditionally, emigration provided a safety v'lve for serious
unemployment and social upheaval. During their colonial past, most
countries depended on transfers of resources from the UK not only for
capital formation, but also for budgetary support. With the independence,
the 'UK budgetary supporLs came to an end.  In the mid-i9g6s, cne economic
problems were aggravated by difficulties due to the world recession. While
substantial international assistance was made available, mainly for
infrastructure investments and reconstruction after natural disasters,
serious financial and balance of payment difficulties persisted. The OECS
countries needed to diversify and restructure their economies and to
develop alternative export incomes in addition to traditional staples such
as bananas and sugar. However, these countries had little time, after
gaining independence, to achieve their economic objectives.  In aAdition,
they had been handicapped by fairlv rapid declines in the net transfer of
resources from abroad, particularly on concessional terms, and by worsening
terms of trade.
1.04     While the economies of the more developed countries (MDCs) in the
Caribbean, which comprise Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago, Guyana, Barbados
and The Bahamas, are relatively larger and more diversified than those of
OECS countries, they have not been immune to the serious economic
difficulties of the mid-1980s. Low prices and reduced demand for their
major export products, due to international recession, together with
increased protectionism and high interest rates in their main trading
partners in North America and Europe, caused economic hardships and
confronted the governments with difficult debt servicing problems. Among
these, Jamaica, in the 1970s, encountered sharp declines in its foreign
exchange earnings, a situation aggravated by poor financial management at
home, and high external debt service obligations. Guyana has been in
arrears on its external loans to most of its creditors. The economic
position of Trinidad and Tobago--a country which in the past provided
investment funds for the OECS countries--has also deteriorated
considerably.
5/ Unless the context indicates otherwise, the term "Bank" as used in this
report covers IDA as well.



- 3
B. Recent Economic Developments
1.05     The economies of most Commonwealth Caribbean countries, since the
mid-1980s, have been favorably influenced by external developments. This
was noticeable particularly in Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Belize,
Dominica, Grenada, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia and St. Vincent
and the Grenadines. These developments enabled the OECS countries to
improve their economic performance. The fall in the value of the US Dollar
vis-a-vis the currencies of the major US trading partners and improvement
in the region's overall terms of trade were among the positive factors. A
real decrease in the world prices for petroleum and coal has more than
offset the fall in the international prices of some Caribbean exports such
as coffee, cocoa and tobacco. Banana prices for the region's exports to
the protected UK market increased. These positive external developments
were accompanied by successive reductions in the US sugar quotas for
Jamaica and St. Kitts and Nevis. Overall in the region, a boom in tourist
arrivals and receipts also occurred. The expansion in tourism strengthened
diversification efforts away from traditional export crops in many
countries. Lower level of real international interest rates benefitted
those economies with relatively large outstanding commercial debt.
1.06     Along with these favorable trends, there were also some adverse
developments. In Trinidad and Tobago, the only oil exporter in the
Commonwealth Caribbean, lower export prices for oil have continued to cause
significant income and output losses, compared to the early 1980s.
Confronted with a series of major adjustment processes, Jamaica went
through a difficult period. Despite improvements achieved, the country's
overall economic framework remained fragile. Its position was weakened by
the 1988 Hurricane Gilbert. Barbados' economic position has been weakened
in the recent past due to a rapid erosion of its competitiveness. Guyana
remained overburdened by an excessively high external debt, unfavorable
terms of trade and overall economic mismanagement. In the OECS group, the
Governments of Antigua and Barbuda and Grenada have had financial
difficulties.
C. The ProsDects
1.07     In varying degrees, all Commonwealth Caribbean countries face
difficult challenges and adjustment needs to overcome their current
economic problems and to accelerate their economic growth. The OECS
countries, in general, still require substantial development effort to
become economically viable. Despite the improvements made in recent years,
their balance of payments are still showing deficits in the current
account. The medium- to long-term balance of payments improvement will
largely depend on continued access to the preferential UK and the US
markets for bananas and sugar, continued increases in tourist arrivals, and
the competitiveness of their exports within the framework of their existing
fixed exchange rate regime (para 1.02). While a drive to promote e%nort
diversification has begun, these efforts need to be intensified. The
countries need to maintain export competitiveness by restraining growth in
wage costs and the public sector expenditures.  External debt does not pose               VA
serious problems (except for Antigua and Barbuda) and, partly because of a
relatively high proportion of concessional aid receipts, the debt service
ratios are below 15% in all countries. However, the ratio of debt service
payments to central government current revenues is significantly higher



(especially in Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica and Grenada). Borrowing on
conventional terms needs close monitoring and restraint. Fiscal
performance in most OECS countries has shown an improving trend in recent
years, in most cases as a result of improved performance of the central
government and public enterprises. Unemployment, one of the most serious
social problems afflicting the OECS region, amounts in some countries to
about 25% or more of the labor force and has to be reckoned with in future
economic development policies.
1.08     The economies of the MDCs also need structural adjustment and
diversification of their production base in order to sustain an adequate
growth rate over the medium term.  To achieve this objective, some
countries will require stabilization policies which may be overlapping with
their structural adjustment efforts. Consistency between these twe
policies is necessary. Adjustment policies may require as long as five
years to show tangible results, as seen in the case of Jamaica, and
adequate external financial support will be needed during the adjustment
period. The main areas of structural adjustment will be trade, fiscal
policies, financial and investment programs, and sectoral and institutional
reforms which are essential to improving creditworthiness.
i.09      or the Caribbean as a whole, the economic outlook in the medium
term can je promising, provided th,.t the countries are able to expand and
diversify thcir exports of goods and non-factor services to extra-regional
markets. This would allow most of the economies to grow fast enough for
real consumption per capita to increase. Real GDP growth rates of up to 4%
per year may be attainable with continuing improvement in the terms of
trade and successful efforts to adjust the respective economies. For
improved competitiveness, there is also a need for suitable fiscal,
monetary, wage and investment policies. In particular, efforts to restrain
public sector exoenditures, especially wages, will be needed to increase
savings. Productivity has to be increased to enable the countries to
improve their competitiveness, increase their output and exports, and to
reduce their high levels of unemployment and debt burdens. The Caribbean
economies require the provision of external financing sufficient to permit
adjustment with growth while cushioning the impact of such adjustment on
social sectors. The focus of such financing has increasingly to be on high
priority investments that assist in the diversification of the respective
economies and render growth-oriented structural adjustment smoother.
D. Economic Sectors
1.10     The agriculture sector in the Commonwealth Caribbean is a major
source of foreign exchange, employment and income. The sector's
performance in recent years, however, has been poor. In 1972 the region
switched from an agricultural surplus area to a deficit area, with a net
reduction in agricultural employment. Yet, the sector still remains a
major source of employment, absorbing about 25% of the labor force. The
underlying problems include a skewed land distribution, inefficient methods
of production, widening disparities in earnings between agriculture and
other sectors and weaknesses in government support services and pricing
policies. The governments of the region recognize the seriousness of the
problem and the need to revitalize the sector to increase employment, raise
incomes in the rural areas, check rural/urban migration and support the
balance of payments. In view of the present uncertainties regarding future



marketing of the Caribbean sugar ard banana exports, the need for the
Caribbean countries to diversify and increase alternative exports has
become particularly urgent.
.
1.11     The industrial sector in the Caribbean consists mainly of light
industry, except that Trinidad and Tobago, Jaamaica and Guyana have aome
industrial compl2xes devoted to the processing of minerals. The MDCs
account for 94% of regional manufacturing, but this represents only 12% of
the MDCs' GDP and employs only about 14% of the work force. Jamaica
possesses the largest manufacturing sector, followed by Trinidad and
Tobago. In Guyana, manufacturing is still a minor, predominantly import-
substituting endeavor. Industrial activity in the LDCs is quite limited.
1.12     Manufacturing in most of the Caribbean region suffers from the
smallness of domestic markets, the lack or the inadequacy of raw materials
and intermediate products and the insufficient number of experienced
entrepreneurs and skilled workers. The CARIFTA and, subsequently, CARICOM
incentive schemes have not created the stimuli needed, because they were
mainly designed to encourage import substitution at the national and
regional levels. As the possibilities for efficient import substitution at
these levels are limited (and in some cases already exhausted), these
incentives resulted in the establishments of many inefficient industries
which generate little employment but enjoy an unduly high effective
protection. The goverrunents have increasingly been realizing that in the
future, efficient industrial development will have to be based largely on
increased exports to the rest of the world. The Caribbean governments need
to pursue policies designed to diversify and redirect their manufactured
exports, taking advantage of the opportunities that existing trade
preferences grant them. The anti-export bias related to extra-regional
trade and investment needs to be eliminated if the countries are to take
advantage of their potential export markets.
1.13     Tourism in the Commonwealth Caribbean has been an outstanding
growth sector. It has provided the region with an important source of
foreign exchange and employment. The total number of t:uurists has
increased from 3.7 million in 1970, to more than 5 million in 1978 and to
7.6 million in 1988. This growth has been sustained by favorable economic
developments in North America, the major source of the tourist flow to the
Caribbean, the development of the European tourism market, and the
introduction of discount fares on regularly scheduled flights. This growth
has also been made possible because of the availability of accommodations
built during the tourist boom in the late 1960s and early 1970s. While
future prospects for tourism growth are favorable, the main constraints
will be difficulties of air access to some islands and a shortage of
suitable accommodations.  The increasing environmental degradation in the
Caribbean, in addition, is likely to have a negative impact on tourism
growth if it goes unchecked. Therefore, Caribbean governments should begin
to implement mitigatory measures and improve the management of their
natural resources, so that they can exploit their tourism resources on a
sustainable basis and strengthen their competitive position In
international markets.
1.14     The two fundamental problems of the Caribbean states--isolation
and smallness--can only be relieved by efficient and reliable transRort
systems, both sea and air. The LDCs in particular are in need of efficient



- 6 -
sea transport for developing merchandise trade and air transport for the
development of tourism. The LDCs may be able to have a greater share of a
longer term increase in tourist traffic if more reliable air services can
be provided.
1.15     ia public utilities, the power and water supply and sewerage
sectors are characterized by local institutions with weak managenent and
inetficiert administrative and operating practices.  In some cases, tariffs
are low and billing and collection deficient, resulting in inadequate
revenues and increased government subsidies.  In the power sector, energy
is relatively high in cost due to the heavy dependence on imported oil,
large fixed inv'stments that must be borne by small service areas that
cannot be interconnected and freqtuent breakdowns caused by poor
maintenance. There is need for investment in developing additional sources
of energy and better maintenance services. Considerable progress has been
made in recent years to increase water supply, particularly in areas of
tourism growth.  Yet, public sewer systems are very limited and the
majority of the population relies on soakage pits, septic tanks and pit
privies.
1.16     There is a diversity of financial i.ntermediaries in the Caribbean
region, including both commercial banks and national de-velopment
institutions (DFCs,. MEny commercial banks active in the region are
controlled by UK and Canadian banks outside the Caribbe&n. All MDCs have
independent central banks. Government-owned DFCs are established in all
countries, in most cases with support by CDB, to intermediate In extending
medium- and long-term credits and technical assistance in
preparation/implementation of small development projects.  To date, their                     -
record has been rather mixed (para 3.30). Small DFCs in the LDCs have had
difficulty in attracting qualified staff. Undercapitalization and high
aiministrative expenditures relative to the lending operations have in few
cases led to low or nonexistent profits and required government aid to meet                   -
some of these DFCs' operating expenditures.  As an alternative channel to
DFCs, CDB has recently started using commerc..al banks through an Apex                        i
institution in Jamaica and through the Central. Bank in Trinidad A:nd Tobago.
Also, CD3 has recently adopted, in consultation with the Bank, eligibility
criteria for financial institutions to have access to CDB financing
(para 3.47).
1.17     The foregoing summary of macro and sectoral development isst'es and
investment needs in the Caribbean set the basic parameters for future Bank
and CDB development aid to the region and for their collaboration in
rendering such aid.
II. THE BANK'S ROLE IN THE COMMONWEALTH CARIBBEAN
AND COLIABORATIOIN WITH CDB
A. IBRD/IDA Role in the Commonwealth Caribbean--Historical
2.01     The Bank's operational involvement in the Commonwealth Caribbean
goes back to the 1960s. Initially, the Bank's activicy in the area was
confined to I4DCs, including Trinidad and Tobago, Jamaica and Guyana, and,
more recently, Barbados and The Bahamas. Soon after its creation in 1970,
the CDB also became a beneficiary of Bank lending and technical assistance.
Through CDB, the OECS countries benefitted from IBRD/IDA credits. Starting



with FY82, IDA became engaged in direct lending operations in the OECS
countries. Between FY82 and FY89, IBRD/IDA lent to the Commonwealth
Caribbean US$685.2 million (about US$85.7 million per year), including
US$53.2 million in IDA credits. Of the latter, US$22.4 million was lent
directly to the OECS governments (five credits) and US$13.0 million through
CDB. Parallel with its lending activity, the Bank has undertaken
periodical reviews of the Commonwealth Caribbean economies, dealing with
both country economic performance questions and broader regional
development issues. Issues concerning major economic sectors have also
received the Bank's attention.
2.02     Before 1984, the Bank's primary focus in the Commonwealth
Caribbean was on resolving regional development issues, including
development of subregional institutions, and thereby supporting individual
Caribbean countries' development efforts. While some positive results were
obtained in this area (notably streuigthening of CDB), in 1984 the Bank
concluded that progress was much slower than anticipated (due primarily to
varying perceived country interests and political difficulties). The Bank,
therefore, shifted its main emphasis to implementation of major policy
reforms necessary in each country to strengthen creditworthiness and,
through this, to try to influence regional development. These objectives
have guided the Bank's lending in the Commonwealth Caribbean in the recent
past.
2.03     The Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development
(CGCED) was created ir 1977, under the chairmanship of the Bank, to channel
substantially increased concessionary aid to the Caribbean. In addition to
the traditional aid-donors to the region (the UK, USA, Canada, EEC, IDB),
several European governments and Japan joined the CGCED as donors and, by
1986, became increaoingly active in support of the development effort in
the region. Within the CGCED framework, the Bank placed increased emphasis
on policy dialogue with the Caribbean aid recipient governments regarding
their development priorities and their adoption of sound macro economic and
sectoral adjustment policies.
2.04     The OECS countries, together with the MDCs, benefitted from
participation in CGCED. Economic reports and project lists with profiles,
prepared by the Bank, were submitted to potential donors, and discussed at
country subgroup meetings. These subgroup meetings were normally held at
the time of the Caribbean Group meetings which were generally held at
12-month intervals; they are now being held on about 18-month intervals.
In the context of the p.eparation of their economic reports for CGCED, the
Bank staff maintained an active dialogue with thte governments concerned on
their formulation of public sector investment programs (PSIP). CDB focused
its attention mainly on economic work on the UK-dependent territories and
on preparation of PSIPs for the OECS countries and Belize. The country
subgroup meetings focused attention on the central issues of economic
performance and priority financial requirements. The CGCED also promoted
regional activities to benefit several Caribbean countries, such as
technical assistance programs for energy, tourism, and transportation, and
securing of financing for private sector investment projects through the
establishment and financing of the operation of a Caribbean Project
Development Facility.



B.  Future Bank Role in the Commonwealth Caribbean--
OpRortunities and Constraints
2.05     The Bank, at this juncture, has successfully brought about the
basic institutional framework and the essential donor collaboration to
increase aid to the Commonwealth Caribbean in support of the governments'
economic adjustment and development policies. Economic performance in
several Commonwealth Caribbean countries, narticularly in the OECS area,
has appreciably improved over the last few years (para 1.05).
Nevertheless, there is still much need for economic adjustment to ensure
economic viability. Most economic adjustment and restructuring measures
are essentially long-term propositions and increased amounts of
concessional aid will be needed (particularly in the OECS area) while such
measures are being implemented (paras 1.07-1.09). A major issue for the
Bank, as well as for other potential aid agencies, therefore, is how to
sustain an adequate net flow of resources to the Caribbean region during a
prolonged economic adjustment phase. In addition, policy advice and
technical assistance to governments will be needed, with increased inputs
of manpower, to help them formulate and execute sound development and
adjustment programs.
2.06     Future Bank operations in the Commonwealth Caribbean will be
conditioned by the IBRD and IDA graduation policies and the Bank's manpower
limitations. In terms of their per capita CDP, a number of Commonwealth
Caribbean countries have reached, or already exceeded, the current
thresholds for cutting of future IBRD or IDA lending. A member country
(The Bahamas) is no longer eligible for IBRD loans and new lending in
another country (Barbados) will be phased out in FY91. The OECS countries,
on grounds of their relatively high GDP, are at present going through an
IDA phase-out period (to help them build up their IBRD creditworthiness)
and, in future, their continuation to benefit from Bank lending will depend
on their creditworthiness to borrow on IBRD terms. For a large number of
member states in the Commonwealth Caribbean, their overall small size and
smallness of individual projects not only increase significantly the
relative cost of individual Bank operations, but (because of limited staff
resources the Bank will be able to assign) also set limits to the Bank's
ability to respond effectively to their needs and to deliver the level of
services they expect as the IBRD/IDA members. These constraints bring to
the fore, for the countries concerned, the need for adequate alternative
sources of aid (financial and institutional) to supplement, and eventually
to supplant, some IBRD/IDA roles in the region. They also bring to the
fore, for the Bank, the need for an intermediary to channel a part of
IBRD/IDA loan funds to eligible beneficiaries in the Caribbean and to
render technical assistance.
C. The CDB Role in the Commonwealth CariLbean
2.07     The CDB has the task of promoting economic development and
integration in the Commonwealth Caribbean, vwth special regard to the needs
of the less developed countries (LDC) in the region. Since its creation,
CDB, with substantial assistance from bilateral and multilateral aid
agencies (including the Bank), has developed into an important regional
development finance institution. The Commonwealth Caribbean governments
(particularly those in the OECS area) consider CDB as their own development
agency, familiar with local conditions, and want it to play an increasingly



- 9 -
important role in the region. From its founding through CY88,4 CDB
approved loans totaling US$650 million, of which 59% was for projects in
the LDCs. CDB's financial position remains basically sound with a strong
capital structure and comfortable liquidity (see Chapter III). In the long
run, as in the recent past, however, CDB's financial position will be
affected by the state of its major borrowing member countries' economies.
2.08     To be able to respond more fully to the growing needs of its
borrowing member governments during the next five years, CDB wants to
diversify its services progressively and to broaden its staff experience.
It aims to strengthen its economic work and aid coordination role, engage
in lending operations to help finance structural and sectoral adjustment
programs (initially in association with the Bank), and to provide increased
funds in support of the local private sector through financial
intermediaries. Attainment of these objectives will take considerable time
and may call for collaboration with other multilateral development
institutions active in these areas. Parallel to its efforts to become a
more broadly based development institution, CDB also intends to diversify
and broaden its sources of funds, including access to the capital markets
of the world.
2.09     During the 1989-95 period, CDB plans (subject to availability of
adequate conventional and soft-term lending resources) to increase its
share of the PSIP financing in the Commonwealth Caribbean, which was about
8% during the 1982-85 period. CDB is concerned that other multilateral
lending institutions' financing of PSIPs, which amounted to about 12.8%
during the 1982-85 period, may decline in the near future, as a result of
financial constraints and due to some multilateral agencies' current
lending policies (notably, the IBRD and IDA graduation policies). To
attain its long-term operational objective, however, CDB has to overcome
certain current institutional constraints. It has to develop the necessary
staff experience to meet its new challenges. In particular areas and
sectors, it has to offer competitive services and terms of financing
relative to various multilateral and bilateral aid agencies active in the
region (particularly in the MDCs).
2.10.    The bulk of CDB's conventional lending resources comes from other
multilateral lending agencies and its own funds; CDB has not yet called on
private capital markets to any significant extent. CDB extends to its
Caribbean member states a relatively large volume and a broad variety of
technical assistance, which sometimes has no direct link to CDB's lending
program. In that sense, CDB performs an important advisory role for its
member states, but has not yet assumed a central role of coordination of
economic cooperation within the Commonwealth Caribbean. CDB considers that
a closer collaboration with the Bank can help ease some of these
constraints and pave the way to a more diversified and effective role for
CDB in the Commonwealth Caribbean.
D. Areas for Closer Collaboration Between the Bank and CDB
2.11     Until now, the basic Bank objectives for CDB have been: (i) to
channel through CDB funds to member countries for smaller projects normally
i/  CDB uisyo the calendar year as its fiscal year.
I



- 10 -
not covered by the Bank's direct lending and (ii) help develop CDB into a
more effective regional development institution (para 2.13). It is now
envisaged that, going beyond this essentially lender/creditor relationship,
the Bank and CDB, for mutual advantage, will broaden their collaboration to
include country economic evaluations, aid coordination, investment and
adjustment lending and technical assistance. A closer collaboration
between the two institutions, under which CDB would supplement and
progressively take over certain Bank roles in the Commonwealth Caribbean,
would offer a good opportunity for both institutions to improve the
efficiency of their operations. Over a broad front, it could bring into
play each institution's comparative advantage (i.e., the Bank's broader
experience and greater operational stature, and CDB's Caribbean experience
and greater ease in operating in mini-states) for the benefit of their
common Caribbean member states.
2.12     The administrative costs of the Bank's direct lending operations
in the Commonwealth Caribbean have been relatively high (para 2.06), mainly
due to: (i) the large number of small loans required to operate in a large
number of small countries; and (ii) the extensive economic work required of
the Bank in its role as chairman of the CGCED. To the extent that it can
take over some of these functions (particularly in the OECS countries), CDB
would help the Bank to respond to the Caribbean countries' developmental
needs more fully than its manpower resources would otherwise permit. In
the process, CDB would increase its role and strengthen its standing in the
region and allow the Bank, progressively, to allocate manpower resources
for other (more cost-effective) endeavors elsewhere in the Commonwealth
Caribbean. Under such an approach, the Bank-CDR relationship would evolve
progressively into a partnership based on shared interests, in addition to
a lender/creditor relationship as in the past.
E. Experience with Past IBRD/IDA Lending to CDB
2.13     General.  The Bank's relationship with CDB evolved out of its role
as the executing agency for a UNDP project to provide technical assistance
to CDB after its founding in 1970. In April 1976, the Bank made a loan to
CDB of US$17.0 million (1233-CRG) and a third window loan of US$3.0 million
(1234-CRG). In December 1979 the Bank provided CDB with a US$23.0 million
loan (1775-CRG), a US$7.0 million IDA credit (960-CRG) and a US$1.0 million
EEC special action credit (37-CRG). In May 1983, IDA made a
SDR 6.5 million credit (1364-CRG). In April 1987, IDA made a SDR
4.8 million credit (1785-CRG) to CDB for a regional education project for
the benefit of five participating OECS countries. Excepting the 1987
credit, all IBRD/IDA funds were made available to CDB as global lines of
credit, for relending in all sectors in which the Bank would normally lend.
All these lending operations addressed the objectives of: (a) channeling
additional development funds to the IBRD/IDA member countries;
(b) strengthening CDB's organization to make it a more effective regional
development institution; and (c) improving CDB's ability to appraise and
supervise projects. Considerable progress has been made in the ar'iievement
of these objectives, although, certain institutional shortcomings still
remain to be overcome (paras 3.12-3.13). Presented below are summaries
regarding the past IBRD/IDA lending operations to CDB. Data regarding the
characteristics of all subloans financed under these operations are
presented in Annex IV, Table 2.



- 11 -
2.14     Thie First CDB Project (Loans 1233-CRG and 1234-CRG).  Loan                       ;
1233-CRG was used to help finance nine subprojects in six countries: four
(47%) to national DFCs, three (36%) for transportation projects and one
each for tourism (27%) and industrial estates (15%). Loan 1234-CRG (a
third window loan) financed four subprojects in four LDCs. The subprojects
included electricity generation, ports, sugar development and mortgage
finance. Six of the total 13 subprojects required the calculation of
economic rates of return which ranged from a high of 65% for a cruise ship
pier to 8-20% for the others. Grace periods ranged from 10 years for a
road project to 2 years for a commercial aircraft purchase. Repayment
periods were from 8-18 years. Cancellations associated with Loan 1233-CRG
totaled US$1.4 million. The two largest cancellations from the loan were
for Jamaica Development Bank (JDB) for US$0.8 million and a Guyana forestry
road project for US$0.3 million. The former was due to the deteriorating
financial condition of JDB, which was subsequently closed down. The latter
was caused by unfinished work due to a contractors' dispute.
2.15     The Second CDB Project (Loan 1775-CRG. Credits 960-CRG and
37-CRG). The transportation sector was the largest recipient (31%) of
total funds provided under this operation. The subprojects in this sector
comprised an airport terminal building in the Cayman Islands, a port
project in Dominica (to rebuild what was devastated by a hurricane), repair
of flood-damaged roads in Jamaica and a feeder roads project in St. Kitts.
Another 22% went to Barbados and Guyana for three manufacturing projects,
two of which were owned by the private sector. A mortgage finance subloan
for housing in Jamaica and a DFC operation in The Bahamas accounted for
16%. Two water supply projects, one in Jamaica and the other in Grenada,
represented 12%. The energy sector's share of 10% was for financing two
power projects, one each in St. Vincent and the Grenadines. The subloan
for the power project in St. Vincent and the Grenadines was in the form of
blended funds from IBRD, IDA and EEC to complete the financing plan. Other
subloans (4%) were for equity contributions to three DFCs as part of
financial restructuring programs to revitalize the institutions in Antigua,
Dominica and St. Lucia. The remaining (5%) represents an unallocated
balance of US$1.9 million (US$1.4 million under Loan 1775-CRG and
US$0.5 million under Credit 960-CRG) which resulted from cancellations of
undisbursed balances for four subprojects. Only 10 of the total 16
subprojects required the calculation of economic rates of return which
ranged from a high of 34% for a seals and packaging project to 12-30% for
the others. Grace periods ranged from 8-10 years for equity investments in
DFCs to 1.5 years for a sugar factory subproject. Repayment periods were
from 9 to 40 years.
2.16     The Third CDB Proiect (Credit 1364-CRG).  Under this project, CDB
approved four subloans consisting of SDR 1.34 million for a road
reconstruction subproject in Grenada, SDR 1.89 million for a feeder roads
subproject in Dominica, SDR 1.88 million for a feeder road subproject in
St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and SDR 1.39 million for a water supply
subproject in St. Lucia. Thus, CDB has complied with IDA's requirement
that at least 60% of the IDA credit be allocated to the first three poorest
OECS countries noted above. According to CDB's appraisal estimate,
economic rates of return for these four subprojects ranged from a low of
14% for a water supply project to 21-31% for the other subprojects. Grace
period for the IDA subloans was, on average, eight years. Repayment period
was 40 years. So far, the implementation of these subprojects has been



- 12 -
proceeding satisfactorily, excepting the water supply project in St. Lucia
which has had moderate problems due to shortcomings in subproject
management.
2.17     The Fourth CDB Proiect (Credit 1785-CRG).  Different from the
format of the preceding three CDB projects, this project was designed to
improve the quality and quantity of trained technical manpower in five OECS
countries which are the project beneficiaries. It provided investment
funds for construction, equipment and furniture, as needed, for technical
training programs, vocational education programs in senior secondary high
schools and prevocational programs in junior secondary schools and
technical assistance. Project management at the regiona. level (i.e., by
three CDB-seconded staff and four long-term implementation specialists at
CDB headquarters) has been functioning well. However, project management
and financial support at the beneficiary country levels are still generally
inadequate. "he implementation of civil works and procurement of equipment
and furniture (the latter under direction of the regional management unit)
are moving essentially as planned. The regional vocational and technical
education specialist has been working with the country teams on several
software aspects of the project. Joint IDA/CDB assessment of the country
performance under the project is scheduled for the fall of 1990.
2.18     Evaluation.  Of the eight direct subloans made by CDB under the
first IBRD lending operation, it post-evaluated five as successful and
three as not so successful. The former involved relatively simple
subprojects relying on a single primary contractor. In these cases,
construction costs did not significantly exceed budgets and the economic
benefits occurred as anticipated. These subprojects included a tourist
shopping center development, a forestry road, a cruise ship pier, an
industrial estate and a diesel electric generator. ihe three subprojects
with negative ex-post economic rates of return can be characterized as more
complex subprojects in which CDB had less experience at the time of
appraisal. A subproject for the purchase of two commuter-size aircraft ran
into trouble over operational and financial management of the airline. A
sugar mill subproject suffered from a weak implementation team, improper
design, engineering and cost controls, and insufficient field extension
services. The cost of a port subproject was underestimated by a factor of
two. In this last case, Bank funds were used to complete the financing
plan, and the investment was justified using a sunk-cost analysis. Five
other subloans under the first CDB project were for financial
intermediaries; two of these were generally unsuccessful and DFCs involved
have had to be reorganized. On balance, performance of subprojects
financed under the first operation has been marginally successful. Under
the second IBRD/IDA lending operation, CDB's relending of the IBRD loan and
IDA credit proceeds was also partly successful. Nine of the 16 subprojects
financed in 11 CDB-member countries were generally successful. Of the
remaining, three subprojects (a cardboard container manufacturer, a sugar
mill, and an electricity project) met their objectives despite some
problems. Subprojects for a water supply, a development bank, and
manufacturing of clay products were not successful. The bulk of a subloan
to the Bahamas DFC was cancelled. It is still early to pass judgement on
the actual performance of subprojects financed under the third and fourth
IDA lending operations with CDB.



- 13 -
2.19     Rate of Utilization of Loans/Credits.  Under the first two
operations, CDB took substantially longer to approve and disburse subloans
than anticipated at appraisal. The delays were due largely to: (i) IBRD's
statutory requirements that each subloan must have a country guarantee;
(ii) economic problems in CDB's largest borrowing countries (Jamaica and
Guyana), as a result of which CDB had sharply reduced lending to them;
(iii) lack of absorptive capacity in the lesser developed member countries
(LDC); (iv) reluctance of several governments to provide a guarantee for
private sector subprojects (for IBRD funding); and (v) availability of
competing softer-term funds from other lending agencies (in particular
sectors and borrowing countries). IDA credits under the third and fourth
operations with CDB have been utilized without major delays.
2.20     Other areas of the Bank/CDB Relationship.  Outside the direct
borrower/lender relationship, the Bank and CDB have also collaborated in
CDB cofinancing of some IBRD/IDA projects, and CDB received Bank technical
assistance. There has also been limited collaboration in the area of joint
review of economic developments in the Commonwealth Caribbean. From the
outset, CDB has been a participant in the Bank-led CGCED. On the whole,
the Bank's experience with CDB in respect of its role in these activities
has been satisfactory and may serve as a base for closer collaboration in
the future.
F.   Closer Collaboration between the Bank and CDB--The Memorandum of
Understandina
2.21     Parallel to the Bank's work with CDB regarding a proposed fifth
loan (CDB V), discussions were also held on a "Memorandum of Understanding"
between the Bank and CDB on their future relationship and collaboration
(para 2.11). Under the new relationship, the Bank and CDB, with the aim of
improving the effectiveness of their aid and increasing the efficiency of
their operations in the Commonwealth Caribbean, will intensify their
collaboration. CDB will progressively complement, and eventually supplant,
some current Bank roles in the region in areas where CDB has a comparative
advantage over the Bank. This will enable the Bank to redirect its
resources within the Commonwealth Caribbean for policy advice, support of
policy reforms and other developmental work, including those areas of
project lending where it has a comparative advantage. In support of this
process, the Bank will assist CDB to broaden the scope and improve the
effectiveness of its services to common member states over a three- to
five-year period. As before, the Bank will look to CDB as its intermediary
for development assistance ii. the Commonwealth Caribbean, in addition to
its direct lending to its member states there.
2.22     A copy of the Bank/CDB "Memorandum of Understanding," recently
negotiated between the two agencies, is attached (Annex II). It provides
for Bank/CDB collaboration in the areas of economic/sector work, aid
coordination, adjustment/program lending, investment project lending and
technical assistance. The salient features of the agreement are the
following:
(a) On economic/sector work, CDB and the Bank, in consultation with
each other, will define their broad economic development
objectives in each of their common member countries, as well as in
the Commonwealth Caribbean as a whole; agree on compatible



- 14 -
strategies to attain these objectives, and inter-relate their
respective programs. Within this framework, CDB will focus its
attention mainly on the UK-dependent territories and on
preparation of PSIPs for the OECS countries and Belize, while the
Bank will focus its attention on the MDCs (with provision for
Bank/CDB joint action in all these areas).
(b) On aid coordination, CDB will be responsible for preparation of
the CGCED documents needed on the UK-dependent territories and
will chair the CGCED subgroup meetings on these territories. CDB
will, on an ad hoc basis, also chair meetings of Barbados-based
donor representatives to discuss problems encountered in the
implementation of projects financed by such donors. The Bank will
continue to lead in handling the CGCED activities which remain
outside the scope of these endeavors.
(c) On adjustment/program lending, while CDB intends to have some
independent lending activity (such as in the UK-dependcrat
territories), in most cases, during the next two years it will
finance adjustment program lending operations in association with
the Bank.
(d) For the next two years, the following guidelines will apply to the
Bank/CDB collaboration in processing of investment Rrojects in the
region:
(i) Within limits of its institutional capabilities, CDB will
process for its lending all investment projects in the UK-
dependent territories.
(ii) For investment projects in the OECS countries and Belize, the
Bank will continue to finance projects where it has
comparative advantage, i.e., projects in sectors for which
CDB has no processing capability and those projects which are
too large and/or too complicated for CDB to handle alone.
For these categories of projects, CDB may seek joint
financing with the Bank.
(iii) In the common Caribbean member countries outside the UK-
dependent territories, the OECS and Belize, CDB and the Bank
will plan their lending operations in consultation with each
other, singling out projects which CDB and the Bank may
jointly finance. They will also determine, on an ad hoc
basis, which agency will lead the project processing work for
such a jointly-financed project. Outside the area of jointly
financed projects, each agency will continue to program its
lending activity alone, or in association with other
financiers.
(iv) As firm groundwork for their intensified collaboration in
investment project lending, CDB and the Bank will harmonize
(as far as possible) their sectoral development strategies
and lending policies.



- 15 -
(e) For non-project related technical assistance to the common member
governments, the Bank and CDB will program their activities in
consultation with each other, to avoid duplication of effort and
to increase collaboration as feasible.
2.23     A closer collaboration between the Bank and CDB on a broad front
of activities, as listed above, will require full exchange of information
and documents, joint programming effort and coordinated execution of
programs, involving all CDB and Bank managers in charge of economic and
sector work, aid coordination, adjustment/investment lending and technical
assistance. Informal contacts at all levels will be required. Two- or
three-year rolling Bank/CDB work programs will be prepared and jointly
reviewed at ledst once every year, and more frequently if conditions
require it. The "Memorandum of Understanding" will be effective after
signing by CDB and Bank representatives and will remain in force until a
party notified the other of its intention to terminate it. It is intended
that the proposed fifth IBRD/IDA project for CDB would be implemented
within the framework of the new Bank/CDB relationship.
III. THE CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (CDB)
A. Constitution and Obiectives
3.01     CDB was established in 1970 by 16 Caribbean governments as
regional members, Canada and the UK as nonregional members, and with
financial assistance from the USA, a nonmember. Venezuela joined the CDB
in 1973, Colombia in 1974, Mexico and Anguilla in 1982, France in 1984,
Italy in 1988, and the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) in 1989. CDB's
Charter provides that the regional members5 must hold not less than 60% of
the CDB shares. The authorized CDB capital, as of December 31, 1989,
comprised 66,462 shares, valued at US$448 million, had been subscribed. Of
the subscribed amount, US$103.4 million was paid up and the balance is
subject to call when required by CDB to meet its obligations.
3.02     According to its Charter, CDB's main objective is to contribute to
the harmonious economic growth and development of its member countries in
the Caribbean and to promote economic cooperation and integration among
them, "having special and urgent regard for the needs of the LDCs in the
region." To fulfill this objective, CDB assists its regional members in
formulating their development programs, provides technical assistance and
finances their projects and programs. CDB has been designated as an
associate institution of the CARICOM (para 1.02) and, as such, plays an
important role in coordinating regional discussions concerning economic
issues in the region.
j/ The "regional members" include all member countries excepting Canada,
the UK, France, Italy, and FRG. The "borrowing member countries (BMC)"
are the Commonwealth Caribbean states, including the UK-dependent
territories.



- 16 -
B. CDB's Board. Management. Qrganiz ion and Staffing
3.03     Each member country is represented on CDB's Board of Governors,
the highest policy-making body, by a governor and an alternate.6 The Board
of Governors is composed of 21 governors who meet at least once a year;
voting power is roughly proportional to shares subscribed. The Board of
Governors delegates certain functions to the Board of Directors which is
comprised of 17 members, appointed for a renewable 2-year period, of whom
12 represent the regional CDB members and 5 the nonregional members.   The
Board of Directors meets at least every two months and is responsible for
general policy and directing the operations of the CDB, including loan and
investment approvals. The CDB's President is the Chairman of its Board of
Directors.
3.04     The current President was elected in 1988 for a 5-year term.
Under his leadership, CDB has managed to go through a smooth transition
period following the departure in 1988 of four key officers.7 In the
process, CDB built a strong, well-knit management team, mainly through
internal promotion. CDB has two Vice Presidents (one for Operations and
the other for Corporate Services) and four Department Directors (Finance,
Projects, Economics and Programming, and Legal), all members of the
Advisory Council to the President (ACP). The ACP is the most important
committee within the CDB; it meets on a regular basis at least once a week
to discuss issues requiring management-level decisions.
3.05     CDB's present organizational chart, shown in Annex XI, took its
rhape as a result of a reorganization made in 1984/85. At that time, the
L-gal and Finance Departments and Administration Services were placed under
a Vice President (Corporate Services). Likewise, the Projects and
Economics and Programming Departments were placed under another Vice
President (Operations). The Projects Department now has two Deputy
Directors, one in charge of the Infrastructure Division and the other in
charge of the Productive Sectors Division, who are accountable for their
portfolio of projects and for achieving the agreed lending program targets.
The Productive Sectors Division consists of three units--Agriculture,
Industry and Tourism, and development finance corporations nKFCs). In
January 1988, CDB appointed a Chief Project Officer (CPO) for each
sector/division/unit. The CPOs are responsible for providing technical and
procedural guidance to the projects staff assigned to each
sector/division/unit; they report to the Deputy Director concerned.
3.06     With a view to further improving the institution's cost
effectiveness, the CDB management--with the assistance of consultants--has
initiated a process to develop proposals for improvements in CDB's
organization and operating procedures. The data collecting work is
expected to be completed by the end of April 1990. In the meantime, taking
WX  Excepting Montserrat, the British Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands,                    L
the Turks and Caicos Islands and Anguilla, which jointly elect one
governor.
L/ Including the President, the Vice President (Corporate Services), the
Director of the Project Department, and a Senior Manager (Deputy
Director level) of the then Agriculture and Industry Division.



- 17 -
into account the growing workloads of: (i) the Infrastructure Division;
(ii) Indirect Lending (or DFC) Unit; (iii) Corporate Policy and Planning
Unit; and (iv) Technical Assistance Unit; the CDB management has added one
professional staff each to the above units through internal transfers. At
negotiations, it has been agreed that CDB will keep the Bank informed of
results of the ongoing work and its plans for implementing new efficiency
measures.
3.07     As of November 30, 1989, CDB had a total of 206 staff comprising 7
executives (the President, two Vice Presidents, and other members of the
ACP), 94 professionals (including 17, secure"1 under technical assistance
programs or financed by CDB's special funds), and 105 support staff. Apart
from the turnover at the senior management level, as noted in para 3.04
above, there were departures of several professional economists and project
analysts in 1988; their positions were filled mostly by young
professionals. The CDB's budget for 1990 does not include provision for
new staff additions, but provides for a salary increase which would help
CDB to retain existing staff and to attract new recruits for replacements.
With greater use of donor-provided technical assistance funds for hiring of
personnel for preparation of project proposals and increased use of
consultant specialists to supplement CDB staff, the current level of CDB's
staff strength (with some training and retraining) should be adequate to
carry out the projected level of lending and other work programs during the
next few years. Future additions to CDB's permanent staff, particularly in
the Productive Sector Division, will depend on the outcome of an ongoing
assessment of the scope for the CDB's direct lending operations in the
private (productive) sector. The CDB's current plans for strengthening of
its manpower base call for, among others: (a) development of staff with
multi-disciplinary skills (mainly through training of specialist staff who
have desire to broaden their experience); and (b) the maintenance and
enhancement of the skills of existing staff in the areas of highest future
demand. To help further strengthen CDB's staff capabilities, the Bank and
CDB would review and agree selectively (as part of collaborative program,
paras 2.22-2.23) on short-term secondment of CDB staff to the Bank, joint
missions for economic/sector work and for project work, the Bank's review
of CDB documents and joint programming of operational activity. Within the
context of the staff redeployment and subsequent efficiency measures
(para 3.06), CDB's future staffing needs for supervision of an expanding
portfolio will receive particular attention. The Bank will keep on
reviewing CDB's plans to meet such needs.
C. Oierational Policies and Procedures
3.08     Operational Policies.  CDB's Charter states that the institution
will be guided by sound development banking principles, and that it will
finance only economically sound, technically feasible and properly
appraised projects. CDB can finance private as well as government-owned
projects through debt or equity investments. In making or guaranteeing a
loan, CDB has to pay due regard to the prospects that the borrower will be
able to meet its obligations under the loan contract. Once an investment
is made, CDB is required to supervise the project concerned to ensure that
its funds are used with due attention to economy and efficiency. Within
the framework of its Charter, CDB, in consultation with the Bank,
established an "Ordinary Capital Resources (OCR) Financial Policies and
Operating Guidelines" in February 1987. These guidelines call for, among



18
other provisions: (a) maintenance of interest coverage ratio of not less
than 1.5 times and accumulation of adequate reserves (of not less than 30%
of outstanding loans); (b) restricting total OCR lending (para 3.54) to the
sum of net paid-up capital, ordinary reserves (less investments in fixed
and other assets), unallocated net income and the callable capital of the
OECD member countries; (c) OCR borrowing not to exceed the value of the
callable capital held by the OECD member countries; (d) exposure in any
single country not to exceed 50% of CDB's equity8 and the exposure in the
three largest borrowers taken together may not exceed 100% of CDB's equity;
and (e) tight loan administration (no new loans to countries in default
until clearance of their arrears, and suspension of disbursements after
four months of arrears). CDB also adopted new accounting policies for non-
performing loans, setting up non-accrual and specific provisioning
policies.
3.09     CDB's operational policies and procedures are elaborated in its
"Operational Policies and Procedures Manual." This manual requires, inter
alia, that projects financed from OCR should normally have financial and
economic rates of return not lower than the opportunity cost of capital.
In the case of projects with low financial rates of return and which are
financed from Special Fund Resources (SFR) (para 3.16), the economic rate
of return required is normr!ly a minimum of 15% (to justify CDB funding
under its Charter requiremcat for "high developmental priority").
Agreement was obtained during negotiations that CDB would not substantially
amend its Charter, OCR Financial Policies and Operating Guidelines, and its
Operational Policies and Procedures Manual, if such an amendment would
adversely and materially affect CDB's operations or financial condition.
3.10     Details of CDB's lending terms and conditions are given in
Annex III. The minimum size for a direct CDB loan in any country is
US$200,000 equivalent. The exchange risk on all CDB loans is borne by the
borrower or guarantor. Loans to governments from OCR, for which CDB bears
the financial risk, may finance up to 80% of project costs in the case of
projects in the LDCs and 70% in the case of projects in the MDCs (both
ratios representing the estimated direct and indirect foreign exchange
components). Loans to private borrowers are limited to two thirds of total
project costs, subject to an acceptable debt/equity ratio; in the case of
expansion projects, CDB can finance up to 100% of project costs, subject to
an acceptable debt/equity ratio.9 Loans from SFR, which are administered
by CDB on behalf of donors, are made principally to governments, and may
finance up to 90% of project costs. In its lending operations, CDB must
give priority to the financing of enterprises which are effectively
controlled by nationals of regional member governments or their public
agencies. Under its Charter, CDB is also required to see to it that its
loans are "adequately secured." For private lending, this normally means a
first mortgage on land or other form of security without prior claim.
CDB's OCR lending rate on loans made after April 1, 1984, which is
variable, is set at a spread (of not more than 150 basis points) above the
I/ Defined as the sum of paid-up capital, ordinary reserves, and retained
earnings less receivables from members.
2/  CDB also maintains a policy of limiting its exposure to any single
private sector borrower to 15% of its OCR ordinary reserves.



IV
weighted average cost of its outstanding OCR borrowings at the end of each
year.  This rate is currently 9.3%. If the 1.5% spread!0 does not allow
CDB to attain its net income target, the front-end fee (which is currently
1%) would be increased. CDB's OCR lending terms, determined on project
grounds, vary between 13-23 years, including 3-5 years of grace. CDB's SFR
lending rates and terms vary from 2% p.a. for 40 years, 'ncluding 10 years
of grace, to 5% p.a. for 20 years, including 5 years of grace, depending on
the countries; at present, OECS countries and Guyana are entitled to the
most favorable rate and terms.
3.11     CDB has had in existence for some time Sector Policy PaRers
covering all major sectors in which it operates. These papers describe
lending policies and practices broadly similar to the Bank's practices.
In addition, CDB management has recently formulated separate Lending
Stgtegy Pagers in major sectors in which it operates. Its management-
approved strategies for lending operations (paras 3.32-3.47) have been
reviewed within the Bank and found generally compatible with the Bank's own
development strategies in the Caribbean region. As part of the Bank/CDB
collaboration under the Memorandum of Understanding, the Bank and CDB will
exchange views on their respective development strategies and will agree on
necessary adjustments from time to time (para 2.23).
3.12     Proiect Appraisal.  After preparat!on, projects are expeditiously
appraised by CDB and appraisal reports usually written within about two
months. After review at the divisional and departmental levels, the
appraisal report is sent for approval to the Loan Committee, headed by the
Vice President--Operations. Efforts are being made to make appraisal
reports better focused and analytical. Genera'lly, the engineering,
economics and financial analyses are sound, but the institutional and
environmental aspects of projects are often not dealt with sufficiently.
Appraisal reports would be improved if more attention were given to the
executing agencies and their capacity to implement projects, as well ss to
areas of institutional improvements. When necessary, CDB should use its
ample technical assistance resources to recruit qualified staff for project-
implementing agencies and should include a requirement to do this as a
condition of lending. Likewise, appraisal reports in some sectors would
benefit from more focvsed discussions on the sector--within the framework
of broad macroeconomic policies--and how the project relates to it. CDB
has recently taken steps to improve its capability to assess the
environmental impact of the projects it finances.  The recent introduction
of project performance monitoring indicators in project appraisal reports
should assist CDB staff in their subsequent supervision work. As a further
improvement, appraisal reports should include realistic implementation
schedules and should better define actions required by governments and the
executing agencies. CDB's management is aware of these problems and is
taking steps to improve appraisal reports in the above-mentioned respects.
Within this context, CDB management wants to send to the Bank selected CDB
appraisal reports (particularly those in areas in which CDB staff have
limited experience) for the Bank's review and comments (para 4.12).
Q/ CDB's cost per lending operation is considerably lower than IBRD/IDA's
for the reasons stated in para 4.10 but cost per dollar lent is
relatively high as CDB has to prepare and appraise a large number of
small projects with a sometimes high cancellation rate.



* 20
3.13     Project SuDervision.  The CDB projects staff monitor the progress
in project impiementation and compliance with the loan covenants through
site visits and review of periodic reports from borrowers. Supervision
visits are frequent (normally once every quarter) for those projects with
problems or in early stages of implementation, and once a year for other
projects being implemented without major problems. Unlike the Bank, CDB
maintains its supervision visits after completion of a CDB-financed
project.  Project officers prepare a supervision summary report after each
supervision visit. These reports are reviewed by the relevant Chief
Project Officer and the Deputy Director; problem projects are referred to
Projects Department review meetings and, if necessary, are taken up at
meetings of the Loan Committee.  On the basis of the Loan Committee's
decisions, action is taken to deal witb selected problem projects.  The
physical implementation of projects is, by and large, adequately monitored,
as sector specialists with engineering backgrounds normally supervise
projects under implementation. However, the timely monitoring of project
performance (particul.arly in terms of operating efficiency, financial
performance, and institutional development) is hampered by a shortage of
experienced project (financial) analysts. Recognizing this problem, the
CDB management has taken steps to increase the number of competent project
analysts through staff deployment and special training (paras 3.06 and
3.07).
3.14     Procurement and Disbursement.  CDB's procurement policies and
procedures on OCR loans ki.e., procurement financed from CDB's own funds,
including share capital and multilateral bank and market borrowings) are
broadly similar to the Bank's own procedures. International competitive
bidding is required on goods contracts above US$750,000 and works contracts
above US$500,000. For works and goods antracts costing less than these
amounts, but more than US$175,000, contracts may be awarded on the basis of
letters of invitation to at least three qualified contractors or suppliers
where the project is located and at least one qualified contractor or
s",--   r from each other eligible country.  For works and go ds costing
be  .en US$175,000 and US$100,000, contracts may be awarded un the basis of
leL.ers of invitation to at least three qualified regional contractors or
suppliers. For works contracts costing less than US$100,000 and goods
contracts costir.g between US$5,000 and US$100,^00, contracts may be awarded
on the basis of letters of invitation to at least three contractors cr
suppliers where the project is located (and at least to three regional
cont:actors or suppliers, if qualified local contractors or suppliers do
not exist). For goods contracts costing less than US$5,000, off-the-shelf
procurement is permitted, with an aggregate limit of US$30,000. For
procurement under CDB's OCR funds, eligible bidders are normally limited
(by CDB Charter) to those of the CDB member states and those countries
which contribute substantially to CDB's resources. For procurement under
SFR funding, CDB applies the procurement guidelines of the lender or donor
concerned. Under previous Bank/IDA lending operations, CDB permitted
procurement from all Bank/IDA member countries, Switzerland and Taiwan,
China. CDB's disbursement procedures are broadly similar to the Bank's.
D. Past Lending ORerations
3.15     Overview.  From its inception in 1970 through December 1988, CDB's
total financing approvals (net of cancellations) amounted to



- 21 -
US$714.2 million in loans, contingent loans, grants and equity investments.
Net cumulative loan approvals amounted to US$650.5 million (or 91.0% of
total financing approvals); contingent loan approvals, US$2.7 million
(0.4%); grant approvals, US$59.0 million (8.3%); and equity investments,
US$2.0 million (0.3%). Cumulative disbursements totaled US$545.3 million,
or 76.4% of total net approvals at the end of 1988.
3.16     Operations by Type of Funding.  CDB's financing operations are of
two types: (i) ordinary operations, and (ii) special operations, including
trust fund operations. Ordinary operations are at CDB's risk and are
financed from the Ordinary Capital Resources (OCR) (para 3.14).  Special
operations include loans made by CDB at concessionary rates (2-5% p.a.) for
financing of priority projects, mainly in the LDCs. The Special Funds
Resources (SFR) consist of the Special Development Fund (SDF) and Other
Special Funds (OSF), established by donor countries and agencies, such as
IDA, at no risk to CDB. Trust Fund resources include funds managed by CDB
on behalf of donors for a fee, with credit risk borne by the fund; at
present it consists of the Venezuela Trust Fund (VTF).
3.17     As of December 31, 1988, CDB's financing operations were accounted
for (on the basis of cumulative approvals) by OCR, 29.3%; SFR, 68.2%; and
VTF, 2.5%. CDB's annual loan approvals by the twc major sources of funds
(OCR and SFR) during the 1984-88 period were as follows (Table 3.1):
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF ANNUAL LOAN APPROVALS
BY SOURCE OF FUNDS, 1984-88
1984      1985       1986      1987       1988     1984-88
US$M(no.) US$M(no.) US$M(no.) US$M(no.) US$M(no.) US$M(no.)
OCR             17.3      22.8       24.2      12.0       13.0        89.3
SFR            43.9       190        35.8      28.1       52.9      179.7
Total(Gross)  61.2(22)  41.8(13)  60.0(18)  40.1(19)  65.9(22)  269.0(94)
Cancellations  14.4        8.5       22.2       4.3        0.3        49.7
Total (Net)   46.8       33.3       37.8      35.8       65.6      219.3
The high level of loan cancellations in 1984 and 1986 and the substantial
decline in loan approvals in 1985 were due largely to the economic
difficulties which several CDB borrowing member countries have been
experiencing since 1983. The cancellations in 1986 also reflected, to a
certain extent, CDB's deliberate efforts to cancel and close some slow-
disbursing OCR loans, given the reduced balance of CDB's OCR lending
authority. For the same reason, CDB's OCR lending in both 1987 and 1988
was very low (compared with previous years), as CDB did not actively seek
new OCR lending opportunities. Since November 1988, when Italy subscribed
to CDB's share capital, CDB's constraint to increase its OCR lending has
substantially eased (para 3.54). The position has been further improved
after the FRG's joining CDB (para 3.01).



22
3.18     Pperations by LDCs and MDCs: Country Exposure.  1)uring the period
1970-88, the LDCs received 59.2% of CDB's total financing, including 73.7%
of CDB's concessionary SFR approvals. At the end of 1988, loan approvals
(both OCR and SFR) for Jamaica accounted for 21% of CDB's cumulative net
loan approvals. Comparable ratios were about 8% each for Belize, Barbados,
St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Dominica; 6% for Guyana, 5%
each for Grenada and The Bahamas; the remaining 23% being accounted for by
Trinidad and Tobago and sever. other borrowing member countries and by
regional projects.
3.19     Sectoral Distributio_.  Details of CDB's cumulative approvals of
loans by various sectors during the 1970-88 period are shown in Annex IV
(Table 1). As summarized in Table 3.2 below, infrastructure, industry ard
tourism, and agriculture accounted for the bulk of CDB's lending operations
in the past.
Table 3.2: CDB LOAN APPROVALS BY SECTOR, 1970-88
(US$ Million)
Direct            Lending
lending         through DFCs             Total
US$1M   (%)        US$1M    (%)        US$ M
Infrastructure         262.8               31.5b              294.3       45.2
Agriculture             36.8a              60.5                97.3       15.0
Industry & tourism    135.0                41.4               176.4       27.1
Othersc                 69.5               13.0                82.5       12.7
504.1 (77.5)      146.4  (22.5)        650.5     100.0
a/ Excludes feeder roads.
_/ Mortgage finance.
S/ Includes disaster rehabilitation, education, student loans, and multi-
sectoral loans.
The preponderant share of infrastructure in CDB's loan approvals reflects
CDB's continued emphasis on developing basic infrastructure to stimulate
and/or increase productive activity. The CDB's lending to DFCs has been
channeled by these intermediaries largely into the agricultural sector,
and, to a lesser extent, to industry, mortgage financing, and student
loans.
3.20     Within infrastructure oRerations, CDB's lending has largely been
directed to the transport sector, followed by public utilities and housing,
as shown in Table 3.3 below:



Table 3.3: CDB's LENDING TO INFRASTRUCTURE, 1970-88
Amount
US$ million
TransRort Sector              180.6              61.3
Road transport               68.4              23.2
Sea transport                56.7              19.3
Air transport                55.5              18.8
Public Utilities              .Ad               23.4
Power                        30.8              10.5
Water supply                 29.8              10.1
Communication                 8.3               2.8
Housing                         4.8              1582
Total                   294.3              100.0
In the transportation sector, a general lack of comprehensive
transportation policy in many of CDB's borrowing member countries has made
determination of priorities difficult. It has often led to unsatisfactory
pricing, investment and regulation policies. There has been reluctance on
the part of some borrowing governments to maintain adequate tariffs for
their transportation services and to provide necessary maintenance.
Shortcomings in effective management have also hampered successful
operation of completed projects. In public utilities sectors, a prevalent
absence of comprehensive sectcral development policies or inadequately
defined public policies, together with institutional and financial
weaknesses, complicated CDB's lending operations in these sectors. As a
general trend, CDB lending in sea and air transport sectors and in support
of regional transport projects has slowed down in recent years. There has
been a growing emphasis on the feeder roads, power and water and sewerage
sectors.  CDB has not been active in the telecommunications sector.  CDB's
lending strategy in the infrastructure sector (paras 3.32-3.38) makes
provision to deal with the main issues and constraints noted here.
3.21     CDB started financing housing projects in 1974 when, with
assistance from the USAID, a three-pronged program was launched consisting
of urban working class housing, a primary mortgage program and a secondary
mortgage program. The urban working class housing program ran into
difficulties, mainly because of institutional weaknesses, and was
terminated in 1978. CDB then adopted its current policy of financing
housing construction only through primary mortgage programs channeled
through national DFCs. CDB's lending strategy in the housing sector is
summarized in para 3.38.
3.22     CDB's agricultural lending accounted for about 15% of CDB's total
loan approvals during 1970-88. Lending for agriculture through DFCs
totaled about 62% of CDB's operations in the sector. Details are shown in
Table 3.4 below.



- 24 -
Table 3.4: CDB's LENDING TO THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR, 1970-88
US$ million
Lending through DFGs                           6Q05
Direct Lendin.                                 368          37.83
Crop farming                                 26.6         27.3
Fishing                                       3.0          3.'
Land settlement & rural development           1.5          1.5
Others                                        5.7          5.9
Total                                     97.3        100i.0
3.23     In addition to the lending activity listed above, CDB lending for
feeder roads development has provided support to the agricultural sector.
With greater emphasis on the private sector's role in the development of
Caribbean agriculture in the future, the importance of DFCs in channeling
CDB funds will increase (para 3.41). CDB's lending strategy in the
agriculture sector is summarized in paras 3.39-3.41.
3.24     CDB's lending for the industry and tourism sectors totaled about
US$176 million during 1970-88, equivalent to about 27.1% of total CDB
lending. CDB has lent for industry and tourism in three ways: (i) direct
loans to the private sector (43.7% of its total lending in industry and
tourism); (ii) indirectly through DFCs for smaller-scale private industrial
and tourism enterprises (23.5%); and (iii) for construction of government-
owned and operated tourism facilities (5.4%) and industrial estates
(27.4%). Details are shown in Table 3.5 below.
Table 3.5:  CDB's LENDING TO INDUSTRY AND TOURISM, 1970-88
Amount
US$ million      E
Lending through DFCs                   41.4       2.L5
Direct Lending                        135.0       76.5
Industrial estates                  48.4        27.4
Food, beverages & tobacco            37.5       21.3
Sugar                                11.9        6.7
Other manufacturing                  11.7        6.6
Hotels & tourist facilities          25.5       14.5
Total                           1764.       100.0
3.25     CDB has contributed to the development of entrepreneurship in the
Caribbean through its sponsorship (with other agencies) of technical
assistance programs for small-scale enterprises. Yet, the growth in CDB's



- 25 -
lending to private sector ventures in industry and tourism has not been as
rapid as CDB wanted it to be. This has been due to various factors,
stemming from the Caribbean private sector itself, as well as from CDB's
own policies and procedures in lending for private sector projects. Of
about 30 CDB-financed private sector projects, many have at times suffered
from weak management, poor marketing arrangements, weak project design
(scale, technology, etc.), and under-capitalization.  These problems may be
mitigated in time as a new cadre of Catibbean entreprerneu.rs emerges under
the right business environment that CDB wants to help create.                              r
3.26     The CDB management is currently reassessing the scope for direct
lending to the private sector in order to determine how CDB can best tailor
its financing procedures in response to the needs of the private sector.
On the basis of the outcome of this reassessment, and taking into account
other factors, CDB management will consider options for better meeting the
financing needs of the private sector. In the interim, CDB intends to
focus its attention on expansion projects with good and proven management
and with sound and stable markets. CDB will also seek cofinancing with
international financial institutions such as IFC.
3.27     CDB has been active in financing industrial estates to provide
space and ancillary services to small- and medium-sized businesses.
Borrowing governments have been offering widely varying (sometimes
subsidized) rental rates to attract foreign investors. CDB has recently
carried out a critical review of its industrial estates program and is
taking steps to deal with the identified problems, including the rental
rates issue. CDB's lending strategy in the industry and tourism sectors is
outlined in paras 3.42-3.44.
3.28     CDB's lending through financial intermediaries,11 mainly national
Development Finance Companies (DFCs), during 1970-88 amounted to
US$146.4 million or 23% of CDB's total net loan gpprovals since its
inception. Of this, agriculture accounted for 41% of total CDB lending
through financial intermediaries; industry and tourism, 28%; and housing
and student loans, 22% and 9%, respectively. Also, CDB's lending through
DFCs represented about 64% of total CDB lending to the private sector.
3.29     Mozt DFCs in the Commonwealth Caribbean were created by the
governments concerned mainly as vehicles for the attainment of their
economic development policy objectives. The governments conceive their
DFCs as lenders of last resort, operating in the marginal area where other
financial institutions (including foreign-owned, risk-averse commercial
banks) will not normally operate. As a result, these DFCs are saddled with
high-risk/low-profit financing operations (including small loans to new
business enterprises, loans to small farmers, student loans, etc.) which
commercial banks tend to shy away from. The DFCs' loan portfolio, which
almost exclusively consists of private sector loans, remains small as
compared with that of commercial banks' total loans outstanding to the
private sector. Yet, despite the small size of their portfolios, the DFCs
in the region have been playing an important role in promoting grassroots
ii Data concerning CDB lending through DFCs are given as part of CDB
investments in various sectors.



- 26 -
development and in rendering emergency rehabilitation aid (as in the case
of hurricanes).
3.30     In general, while the DFCs have been fairly successful in making
CDB's funding avail..ble to a broad spectrum of private sector beneficiaries
in several important sectors of the Caribbean economies, the institutional
performance of DFCs as lending institutions has been mixed. Currently, 14
financial institutions are drawing down CDB's lines of credit.  Except for
two second-tier institutions ir. Jamaica and one comercial bank which
borrowed directly from C03, the remaining 11 institutions are DFCs.  Among
these DFCs, five are currencly operating profitably; the quality of their
portfolio, which is relatively young, remains soutnd; and their capital
structures remain adequate with periodic injections of additional capital
by the governments as the volume of lending grows. Common features of
these reasonably successful DFCs are: capable management and relatively
low turnover of staff and little political interference in day-to-day
operations. The remaining six DFCs, which have yet to break even
financially, have one or more of the following characteristics: (i) small
asset base (e.g., less than US$2 million in the case of Lvo DFCs);
(ii) weak management, largely resulting from high staff turnover;
(iii) lack of operational autonomy; (iv) losses arising from their
assumption of foreign exchange risk; (v) weak capital structures; and
(vi) poor portfolio quality.
3.31     Most DFCs in the region (particularly in LDCs) operate in a
competitive environment, with no special privileges. For their access to
foreign currency loans from CDB and other external lenders, they assume the
foreign exchange risk while prevailing domestic interest rate levels in
some countries do not approximate international leve'ls, adjusted for
expected exchange rate movements. This provision adds to the overall
picture a major element of uncertainty; therefore, it is difficult, if not
impossible, to assess the long-term financial viability of the DFCs,
because the extent of potential foreign exchange loss cannot be predicted
with confidence. In its direct and indirect (through governments) lending
operations to the DFCs, CDB ensures that the DFCs would get adequate
spreads to cover their administrative expense, risk provisioning and
profit.  With the floor rates established, the DFCs are left free to charge
rates to their clients above the floor rates, based on their assessment of
project risks, market conditions, and the government's sector development
policies.12 Thus, the survival of the DFCs in an increasingly competitive
financial environment will depend largely on their capability to adapt to
the charging conditions and the governments' willingness to increase their
equity contributions to strengthen their capital bases. CDB's strategy in
lending through financial intermediaries and eligibility criteria for its
lending to financial intermediaries are summarized in paras 3.45-3.47.
2/ In Jamaica, onlending rates to final subborrowers by financial
intermediaries are set by the National Development Bank (a second-tier
institution).



- 27 -
E.  Lending Strategies
Infrastructure
3.32     Qverview.  The prlmary goal of CDB's lending stretegy in the
infrastructurn sectors during the 1990s will remain to provide support to
productive sectors and, ir, particular, to increase the competitiveness of
produccion for export.  In addition, policies to ensure optimal utilization
of *he existing infrastructure (with adequate maintenance provisiorns),
economic pricing for services, effective sector organization, and                        U
commercially oriented management will guide CDB lending in the
infrastructure sectors. Programs to increase private sector participation
in ownership and operation of suitable infrastructure facilities will be
encouraged. Policy adjustment needs and measures to protect the
environment will receive priority attention. CDB will see to it that
microeconomics of project work will be increasingly integrated with
macroeconomic conditions and broad sectoral conditions and development
policy objectives pursued in the CDB borrowing countries concerned. CDB
will work together with other multilateral agencies to implement sectoral
adjustment policies in infrastructure.
3.33     In lending operations in the road transport sector, CDB will
continue to place emphasis on feeder road improvements in support of
agricultural development, as well as on rehabilitation of main roads which
lead to sources of raw materials and to export outlets. The Caribbean
area, in general, has a high road density in terms of road mileage per
square mile; this situation makes road maintenance a major cost element in
government budgets13 and requires particular attention to economic
priorities/fiscal constraints in selection of road
construction/rehabilitation projects for CDB financing.
3.34     In sea transDort, after a period of relatively heavy investment in
development of new ports, CDB lending activity is now confined to
rehabilitatiott and improvement of existing facilities, together with
technical assistance to governments to improve port operations and
management (i.e., encouragement of economic pricing and development of
autonomous port administrations). With continuing expansion of the cruise
ship market and the increased trend in containerization in Caribbean ports,
opportunities will arise for selective CDB financing of improvement of
facilities in some ports to enable them to respond to the newly emerging
needs.
3.35     In air transport, CDB's role will generally be limited to
assisting selected airports to improve their landing areas and passenger
and cargo-handling facilities, together with technical assistance to
upgrade air transport operations and management.
3.36     In the past, CDB has made substantial investment for improvement
of water suDplies. Need for investment remains high as a result of an
U_/ CDB reviews the adequacy of budgetary allocation for road maintenance
through its involvement in preparation of PSIPs (para 2.22(a)) and
through periodic reports received from the project executing agencies
(i.e., the Public Works Departments of borrowing governments).



- 28 -
increased focus on tourism and growing needs by local populations. Water
quality is also becoming a growing problem due to chemical contamination
and poor waste disposal. Together with its investments in physical
facilities, CDB has made efforts to promote efficient management and
adequate tariffs for projects it has financed. In future lending activity,
CDB will continue to emphasize the institution-building effort, along with
investments to improve water supplies. So far, CDB-member countries have
had relatively little borrowing from CDB for projects in sey2xAge, mainly
because of their primary attention to increased water supplies.  However,
having achieved a measure of success in access to water, the governments
are now moving to provide more investment in sewerage.  In fututre, CDB
expects to finance increased nunmbers of projects in sewerage, focusing on
potentially difficult economic pricing and effective management questions.
3.37     CDB's lending activity in the power sector included mainly
financing of new small diesel and hydro generation units and transmission
and distribution networks. CDB has also assisted in institution-building
related to power entities it financed and in improving financial viability
of such entities (by requiring measures such as increasing inadequate
tariffs and collection of arrears). In future years, similar activities
will be prominent in CDB's lending and technical assistance activities in
the sector. Attention will be given to opportunities for incorporating
renewable energy resources in power generation and to minimizing energy
losses, with emphasis on conservation.
3.38     CDB's lending activity in the housing (shelter) sector is now
confined to financing of construction through primary mortgage programs
channelled through national DFCs (para 3.21). In future years, CDB will
lend for sites and services projects and related infrastructure upgrading.
Funds for sites and services development will be channelled through
appropriate government departments or through DFCs. The CDB shelter
programs, in general, are targeted at low to lower-middle income groups
where gaps in financing exist.
Agriculture
3.39     CDB's lending strategy in agriculture reflects its awareness of
the sector's important economic and social role (as a source of income and
employment). CDB is also aware that certain structural inadequacies in the
sector adversely affect its performance. During the next few years, the
sector will be exposed to increased world competition and has to adapt to
the changing market condition and develop new products and new market
outlets, domestically and overseas, in line with the comparative advantage
of the Caribbean economies. With appropriate government policy frameworks,
infrastructure and support services, the private sector will have to
respond to new market opportunities.
3.40     In its future lending activity in agriculture, CDB will emphasize:
(i) promotion of a sound macro-economic and sectoral policy framework
conducive to accelerated agricultural growth and adjustment;
(ii) encouragement of private investment and entrepreneurship in
agriculture and in support services; (iii) strengthening of national DFCs
(as conduits for CDB, in conformity with CDB's indirect lending strategy
[paras 3.45-3.47]); to increase lending through them to private sector
investors for production, marketing, storage and processing of agricultural



- 29 -
products; (iv) support of national or regional undertakings to facilitate
transportation, storage and marketing of agricultural produ_ts; and
(v) dissemination of information regarding improved agricultural technology
and assistance in training of governmental staff involved in the sectoral
development. In addition to these, the CDB strategy in agriculture sets
forth policy objectives concerning: support for divestment of government-
owned agricultural lands and production facilities; generation of
employment opportunities in agriculturs through support of 1  or-intensive
production, w:ehere a9pLoptiate, rather than capital intensive agro-industry;
and protection o.f envircrnurent   Also, the policy objectives include
encouragemont of f&mily-type farnrs and im.proved linkages to othez: sectors,
-which need to be justified within the conLtext of concrete, viable projects.              t
CDB will work together with bilateral and other multilateral agencies to
promote sectoral adjustment in agriculture. While these principles will
guide CDB lending in future years, it will take some time before CDB will
be able to develop projects fully consistent .iith this newly formulated
strategy.
3.41     Among various subsectors, the bulk of CDB's future lending is
likely to continue to support development of agricultural crops, including
traditional export crops, domestic food crops, and "new" crops such as the
OECS countries plan to develop as part of their agricultural
diversification program. While lending in support of livestock projects
will not be excluded, special care will be given to project selection,
considering the mixed record of several livestock projects which CDB had
financed in the past. CDB will pay more attention than in the past to the
fisheries subsector, as Caribbean countries have recently gained control
over their exclusive economic zones. CDB will concentrate its involvement
in the sector on facilities for storage and distribution of fish, joint
venture activities with foreign investors, and technical assistance and
training.  In the forestry subsector, CDB expects that its lending activity
will be confined to support of physical infrastructure (such as access
roads) and logging and wood processing industries (which fall under
infrastructure and industrial lending, respectively), together with
technical assistance to governments on policies regarding forestry
management.
Industry and Tourism
3.42     CDB's primary focus in the industry sector will be on assisting
its borrowing member governments to develop sound policy frameworks for
efficient industries serving domestic and regional markets and extra-
regional export markets. CDB will also aim at assisting its member states
to exploit the important opportunities for economic growth which increased
tourism development could provide for them. CDB recognizes that the
private sector will need to take the lead in productive investment in both
the industry and tourism sectors. To this end, CDB's forthcoming
reassessment of its policies and procedures to support the private sector
will be helpful to enable CDB to respond better to the needs of the sector
(para 3.26).
3.43     Over the next 3-4 years, in the industrial sector, CDB intends to:
(i) continue providing its member governments with policy advice, technical
assistance, and, if necessary, sector adjustment-type loans (the latter in
collaboration with other multilateral agencies); (ii) provide medium-sized



- 30 -
private borrowers with loans to initiate, reorient and/or expand operations
preferably aimed at exporting, particularly to extra-regional markets; and
(iii) finance industrial estates in its borrowing member countries, as a
continuing means to develop small- and medium-scale businesses, whether
regionally or foreign owned. In this regard, CDr will emphasize promotion
of least-cost designs, adoption of tariffs to recover economic costs, and
promotion of estates offering occupants the option to construct or purchase
factory shells on economical ternms. CDB will also continue its programs of
technical assistance and lending through eligible national DFCs and other
suitable financial institutions (para 3.46) to enable them better to
support small-scale indxustries.
3.44     In the tourism sector, CDB intends to:  (i) collaborate with other
regional agencies to help member governments develop better marketing,
environmental, and macroeconomic policies to encourage development of a
healthy tourism industry; (ii) continue to fund development of essential
public infrastructure; (iii) encourage greater pooling of regional and
foreign equity to develop tourism ventures of economic scale; and
(iv) strengthen the capacity of eligible national DFCs and other suitable
financial institutions to screen and fund smaller-scale tourism ventures
which Caribbean investors find it easier to establish. Selectively, CDB
will assist existing tourism ventures to strengthen their capital
structures.
Financial Intermediaries
3.45     CDB's lending through financial intermediaries (mainly DFCs) stems
from its basic objective of supporting development in the productive
sectors of its borrowing member countries at as low a cost as possible.
From CDB's vantage point, the DFCs (and/or other eligible intermediaries)
will continue to have an important role in channeling CDB's funds to small-
and medium-sized agricultural, industrial and tourism ventures over 17
different small countries and territories, scattered over the sea, many of
them with very small populations (under 100,000). Also, CDB intends to
promote the development of the financial sector in its member states by
fostering the establishment of viable local financial institutions and by
strengthening those which already exist.
3.46     In pursuing the above objectives during the next 3-4 year period,
CDB intends to:
(a) continue to use financially viable DFCs (which meet appropriate
specific eligibility criteria) as channels for its funding for
private productive sectors in the bor-owing member countries;
(b) as feasible, attempt to diversify its channels for indirect
lending to private productive sectors by using commercial banks,
merchant banks, etc. (which meet appropriate specific eligibility
criteria). Within this context, CDB will explore opportunities
for "apex-type" lending; and
(c) assist in the rehabilitation of selected DFCs if other, more
effective channels of indirect lending are not forthcoming.



- 31 -
3.47     CDB is aware that the restructuring of financial institutions
(particularly national DFCs) is a costly and time-consuming undertaking and
not always successful. In cases where the roles of the financial
institutions to be rehabilitated are clearly defined and justified in an
increasingly competitive environment, CDB will assist in the restructuring
and recapitalization effort, but will do so only if it is satisfied that
the root causes ef the DFCs' financial distress are being addressed and
corrected. crJB l.as prepared minimum, eligibility criteria for its lendIng
to financial intermediaries (either directlv or throuah the government or
an Apex institurton). T,  e CDBs criteiia .a~l for:  (,) a thorourgh audit
of financial position and portfolio quality of the conicerned instltution;
(ii) in the case of commercial ban1;s, approval by the central bank of
overall creditworthiness and financial prudence of concerned comrnercial
banks; (iii) adequacy of organization, management (and its autonomy) and
staffing, operating policies and procedures for assessing and managing
credit risks associated with long-term lending; (iv) onlending rates to
end-users to be in line with market rates and positive in real terms and to
cover all of intermediary's expenses including loss provisions; (v) in the
case of DFCs, specific plans for mobilizing domestic savings and
willingness to become involved in working capital financing. The criteria
also specify: (i) minimum cash collection ratios on term loans;
(ii) maximum arrearage ratios; (iii) acceptable financial ratios (minimum
debt service coverage ratio, maximum debt/equity ratio, minimum return on
total assets). The CDB's criteria are acceptable to the Bank. Regarding
the issue related to DFCs' assumption of exchange rate risk (discussed in
para 3.31), a general framework for onlending rates to end-users and the
treatment of exchange rate risk was prepared by CDB in consultation with
the appraisal mission and is available in the project file. For certain
intermediaries, CDB may accept their adhering to a mutually agreed, time-
bound action program for fully meeting these criteria. CDB may explore,
together with the client DFCs and the governments concerned, the
possibility of certain DFCs evolving into broadly diversified institutions
(not excluding the possibility of a merger between the national DFCs and
the national commercial banks). CDB intends, at present, not to use the
proposed loan/credit proceeds for relending through financial
intermediaries, the main reason being difficulties expected in handling the
cross-currency exchange risk. For CDB's use of the IBRD/IDA funds for
onlending through financial intermediaries, the Bank would require
agreements on: (a) the eligibility criteria for financial intermediaries;
(b) general framework for onlending rates to end-users (including the
treatment of the foreign exchange risks); and (c) an arrangement for
assessing macroeconomic conditions suitable for successful financial
intermediary operations.
F.  Lending Program for 1989-93
3.48     Projected Operations by Type of Fund.  CDB's lending program for
the next six years (1989-93), submitted by CDB's management to the CDB
Board of Directors, is summarized in Table 3.6 below.  The data are divided
into two categories:  (i) ordinary capital operations (OCR); and
(ii) special fund operations (SFR).



- 32 -
Table 3.6: CDB's PROJECTED LENDING PROGRAMS (1989-94)
(US$ Million)
Actual                                           Total
1984                  Projected                 1989
-8*   1989   1990  1991  1992   1993   1994   -94
Ordinary capJ.tta
operations              69.3  38.1   44.0  49.0  46.0   53s.5   55.5  286.1
Special fund
operations             179.7  42.0  .635  39 3   0  .357.,   62.5  307.8
Total              269.0  80.1  107,5  88.3  89!0  lJ10  118.0  593.9
3.49     Tnis lending program calls for an average annual lending of
US$99 million during 1989-94, compared with actual annual lending volume
averaging about US$54 million during 1984-88.  There are several reasons
for the proposed increases in the lending volume, particularly out of the
OCR.  First, demand for CDB's OCR has increased.  Trinidad and Tobago,
which, until recently financed its projects out of its own resources, has
become a major CDB client since 1986. CDB's pipeline of projects in
Barbados has grown. Projects in OECS countries are being financed by
blending of OCR and SFR.   Second, CDB's OCR lending constraints (i.e., OCR
lending authority and borrowing capacitv) have now been eased (paras 3.17
and 3.54). Third, with the increasing average size of CDB loans from about
US$2-3 million to US$3-5 million, there will be a substantial increase in
the amount of total lending while the total number of projects to be
processed may not change materially. The projected increase in SFR lending
reflects an increased allocation of SFR funds to Guyana and OECS countries.
3.50     Proiected Operations by Sector.  CDB's indicative allocation of
OCR and SFR financing and projects in CDB's pipeline suggest that
infrastructure projects will continue to represent a large proportion of
CDB lending operations. CDB's current project pipeline for the next 18
months consists of 46 projects requiring CDB financing of about
US$174 million. Of these projects, 28 are for infrastructure projects with
CDB's potential financing of US$116 million; 9 are for indirect lending
through financial intermediaries with CDB's potential financing of
US$34 million; and another 9 are for industry (factory shells),
agriculture, and tourism with CDB's potential financing of US$24 million.
CDB normally updates its project pipeline every two months based on the
findings of its proje._t identification missions to each borrowing member
country, as well as informal consultations with bilateral and multilateral
financing agencies. As indicated before (para 2.23), the Bank and CDB will
jointly review their lending programs for the Commonwealth Caribbean at
least once every year to attain the objectives set forth in the
collaborative program. CDB's pipeline of IBRD and IDA subprojects, shown
in Annex X, calls for CDB financing of about US$60 million, including the
proposed IBRD loan and IDA credit proceeds.
3.51     OCR Resource Reguirements and Financing Plan.  In order to finance
its OCR lending program through 1992, CDB will need about US$177.1 million
in OCR resources. In addition to existing resources available for new



- 33 -
commitments (about US$29.5 million, as of December 31, 1988, Annex VI,
Table 1), new equity subscriptions (about US$17.7 million), and projected
internal cash generation (about US$52.9 million,14 net of CDB's loan
repayment of US$17.5 million), there will be a financing gap of about
US$77.0 million in CDB OCR operations. CDB expects to fill this gap with
the proposed Bank loan of US$20.0 million and an IDB loan of
US$20.0 million. For the remaining US$37.0 million, CDB plans to raise
funds from Japan Export-Import Barnk and in the Japanese market through) a
private placement.  CDB intends to tap other capita.' markets in north
Americ:a during the 1993/94 period.
3.52     SFR Resouzce Repuiremtnts and_  jgn&uJ2  Plan.  In order to finance
its SFR lending program through 1992, CDB will, need about US$188 million in
concessionary resources. SFR resources available to CDB for new approvals
as of December 31, 1988, totalled US$107.8 million (Annex VI, Ta1ble 2);
cash flows under SFR operations are projected to be about US$28.2 million
(net of proposed allocation of US$30 million for Technical Assistance Fund
and for Basic Needs Trust Fund operations) during 1989-92. Thus, there
will be a gap of about US$52 million for CDB's concessionary operations.
In addition to the proposed IDA credit of US$12 million, other
concessionary resources are expected to be available to CDB through new
pledges by donor member governments and other contributors to the SDF
resources.
G. Financial Position and Performance
3.53     Ordinary Capital Resources (OCR).  CDB's audited summary balance
sheets and income statements for the past five years (1984-88) are shown in
Annex V. CDB's OCR assets grew at an annual rate of about 6.6% during that
period. At the end of 1988, total OCR assets stood at US$192 million,
consisting of liquid assets (19%), loans (64%), receivables from members
(12%) and other assets (5%). These were financed by share capital and
reserves (62%) and borrowed funds (38%); the growth in CDB OCR assets
during 1984-88 was financed almost entirely through the increases in share
capital.
3.54     Following Italy's joining CDB as a member in 1988, CDB's OCR
borrowing capacity has increased from US$94 million in 1987 (with an unused
balance of about US$11 million available for further borrowings) to
US$122.6 million, which represents the sum of CDB callable capital held by
the OECD member countries.Y5 As of December 31, 1988, CDB's OCR borrowings
contracted, net of repayments and cancellations, amounted to
14/ The projected internally generated funds include: (a) projected cash
flow of US$32.8 million during 1989-92; (b) loan collections of
US$34.0 million during 1989-92; and (c) encashment of demand notes
representing portions of shareholders' paid-in capital and collection
of shareholders' maintenance of value obligations of about
US$3.6 million during 1989-92.
j5/ Canada (US$32.3 million), UK (US$32.3 million), France
(US$29.0 million) and Italy (US$29.0 million). Following FRG's joining
CDB in 1989, CDB's OCR borrowing capacity has increased further by
US$29.0 million to US$151.6 million.



- 34 -
US$74.6 million, consisting of lines of credit from IBRD (US$36.8 million),
Inter-American Development Bank (US$23.1 million), European Investment Bank
(US$0.6 million) and Trinidad and Tobago (US$14.1 million). CDB's OCR
lending authority (para 3.08) was also raised from US$189 million (with a
remaining balance of about US$16 million) in 1987 to US$233 million. At
the end of 1988, CDB's OCR loan approvals (net of cancellations and
repayments) totaled about US$177 million, equivalent to 76% of the OCR
operations lending limit.
31.55    Despite a gradual decrease in its liquid assets in both relative
and absolute terms over the 1984-88 period, CD3Bs liquidity position sti'll
remains comfortable. CDB's "OCR Financial Policies and Operating
Guidelines", referred to in para 3.08 above, requires CDB to maintain
liquidity corresponding to the projected net funding requirements for the
next three years.16   According to this formula, no liquidity was required
at the end of 1988 while CDB's liquidity level at that time was roughly
equal to two years of projected loan disbursements out of its own funds and
was generally in line with other regional multilateral development banks'
(MDBs) liquidity practice. (CDB has recently adopted a new liquidity
guideline which calls for the maintenance of liquidity equal to two years'
projected disbursements out of its own funds including those raised from
markets plus 10% of projected disbursements from lines of credit for the
current year, para 3.67). The most significant development regarding CDB's
OCR asset composition has been the accumulation of a large amount of loans
in non-accrual status (US$28.2 million or 14.8% of total assets at the end
of 1988) which has had an adverse effect on CDB's OCR profitability.
3.56     CDB's OCR yearly net income dropped sharply from around
US$3.5-3.9 million during 1981-83 to US$1.6 million in 1984, as a result of
its policy for non-accrual of interest on loans in arrears for over 12
months. OCR net income for 1985 rose to US$3.4 million, even aftar non-
accrual of interest (US$1.9 million) on certain loans and loan loss
provision of US$3.5 million, thanks to the large windfall gain of
US$4.5 million on foreign exchange. In 1986, OCR net income dropped to
US$0.9 million due mainly to non-accrual of interest (US$2.04 million) in
loans to Guyana and Antigua and Barbuda and specific provisions of
US$3.2 million made against these loans and some private sector loan
repayments overdue to CDB. (These provisions also covered those related to
earlier years prior to CDB's introduction of a provisioning policy in
1986.) OCR net income increased to US$3.1 million in 1987, even after non-
accrual of interest (US$3.3 million), largely because of the decrease in
provision for losses on loans. In 1988, OCR net income jumped to
US$6.5 million (excluding US$4.0 million interest not accrued) due largely
to the foreign exchange gains of US$2.1 million. The OCR interest coverage
ratio, which was as low as 1.1 times for 1986, rose to 1.6 times for 1987
and increased further to 2.2 times for 1988 (as against CDB's internal
target of 1.5 times). CDB's reserves to loans ratio hovered between 25%
l/ The next three years' net funding requirements equals projected cash
outflows for loan disbursements, debt amortization, and capital assets
acquisition minus projected cash inflows from collection of loans, net
income adjusted for non-cash items, the increase in usable capital, and
draw-down from lines of credit.



- 35 -
and 26% during the period 1984-88, as compared with CDB's internal target
of not less than 30%.
3.57     In 1987, the CDB Board of Directors considered measures which                      -
would compensate, in due course, for losses resulting from the Guyana and
Antigua and Barbuda provisioning. These measures included: (i) paying of
shareholders' maintenance of value obligations established at the end of
1985, (ii) cashing of non-interest bearing demand notes representing
portions ef shareholders' paid-in capital, and (iii) a general share
capital increase in the future. The Board approved the CDB management
recommendations regarding the items under (i) and (ii) above, which are
being implemented. The proposal for a general share capital increase has
been endorsed by the Board, for approval by CDB's Board of Governors in
1990. These measures should help CDB to improve its OCR profitability in
due course.
3.58     SRecial Fund Resources (SFR).  Audited SFR balance sheets and
income statements for the years 19b4-88 are shown in Annex V. At the end
of 1988, SFR assets tGtaled US$423.7 million, consisting of cash and short-
term investments (23%), loans (61%) and other assets (16%). These assets
were financed by donors' contributions (94%) and reserves (6%). Loans on
concessionary terms and grants have been received largely from the USA,
Canada, UK, Venezuela, FRC, Italy, Colombia, Nigeria, Sweden, Trinidad and
Tobago and the Netherlands, as well as from the IDB, European Development
Fund and IDA.
3.59     CDB's SFR assets increased by 57% from US$269.7 million at the end
of 1984 to US$423.7 miliion at the end of 1988. During the same period,
non-accruing SFR loans reached US$31.4 million or 12% of the SFR loan
portfolio. Against this, SFR reserves (US$26.6 million) and accumulated
SFR provisions (US$7.2 million) totaled US$33.8 million. SFR net income
decreased from US$5.2 million in 1984 to US$3.4 million in 1985 and further
to US$3.3 million in 1986, due mainly to non-accrual of interest on certain
loans and large provisions made in 1985 and 1986, but increased to
US$4.0 million in 1987 and further to US$4.5 million in 1988.
3.60     At the end of 1988, 0DB had US$76.5 million of technical
assistance resources made available to it by the contributors of SFR
resources referred to in para 3.58 (excepting IDA). Such resources
included: contributions of US$6.2 million to the Technical Assistance Fund
which was established to provide technical advice and cooperation through
non-reimbursable grants or as contingently recoverable advances;
US$3.9 million for a Project Administration Training Unit established to
provide training in project administration, principally to public sector
personnel; and US$42.7 million for other purposes agreed between CDB and
contributors. Some US$30 million of the latter is for Basic Needs capital
projects in the LDCs. At the end of 1988, US$75.2 million (out of total
available resources of US$76.5 million) had been committed for technical
assistance; US$62.5 million was disbursed.
3.61     Portfolio Ouality.  CDB's OCR loan portfolio totaling
US$132.8 million at the end of 1988 remained concentrated on four
countries--Jamaica (29.1% of the total OCR loan portfolio), Barbados
(20.8%), Cayman Islands (13.7%), and Guyana (12.7%). However, CDB's OCR
country exposure is within the limits set by its Board (para 3.09).  OCR



- 36 -
exposure in Jamaica accounted for 42.3% of CDB's net worth at the end of
1988, as against the internal maximum limit of 50%; OCR exposure in
Jamaica, Barbados, and Cayman Islands, taken together, represented 85.0% of
CDB's net worth, compared to the internal maximum limit of 100%.
3.62     Since 1984, CDB has been confronted with a fairly widespread
arrears problem. However, by refusing to approve new loans to the
countries involved until arrears are cleared, it has managed to keep its
borrowing members (with the exception of Guyana and Antigua and Barbuda)
from accumulating substantial protracted arrears. CDB's overall arrears
situation is summarized in Table 3.7 below.
Table 3.7: ARREARS POSITION AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1988
CUSS' 000)
OCR          SFR           VTF          Total
Total Of which Total Of which Total Of vhich Total Of which
arrears interest arrears interest arrears interest arrears interest
Guyana               14,018  10,434  7,399  5,802  805    564  22,222  16,800
Antigua & Barbuda     1.940   917  2.415   984   _       _    4.355  1.901
Subtotal         15,958 11,351  9,814  6,786  805    564  26,577 18,701
Other countries       6.378  2.798  1.441   970    2      0    7.821  3.768
Total            22.336 14.149  11.255  7,756  807    564  34.398 22.469
Of which private sector
loans                5,612  1,824    705   212    -      -    6,317  2,036
Total loan portfolio  132,847      263,853       7,151        403,851
At the end of 1988, overall arrears (US$34.4 million) represented 8.5% of
overall loan portfolio; arrears on OCR loans (US$22.3 million), 16.8% of
total OCR loan portfolio. The bulk of the arrears are related to public
sector loans.  (About 93% of all loans were either made to member states or
guaranteed by them.) CDB placed its loans to Guyana and Antigua and
Barbuda in non-accrual status, total non-performing loans stood at
US$60.4 million (or 15.0% of overall loan portfolio), including OCR non-
performing loans of US$28.2 million (or 21.2% of OCR loan portfolio). In
accordance with its specific provisioning policy adopted in 1986
(para 3.66), CDB has made provisions against principal amounts overdue from
Guyana and Antigua and Barbuda. At the end of 1988, CDB's overall loan
loss provisions totaled US$18.2 million (including the general provision of
US$5.5 million accumulated before the adoption of a specific provisioning
policy).
3.63    Antigua and Barbuda's arrears reduced considerably in 1989 as the
Government started paying monthly installments to clear arrears on CDB
loans to DFC and other public sector subborrowers, excluding those made for
the unsuccessful sugar and fisheries projects. Arrears on the private
sector portfolio in the country are being resolved through restructuring



- 37 -
and legal actions. Relative to Antigua and Barbuda, Guyana's arrears
problem is more serious and has to be resolved within a multilateral
framework. Guyana is pursuing a structural adjustment program, with the
Bank's assistance, which should enhance the Government's capability of
resuming external debt service.
3.64     The CDB loan portfolio contained 381 loans (including 27 private
sector loans) at the end of 1988. CDB rated loan status on a scale of 1
(minor or no problem) to 3 (major problem). On this basis, average status
for all loans in 1988 was 1.56 with 77 loans (or 20.2% of total loans)
rated as major problem loans. About 42% of these problem loans were for
loans to Guyana and to Antigua and Barbuda. CDB management maintains a
close scrutiny over projects to improve their performance (para 3.13).
Since 1987, the Projects Department has been reviewing the overall status
of its portfolio twice a year and prepares a report to the Loan Committee
on the portfolio once a year. In 1984, CDB established a Post-
Implementation Evaluation Unit (PIEU). This unit completed post-evaluation
studies on three projects and project performance audit reports on two
others in 1988. Lessons learned from these studies were submitted to the
CDB Board and circulated to CDB staff for guidance. The PIEU has also
prepared guidelines for post-evaluation work to form a part of CDB's
Operational Manual.
3.65     To improve the quality of its portfolio, CDB intends to
(i) intensify its assistance in improving national economic management;
(ii) pay greater attention to the design of projects during preparation
(taking into account lessons learnt from CDB's and other lenders'
experience) and emphasize project supervision, particularly during
implementation; and (iii) formulate and execute lending programs which
would allow positive net resource transfers to the borrowing member
countries.
3.66     Accounting and Audit.  As prescribed in its Charter, CDB maintains
entirely separate accounts for OCR and for each SFR. Since CDB's
inception, Price Waterhouse and Co. have been CDB's auditors. None of
their reports has been qualified. In 1985, CDB, without objection from its
auditors, placed in non-accrual status all loans on which payment of
interest, other charges or principal was overdue for more than 12 months.
Also, CDB introduced a general provisioning policy whereby it annually
charges against income a certain percentage, to be determined each year, of
total "sovereign debt portfolio" for building up its loan loss reserve. In
consultation with the Bank, CDB replaced general provisioning against
"sovereign debt" with specific provisioning policy in 1986. For private
sector loans, provisioning is based on the estimated shortfall between
outstanding loan balance and most recent estimated value of collateral.
H. Proiected Financial Position and Performance
3.67     Ordinary Capital Resources.  Projected OCR financial statements
for the years 1989 through 1993 are shown in Annex VII. The CDB's OCR
projections are based on the following assumptions, details of which are
given in Annex VIII:
(a) CDB OCR lending and funding programs will be as outlined above
(paras 3.48 and 3.51);



- 38 -
(b)  no settlement of the Guyana arrears (the worst scenario);
(c)  injection of additional capital of US$40 million by CDB
shareholders over the period 1991-95 (para 3.51), in five equal
annual installments, 50% in cash and 50% in notes; and
(d)  maintenance of liquid assets equal to two years' loan
disbursements to be financed out of CDB's own funds and 10% of
projected disbursements from lines of credit for the current year
(para 3.55).
3.68         Under the foregoing scenario, the key financial performance
indicators and, where applicable, CDB's internal targets are shown in
Table 3.8 below.
Table 3.8: CDB-PROJECTED FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Actual                              Pro ected
1988       1989       1990       1991       1992       1993       1994
Net income (USS million)                   6.5        4.7a       5.6        6.5         7.6        9.0       10.5
(21.5)      (9.8)     (11.2)     (12.8)    (14.5)
Interest coverage (times)                  2.2        1.9        1.9        1.8         1.8        1.8        1.8
(minimum 1.5 times)                                           (4.5)      (2.2)      (2.1)      (2.1)       (2.1)
Reserves to loan ratio (t)                26.3       29.4       30.8       31.1        31.1       30.8       31.5
(minlimu  30X)                                               (41.1)     (42.3)     (42.7)     (42.3)     (43.4)
BorrowLngs contracted as Z                61         47         71         67          74         81         98
of borroving capacity (2)
OCR loan commitment                       76         72         80         72          77         82         88
as S of lending limit (t)                                    (76,       (68)       (73)        (76)       (82)
Debt service ceverage (times)              2.2        2.4        2.4        1.7         2.0        2.0        2.1
(3.9)      (1.9)      (2.3)      (2.3)      (2.4)
Long-term debt/equity                      0.55       0.52       0.53       0.67        0.68       0.71       0.71
(0.48)     (0.60)     (0.60)     (0.63)     (0.63)
Note: Figures in parentheses show the value of indicators if Guyana's arrears are paid in
1990 and Guyana contlnues to service debt.
a/ Actual net income for 1989 is US$1.2 millIon higher than the projected level due
mainly to higher than projected levels of income from short-term investments and other
sources.
On the basis of the projected net income, return on average total assets
would remain above 2.4% throughout the projection period. Return on



- 39 -
average equity would remain above 3.8%, reaching 5.0% in 1994.17 Interest
coverage ratio would remain well above CDB's internal target of 1.5 times
throughout the projection period; reserves to loan ratio would exceed the
internal target of minimum 30% from the end of 1990. Debt service coverage
would remain ibove 1.7 times, which is adequate. Liquidity would remain
comfortable, w:'.th liquid assets covering about one half of total
borrowings.  If the Guyana arrears problem is resolved (and Guyana
continues to service debt) during 1990-94, CDB's OCR net income during the
period would increase by about US$15 million to about US$30 million.
3.69     Special Fund Resources.  Financial projections for overall SFR
operations were made on the basis of CDB's projected lending programs noted
earlier and its projected sources of concessionary finance, including the
proposed IDA credit. Projected financial statements for the years 1989
through 1993 are available in the project file. Underlying assumptions
behind the projections are outlined in Annex VIII. Net income from overall
SFR operations would increase steadily from about US$9.8 million in 1989 to
about US$15.7 million in 1993, along with the growth in lending operations.
At the end of 1993, accumulated income and loan loss provisions would total
about US$106 million on total SFR loans outstanding of some US$428 million.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01     The objectives of the proposed project are:
(a) to enhance the amount and scope of development and financial
services offered to common Bank/CDB member countries in the
Commonwealth Caribbean by appropriate division of labor between
the Bank and CDB under a new broadly based collaboration program;
(b) to strengthen CDB to become a more effective regional development
institution; and
(c) to channel, at a lower cost than the Bank could do directly,
IBRD/IDA loan funds to eligible Bank/CDB member countries in the
region for investment in sectors in which the Bank is also active.
B. Project Descrigtion
4.02     The project would essentially follow the pattern of the Bank/IDA's
1980 second lending operation to CDB (loan 1775-CRG, credit 960-CRG). The
proposed IBRD loan and IDA credit would be made available t- CDB to help
finance public and private sector projects in countries eligible to borrow
from IBRD and IDA, respectively. IBRD and IDA would inform CDB from time
to time on such eligible countries. Proceeds of the proposed IBRD loan and
the IDA credit would be relent by the CDB to finance projects in sectors in
I/ Return on average usable equity (i.e., net of amounts required to
maintain value of currency holdings under capital subscriptions and
non-interest bearing demand notes representing portions of
shareholders' paid-in capital) would range between 4.6% in 1989 and
6.3% in 1994.



- 40 -
which the Bank itself normally operates. These sectors include:
agriculture, agroindustry, manufacturing, tourism, transportation, water
and sewerage, power, housing and emergency recovery lending. IBRD/IDA may
add new sectors, or delete one or more of the existing sectors in
consultation with CDB. At least once every year, the Bank and CDB would
jointly review their respective operational programs, including projects to
be financed out of the proceeds of the proposed lending, and agree on ways
of collaboration in lending as well as economic evaluation, aid
coordination and technical assistance activity (paras 2.22-2.23).
4.03     Emergency Recovery Assistance.  CDB has progressively developed
its internal expertise and procedures to deal quickly and effectively with
requests for emergency recovery assistance. CDB's procedures are broadly
in line with the Bank's own procedures. However, CDB's involvement, in
terms of hazard assessments and processing rules, has been on an ad hoc
basis, based on specific requests from its member countries. To allow CDB
to use part of the IBRD/IDA lending proceeds for emergency recovery
assistance, CDB will adopt Guidelines for emergency recovery assistance
acceptable to the Bank (condition for loan and credit effectiveness).
4.04     In the aftermath of Hurricane Hugo, emergency recovery assistance
projects for Dominica and St. Kitts and Nevis were approved by the CDB
Board in December 1989. CDB will not use IBRD/IDA blend funds for these
operations, given its decision to provide all financial assistance at
concessionary terms and to waive the ICB procurement rule to respond
quickly to the emergency. Follow-up reconstruction subprojects in these
countries, however, will be processed using standard CDB procedures.
C. Proiect Cost and Financing
4.05     CDB's pipeline of IBRD and IDA subprojects, shown in Annex X,
calls for CDB financing of about US$60 million (para 3.50). Based on the
financing pattern of CDB's operations, it can be assumed that CDB's future
financing will cover approximately 59% of the total cost of subprojects.
Thus, the project cost in terms of total investments in IBRD and IDA
subprojects would be about US$102 million. A breakdown of costs and
financing plans are as follows:



- 41 -
Table 4.1: ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Million)
Local    Foreign    Total
Estimated Costs
Subproject costs                                  27.0       75.0      102.0
Total project costs                           27.0       75.0     102.0
Financing Plan
CDB:
Of which CDB's own & borrowed resources           3.0      25.0       28.0
IBRD/IDA                                -        32.0       32.0
CDB-cofinanciers                                    -        18.0       18.0
Subborrowers                                      24.0        -         24.0
27.0      75.0      102.0
The proposed IBRD loan and IDA credit of US$32 million would cover about
30% of total project cost.
D. The IBRD Loan Features
4.06     The proceeds of the proposed IBRD loan of US$20.0 million
equivalent would be relent by CDB to eligible governments and private
enterprises at CDB's interest rate, as it may be amended from time to time
under CDB's "OCR Financial Policies and Operating Guidelines" (para 3.08).
CDB does not differentiate its OCR lending terms on country grounds but
determines its terms on project grou.,ds. The IBRD loan to CDB would have a
term of 17 years, including 5 years of grace, with a fixed amortization
schedule. Under the Bank's policies, this is the maximum term allowed at
present for IBRD loans in the Commonwealth Caribbean area.   It would allow
CDB to cofinance projects by taking up the later maturities of loans,
leaving other institutions, such as commercial banks, to take the earlier
maturities. A fixed amortization schedule, much simpler to administer,
would allow CDB a limited amount of rollover in cases where it lends with a
maturity shorter than the IBRD loan. In line with CDB's Charter, the
foreign exchange risk would be bo:ne by CDB's subborrowers or by
governments.
4.07     To have access to the IBRD loan proceeds, the eligible IBRD/CDB
member governmients would provide guarantees, as required under the Bank's
Articles of Agreement. In the case of the independent member countries,
each government would provide a blanket guarantee to the Bank, covering any
subloans (under the proposed IBRD loan to CDB) in the country concerned.
IBRD funds are expected to be channelled to Barbados, Belize, Jamaica and
Trinidad and Tobago, and, blended with IDA funds, to IDA eligible OECS
countries (para 4.09). CDB wants to be able to lend a part of the proposed
IBRD loan proceeds in the UK-dependent territories of Anguilla, Montserrat
and the Turks and Caicos Islands. Under the Bank's first and second CDB
projects, some UK-dependent territories (the British Virgin Islands, Turks
and Caicos Islands, Montserrat and Cayman Islands) received IBRD loan funds



- 42 -
through CDB--all with the UK Government guarantees. The UK required that
the requirements of the Colonial Loans Act be complied with and that
parallel legislation be enacted in each territory concerned, assuring
repayment to the UK in the event that the UK is called upon to fulfill its
guarantee obligation to the Bank. A similar procedure would be followed in
the case of CDB's use of a part of the proposed IBRD loan proceeds in a UK-
dependent territory. For regional projects, guarantees from the member
governments in whose territories the project is located would be required.
A guarantee satisfactory to the Bank from each eligible country would be a
condition of first disbursement of the subloans in each country (tncluding
the UK-dependent territories). It is expected that each guarantee would
cover disbursements in respect of all subloans.
4.08     In the past, because of the prolonged delays in obtaining the
country guarantees required by the Bank, there have been considerable
delays in the commitment and disbursement of funds under the Bank's
previous global line-of-credit type loans. The Bank, therefore, agreed to
charge the commitment fee only from the date the s bloans are eligible for
disbursement.  This procedure would be continued  rider the proposed loan.
E. The IDA Credit Features
4.09     The proposed IDA credit of US$12.0 million equivalent would be
part of CDB's SFR (soft loan) operations. As such, CDB would not bear the
credit risk. Funds from the IDA credit, segregated from CDB's other assets
and liabilities, would be channeled by CDB through a special fund created
for this purpose. As under the Bank's second and third CDB projects, CDB
would assign to IDA its rights in respect of subloans made from IDA
resources, so that IDA would, in respect of the credit funds, have the same
recourse available as when it lends directly. This approach would be
equivalent to a direct IDA credit to the country receiving it. The
governments would use or pass on the proceeds on commercial terms to each
subproject so that the benefit of IDA concessionary terms could accrue to
the governments. Recycling of IDA funds would be the responsibility of the
governments. The maturity of the IDA credit to CDB would be 40 years.
However, eligible subborrower governments in the OECS would be required to
repay over 35 years to CDB -which, in turn, would repay the credit to IDA
for the amounts collected from its subborrowers. IDA subloans would be
denominated in SDR and the foreign exchange risk would be borne by CDB's
subborrower governments. Initially, IDA funds, blended with IBRD funds,
would be made available to IDA eligible OECS countries, and at a later
stage, if and when eligible and without blending, to Guyana which may be
eligible for 40-year terms.
4.10     As in the case of Credit 960-CRG (CDB II project) and Credit
1364-CRG (CDB III project), CDB would relend the proposed IDA credit
proceeds to governments on IDA terms and IDA would pay to CDB a fee to
cover its costs of administering IDA subloans. It has been agreed that
CDB's fee under CDB V woull be US$660,000 in total, to be paid in five
equal annual installments (i.e., US$132,000 per year) commencing upon the
effective date of the proposed credit. CDB's cost per lending operation is
considerably lower than IDA's because of its lower manpower costs, its
proximity to its borrowers, the availability of technical assistance
financed from bilateral sources, and the projects it finances are generally
less complex and are, therefore, more rapidly processed. IDA would receive



- 43 -
the service charge of 0.75% from CDB which CDB would collect from
beneficiary subborrowers. At negotiations, it was agreed that CDB would
submit each year to IDA on the basis of a format acceptable to IDA a
statement of its actual costs for making and administering IDA subloans.
F. Subiroiects/Subloans
4.11     CD3 would relend the proposed loan and credit proceeds in sectors
which will make a maximum impact on accelerating development in the
countries concerned and in the Caribbean Region as a whole. As a part of
their Collaborative Program (para 2.22(d)(iv), the Bank and CDB will
harmonize their sector lending strategies and lending programs.
Considerable progress has already been made in this area (para 3.11).
Within the framework of its lending strategy, CDB's selection of
subprojects would be in accordance with criteria set out in its Policies
and Procedures Manual. In relending the IBRD/IDA loan proceeds in eligible
OECS countries, CDB will set the blending ratio for projects at no softer
than 50/50 for national projects and 33/67 for regional projects. To
secure a blending of at least 50/50 IBRD and IDA funds in OECS countries,
agreement was reached with CDB that at least US$7.8 million of the proposed
loan would be reserved for the OECS subborrowers (during the first three
years from the loan effectiveness date).
4.1,    No prior approval by IBRD and IDA of CDB's subprojects under the
proposed loan/credit would be required (except that subloans need to be
authorized before disbursement). CDB would send to IBRD/IDA for
review/comment: (i) a project description; and (ii) an appraisal report on
all subprojects expected to be financed with IBRD/IDA loan proceeds.
Informally, CDB would also send to IBRD/IDA, for comment, selected non-
IBRD/IDA subprojects in sectors in which CDB has limited lending experience
(such as those in the productive sectors) for which CDB intends to lend
US$5.0 million equivalent or more, regardless of source of financing. Such
subproject data would be sent to the IBRD/IDA before submission of the
relevant loan packages to CDB's Loan Committee. During appraisal,
understanding was reached that CDB would send to IBRD/IDA informally
(i) draft project documents cleared by the relevant Deputy Director of
CDB's Project Department; and about 10-15 days later formally (ii) draft
project documents cleared by the Director of Project Department for
submission to CDB's Loan Committee. IBRD/IDA would normally respond within
five working days after the receipt of the CDB's pre-Loan Committee draft
project documents. This period, if so requested by IBRD/IDA, may be
extended. This arrangement was confirmed during negotiations.
4.13     IBRD/IDA lending would cover CDB subloan commitments made from
July 1989 through June 30, 1993. CDB would not use more than 35% of the
proceeds of the proposed loan and the credit (separately) in any one of its
member countries except in special circumstances where the Bank may agree
otherwise. Also, CDB would not use funds from the proposed loan and the
credit to cofinance IBRD/IDA projects, unless the Bank agrees otherwise.



- 44 -
G. Environmental Assessments
4.14     CDB's staff capability to assess the environmental impact of the
projects it finances will be strengthened with a French environmental
specialist joining CDB in February 1990 on a 3-year assignment. A
preliminary draft of CDB's Guidelines on environmental assessments has been
reviewed within the Bank and found satisfactory. CDB adopted the
Guidelines (without change) on March 20, 1990.
H. Disbursements
4.15     IBRD and IDA funds would be used to reimburse CDB up to 70% of
subproject costs in the MDCs and up to 80% in the LDCs and Guyana. These
ratios represent the estimated foreign exchange costs of subprojects in
these two groups of countries. In cases where the amounts to be paid in
foreign currency are known to exceed these percentages, CDB may elect,
before its first withdrawal, to receive financing for foreign exchange
expenditure only. Both fixed assets and permanent working capital would be
eligible for financing. Disbursements of IBRD/IDA funds would be made on a
Rari-passu basis, reflecting no softer than a 50:50 IBRD/IDA blend for
subprojects in the OECS countries and a 33:67 blend for OECS regional
subprojects, determined at the time of subproject authorization. All
disbursements would be made against full documentation. This arrangement
was confirmed at negotiations. A schedule of estimated disbursements is
given for the loan and credit in Annex IX.
4.16     The Bank/IDA would reimburse CDB for expenditures on eligible
subprojects ir.curred no more than 180 days prior to the date on which the
Bank/IDA receives the relevant data (para 4.12) on request for
authorization of a subloan. The commitment period for both the IBRD loan
and the IDA credit would be three years from the time of loan/credit
signing. The latest date for subloan submission would be June 30, 1993,
and the closing date for disbursement would be December 31, 1997.
I. Procurement
4.17     For purposes of the proposed IBRD/IDA lending, public sector
procurement of civil works estimated to cost more than US$2 million
equivalent and goods costing more than US$250,000 and all private sector
procurement costing more than US$5 million would be done through
international competitive bidding (in accordance with IBRD/IDA guidelines,
with notification of local (Barbados-based) representatives of the Bank's
member countries, Switzerland and Taiwan, China, and international
advertising). Public sector procurement of civil works costing less than
US$2 million but more than US$50,000 and goods costing less than US$250,000
but more than US$30,000 and private sector procurement costing less than
US$5 million but more than US$3 million would be based on competitive
bidding procedures satisfactory to CDB and IBRD/IDA with local and regional
advertising and notification of representatives of aforementioned
governments. Public sector procurement costing less than US$50,000 for
civil works would be based on price quotations from at least three
qualified contractors in the territory where the project is located and at



- 45 -
least one regional contractor (or at least three regional contractors if
qualified local contractors do not exist). Public sector procurement
costing less than US$30,000 for goods and contracts for works and goods by
private borrowers (including subborrowers of local financial
intermediaries) costing less than US$3 million would be based on price
quotations from at least three local or regional suppliers. Where
contracts are financed jointly with Bank and CDB resources, CDB would
follow IBRD/IDA guidelines, subject to approval of CDB's Boa-: of Directors
on a case-by-case basis. The Bank would not require prior rev.ew of CDB's
invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts for goods and
civil works.  Procurement of consulting firms' services using IBRD/IDA
funds would be in accordance with IBRD/IDA guidelines for the hiring of
consultants. Employment of consultants using US$100,000 or more of
IBRD/IDA funds would require prior review and approval by IBRD/IDA.
J. Benefits and Risks
4.18     The Bank's channeling of its funds to the Caribbean region through
CDB has considerable advantages for all parties concerned. Because of its
lower costs per operation, CDB can make a larger number of loans in the
region, whereas IBRD/IDA, due to limitations of staff, would have to limit
themselves to fewer loans/credits in the same period (para 4.10). Thus, by
channeling its resources through CDB, the Bank would have greater
country/sector coverage and economic impact than if it tried to make
loans/credits directly. Through its association with CDB, the Bank would
assist CDB to strengthen itself, both financially and institutionally, as
the primary development banking institution in the Commonwealth Caribbean,
progressively able to take over certain Bank roles in the region. The
proposed IDA credit would allow the eligible OECS countries to receive
IBRD/IDA blend financing for their priority projects. As the first Bank
lending operation to CDB within the framework of a broadly-based multi-year
collaborative program, the proposed loan and the credit would be
instrumental for the Bank and CDB to develop closer ties for the benefit of
their common member states.
4.19     The risks associated with achieving the foregoing benefits are
related primarily to the changeable political and economic climate in the
Commonwealth Caribbean. The promotion and implementation of projects in
the region have proven sensitive to the progress being made by the various
island economies. Falling commodity prices can hurt their agricultural
exports, and increases in oil prices could slow economic growth. Some OECS
borrowers may consider CDB's blending of IBRD/IDA funds for their projects
too hard and may be reluctant to borrow. Nevertheless, the risk that funds
under the proposed project will be committed and disbursed at a slower pace
than the forecast in this report is relatively low as subprojects in CDB's
pipeline for the next two years are substantial in number and others are
well along in their preparation (para 3.50). Th administration of the
Bank/CDB Collaborative Program, which covers a broad area of Bank and CDB
activities, will require a great deal of determined effort and joint
programming work by both partners. In their manpower planning, both
institutions will have to make the necessary provisions for the program.



- 46 -
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached at Negotiations
5.01     During negotiations, agreements were reached with CDB on the
following:
(a) lending terms and conditions to CDB of the IBRD loan and the IDA
credit (paras 4.06-4.08 and 4.09-4.10);
(b) terms and conditions of CDB's onlending of the IBRD loan and the
IDA credit proceeds for suitable subprojects in eligible countries
(paras 4.11-4.13). The Bank would inform CDB from time to time of
the Bank/CDB member countries which are eligible to borrow under
the proposed loan and the credit (para 4.02);
(c) CDB's Charter, "Operational Policies and Procedures Manual" and
"OCR Financial Policies and Operating Guidelines" would not be
changed if they would materially and adversely affect its
operations or financial condition (para 3.09);
(d) CDB would finance subprojects in accordance with its "Operational
Policies and Procedures Manual" (para 4.11), with adherence to its
"OCR Financial Policies and Operating Guidelines" (para 3.08);
(e) CDB's relending of the proposed loan and credit proceeas would be
limited to sectors in which the Bank itself lends (para 4.02);
(f) CDB would not use more than 35% of the loan/credit proceeds in any
one member country or a UK-dependent territory, unless the Bank
agrees otherwise (para 4.13); US$7.8 million of the proposed IBRD
loan would be reserved for the OECS subborrowers during the first
three years from the loan effectiveness date (para 4.11);
(g) for procurement under the project, CDB would use guidelines
acceptable to the IBRD/IDA (para 4.17);
(h)  CDB would not cofinance IBRD/IDA projects with the proceeds of the
proposed IBRD loan or IDA credit, unless the Bank agrees otherwise
(para 4.13);
(i) for all projects to be financed by CDB out of the proposed IBRD
and IDA lending, CDB, would send to the Bank in due time for its
review/comment: (i) a project description and (ii) an appraisal
report (para 4.12);
(j) governmental guarantees regarding IBRD lending would be required
as a condition of first disbursement of the first subloan in each
country (para 4.07);
(k) the IBRD and IDA commitment fee would accrue as of the date of the
Bank's authorization of each subproject for withdrawals under the
loan/credit (para 4.08);



- 47 -
(1) IDA would reimburse CDB for its administrative costs in relending
IDA credit proceeds in eligible countries on IDA terms
(para 4.10);
(m)  CDB would assign to IDA its rights under subloans to be funded out
of the IDA credit proceeds (para 4.09);
(n) CDB would adopt satisfactory guidelines on emergency recovery
assistance before loan/credit effectiveness (para 4.03); and
(o) In relending the IBRD/IDA loan proceeds in eligible OECS
countries, CDB would blend for each project IBRD loan and IDA
credit proceeds no softer than 50/50 for national projects and
33/67 for regional projects (para 4.11).
5.02     In addition, the Bank reached understandings with CDB on the
following points:
(a) Steps required for making operative the "Memorandum of
Understanding' for the Bank/CDB collaborative program, under which
the Bank and CDB lending strategies, plans for country economic
work and lending programs for the Bank/CDB member states in the
Commonwealth Caribbean would be jointly reviewed at least once
every year for the two institutions to agree on specific
programs/projects and other operational activities for their
collaboration. During these reviews, attentien would also be
given to CDB's manpower/staff training needs to fulfill its role
under the project and the collaborative program (para 2.23).
(b) CDB would keep the Bank informed of results of the current work on
CDB's efficiency and productivity and its plans for implementing
new measures (para 3.06).
(c) CDB would submit each year to IDA, on the basis of a format
acceptable to IDA, a statement of actual administrative costs for
making and administering IDA subloans, (para 4.10).
B. Recommendation
5.03     The proposed project would be suitable for an IBRD loan of
US$20.0 million and an IDA credit of SDR 9.1 million (US$12.0 million) on
terms and conditions listed in the preceding paragraph.



CAR8IEAN4 DEVELOPE4WT SAW
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH CARI6BEAN DEVELOPPIDNT SAW PROJECT
Basic Indicators for Selected CARICOM Countr;es
Current
1980-87         1987            Account
Annual      Croos  Nzt'i       Dfc-t                         Share of Erports (3) 1987
OC         Popolat.on      Cw        R.el GDP    Saings/Croes          Shar                                                             - -----------________ -_-_-_________-____
Area       Per Capita       (000)       (USS M1)     Crooth      CDP Product        of CDP                      Aluena/
(Sq.Ni.)    (Atlas 1987)       1987        1987      Rats (X)           (1)              (2)     Tour,a   Sugar  S-ts   Bananas  Ma.nufacturas  Patrol ue
Antigus and Barbuda                             170          2,570            82        211           5 2             n a.         37.0       57 4      -                                 3 5       -
Barbedos                                        166          6,330           254      1,358           0.7             17.0          3.1       53 0    6.0        -         -             18 0       -
Belize                                        8,866           1,250           175       219           2.1             23.3          3.7        6.0   27.0        -         7 0            7 0       -
Dominica                                        293           1.440           80        115           4.3             n.e.          3.8       20.0      -                 53.3           19 4
Crenada                                         134           1,340           100       134           5.0             n.a.         22.5       40.7      -        -        10.1
CWyana                                       83,000             380          807        310          -6.0              4.3          19.0       -      29.0      42 0       -               -         -
Jas ic.                                      4,411             960         2,351      2,256          -1.1             14.3          5.3       20 0    2.0       53.0       6.0           10.0       -
St. K;tts snd Noais                             105           1,700           47         80           1 7             n.e.         26.5       53.4   22.3        -         -            23 0
St. Lucia                                       241           1,370          143        196           5.9             n a.          16.6      52 9      -        -        30.0           16 8
St. Vincent and Crenadines                      152           1,070          112        121           5 8             n a.          2.9       59.3      -        -        23.6                      -
Trinidad and Tobago                           1,90D           4,220        1,217      5,130           5.0             13.5          6.4       n a      1.9       -         _              7 2       37 1
OD
Othe, LAC Countries:
Hait;                                        14,600             360        6,164      2,221          -0 3              6.6          5.9       21.6    0 9        -         -             46 3
Surinams                                    63,050           2,360           411        972          -2.7              5.7          0.8        -        -       67 0       1.0            1 0
--  - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - -- - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - -



- 49 -                            A    II
Page 1
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
THE CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK AND THE WORLD BANK
ON CLOSER COLLABORATION TO PROMOTE
DEVELOPMENT IN THE CARIBBEAN
Obiectives
1.       Since the Caribbean Development Bank's (CDB) inception in 1970,
the World Bank/IDA (WB) and CDB have developed close relations,
encompassing the areas of the WB's lending and technical assistance to CDB,
co-financing of projects, aid coordination, economic and sector work and
technical assistance to common member states. With the aim of improving
the effectiveness of their aid and increasing the efficiency of their
operations in the Caribbean region, CDB and WB will now intensify their
collaboration under which CDB will progressively complement some current WB
roles in the Caribbean region in areas where CDB has comparative advantage
over the WB. This will enable the WB to redirect its resources within the
Commonwealth Caribbean for policy advice, support of policy reforms and
other development work, including those areas of project lending where it
has a comparative advantage. In support of this process, the WB will
assist CDB to broaden the scope and improve the effectiveness of its
services to common member states over a three- to five-year period. As
before, the WB will look to CDB as its intermediary for development
assistance in the Caribbean, in addition to its direct lending to member
states. This Memorandum of Understanding lists the modalities of closer
collaboration between CDB and the WB along the foregoing lines.
Collaboration in Economic/Sector Work
2.       CDB and the WB, in consultation with each other, will define their
broad economic development objectives in each of their common member
countries, as well as in the Caribbean region as a whole, agree on
compatible strategies to attain these objectives and inter-relate their
programs (extending over country economic reporting, economic surveys,
sector studies, etc.). To facilitate the program implementation and assist
CDB's economic staff to gain experience, short-term staff secondments and
participation in each other's missions will be agreed between CDB and the
WB on an ad hoc basis. To improve the quality of CDB's economic work, CDB
intends to send to the Wt. at random some samples of CDB's economic work,
for the WB to review and comment.
3.       For the next two-year period, the following general guidelines
will apply to CDB and the WB collaboration in economic work:
(a) CDB will handle all country economic work in the United Kingdom
(UK) dependent territories;
(b)  CDB will prepare public sector investment programs (PSIPs) for all
the UK dependent territories, the OECS countries and Belize (the
preparation schedules will be determined by the beneficiary
government's timing of their budget preparation activities);



- 50 -                                    II
Page 2
(c)  The WB will handle, primarily, all economic work on the MDCs (CDB
may participate in the economic work in Guyana), and will continue
to prepare periodically eccnomic memoranda on Belize and the OECS
countries. CDB will work with the WB in the preparation of
economic memoranda on Belize and the OECS countries (excluding
Montserrat). Such economic memoranda will deal with topics
previously agreed between the WB and CDB, pertaining to specific
development issues for Belize and the OECS countries. CDB will
also submit two-page summaries of its economic reports on Belize
and the OECS countries for the years in which the WB reports are
not prepared (on the basis of a mutually agreed program); and
(d'  Special studies, sector reports on the member countries' economies
and the Caribbean Region as a whole, which either agency may
launch, will be planned in consultation between respective CDB and
WB economic staff to determine the scope for collaboration.
4.       A two-year program for the CDB/WB economic/sector work in the
Caribbean region, which reflects the preceding paragraph, will be prepared.
Thereafter, the WB and CDB will inform each other periodically on changes
they made in their programs and will review them jointly at suitable
intervals.
Aid Coordination
5.       For the next two-year period, the following guidelines will apply
to the CDB/WB collaboration in this area:
(a)  CDB will be responsible for the preparation of the necessary CGCED
documents (including country briefs, contribution to the WB
umbrella report) on the UK dependent territories and will chair
the CGCED subgroup meetings on these territories (the meetings
will normally coincide with CDB's Annual Meetings);
(b)  CDB will, on an ad hoc basis, chair meetings of Barbados-based
donor representatives to discuss the problems encountered in the
implementation of projects financed by such donors (the WB may
participate); and
(c)  The WB will continue to lead in handling the CGCED activities
which remain outside the scope of the foregoing subparagraphs.
However, well before a COCED meeting, the WB and CDB will confer
on any emerging new issues and agree on any complementary
activities for either of them to undertake.
6.       Details regarding CDB and the WB activities in support of the
1991-92 CGCED meetings will be reviewed and programmed. Thereafter, any
changes in the program will be agreed in consultation between the two
agencies in due time.



- 51 -                                    II
Page 3
Adiustment/Program Lending
7.       While CDB intends to have independent lending activity in this
area (such as in the UK dependent territories), it is understood that in
most cases during the next two-year period CDB will finance
adjustment/program lending operations in association with the WB. For
operations in which CDB wants to participate, the WB and CDB staff will
agree, at the beginning of the project processing cycle, on areas for CDB's
processing input, as well as on its financial contribution (along general
lines of the WB/CDB joint financing arrangements for jointly financed
investment projects (refer to paragraph 12 below).
8.       Specific adjustment/program lending operations which the WB and
CDB will jointly finance during the next two-year period will be
programmed. Thereafter, each agency will communicate to the other any
changes made in the schedule and they will jointly review it at suitable
intervals.
Investment Proiects
9.       CDB will increase its investment project processing capabilities
in conventional sectors with a view to complementing progressively some of
the WB's functions in those or-ts where CDB has comparative advantage over
the WB. This will enable the WB co redirect its resources as stated in
paragraph 1 above. In expanding its role in the investment project area,
CDB wants to guard against a situation under which some common Caribbean
member countries may lose entirely their WB presence, or (on a global
basis) the flow of the WB's funds to these common member countries may be
diminished. On the latter point, CDB is concerned about the WB's
"graduation" policies under which a number of common Caribbean member
countries have lost, or will lose before long, their eligibility for IBRD
or IDA borrowing. Also, CDB would like Belize treated by the WB as an OECS
country and not excluded from IDA lending. CDB intends to air its views on
these matters to the WB's representatives on the occasion of future
consultations between the two agencies.
10.      As firm groundwork for their intensified collaboration in
investment project lending, CDB and the WB recognize the need for
harmonization (as far as possible) of their sectoral development strategies
and lending policies. It is agreed that joint work towards that end will
proceed on the basis of a program to be agreed between them.
11.      For the next two-year period, the following guidelines will apply
to the CDB/WB collaboration in processing of investment projects in the
Caribbean region:
(a)  within limits of its institutional capabilities, CDB will process
for its lending all investment projects in the UK dependent
territories;
(b)  for investment projects in the OECS countries and Belize, the Bank
Group will continue to finance projects where it has comparative
advantage, i.e.:



- 52 -                               ANNEX II
Page 4
(i)  the project concerned is in a sector for which the CDB has no
processing capability (such as in health, education,
nutrition and population sectors at present), or is not yet
fully equipped to process (such as in forestry); and
(ii) the project concerned is too large and complicated for CDB to
handle alone, or CDB, at that time, has reached the limit of
its lending authorization for the borrowing country
concerned.
In cases listed in (i) and (ii) above, CDB may seek joint
financing with the WB; and
(c)  for investment project lending in the common Caribbean member
countries outside the UK dependent territories and the OECS and
Belize, CDB and the WB will plan their lending operations in
consultation with each other (normally through annual or more
frequent programming reviews), singling out projects which CDB and
the WB may jointly finance. They will also determine, on an ad
hoc basis, which agency will lead the project processing work for
such a jointly financed project. Outside the area of jointly
financed projects each agency will continue to program its lending
activity alone, or in association with other financiers.
12.      For projects to be jointly financed by CDB and the WB, the Task
Mangers in both institutions, well at the beginning of the project
processing cycle, will coordinate their respective loan processing
schedules so that the agreed lead agency will carry out (with limited
participation from the other agency, such as staff with experience which
the lead agency may be lacking) the project preparation and appraisal work,
together with a project appraisal report for use by both agencies.
Ideally, loan/credit negotiations and the Board presentations by CDB and
the WB should be harmonized, so that these will take place approximately at
the same t_me. Occasionally, there may be practical difficulties to attain
this objective (difference of the WB and the CDB fiscal years may
complicate planning). However, once a draft appraisal report is produced,
with certain precautions (such as appropriate effectiveness and cross-
default clauses), each agency may proceed at its own pace. It is
recognized that it would be premature at this stage to set forth hard and
fast rules on how to inter-relate CDB and the WB internal loan processing
actions to enable each agency to attain simultaneously its processing
target. Guidelines on this would be agreed on after CDB and the WB have
had sufficient experience with joint processing of several investment
projects.
13.      After CDB and WB approval of loans/credits for a jointly financed
project, it will normally be the lead agency's task to supervise the
project, with limited participation of staff from the other agency.
Present CDB policies require supervision of a CDB-financed project during
the life of a CDB loan made for its financing. Thus, in the case of a
jointly financed project supervised by the WB, the WB supervision role will
normally cease after such a project is completed, leaving CDB to undertake
supervision work as it will deem necessary under its policies.



- 53 -                             A    .II
Page 5
14.      A schedule of specific investment project lending operations by
CDB and the WB during the next two-year period will be prepared. The two
agencies will inform each other of changes they made in their schedules and
review the combined schedules at suitable intervals.
Technical Assistance
15.      The WB and CDB extend considerable amounts of technical assistance
to their member states in the Caribbean through their project lending
operations. Their close collaboration in the lending area will increase
the scope for planning and harmonizing their project- or program-related
technical assistance. Outside the project lending area, CDB and the WB
will program their non-project related technical assistance in consultation
with each other, to avoid duplication of effort and to be able to devise
methods to increase effectiveness of their aid.
Procedures
16.      It is recognized that closer collaboration between CDB and the WB
on a broad front of activities, as listed above, calls for full exchange of
information and documents, joint programming effort and coordinated
execution of programs, involving CDB's and the WB's managers in charge of
economic and sector work, aid coordination, adjustment/investment lending
and technical assistance. Informal contacts at all levels will be
required. Two- or three-year rolling work programs (referred to in
paragraphs 4, 6, 8 and 14) will be prepared and jointly reviewed at least
once every year, and more frequently if conditions require it.



ANNEX III
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
CDB: Principal Loan Terms and Conditions
(as of April 1, 1989)
Ordinary Resources             Special Resources
Interest Rates                Variable interest rate
reviewed annually
(currently, 9.3%)
Group I countries                                                      5.0%
Group II countries                                                    4.0%
Group III countries                                                    2.0%
Group IV (Guyana)                                                      2.0%
Upper Loan Limits
LDC Government                80% of project cost             90% of project cost
MDC Governments               70% of project cost             80% of project cost
Private Sector                2/3 of project cost
subject to an acceptable
debt/equity ratio
Lower Loan Limits             US$200,000                      US$200,000
Commitment Fee                1% p.a. on undisbursed
balance 60 days after
Loan Agreement signed
Front-end Fee                           1%                             -
Term & Grace Period
Grace Period                  Up to 5 years                            -
Term after grace period       10-15 years                              -
(industry and tourism
projects)                     (15-18 years)                           -
Group I countries                                             20 yrs. including
5 yrs grace
Group II countries                                            30 yrs. including
7 yrs. grace
Group III countries                                           40 yrs. including
10 yrs. grace
Group IV (Guyana)                                             40 yrs. including
10 yrs. grace
Exchange Risk                 Borne by borrower               Borne by borrower
or guarantor                   or guarantor
Group I         Bahamas, Barbados, Trinidad and Tobago
Group II        Cayman Islands, Jamaica
Group III      OECs, Anguilla, Belize, British Virgin Islands,
Turks and Caicos Islands
Group IV        Guyana



- 55 -
ANNEX IV
Table 1
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMEMT BANK                                       L
FIFTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Distribution of Loans Approved (Net)
by Sector and by Fund (1970-1988)
(US$ '000)
Sector
OCR       VTF      SFR       Total     % of
Agriculture, forestry
& fishing                     14,281        -    22,545    36,826      5.7
Manufacturing                  28,152    2,205    74,708   105,065    16.2
Tourism                        16,875    4,725     3,905    25,505      3.9
Transport & communications    65,306         -   123,557   188,863    29.0
Mining & quarrying                  -        -     4,447      4,447     0.7
Power, energy & water          15,502    3,248    41,834    60,584      9.3
Social & personal services
(incl. housing)               9,101         -   41,520    50,621       7.8
Multi Sector & others!/         7,145        -    25,046    32,191      4.9
DFCs multi-sector              52.742    74i87    86.145   146.374    22.5
- (Agriculture credits)       (23,914)  (4,760)  (31,873)  (60,547)   (9.3)
- (Industrial credits)        (11,486)  (2,727)  (27,184)  (41,397)   (6.4)
- (Housing finance)           (17,342)       -   (14,120)  (31,462)   (4.8)
- (Student loans)                  (-)       -   (12,968)  (12,968)   (2.0)
TOTAL                    209,104   17.665   43.7       6S0.476   100.
W/ Primarily disaster relief and urban development.



CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (CDB)
FIFTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Characteristics of Subloans Made in the First Operation
Interest                Economic return        Finan-              Repay-
Amount        to final        %                 Recal-        cial    Grace       ment
Country            (US$S000)       borrower   financing   SAR         culated      return   perLod    period       Sector
OCR Lending
Wickham's Cay              B7I                      400           8.50         65       10       same           12        5.0      12.0       Tourism
Upper Demerara             Guyana                5,100            9.00         70       10       same            -       10.0      15.0       Road/Agri.
AIRTAC                     Turks L Caicos           400           9.00         80        -       neg            16        2.0       8.0       Transport
Cruise ship pier           JamaLca                  600           8.50         65       65       higher          -        3.0      15.0       Transport
2nd Ind. estate            Barbados              2,600            9.00         65       65       positive        -        5.0      15.0       Industry
Agrl. credit               Guyana                 1.500           8.00         65a       -       -               -        5.0      16.0       Agri. DFC                Ln
Agri.-ind. credit          Jamaica                3,600           7.25         70'       -       -               -        3.0      12.0       Agri./Ind. DFC
AgrL.-ind. credit          Bahamas                2,300           8.50         70a       -       -               -        4.0       8.0       ASriI.Ind. DFC
Agri.-ind. credit          Belize                   500           8.00         80a       -       -               -        5.0      15.0       Agri./Ind. DFC
Thlrd Window LendLng
Mortgage finance           St. LucLa                300                                                                                       DFC
Electricity                Montserrat              700            5.50        80        19       same           19        3.5      18.5       Power
Port                       St. KLtts             1,000            5.50         90        8       neg             6        3.5      18.5       Transport
Sugar                      Antigua               1,000            5.50         75       22       neg            15        3.5      18.5       Agriculture
al Percent of subloan made by DFC.
eq o 2:
l CD
a-' , 



CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (CDB)
FIFTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Characteristics of Subloans Made in the Second Operation
Interest    I of    Eco-    Finan-             Repay-
Amount     to final      CDB   nomic     cial    Grace      Ment
Country          (USI'00W)    borrower    loan   return   return   period   period    Sector
OCR Lending
Flood damage           Jamaica              1,500           9.60     25      -                 S.0      1S      Transport
Mortgage finance       Jamaica              3,000          10.00     32      -         -       6.0      12      Housing
Water supply           Jamaica              3,800           9.00    100     30        21       5.0      1S      Water supply
Seals A packaging      Guyana               2,800          10.50     26     34        14       4.0      11      Industry
Sugar mill             Barbados             3,000          10.50     22     19       lb       1.6      12      Agroindustry
Clay products          Barbados             1,100          10.60     46     26       1jb       2.0      10      Industry
Industry credit        Bahamas              2,000    10.6-12.00      88      -         -       6.0      16      Agri./Ind.
Electricity            St. Vincent            700           9.00     23     12         -       3.0      15      Energy
Electricity            St. Lucia            2,100          10.50     82      -         -       4.0      10      Energy
Airport                Cayman Islands      -4              10.50     46     20        10       3.0      15      Transport
23,600
IDA Credit
DFC equity             Antigua                800      9.0-11.50     S0      -                 2.0      12       Agri./Ind.
Port                   Dominica             3,000           1.00    100       -        -      10.0      40       Transport
Water supply           Grenada                700 W.00               4S      17        3       5.0      20       Water
DFC equity             Dominica               300      9.0-12.00     23       -        -       2.0      12       Agri./Ind.
DFC equity             St. Lucia              400      9.0-12.00     20       -        -       2.0      12       Agri./Ind.
Feeder roads           St. Kitts            1,116           0.75     80     11         -      10.0      40      Agri./Transport
Electricity5           St. Vincent          1.,85           9.00     58     12         -       3.0      15      Energy
8,000
t/  Includes USSi million EEC Special Action Credit.                                                                                        -
b/  After tax.



- 58  -
Table 2
Page 3
CARI)BEAN DEVELOPKENT BANK (CDB1
FIFTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Characteristics of Subloans Made in the Third Operation (IDA Credit 1364-CRB)
Interest          Eco-   Flnsn-            Repay-
to final  1 of  nomic    cial   Grace    ment
Amount   borrower   CDB  return  return  period  period
Country    (US6'000)    (2)       loan   (2)      (2)    (yrs)    (yr.)  Sector
Road recon-
struction           Grenada        1,450      0.73      58    32.0      -       10       40    Transport
3rd feeder roads   Dominica        2,001      0.75      67    21.0      -        S       40    Agriculture
Feeder roads        St. Vlncent   1,954       0.75      87    24.0      -         5      40    Agriculture
Water supply        St. Lucia      1,500      4.00      27    14.2      -         5      40    Water & severage



- 59 -
ANNEX V
Table 1
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
FIFTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Summarized Balance Sheets. 1984-88
(As of December 31)
(Millions of US$)
Audited
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Ordinary Capital Resources
Cash & investment                     46.2    41.9    35.3    37.4    36.1
Loans & secondary mortgages           70.1    76.1    90.9   108.6   123.1
Receivable from members               22.9    24.6    23.8    23.9    22.4
Other assets (net)                     9.6      9.8    10.7    10.5    10.5
Total assets                      148.8   152.4   160.7   180.4   192.1
Borrowings & other liabilities        64.1    59.0    62.0    73.3    72.9
Capital & reserves                    84.7    93.4    98.7   107.1   119.2
Total liabilities & capital       148.8   152.4   160.7   180.4   192.1
SFR Operations
Cash & investments                    53.2    55.1    66.3    60.0    98.6
Loans & secondary mortgages          188.2   199.8   212.9   244.6   257.7
Receivable from contributors          19.2    31.4    46.0    75.9    59.1
Other assets (net)                     9.1      9.8     7.7      4.2      8.3
Total assets                      269.7   296.1   332.9   384.7   423.7
Liabilities                            6.2      8.9     8.1      7.6    10.7
Contributed resources                246.1   270.8   304.6   352.0   386.4
Reserves                              17.4    16.4    20.1    25.1    26.6
Total liabilities & reserves    269.7   296.1   332.9   384.7   423.7
Venezuelan Trust Fund Operations
Cash & investments                     6.2      5.9     5.9      4.7      5.0
Loans                                  9.8      8.6     7.1      7.5      6.5
Other assets (net)                     0.8      0.4     0.3      0.2      0.2
Total assets                       16.8    14.9    13.3    12.4    11.7
Contributions (net of repayments)   15.8    14.8    13.1    12.0    11.1
Reserves                               1.0      0.1     0.2      0.4      0.6
Total liabilities & reserves       16.8    14.9    13.3    12.4    11.7
.



Table 2
- 60 -
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
FIFTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Summarized Statements of Income, 1984-88
(Year Ended December 31)
(Millions of US$)
Audited
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
Ordinary Capital Resources
Income from loans & mortgages             4.6    6.0    6.4    8.9   10.5
Income from investments                   4.9    4.5    3.9    2.7    2.7
Others                                    0.7    5.0    0.7   (0.2)   2.5
Total income                          10.2   15.5   11.0   11.4   15.7
Financial expenses                        4.9    5.5    4.9    5.3    5.4
Administrative expenses                    2.9    3.1    2.0    1.9    1.9
Provision for losses                      0.8    3.5    3.2    1.1    1.9
Total expenses                         8.6   12.1   10.1    8.3    9.2
Net income                             1.6    3.4    0.9    3.1    6.5
SFR Operations
Income from loans & mortgages             6.6    6.6    7.3    8.5    8.7
Income from investments                   5.6    5.1    5.0    4.4    5.1
Income from grants                        4.6    3.8    8.2        -       -
Total income                          16.8   15.5   20.5   12.9   13.8
Charges on contributions                  3.4    3.4    3.3    3.3    3.4
Administrative expenses                   3.4    2.9    4.3    4.4    4.6
Technical assistance                      4.8    3.8    8.3        -       -
Provision for losses                        -0    2.0    1.4    0.9    1.1
Others                                       -      -       -    0.3    0.1
Total expenses                        11.6   12.1   17.3    8.9    9.2
Net income                             5.2    3.4    3.2    4.0    4.6
Venezuelan Trust Fund Operations
Income from loans                         0.7    0.6    0.7    0.6    0.6
Income from short-term investments        0.7    0.6    0.5    0.4    0.4
Exchange loss                                -      _       _      _       _
Provision for losses on loans                -    0.4    0.4       -   (0.1)
Net income                             1.4    0.8    0.8    1.0    1.1



- 61 -
ANNEX VI
Table 1
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMELIT BANK
FIFTH CARIBBEAN DEVEI.OPMENT BANK PROJECT
Ordinary Capital Resources (OCR)
Resource Position as of December 31. 1988
US$ million
Equity
Paid-up capital                                                      78.2
Subscriptions not yet matured                                        16.6
Reserves                                                             41.0
Total equity resources                                          135.8
Borrowings
IBRD                                                                 36.8
European Investment Bank                                             0.6
IDB                                                                  23.1
Trinidad and Tobago                                                  14.1
Total borrowings                                                 74.6
Total available resources                                       210.4
Less:
Loans disbursed and outstanding                                    132.9
Loans committed but undisbursed                                      39.5
Secondary mortgage                                                    0.6
Loans approved but not committed                                      4.3
CDB's fixed assets                                                    3.7
Total uses                                                      180.9
Resources available for new approvals                            29.5



ANNEX VI
Table 2
- 62 -
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
FIFTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Special Fund Resources
Resource Position as of December 31. 1988
Sources                                                           US$ million
Special Development Fund--SDF (Unified)
Contributions agreed by members                                    230.0
Other contributors:
Federal Republic of Germany                                       26.7
Netherlands                                                       12.2
Accumulated net income                                                2.3
Total SDF (unified)                                            271.2
SDF--Other
Members                                                              37.1
Other contributors:
Federal Republic of Germany                                       16.1
Sweden                                                             4.2
USA                                                               19.4
Accumulated net income                                               15.3
Total SDF (other)                                               92.1
Other Special Funds
Members                                                              13.2
Other contributors:
USA                                                               93.9
IDA                                                               22.5
Inter-American Development Bank                                   11.7
European Economic Community                                         9.8
Nigeria                                                            4.0
Accumulated net income                                                9.0
Total other SFR                                                164.1
Total SFR                                                      527.4
Less: loans outstanding
Under SDF (unified)                                               73.4
Under SDF (other)                                                 62.3
Under SFR (other)                                                128.2
Less: undisbursed commitments
Under SDF (unified)                                               69.6
Under SDF (other)                                                 12.5
Under SFR (other)                                                 12.3
Less:  loans approved but not yet effective
Under SDF (unified)                                               22.2
Less:  reflows from loans funded by borrowingsa                      39.1                -
Resources available for new approvals                          107.8
a/ These are used to fund liquid investments.



X     VII
Table 1
- 63 -
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
FIFTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Ordinary Capital Resources (OCR)
Proiected Income Statements, 1989-93
(Millions of US$)
Actual                Proiected
Years ending December 31           1988   1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994
Income from investments             2.7    2.6   2.8   4.0   5.2   5.5   5.7
Income from loans                  10.5   11.7  13.2  14.9  17.1  19.8  22.6
Others                              2.5a   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.5
Total Income                   15.7   14.5  16.3  19.2  22.7  25.7  28.8
Financial expenses                  5.4    5.5   6.0   7.9   9.9  11.2  12.6
Administrative expenses             1.9    2.4   2.7   2.9   3.2   3.5   3.7
Loan loss provisions                1.9    1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8
Others                              0.0    0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2
Total Expenses                  9.2    9.8  10.7  12.7  15.1  16.7  18.3
Net Income                          6.5    4.7   5.6   6.5   7.6   9.0  10.5
Ratios
Interest coverage ratios
(ICR)
(a) using definition for
MDBsb                        2.2    1.9   1.9   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8
(b) using definition for
DFCsc                        2.6    2.2   2.3   2.1   2.0   2.0   2.0
Debt service coveraged             2.2    2.4   2.4   1.7   2.0   2.0   2.1
Return on average total assets
(Z)                               3.5    2.4   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.7   2.8
Return on average equity           5.7    3.8   4.1   4.3   4.5   4.7   5.0
al  Includes the US$2.1 million gain on foreign exchange.
b/ The definition of ICR applied to the Multilateral Development Banks
(MDBs) is earnings before interest (i.e., net income plus financial
expenses) divided by financial expenses.
Ct The definition of ICR applied to the Development Finance companies
(DFCs) is earnings before interest plus non-cash expenses (i.e.,
depreciation and loan loss provisions charged against income) divided
by financial expenses.
d/  Earnings before interest plus non-cash expenses and loan collections
divided by annual debt service requirement (i.e., financial expenses
plus principal repayment on long-term borrowings).



- 64 -
ANNEX VII
Table 2
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
FIFTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Ordinary Capital Resources (OCR)
Proiected Balance Statements. 1989-93
(Millions of US$)
Actual                    Proiected
As of December 31             1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
Assets
Cash                         12.4   11.1    8.1    8.7    9.8   13.7   17.4
Securities                   23.7   24.9   32.9   57.9   61.5   61.5   61.5
Loans - gross              132.9  146.6  161.1  181.9  208.2  241.8  271.4
Less: Loan loss
provisions                 10.4   12.1   13.9   15.7   17.5   19.3   21.1
Net loans                   122.5  134.5  147.2  166.2  190.7  222.5  250.3
Other investments             0.6    0.6    0.5    0.4    0.3    0.2    0.1
Receivable from members    22.4   24.0   24.7   30.6   36.5   42.4   47.6
Other receivables             6.8    6.9    7.1    7.3    7.5    7.7    7.9
Fixed assets                  3.7    3.5    3.3    3.1    2.9    2.8    2.7
Total Assets            192.1  205.5  223.8  274.2  309.2  350.8  387.5
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities           7.1    7.4    7.7    8.0    8.4    8.8    9.3
Long-term borrowings         65.8   67.4   74.8  106.6  121.8  142.1  157.4
Total Liabilities        72.9   74.8   82.5  114.6  130.2  150.9  166.7
Paid-up capital              78.2   85.0   90.0  101.8  113.6  125.4  135.8
Reserve & retained
earnings                    34.9   39.6   45.2   51.7   59.3   68.4   78.9
Special reserves              6.1    6.1    6.1    6.1    6.1  _6.1   6.1
Total Equity            119.2  130.7  141.3  159.6  179.0  199.9  220.8
Total Liabilities
& Equity              192.1  205.5  223.8  274.2  309.2  350.8  387.5
Ratios
Total debt to equity        0.6:1  0.6:1  0.5:1  0.7:1  0.7:1  0.7:1  0.7:1
Reserves to loan ratio       26.3   29.4   30.8   31.1   31.1   30.8   31.5



ANNEX VII
Table 3
- 65 -
CARI^BEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
FIFTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Ordinary Capital Resources (OCR)
Projected Cash Flow Statements, 1989-93
(Millions of US$)
Projected
Years ending December 31            1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
Sources
Liquid assets at beginning         36.1   36.0   41.0   66.6   71.3   75.2
of which:  Cash                  (12.4) (11.1)  (8.1)  (8.7)  (9.8) (13.7)
Securities           (23.7) (24.9) (32.9) (57.9) (61.5) (61.5)
Cash income from operations         6.8    7.7    8.6    9.7   11.1   12.5
of which:  Net income             (4.7)  (5.6)  (6.5)  (7.6)  (9.0) (10.5)
Loss provision        (1.8)  (1.8)  (1.8)  (1.8)  (1.8)  (1.8)
Depreciation          (0.3)  (0.3)  (0.3)  (0.3)  (0.3)  (0.2)
Repayment from loans                7.0    8.2    8.7   10.1   10.0   11.6
New current liabilities             0.3    0.3    0.3    0.4    0.4    0.5
New cash subscriptions              3.4    2.5    5.9    5.9    5.9    5.2
Encashment of demand notes )        1.8    1.8    -        -      -       -
Encashment of MOV notes    )
New long-term borrowings            4.3   10.7   38.6   19.9   25.0   20.0
Total Sources                  23.6   31.2   62.1   46.0   52.4   49.8
Uses
Loan disbursements                 20.8   22.7   29.5   36.4   43.6   41.2
Increase in other investments    (0.1)  (0.1)  (0.1)  (0.1)  (0.1)  (0.1)
Increase in fixed assets            0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1
Repayment of borrowings             2.7    3.3    6.8    4.7    4.7    4.7
Other                               0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2
Total Uses                     23.7   26.2   36.5   41.3   48.5   46.1
Net Flow                       (0.1)   5.0   25.6    4.7    3.9    3.7



ANNEX VIII
Page 1
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
FIFTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Assumptions Used in Financial Projections
A. General Assumptions
1.       Projected operations were prepared by CDB and reviewed by Bank
staff. The projected operations take into account the increased demand for
CDB's OCR (hard) resources arising from more active borrowing by Trinidad
and Tobago, The Bahamas and Barbados; CDB's increasingly important role as
a supplier of concessionary (soft) resources in the region; the increasing
average loan size being experienced; and judgments about the optimal blend
between "hard" and "soft" resources necessary to meet country
creditworthiness criteria.
2.       CDB's borrowers are classified into five Groups (see Annex III).
Based on an assessment of demand for lending by each Group, CDB's approvals
were projected as follows (TJS$ million):
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994   Total
OCR        38.1    44.0    49.0    46.0    53.5    55.5   286.1
SFR        42.0   6i35    39.3    43.0    57.5    62.5   307.8
Total    80.1   107.5    88.3    89.0   111.0   118.0   593.9
3.       Administrative cash expenses for 1989 reflect CDB's budget
approved by its Board. Based on assumed changes in the number and type of
operations and expected inflation of 4.2% p.a, total CDB administrative
cash costs have been projected. They have been allocated between OCR and
SFR lending operations based on the number of operations appraised and
supervised under each category. They were estimated as follows
(US$ million):
Actual
1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
OCR        1.9    2.1    2.4    2.6    2.9    3.2    3.5
SFR        46    50    5.5    6. 6.5   7.0    7.5
Total    6.5    7.4    8.1    8.9    9.7   10.2   11.0
4.       Loan Commitment and Disbursement patterns--both for OCR and SFR
resources--were assumed as follows, based on past experience:



ANNEX VIII
Page 2
Year following approval
1     2    3    4    5
Commitments (% non-SAL loans)       40   60    -    -    -
Commitments (% SAL loans)           100    -    -    -    -
Disbursements (E non-SAL loans)       5   25   25   17   16
Disbursements (% SAL loans)         100    -    -    -    -
5.       Interest Rates on Other Assets, Interest rates (%) on cash and
short-term securities were assumed to be as foliows:
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Cash                       5        5       5        5       5
Securities                 8        8       8        8       8
Secondary mortgages        7        7       7        7       7
B. OCR Assumptions
6.       Lending Rates were assumed to be 9% throughout the projection
period. CDB also charges a 1% front-end fee, and a 1% commitment fee on
undisbursed balances.
7.       Lending Terms.  Loans from OCR bear grace periods and maturities
which are tailored to sub-project cash flows. Loans are typically repayable
over 10-15 years following an appropriate grace period. Projections reflect
scheduled repayments from "old" loans.
8.       Shareholder Subscriptions. It was assumed that already-agreed
capital contributions by Italy and the Federal Republic of Germany would be
made, and that CDB shareholders would inject additional capital of
US$40 million over the period 1991-95. This amount would be made in five
equal annual installments, each consisting of 50% cash and 50% notes.
9.       No Settlement of Guyana Arrears. It was assumed that the Guyana
arrears would remain unsettled. If Guyana clears its arrears in 1990 and
continues to service debt thereafter, this would result in increases in
CDB's annual income as follows (US$ million):



- 68 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 3
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
Settlement of arrears      13.3       -      -       -      -
Provisions avoided            -    1.2    1.0    0.9    0.9
Interest income               -    1.3    1.2    1.1    1.0
Income on cash received    1.0    1 3    1.7    1.8    2 0
Total                 14.3    3.8    3.9    3.8    3.9
10.      Borrowings.  In order to fill a projected financing gap of about
US$77 million through 1992, CDB expects to contract loans for US$20 million
from the World Bank, US$20 million from the IDB, and US$37 million from the
Japanese market and EXIMBANK. It was assumed that the interest rate paid on
these borrowings would range from 7.5% to 8.5%, depending on the source and
currency of borrowing.   If borrowing costs should change, CDB would adjust
its lending rate to maintain an adequate spread, as prescribed by its
financial policies.
11.      Liguidity.  It was assumed that CDB would maintain OCR liquid
assets equal to two years' disbursements to be financed from CDB's own
funds and 10% of projected disbursements from lines of credit for the
current year.
C. Special Fund Resources Assumptions
12.      SFR lending is being funded from three separate sources of soft
funds viz.: Special Development Fund (Unified), Special Development Fund
(Other) and Other Special Funds. Financial projections for consolidated
SFR are in the Project Files.
13.      In accordance with CDB's policy, only funds from new
contributions, new concessionary borrowings, and reflows from donated funds
are used for relending. Reflows from loans funded by borrowings are used to
fund liquid investments, the earnings from which are used to support
technical assistance and other special programs. In practice, this policy
implies that new SFR lending is largely funded from the Special Development
Fund (Unified) and new concessionary borrowings.
14.      Lending Terms.  SDF lending terms by country Group were as
follows:



- 69 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 4
Maturity incl. Interest
Grace period   grace period      rate
Group           (yr)          (yr)           (C)
I               5             20              5
II              7             30              4
III            10             40              2
IV             10             40              2
D. Venezuela Trust Fund
15.      No forecasts were made for the operations of the Venezuela Trust
Fund (VTF) since the level of its operations is not material and the risk
on its operations is not borne by CDB.



70
ANNEX, I
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (CDB)
FIFTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
for the ProRosed Loan and Credit
IBRD/IDA fiscal year          Disbursements
& semester ending           each semester        Cumulative
FY91
December 31, 1990                0.2                  0.2
June 30, 1991                    0.4                  0.6
FY92
December 31, 1991                1.2                  1.8
June 30, 1992                    1.4                  3.2
FY93
December 31, 1992                2.0                  5.2
June 30, 1993                    3.0                  8.2
FY94
December 31, 1993                3.8                 12.0
June 30, 1994                    4.0                 16.0
FY95
December 31, 1994                4.0                 20.0
June 30, 1995                    3.0                 23.0
FY96
December 31, 1995                2.7                 25.7
June 30, 1996                    2.5                 28.2
FY97
December 31, 1996                2.0                 30.2
June 30, 1997                    1.0                 31.2
FY98
December 31, 1997                0.5                 31.7
June 30, 1998                    0.3                 32.0



- 71 -
-w-ugEm D"mmm AM 
FIFTH CARiBBEAN DEVELOPNgNS BANK PVOJECT
Pipeline of 1BRD and IDA Protects fog 1989-91
Source end amont of              Expected
CDB ftn  inE                  approval
Country            Type of project             IBRD    IDA      OCR       SFR     Total    date
Sransaortttion
Barbados           Road                        2.00       -     8.00         -    10.00    1990
St. Lucia          Airporr                     1.00    1.00     2.00         -     4.00    1990
St. Lucia          Road Lprovenent            1.00    1.00     1.00      2.00     5.00    1991
Bellee             Airstrip relocation         0.50       -         -     0.50     1.00    1991
Jamaica            Ocho Rlos By-Pass           2.00       -         -     1.00     3.00    1991
Dominica           Feeder roads                1.00    1.00         -        -     2.00    1990
St. VLncent        Feeder roads                1.00    1.00         -     1.00     3.00    1990
Guyana              Feeder roads                  -    20                 2 00     4 00   1991
Subtotal                                   8_ 6O 00    11.00           6_QLM   320
Public Utilities
Barbados            Sewerage (South Coast)    5.00        -         -     2.00     7.00    1990
Bell..             Water/6eewra8e              1.00       -         -     1.50     2.50    1990
St. Vincent        Water                       0 7S    0 75         --             1.50    1990
Subtotal                                    6-7 75     0  75      -     25    11.2
IndustrLal Estates
St. Vincent        Industrial estates          1.00    1.00         -     1.00     3.00    1989
St. Lucia          Industrial estates          1.50   J. 1SO              L.QO    L40       1990
Subtotal                                   2  50       2 50     -      2 .00    7 00
St. Lucia          Potnte Seraphinm            1.00    1.00         -     1.00     S.00    1991
^ U scultur2
Dominica           Land development            0.75    0.75         -        -     1.50    1991
GuYana              Irrigationldralnage           -    3.00         -        -      3.00    1991
St. Kitts          Rurtl ivelopment            1 20        1 20     -      -       2 4       90  1
Subtotal                                   If       L  4                -5
Total                      170    520                13. 0
Notet CDB normally prepares en 18-month lending program and updates it every two cAoths.  The
Bank and CDR will jointly review their lending programs for the Commaonwealth Caribbean at
least once every year In the context of the collaborative program.



CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
CDB ORGANIZATION CHART
re~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MMSO WrA
1S                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~~4 S I  11
04 d    9P  STAEf
A.mi.
Ow- ~ ~ ~     ~
_  le._          -,ff     m       -



- 73 -
ANNEX XII
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
PROJECT FILE
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
A-1      Annual reports 1986-88
A-2      CDB's sectoral lending strategy papers for agriculture, industry,
tourism, infrastructure, and indirect lending
A-3      CDB management "Proposals for a General Capital Increase" (Paper
BD 75/88 Rev. 2 and Paper BD 75/88 Rev. 2 Add. 1)
A-4      Special Development Fund (Unified) Operations and Prospects,
1991-94 (paper BD 61/89)
A-5      CDB's OCR Borrowing Strategy, Experience and a Program for 1989-95
(paper BD 1/89)
A-6      Work Programme and Administrative Budget-1990 (Paper BD 60/89)
A-7      Organization and Staff List, July 1989
A-8      Private Sector Lending:  Problems and Prospects, October 1988
A-9      Financial Policies, April 1988
A-10     Rules for the Special Development Fund, June 1983
A-ll     CDB's Guidelines for Procurement, revised April 1986
A-12     CDB's Guidelines for Choice of Consultants, revised April 1986
A-13     General Guidelines for Post-Evaluation in the Caribbean
Development Bank
A-14     CDB OCR Financial Policies and Operating Guidelines (Paper BD
106/86)
A-15     General Framework for CDB onlending rates to end-users (through
financial intermediaries)
GENERAL
B-1      A Programme for Agricultural Diversification in the OECS, November
1988



MAP SECTION



000~~                              rt      9002
MAI                                                       THE CARIBBEAN AREA
C     AAM  I     \GEA   BC
rn         qR Al t1 ..I:BAC                                      Organization of Eastern Caribbean States Members (OECS)
PROVIDENCE    ELFUTHERA I                               fMT:SGUA  Coribbeon  Development Bank Members
ANDROS       - ~ CELL S S:ALVADO             1         . -  - InternatiOnal Bounclaries
ANDROS I"        ~Z ..             ATLVADD I
100 50  0        100     200      300      400
I   ONG I                                                               MILES
C                                \IONGI ,-FD9M           X   1                         100 50  0     100M       2 200  3300  00   600
ACKI INS           CAICS                                            KILOMETERS
GREAT INAGUA I             Z-~   URKS IS
1                                CAIMAN is                                                    HAITI DOMINICAN                               VIRGIN IS (UK)
(U S.)    ANGUILLA
ST. MARTIN         BARBUDA
JA ;;   !  IEMAICA                                                PUERTO RICO        ST KlTrS         ANTIGUA
\   I  tlFL12F                                                                                                                       ANDNEVIS         MONTSeRRAT
\  g                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GUADELOUPE
)GUATEMALA7'                                                                                                                                                                         DOMINICA
,// H O N D U R A S                                                                     /                                                                        MARTINIOUE
"4OQ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  (*v-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' ~~~~~ST LUCIA
4OR    r                                                                                                                                          ST. VINCENT TARBADOS
-NlCARAGUA                                                                                           ARUAA
CURAgA0                                       GRENADA
BONAI RE
f                                               MARGARITA             TOBAGO
<  _                                S                                                                        ~~~~~~~~    ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRINIDARD?0
COST                                                                      /IWiR10
PANAMA
sr    CANAL    F              
CARIFTA IOECS DISTANCES IN AIR ROUTE MILES                 P     A
I'  A 
';01 ij             I F |01                                                                            V | E   .   E | E.  o t     *    E E  N  E  7  U  E  L    A
.T!G  _  454. 293 237  63  351 9911 891 35$1 135 1749 3 20j7                                                                                                                                        GUYANA           ,
0ROADGS    216. 116  IIS  383 357;1020| 50  138 25U                                                                                                                                                 GUYAN
5   23 581. 1778  Tho map has beaPr'p0fOd b
LI_E     217 1 L 8 89.47 1716 17422 753 2528 2213 13913   The 905W 5011  sta8f aenlwo                                                                r,
I I CA    358 17Y9  57 176: 133 1113, 710  253           eedem W a Ockoley                  C      O                                                                                                                 >
L1.DA    11;  71  120 4201 3911 _5731 4-5                                                                L       O      M       B       I      A ? 6N. 1                      _
iYANA     3535 554 87 j 895. 8                             ..,eraI7heb rdsAnO ,                                                                                            i -  
kMAICA    1413 113111080l 9358t.                            , 9  MpAPdo Mtln*.                                                                        ,                                              I 8
_1._ I   I   '   ]                  ~~~~~~~~Ped o! The KbW Sank ndt 0*                                                                               !_\*
INTSERRAT  4900  329, 268| 51:                            htea,alose  FrnoCeC bonL
803d I-9"'" 00*fg .1891880.
r. KITTS    1       2941                                   e         f                                                                  r - (     0,                                R  A    Z   I  L 1f
r. LUCIA   2 330 L 54& k4bO 815091
r. VINCE'.T  1.                                                                                                                                            '0                        - ____ -'
APRIL 1987



