CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 291 NEP
Development Credit
Agreement
(Kathmandu Tourism Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 22, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 291 NEP
Development Credit
Agreement
(Kathmandu Tourism Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 22, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 22, 1972, between KINGDOM OF NEPAL
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01,
6.02 (h) and 10.03 thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i) into
6.02 (h) thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "NIDC" means the Nepal Industrial Development Corporation,
established by the Nepal Industrial Development Corporation Act, 1959;
(b)   "NIDC Arrangements" means the arrangements to be entered into
between the Borrower and NIDC pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(c) "Annapurna" means the Hotel de l'Annapurna Pvt. Ltd., a company
organized and existing under the Company Act, 1964, of Nepal;
(d)   "Annapurna Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between NIDC, acting for and on behalf of the Borrower, and Annapurna pursuant
to Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(e)   "Yak and Yeti" means the Yak and Yeti Pvt. Ltd., a corporation
organized and existing under the Company Act, 1964, of Nepal;


﻿4
(f) "Yak and Yeti Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between NIDC, acting for and on behalf of the Borrower, and Yak and Yeti
pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(g)   "NRs" means Nepalese Rupees.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to four million two hundred thousand
dollars ($4,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in August 1969 as revised in May 1971, and in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1975 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿5
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February I
and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
February I   and   August 1,   commencing   August 1, 1982   and   ending
February 1, 2022, each installment to and including the installment payable on
February 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, NIDC is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall exercise every right and recourse available
to it to cause Annapurna to carry out and operate Part A of the Project and
Yak and Yeti to carry out and operate Part B of the Project, with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound engineering, financial and hotel
management practices.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:
(a)   enter into arrangements with NIDC satisfactory to the Association and
incorporating provisions substantially similar to those set forth in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement or otherwise acceptable to the Association, whereby NIDC will
act for and on behalf of the Borrower in relending the proceeds of the Credit
to Annapurna and Yak and Yeti; and
(b)   cause NIDC, acting for and on behalf of the Borrower, to enter into
agreements with Annapurna and Yak and Yeti, respectively, for the relending to
Annapurna of $2,880,000 equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit and to Yak
and Yeti of $1,320,000 equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit, such agreements


﻿6
to be satisfactory to the Association and to incorporate provisions substantially
similar to those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement or otherwise acceptable
to the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the NIDC
Arrangements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the NIDC Arrangements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to
take all action which shall be necessary on their part to enable NIDC, Annapurna
and Yak and Yeti to perform all of their obligations under the NIDC Arrangements,
the Annapurna Agreement and the Yak and Yeti Agreement, respectively, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which might interfere with such
performance.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by NIDC, Annapurna and Yak and Yeti of their
obligations under the NIDC Arrangements, Annapurna Agreement and Yak and
Yeti Agreement, respectively, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of its political subdivisions, if any, and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the


﻿7
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by NIDC, Annapurna or Yak and Yeti of
their obligations under the NIDC Arrangements, the Annapurna Agreement and
the Yak and Yeti Agreement, respectively.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:


﻿8
(a)   A default shall occur in the performance by Annapurna of any of
its obligations under the Annapurna Agreement or by Yak and Yeti of any of
its obligations under the Yak and Yeti Agreement.
(b)   A default shall occur in the performance of any obligation under any
of the undertakings referred to in paragraph 18 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   A default shall occur in the performance by NIDC of any of its
obligations under the NIDC Arrangements.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the NIDC Arrangements
have been entered into, and their execution and delivery on behalf of the respective
parties have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and
corporate action.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the NIDC
Arrangements have been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the respective parties, and constitute a valid and binding obligation
of the respective parties thereto in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The Development Credit Agreement shall not in any event
come into force and effect in respect of any part of the Credit until the Association
shall have dispatched to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the (i) evidence
provided for in Sections 10.01 and 10.02 of the General Conditions and (ii) the
evidence and opinions provided for in Section 7.04 of this Agreement or Section
7.05 of this Agreement, or both, as the case may be.
Section 7.04. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree and subject to Section 10.01 of the General Conditions, the Development
Credit Agreement shall come into force and effect in respect of that part of the
Credit to be made available for Part A of the Project when:
(a)   Evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to
the Association that:


﻿9
(i)         the Annapurna Agreement has been entered into, and its
execution and delivery on behalf of the respective parties have
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
and corporate action;
(ii)        all indebtedness of Annapurna to its shareholders for money
borrowed shall have been discharged through the conversion of
such indebtedness into eo%ity shares of Annapurna; and
(iii)       the undertakings, in form   and substance satisfactory to the
Association, referred to in paragraph 18 of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement and relating to Annapurna shall have been entered
into by the respective shareholders of Annapurna;
(b)   An opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel
acceptable to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association showing
that:
(i)         the Annapurna Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the respective
parties and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the
respective parties thereto in accordance with its terms;
(ii)        the undertakings referred   to  in  paragraph (a) (iii) above
constitute valid and binding obligations of the respective
shareholders; and
(iii)       Annapurna is duly organized and existing under the laws of
Nepal and has full power to own the properties and to carry
on the business which it owns and carries on and proposes to
own and carry on for the purpose of Part A of the Project;
that all governmental acts, consents and approvals necessary
therefor have been duly and validly performed or given; and
that all land and interests in land necessary therefor have been
duly ol-,ined.
(c)   The Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of its acceptance
of the evidence and opinions referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) above.
Section 7.05. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree and subject to Section 10.01 of the General Conditions, the Development
Credit Agreement shall come into force and effect in respect of that part of the
Credit to be made available for Part B of the Project when:


﻿10
(a)   Evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to
the Association that:
(i)         the Yak and Yeti Agreement has been entered into, and its
execution and delivery on behalf of the respective parties have
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
and corporate action;
(ii)        all indebtedness of Yak and Yeti to its shareholders for money
borrowed shall have been discharged through the conversion of
such indebtedness into equity shares of Yak and Yeti;
(iii)       the undertakings, in form   and substance satisfactory to the
Association, referred to in paragraph 18 of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement and relating to Yak and Yeti, shall have been entered
into by the shareholders of Yak and Yeti; and
(iv)        arrangements satisfactory to the Association shall have been
made for the acquisition by Yak and Yeti of the land or interests
in land required for an access road to the proposed site of Part
B of the Project;
(b)   An opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel
acceptable to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association showing
that:
(i)         the Yak and Yeti Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the respective
parties, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the
respective parties thereto in accordance with its terms;
(ii)        the  undertakings referred  to  in  paragraph (a) (iii) above
constitute valid and binding obligations of the respective
shareholders; and
(iii)       Yak and Yeti is duly organized and existing under the laws of
Nepal and has full power to own the properties and to carry
on the business which it owns and carries on and proposes to
own and carry on for the purpose of Part B of the Project;
that all governmental acts, consents and approvals necessary
therefor have been duly and validly performed or given; and


﻿that all land and interests in land necessary therefor have been
duly obtained.
(c)   The Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of its acceptance
of the evidence and opinions referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) above.
Section 7.06. The date August 1, 1972 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.07. Notwithstanding Section 7.06 of this Agreement, if by
August 1, 1972 there shall be a portion of the Credit in respect of which the
Development Credit Agreement shall not have come into force and effect, then
all obligations of the parties hereunder with respect to such portion of the Credit
shall terminate and such portion of the Credit shall be deemed to be cancelled
pursuant to Article VI of the General Conditions, unless the Association, after
consideration of the reasons for the delay, establishes a later date for the purposes
of this Section. If the Associationr -stablishes a later date for the purposes of this
Section, it shall promptly noti'y ie Borrower of such later date.
Section 7.08. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.01 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date 24 years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Secretary to the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Ministry of Finance
Singha Durbar
Kathmandu, Nepal


﻿12
Cable address:
Artha
Kathmandu
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By /s / Kul Shekhar Sharma
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
I.    Civil Works for               2,100,000            70% of total ex-
Part A of the                                      penditures (rep-
Project                                            resenting the
estimated for-
eign exchange
component)
II.   Equipment and Fur-              640,000            100% of total
niture for Part A                                  expenditures
of the Project
III.  Professional Ser-               140,000            100% of foreign
vices, Technical                                   expenditures
Assistance and Pre-
opening Expenses
for Part A of the
Project
IV.   Civil Works for               1,000,000           70% of total ex-
Part B of the                                      penditures (rep-
Project                                            resenting the
estimated for-
eign exchange
component)
V.    Equipment and Fur-              250,000            100% of total
niture for Part B                                  expenditures
of the Project


﻿14
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
VI.  Professional Ser-                 70,000            100% of foreign
vices and Pre-                                     expenditures
opening Expenses
for Part B of the
Project
TOTAL              4,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category III on account of expenditures
incurred after January 1, 1972, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $45,000
qnivalent;
(b)   expenditures in respect of equipment and furniture included in
(ategories I and V exceeding (i) in the case of imported equipment and furniture,
the c.i.f. cost of such equipment at the Borrower's point of entry and (ii) in the
case of equipment and furniture, produced in the territories of the Borrower, the
0x-factory cost of such equipment; and
(c)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,


﻿15
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above, if the Association shall have
reasonably determined that the procurement of any item in any Category is
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the Development Credit
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in
the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.   The existing Hotel de l'Annapurna in Kathmandu will be expanded
to provide a total of approximately 240 double rooms, as well as improved
mechanical systems and additional eating, service and recreational facilities.
Approximately 80 of the existing rooms will be remodelled and refurbished.
B.   A new hotel in Kathmandu, expected to be called the Yak and Yeti
Hotel, will be constructed, equipped and furnished, providing approximately 25
single rooms, 85 double rooms and 6 suites, as well as eating, service and recreational
facilities. Existing facilities will be improved, and an access road will be constructed.
The Project is expected to be completed by the end of 1974.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    The procurement of goods and services for Part A of the Project will be
carried out by Annapurna and for Part B of the Project by Yak and Yeti.
Documentation required under this Schedule 3 will be furnished to the Association
through NIDC.
2.    With respect to any contract for civil works or for furniture and equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   Bidders for civil works contracts will be prequalified in accordance
with paragraph 1.3 of the Guidelines referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement.
(b)   As to bidders for civil works contracts, the Association shall, before
qualification is invited, be informed in detail of the procedure to be followed and
such modifications shall be introduced i id procedure as the Association shall
reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished to the Association for its comments before the
applicants are notified, and such additions or deletions from the said list shall
be made as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)   Before bids are invited, the Association shall be furnished, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and such modifications in the said documents or procedure shall
be made as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification to
the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is issued
to the prospective bidders.
(d)   After bids have been received and evaluated and before a final decision
on the award is made, the Association shall be informed of the name of the bidder
to whom it is intended to award the contract and shall be furnished, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the consultants
to the company. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03
of this Agreement, promptly inform NIDC and the company making the award
and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿18
(e)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(f)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
3.    With respect to any other contract for furniture and equipment, the
Association shall be furnished, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, with two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement,
promptly inform NIDC and the company making the award and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.    For the purpose of evaluating bids for furniture and equipment included
in Categories II and V of the table set out in paragraph I of Schedule I to this
Agreement, bid prices shall be determined and compared in accordance with the
following rules:
(a)   the term  "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a manufacturer
established in the territories of the Borrower for goods manufactured or processed
to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Association) in such
territories; any other bid shall be deemed to be a "Foreign Bid";
(b)   the bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of the following
amounts:
(i)         the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii)        inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such
goods to the place of their use or installation;
(c)   for the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid,
the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the following amounts:
(i)         the c.i.f. price of such goods;


﻿19
(ii)        the amount of any taxes on the importation of such goods into
the territories of the Borrower which generally apply to
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified in (i)
above, whichever shall be the lower; and
(iii)       inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such
goods to the place of their use or installation.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 4
Provisions to be Included in
the NIDC Arrangements
The NIDC Arrangements between the Borrower and NIDC shall include
provisions substantially as follows:
1.   NIDC shall act for and on behalf of the Borrower in relending the
proceeds of the Credit to Annapurna and Yak and Yeti to be applied to the carrying
out of the Project.
2.    For this purpose NIDC shall enter into agreements with Annapurna
and Yak and Yeti incorporating provisions substantially similar to those set forth
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
3.   NIDC shall (a) administer the loans to Annapurna and Yak and Yeti
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound financial practices
and (b) exercise its rights under the Annapurna Agreement and the Yak and Yeti
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit.
4.    Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree,
NIDC shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Annapurna Agreement or
the Yak and Yeti Agreement or any provision of either.
5.   Upon receiving payments of principal, ifterest or other charges
pursuant to the Annapurna Agreement and the Yak and Yeti Agreement, NIDC
shall, subject to the provisions of paragraph 7 below, promptly pay over to the
Borrower the entire amounts of such payments received.
6.   NIDC shall obtain and administer the mortgages referred to in
paragraph 19 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement for and on behalf of the Borrower.
7.   As a service charge for the services to be rendered by NIDC under
the NIDC Arrangements, the Borrower shall pay to NIDC in NRs the equivalent
of $20,000 annually for the four-year period following the date of the conclusion
of the NIDC Arrangements and the equivalent of $4,000 annually thereafter until
the termination of the NIDC Arrangements. Such service charge shall be accrued
until NIDC begins to receive interest payments on the loans under the Annapurna
Agreement and the Yak and Yeti Agreement. Thereafter NIDC shall retain from


﻿21
interest payments to be transmitted to the Borrower amounts due NIDC on account
of service charge.
8.    (a) NIDC shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices all financial transactions of NIDC with respect to the
loans made under the Annapurna Agreement and the Yak and Yeti Agreement
and shall enable the representatives of the Borrower and the Association to inspect
such records.
(b)   NIDC shall furnish to the Borrower and the Association all such
information as the Borrower and the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the status of the loans made under the Annapurna Agreement and the Yak and
Yeti Agreement and the performance by NIDC of its obligations under the NIDC
Arrangements.
9.    NIDC and the Borrower shall cooperate fully to assure that the
purposes of the NIDC Arrangements will be accomplished. They shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives and with the Association's
representatives with regard to matters relating to the purposes of the NIDC
Arrangements. NIDC shall promptly inform the Borrower and the Association of
any  condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the NIDC Arrangements or the performance
by NIDC of its obligations under the NIDC Arrangements.
10.  The NIDC Arrangements shall enter into force and effect upon the
entry into force and effect of the Development Credit Agreement in respect of
any part of the Credit and shall terminate when all amounts payable on account
of principal, interest and other charges in respect of the loans made pursuant to
the Annapurna Agreement and the Yak and Yeti Agreement have been paid.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 5
Provisions to be Included in
the Annapurna Agreement
and the Yak and Yeti Agreement
The Annapurna Agreement between NIDC, acting for and on behalf of the
Borrower, and Annapurna and the Yak and Yeti Agreement between NIDC, acting
for and on behalf of the Borrower, and Yak and Yeti shall include provisions
substantially as follows. For the purposes of this Schedule the term "Company"
refers to Annapurna or Yak and Yeti, and the term "Company Loan Agreement"
refers to the Annapurna Agreement or the Yak and Yeti Agreement, as the case
may be.
1.   NIDC, acting for and on behalf of the Borrower, will lend to the Company
(a) amounts denominated in various currencies not to exceed in the aggregate the
equivalent of $2,880,000 in the case of Annapurna and $1,320,000 in the case
of Yak and Yeti corresponding to the amounts and currencies actually disbursed
from time to time in respect of withdrawals from the Credit Account on account
of expenditures for the part of the Project to be carried out by the Company
and (b) amounts in NRs not to exceed the equivalent of $400,000 in the case
of Annapurna and $180,000 in the case of Yak and Yeti to be applied against
interest and other charges on the Loan coming due through, in the case of
Annapurna, March 31, 1975,    and  in  the   case  of  Yak  and   Yeti,
December 31, 1974. The amounts to be lent to the Company under this paragraph,
in the aggregate not to exceed the equivalent of $3,280,000 in the case of
Annapurna and $1,500,000 in the case of Yak and Yeti, are referred to in this
Schedule as the "Loan".
2.   (a)  Amounts of the Loan referred to in paragraph I (a) above shall be
deemed to be drawn down by the Company on the date and in the amount and
currency or currencies actually disbursed in respect of the corresponding withdrawal
by the Borrower from the Credit Account on account of expenditures for the
part of the Project to be carried out by the Company. Amounts of the Loan
referred to in paragraph 1 (b) above shall be deemed to be drawn down by the
Company on the dates the amounts are applied against amounts of interest and
other charges coming due on the Loan.
(b)  NIDC will effect disbursements of the Loan to the Company by
applying to the Association on behalf of the Borrower for withdrawals from the
Credit Account. The Company will furnish to NIDC all documentation required
by NIDC to make applications to the Association for such withdrawals.


﻿23
(c)  With respect to any withdrawal from the Credit Account by the
Borrower on account of amounts paid by the Company, NIDC will, pursuant to
Section 5.07 of the General Conditions, instruct the Association where to make
payment of such withdrawal for the account of the Company.
3.   The Company shall pay a commitment charge at the rate of one-quarter
of one per cent (1/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan
not withdrawn from time to time. Such commitment charge shall (i) accrue from
the date when the Company Loan Agreement enters into effect to the respective
dates on which amounts shall be deemed drawn down by the Company or shall
be cancelled, (ii) be paid in NRs equivalent, at the date of payment, to the amount
of commitment charge due as determined in dollars, and (iii) be computed on
the basis of a 365-day year.
4.   The Company shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan deemed
drawn down and outstanding from time to time at the rate of seven and one-half
per cent (7-1/2%) per annum. Interest shall accrue from the respective dates on
which amounts shall be deemeL. so drawn down and shall be computed on the
basis of a 365-day year. Interest shall be paid in NRs in an amount equivalent,
at the date of payment, to the amounts of interest due as determined in various
currencies in relation to the principal amount of each currency deemed drawn
down.
5.   Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually.
6.   The Company shall pay to, or on behalf of, the Borrower any charge payable
by the Borrower to the Association for any special commitment entered into by
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions at the request
of the Company.
7.   The Company shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in semi-annual
installments commencing approximately four years after the date of the Company
Loan Agreement and continuing over the following twenty years. The semi-annual
installments of principal shall be calculated so as to produce approximately equal
semi-annual payments of principal and interest combined. The actual amortization
schedule shall be agreed between NIDC and the Company. The Company shall
have the option of prepaying the Loan, in whole or in part from time to time,
without payment of premium   or penalty. The principal of the Loan shall be
repayable in Rupees equivalent (determined as of the date, or the respective dates,
of repayment) to the amounts of the several currencies deemed withdrawn from
the Loan Account.


﻿24
8.    The Company shall:
(a)   carry out Part A of the Project in the case of Annapurna, Part B
in the case of Yak and Yeti, with due diligence and efficiency in conformity with
sound engineering, financial and hotel practices;
(b)   in carrying out its part of the Project, employ. consultants and
contractors acceptable to NIDC and the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to NIDC and the Association;
(c)   carry out the construction works for its part of the Project in
accordance only with final drawings acceptable to NIDC and the Association;
(d)   furnish to NIDC and the Association for their approval, promptly upon
its preparation, the master list of furniture and equipment for its part of the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto;
(e)   employ a project manager acceptable to NIDC and the Association
to supervise the carrying out of its part of the Project;
(f)   procure the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan in accordance with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section
2.03 of and Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and submit all documentation required
under such Schedule 3 and relating to procurement of such goods and services
to NIDC for its approval and submission to the Association;
(g)   insure, or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Company to replace or repair such goods;
(h)   except as NIDC and the Association shall otherwise agree, cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the Company's part of the Project;
(i)   furnish to NIDC and the Association promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, reports, specifications, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as NIDC and the Association shall reasonably
request; and


﻿25
(j)   (i) maintain records adequate to record the progress of its part of
the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in its
part of the Project; (ii) enable the representatives of NIDC and the Association
to inspect its part of the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to NIDC and the Association
all such information as NIDC and the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
9.    The Company shall (i) maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of the Company, (ii) enable the representatives of NIDC and
the Association to inspect the plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of
the Company not included in the Project and any relevant records and documents,
and (iii) furnish to NIDC and the Association all such information as NIDC and
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the administration, financial
condition and operations of the Company.
10.   The Company shall (i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
4 year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to NIDC and te Association; (ii) furnish to
NIDC and the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after thO end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as NIDC and the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to NIDC and the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Company and
the audit thereof as NIDC or the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
11.   The Company shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make
other provisions satisfactory to NIDC and the Association for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.
12.   (a)  The Company shall at all times take all action necessary to maintain
its corporate existence and right to carry on operations and shall, except as NIDC
and the Association may otherwise agree, take all action necessary to acquire and
to retain such land, interests in land and properties and to acquire, to maintain
and to renew such licenses, consents, franchises, or other rights, as may be necessary


﻿26
or useful for the construction and operation of its part of the Project and the
conduct of its business.
(b)   The Company shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound business, hotel and financial practices, shall employ qualified
and experienced management acceptable to the Association and NIDC and shall
operate, maintain, renew and repair its buildings, equipment, furniture and property
as required in accordance with sound engineering and hotel practices.
13.   Except as NIDC shall otherwise agree, the Company shall not:
(i)         amend its Memorandum      and Articles of Association;
(ii)        create, acquire or have any subsidiaries; or
(iii)       sell, lease, transfer, or otherwise dispose of any of its properties
or assets which shall be required for the efficient carrying on
of its business.
14.   Except as NIDC     shall otherwise agree, the Company shall not make
expenditures, or commitments for expenditures, for fixed or capital assets (including
investments in or loans to other business entities), except:
(a)   Throughout the period of construction of its part of the Project, those
required for the carrying out of its part of the Project;
(b)   After the completion of construction of its part of the Project: (i)
those required for repair, maintenance, or replacement of assets and (ii) in any
fiscal year other expenditures and commitments to make expenditures not
exceeding in the aggregate the equivalent of $50,000; and
(c)   Investments in short-term marketable securities solely for the purpose
of temporarily employing its idle funds.
15.   Except as NIDC shall otherwise agree, the Company shall not incur, assume,
guarantee or permit to exist any debt for money borrowed except:
(i)         the Loan; and
(ii)        debt which matures within one year of its incurrence or on
demand and which is incurred in the ordinary course of business.


﻿27
16.  Except as the Association and NIDC shall otherwise agree, the Company
shall not declare or pay any dividends, or make any other distributions with respect
to its capital shares, or, directly or indirectly, redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire
for a consideration, any of its capital shares, except that the Company may:
(i)        declare and pay dividends, or make other distributions, payable
solely in capital shares of the Company; and
(ii)       if the Company is not in default under the Company Loan
Agreement, declare and pay dividends out of, but not in excess
of, its cumulative net earnings after the date of the Company
Loan Agreement; provided, however, that the Company shall not
with respect to any financial year declare or pay dividends
exceeding in the aggregate 80% of the net earnings of the
Company for that financial year.
17.  Except as the Association and NIDC shall otherwise agree, and subject to
the provisions of paragraph 16 above, the Company shall not in any financial year
pay dividends exceeding in the aggregate 20o of the par value of the capital shares
with respect to which such dividends are paid, unless the Company shall
*       simultaneously prepay a portion of the then outstanding principal amount of the
Loan equal to the amount of dividends paid in excess of such 20% of such par
value.
18.  (a)   The Company shall obtain from each of its shareholders an undertaking
in favor of the Company, NIDC and the Association severally, and satisfactory
in form and substance to the Association and NIDC, setting forth the obligation
of the respective shareholder to:
(i)        make payments to the Company for a specified number of
additional capital shares of the Company in accordance with a
specified time schedule; and
(ii)       subscribe and pay for capital shares of the Company, in addition
to those provided for in subparagraph (i) above, as and when
necessary to provide to the Company the shareholder's
proportionate share (the proportion his shareholdings bear to
the total outstanding shares of the Company) of any additional
funds required by the Company to carry out its part of the
Project.


﻿28
(b)   The Company shall cause to be furnished to NIDC:
(i)         opinions of counsel satisfactory to the Association and NIDC
concluding that each of the undertakings referred to in
subparagraph (a) above constitutes a valid and binding obligation
of the respective shareholder; and
(ii)        evidence of other arrangements, satisfactory in form   and
substance to the Association and NIDC, to assure the
performance by the shareholders of their obligations under the
undertakings referred to in subparagraph (a) above.
(c)   The Company shall exercise its rights under the undertakings referred
to in subparagraph (a). above in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Company, NIDC and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
(d)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 16 and 17 above, the
Company shall not declare or pay any dividend if at the time of such declaration
or payment any of the shareholders of the Company is in default of any obligation
under the respective shareholder's undertaking.
19.  The Company shall execute, deliver and register, and shall maintain in effect,
instruments, in form and substance satisfactory to NIDC, as required to establish
as security for the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, a
first specific mortgage upon the properties, buildings and equipment of the
Company.
20.   (a)  The Company and NIDC shall cooperate fully to assure that the
purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall furnish
to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request with regard to
the general status of the Loan.
(b)   The Company and NIDC shall from      time to time exchange views
through their representatives, and with the representatives of the Association, with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Loan and the maintenance of
the service thereof. The Company shall promptly inform NIDC and the Association
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the service thereof
or the performance by the Company of its obligations under the Company Loan
Agreement.


﻿29
21.  If the right of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement to
make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended or
terminated, regardless of the reason therefor, then the right of the Company to
make drawings under the Loan shall likewise and simultaneously be suspended for
the same period, or terminated, as the case may be.
22.  Notwithstanding paragraph 7 above, upon the occurrence of any of the
following events, NIDC, at its option, but only with the consent of the Association,
may by notice to the Company declare the principal of the Loan then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately, and upon any such declaration such principal
shall become due and payable immediately:
(a)  if the Company defaults for a period of thirty days in the payment
of any interest or in the repayment of any installment of principal falling due
under the Company Loan Agreement;
(b)  if the Company defaults in the performance of any other covenant
or agreement on its part under the Company Loan Agreement and such default
continues for a period of sixty days afterpnotice thereof has been given by NIDC
to the Company; or
(c)  if any shareholder of the Company defaults in the performance of
any of such shareholder's obligations under the undertaking referred to in paragraph
18 above and such default continues for a period of sixty days after notice thereof
has been given by NIDC to the Company.
23.  The Company Loan Agreement shall enter into force and effect upon the
entry into force and effect of the Development Credit Agreement in respect of
the relevant part of the Credit and shall terminate when all amounts payable on
account of principal, interest and other charges in respect of the Loan have been
paid.


