Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.T-6473 RU    -
TECHNICAL ANNEX TO THE
MEMORANDUM OF THE PRESIDENT
THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
TAX ADMINISTRATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 15, 1995
Human Resources Division
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Unit of Currency = Ruble
December       1991    =       170
December       1992    =      420
December       1993    =    1229
August         1994    =    2200
January        1995    =    3861
TERMS & ACRONYMS
CAS - Country Assistance Strategy
CTA - Chief Technical Advisor
DC - Direct Contracting
EC - European Community
EDP - Electronic Data Processing
FY - Fiscal Year
IBRD - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB - Intemational Competitive Bidding
IMF - International Monetary Fund
IS - International Shopping
ITTC - International Tax Training Center
LAN - Local Area Network
LCB - Local Competitive Bidding
LIB - Limited International Bidding
LS - Local Shopping
MOF - Ministry of Finance
NBF - Not Bank Financed
OECD - Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OJT - On-the-job Training
PMU - Project Management Unit
PPF - Project Preparation Facility
SOE - Statement of Expenditures
STI - State Tax Inspectorate
STS - State Tax Service
TIN - Taxpayer Identification Number
TOR - Terms of Reference
USAID - United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



THE RusSIAN FEDERATION
TAX ADMISISTRATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT'
TECHNiCAL ANNEx
CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY                            ..........................................   1
CHAPTER  1. INRODUCTION   ............................................   3
CHAPTER 2. THE SECTOR SETnNG   .......................................   5
A.       Tax Policy Development   ....................................   5
B.       The Tax Administration System   ................................   5
CHATER 3. PROBLEMS AND ISSUES IN TAX ADMINISRATiON   .....................    15
A.        Expanded Workload   ......................................    15
B.       Organization and Procedures  .................................    16
C.        Inadequate Processing Capacity   ...............................    16
D.       Lack of Adequately Trained Staff ..............................    17
CHAPTR  4. STRATEGY AND PROGRAMS  ...................................    19
A.        Strategy for Tax Modernization  ...............................    19
B.        Programs for Tax Administration Reform   .........................    19
C.        Donor Assistance  ........................................    22
D.        Constraints on Program  Implementation  ..........................    22
CHAPRm  5. LESSONS OF EXPEREENCE AND BANK STRATEGY  ........                                   ..         ............   23
A.        Lessons of Experience  ...........                                                                        23
B.    Bank Role and Strategy ..........................  24
CHAPTER 6. THE PROJECT ..........................  25
A.   Objectives ..........................  25
B.    Project Description ...........................  25
CHAPTER  7. COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION   .........                                ..         ..............   43
A.        Project Costs ...........................................    43
B.       Project Financing  ........................................    46
C.        Project Management and Implementation   .........................   46
D.   Procurement .                   ...........................................  55
E.        Project Accounting, Financial, Auditing and Progress Reporting   ...                          .......   59
F.        Disbursements  ..........................................    60
G.        Monitoring and Evaluation  ..................................    62
H.       Project Sustainability  ......................................    63
I.        Bank Supervision  ........................................    63
CHAPTER 8. BENEnTS AND RisKS                       ...................                   ....................    65
A.        Benefits  .           .............................................    65
B.    Risks ................................................  65
CHA     ER  9. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   .......                                  ..         ...........   67
' This report is based on 'Russian Federation: Tax Administration Project-Preparation Report' of June 17, 1994, a
Bank pre-appraisal mission of August 1994, and a project preparation review mission of November 1994. The pre-appraisal
mission consisted of Task Manager Richard Johanson (ILO), Carlos Ferreira (EMTDR). Dmitry Petrin (EC3MO), Joao B.
Oliveira (EDIHR), Nalini Srinivas (EC3HR), and Frank Kenefick (procurement specialist).



Atachments
Attachment 1: Composition of Taxes (by Levels of Budgets)  ......................    69
Attachment 2:  Detailed Automation Costs  ..................................    71
Attachment 3:  Detailed STS Project Staff Training Plan   .........................    73
Attachment 4: Detailed Project Costs by Component   ..........................  83
Attachment 5:  Detailed Project Costs by Financier .............................    87
Attachment 6:  Implementation Plan   ......................................    89
Attachment 7:  Procurement Plan and Schedule  ...............................    95
Attachment 8:  Monitoring and Impact Indicators  ..............................    97
Attachment 9:  Mission Supervision Plan  ...................................   101
Tables
Table 2.1:  Tax Administration Functions by Level ..............................   8
Table 2.2:  Growth in Tax Administration System    .............................    11
Table 3.1:  STS Workload -  Numbers of Returns and Payments to Process  .............   15
Table 4.1:  Overview  of Phased Approach to Tax Modernization ....................   20
Table 6.1:  Phase 2 Dimensions .........................................   26
Table 6.2:  Investments in Information Technology by Region  ......................    30
Table 6.3:  Summary of Training Needs Analysis ..............................    34
Table 6.4:  Approximation of Planned Formal Training  ...........................   35
Table 6.5:  Summary of Technical Assistance  ................................    39
Table 6.6:  Detailed Technical Assistance Inputs   ..............................   40
Table 7.1:  Estimated Project Costs by Project Component ........................    44
Table 7.2:  Estimated Project Costs by Category of Expenditure   ....................   45
Table 7.3:  Project Financing Plan   .......................................    46
Table 7.4:  Implementation Staff by Type and Location .. I                            ........................    52
Table 7.5:  Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements  ......................    56
Table 7.6:  Loan Disbursements Schedule ...................................    60
Charts
Chart 2.1:  Tax Administration Structure by Levels   .............................   6
Chart 2.2:  Organization Structure of State Tax Service  ...........................   9
Chart 2.3:  Typical Structure of a Regional Tax Ismpectorate  .......................    10
Chart 2.4:  "Territorial Structure" Local Office  ..........     I                       .....................    10
Chart 2.5:  "Type of Taxpayer' Local Office   ................................    11
Chart 2.6:  Collection of the Major Federal Taxes  .............................    12
Chart 6.1:  New  Organizational Structure  ...................................    26
Chart 7.1:  Project Implementation Structure  .................................    48
Chart 7.2:  Loan Disbursements Illustrated Per Semester and Cumulatively  ..............    61
Map
IBRD No. 26702



THE RusSiAN FEDERATION
TAX ADMIRATION MODERNIZATION PROJECr
LOAN AND PROJECr SUmMARY
BoRRowER        The Russian Federation
BENEFICIARY     The State Tax Service (STS)
AMOUNT          US$16.8 million, equivalent
TERMs           17 years, including 5 years grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate
PROJEr
OBJECIvEs       The proposed project constitutes the second phase of a long-term Government
program to modernize tax administration. It is based on the concept developed for
a pilot project currently under implementation supported by the International
Monetary Fund. The overall purpose of the proposed project is to help develop and
install an effective and efficient national system of tax administration. The specific
objectives of the project are: (i) to implement the second phase of the long-term
program of the STS in 2 regions with about 1 10 local offices through reorganization
of structures and procedures, automation, and staff training; and (ii) to assist in the
institutional development of tax administration by building the capacity of the STS,
preparing for nation-wide implementation of tax administration reforms, and
providing project management support.
PROJEcr
DEscREPToN      Reorganization and Procedures. The proposed project would introduce a functional
organization in the STS local offices and simplify procedures by adopting a self-
assessment system and instituting a system for selective audits. Taxpayer education
would be introduced through staff dedicated to this purpose and the organization of
seminars and development of literature.
Automation. The project would computerize the processing of major federal taxes
for legal entities, including the value-added tax (VAT) and profit tax which account
for two-thirds of current federal tax revenues; simnplify tax forms to make them more
useable; and finance the acquisition and installation of computer and ancillary
hardware for two regional offices and about 110 local offices.
Staff Training. The project would finance the development and application of staff
training programs in the areas of taxpayer education, audit, default tax collection and
computerization for about 3500 staff of the STS.
Organizational Development of the STS. The proposed project would finance the
costs of preparing to reorganize the tax administration system; develop a strategy for
inter-agency cooperation; design a strategy for taxpayer education; prepare a national



Technical Axnex
Page 2                                              Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project
implementation plan; develop a national staff training plan; and review the legal and
regulatory framework of the Russian tax system.
Preparation for Nationwide Implementation. The proposed project would also
finance the costs of preparing for full national implementation of tax administration
reforms. This would include development of standards and guidelines; a national
automation plan; feasibility studies on individual income taxes; and a comprehensive
implementation plan.
Project Implementation Support. The project would finance the operation of a
Project Management Unit to coordinate project implementation.
RATIONALE
FOR BANE
INVOLVEMENT    The proposed project would make a direct contribution to the Bank's objectives of
financing high-priority public sector investments.  The project focusses on
institutional development of an organization, the STS, that is key to stable fiscal
management and indispensable for an effective system of public finance.
sENEiTrs         The proposed project would enable the STS to cope with its vastly increased
workload. The project is designed to achieve better: (i) effectiveness of tax
administration through automation, a national audit strategy and better management
information systems; (ii) fairness in the system by enabling the application of more
uniform treatment; and (iii) efficiency through streamlined procedures resulting in
faster processing of tax payments and returns as well as ability to cope with
increasing workload with little or no increase in staff. The project would help
expand the tax base through better registration and taxpayer education and would help
increase compliance by lowering the private costs of compliance and raising the costs
of non-compliance. All these achievements would lead ultimately to increased tax
revenues without increasing tax rates.
RISKS            The proposed project alone cannot guarantee increased revenues without parallel
action to improve tax legislation policies. In addition, conditions outside the project
could prevent it from realizing its full benefits, such as unproductive changes in tax
legislation. Within the project, implementation could be compromised by logistical
difficulties in delivery and installation of equipment. Overall, the phased approach
of the project helps cope with these risks by permitting adjustments in design based
on lessons from experience in the pilot project. In the final analysis the greatest risk
is loss of potential revenues without the project; the STS would not have sufficient
institutional capacity to capture new revenues as the private sector grows and the tax
base expands.



Techakal Annex
Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project                                        Page 3
CHAPrER 1. INTRODUCTION
1.1    Progressive improvement in macro-economic stability is a critical condition for the development
of a sound market economy in Russia. A key condition for stabilization is to reduce the budget deficit,
in part through additional revenue measures. These require improved collection of a number of taxes,
particularly the value-added tax (VAT) and profit tax, which account for more than two-thirds of
government tax revenues at the federal level. More generally, with the move toward privatization and
a vigorous market-oriented economy, the share of revenues collected from state-owned enterprises is
expected to decline and those collected from the growing private sector should increase considerably,
provided tax compliance can be enforced adequately for these new taxpayers. Overall tax revenues are
falling in conjunction with the decline in enterprise production. Onerous tax rates on enterprises must
be reduced and collections increased from an expanding tax base.
1.2   In this context the Government and IMF have developed a pilot project in two local tax offices
to begin the modemization of tax administration. The results are expected to provide a basis for tax
administration reform on a wider basis. The Government has approached the Bank to finance the
extension of the pilot project to about 110 local offices in two regions. A detailed project proposal was
prepared for this purpose.2 The Bank evaluated the proposal and found that the proposed project is
justified for Bank financing because it:
a.     addresses priority problems (Chapter 3);
b.     fits within an overall program for tax administration reform (Chapter 4);
c.    takes into account lessons from prior Bank experience and accords with Bank strategy
(Chapter 5);
d.     has priority objectives and needed content (Chapter 6);
e.     has reasonable costs and a feasible implementation plan (Chapter 7);
f.     would confer important benefits in tax mobilization (Chapter 8); and
g.    the risks are limited and are worth taking (Chapter 8).
Following an explanation of the current tax system in Chapter 2, these points are elaborated in sequence
in subsequent chapters.
2 Russian Federation, 'Tax Administration Project: Preparation Report,' June 17, i994.



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Technicad Annex
Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project                                      Page 5
CHAPTER 2. THE SECIOR SETIING
A.    Tax Policy Development
2.1    The Russian Government has achieved significant advances towards adapting its tax system to the
requirements of a market economy, and the transformation is taking place in face of daunting obstacles.
Much remains to be done, however. A prime constraint to further reforms towards a market-oriented
system is the lack of qualified tax administration resources and systems capable of reducing taxpayer
burden, providing professional auditing and delinquent collection.
2.2    Considerable progress has been made in improving tax policies since 1991 when Russia initiated
its transition to a market-oriented economy. Tax reforms started in December 1991 with the enactment
of the legislation on "Basic Principles of the Taxation System," and the introduction of the value-added,
individual income, and excise taxes, and continued with the creation of several additional taxes during
1992. VAT introduction led to significant improvement of the tax system particularly in regard to
economic efficiency. In 1993 the VAT contributed about 7% of GDP and represented 24% of the tax
revenue. Similarly, introduction of the profit tax constituted a major improvement of the tax system.
In 1993 the profit tax contributed about 10% of GDP and represented 36% of the tax revenue.
2.3    Despite the progress achieved since 1990, the current tax system fails to generate sufficient tax
revenues and fosters distortions. Tax revenues as a percentage of GDP had declined from 34% in 1992
to 30% at the end of the second fiscal quarter in 1994. Large exemptions, poor accounting methods, and
delays in acceptance of investment credits remain as unresolved problems. While the value-added and
profit taxes are by far the most important revenue generators, both suffer from structural problems related
mainly to inadequate inflation adjustment, excessive tax concessions, arbitrary restrictions on cost
deductions, and generous tax holidays. Different than in OECD countries, personal income tax plays a
minor role and is plagued with exemptions and allowances which erode its revenue potential. The
development of the new tax system faces many obstacles, including the rapid growth in the number of
taxpayers, the level of inflation, rising crime, and structural weaknesses at the STS.
2.4    The Government recently decided to reform the tax system over a three-year period. The
objectives of the reform are: (i) to improve the revenue perfornance of the current tax system; (ii) to
reduce distortions; and (iii) to favor administrative effectiveness. The guiding principles are to simplify
the existing regime, to broaden the tax base, and to reform the taxation of natural resources, energy in
particular.
2.5    The first steps in this direction are scheduled to be implemented in 1995.  They include
eliminating a series of taxes accruing to sectoral extrabudgetary funds, as well as a number of "nuisance"
taxes, and streamlining exemptions.  In parallel, steps are being taken to clarify the taxpayers
responsibilities; the rights and obligations of each level of government; the respective roles of the
legislative and executive branches of government in introducing, abolishing and modifying taxes; and to
rationalize the sanctions applicable for tax evasion. Finally, a first step towards the reform of the
personal income tax and excess wage tax are also scheduled to take place in 1995. However, much
remains to be done and the bulk of reforms, including the reform of taxation of natural resources, are
scheduled to take place in 1996-97.



Tduehia Annex
Page 6                                                    Russia: Tax Adminustration Modemaiation Project
2.6    The reform in the design of the tax system and the modernization of the tax administration are
mutually supporting. The simplification of the tax regime facilitates its administration. In turn, a
stregthened administation will improve tax collection and the continuing reform of the desipn of the tax
system.
B.     The Tax Administraton System
1. Background
2.7    Traditionally  the tax  system  in Russia has been decentralized.   Regional and  local
offices-reporting to financial departments at the respective levels-functioned mainly to control profit
transfers and monitor results of state-owned enterprises. In early 1991 the Government introduced a new
finanial system basing govermnment expenditures on a market-oriented system of tax collections. The
Stfte Tax Service (STS) was created in 1991 as a part of the Ministry of Finance. Subsequently, in
November 1991, the STS became an independent structure with ministerial status.
2. Structure and Functions
Chart 2.1: Tax Administration Structure by Levels
Federal Level
First Deputy
Primne Minister
STS       ....  Tax Police
Regional Level
Regional
Administatin
Regional
. .....Regional OfricesxPoic
Local Level
Regional
(Munocipal
Local Offices



Techical Annex
Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project                                         Page 7
2.8    The STS is charged with managing and supervising virtually all types of taxation in Russia.3 Tax
policy remains primarily the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, although the STS plays an
important role in helping to shape policy by providing feedback on the experiences in implementing tax
policies. Initially the STS also performed the functions of criminal enforcement; however, in 1993 part
of the STS enforcement capacity was separated to create an independent Tax Police Department to carry
out investigative and criminal work. The STS has three levels of administration: the federal level, 89
regional (oblast) offices and 2770 local (rayon) offices. Chart 2.1 shows the organization of the tax
administration system.
2.9    The main function of the STS is to implement and enforce Russian tax legislation. The federal
level is responsible for overall tax administration. The federal level manages the work of the regional
offices, which in turn manage the local offices. Legally, regional and local offices report to the head
office. The heads of regional offices are appointed by the head of the STS. Staff in the regional and
local offices are also employed and paid by the STS. Regional and local administrations have the
authority to define regional and local taxes to be administered by the corresponding regional and local
offices; however, the federal level is responsible for ensuring that taxes are administered consistently.
Each year the federal level evaluates the performance of various regional offices, and regional offices
'audit" the performance of local offices. Actions are taken if subordinate offices are not following STS
standards and guidelines. Functions by level within the STS are shown in Table 2.1
2.10   The division of labor between the center and regions is not always understood or practiced. Staff
at the center tend to become engaged in small routine activities or regional problems at the expense of
work or policy development, information exchange and supervision.
2.11   In November 1993, the Government reviewed the taxation system and assigned the following
priority functions to the STS:
a.     Ensure comprehensive registration of legal entities and individuals for collection
purposes;
b.     Ensure the complete and timely collection of tax payments;
c.     Enhance compliance and a reduction of the volume of taxes in default;
d.     Improve techniques for analyzing statistics and forecasting tax revenues;
e.     Develop a comprehensive computerization program for tax administration;
f.     Modernize tax administration organization and procedures; and
g.     Ensure proper training of staff for the streamlined administrative functions.
Chart 2.2 shows the organizational structure of the STS at the federal level. The structure of a regional
tax inspectorate is shown in Chart 2.3. There are traditionally two types of organizational structures for
local (rayon) tax offices. The first is structured according to geographical location of taxpayers (i.e. all
taxpayers in one area are assigned to a given unit). The second is structured according to type of
taxpayer (i.e. enterprise, individual, etc.) These are shown in Charts 2.4 and 2.5, respectively.
3 Notable exceptions are customs duties and taxes, and social security taxes, e.g. pensions.



siLS :23.mos
x          x            ,x                                           osuqup    idisucul   S4ulum!vw
X           X                                                  sonisxwls pug SIsAIu! in(
X                                                                                      UOi1O=TIO  !iv!U
.....  .-....t--  .........                               ...                        .............--.-... ....................
x          x            x                                     mulcud uo!wzaindtuao  xui fei2pa
x                                                suonIo!lqnd puL, suuoj xujL
x                                          lmnsmwod xum .oj soigojopotpWN
X          X            X                                        U2M7.MOJU2 AMUI lp!M  UOTLU!IPiOOJ
~ ~ ~ ~~  -..-. .----~~~~~~ ... .. .........     .L .Tu~ . o ...............................
x  ~~~~xs3uiuxA!d jo uouusoss
x          x                                                                     ousSiiAde-
x          x            x                                                                  si!ptuT!J1i
x          x            x                                                       u2Ae1d pueuoiu~oW
x                                    oi su  aior jo Aq       ssowidst  Jopu e g  xe2q  2ouLiondo
x                                        uotmnp2 i~~~~~~~~~soAvdxjuZ
x30'      xO                                                                     uo.IpOJsig oaj2pun
XO~i   xOU!JPP   xO3~!UIP   RWUP:ussu
...  ........    ..   ...................................................................................  ..  ......  .....



Technica Anxex
Rit: Tax Ad _hlralo Modernaidon Project                                                 wge 9
Chart 2.2: Orpniton Srcue  of State Tax Srvice
.   Dept    dHead of
|Statd  Tax Serk T
Wmf tsPW"tmsnn*ftn                                                 of  dL Psiwab
cabcom Wm       ~~~Cowdouintl of
Co I,d                Cow-& U-I v
ft-e                  Tax fks
:    I Cg_    .           _ __II             _       
[dtf                                     Turty HOd            De" Hs
I   _r i|  T_m    Dui |
Depty Had 
Promtu ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~AMotLagia                         omnf
S~i'.  
won                       C~~~~~~~~sfluukn 
q ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ltt  04"
N~ Rom._
a LOW t-                         I nmmuon&
E3omat RdaU



?edknica Annex
Page 10                                                       Russia: Tax Administration Modenization Project
Chart 2.3: Typical Structue of a Regional Tax Inspectorate
Head of Regional Office
I
Deputy Head of Regiona Offie
oeranive                              a PubLic    Perl Ec nomicg Enrparises
organztionsrH  
Acriculntn and ReorTax
Ilndi  Taxes D                            Department
Chart 2.4  InuTnertra  Strutue"  oal     Office
er a Depatment    3               n     a Taio
Iv Taaio eueAccounting and Reporting
TCerprization Deparnment                 Legal D q_4e
Chart 2.4: "Terrntorial Structure"' Local Offce
I                .  I              ~~~~~~~~~~HeadofS7
m~~~Dpt D Hea ofm S7
| TfrrbDriAl DqpUm¢Dt I              G0era1 Service Dwuepnte 
Terrtorl D      _mmn 2       -F     B°°kkleeping Dqument 
| Teffhoril Departmentl 3    __ Idr Taxaton D               e&w
Terrhoral Deprtment 4              Acontn an Rteporti         |
Toftw D" unm_               Terriloria Dept of Tax CoDosdon
Control (Ad



TecAdice Annex
Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project                                              Page 11
Chart 2.5: "Type of Taxpayer" Local Office
Head of STI
Deputy Head of STI
State,-owned Enterprses Tation  __  Gal Services Department
Department
Cooperatives and Commercial
Organizations Taxation Dept.           Legal Deparutent
Individuals Taxation Departnent       Accounting Department
Social Organizatons Taxation         Automation Deparmnt
Cder RGvenues Gp up                Teritori POSU 1-9
2.12   The dimensions and growth of the State Tax System are shown in Table 2.5, as follows:
Table 2.2: Growth in Tax Administration System
Type of Growth          j      99                    193                      1994
Regional Offices                        88                      89                     89
Local Offices                       2,707 .                  2,708                  2,771
Total STS Staff         !          70,000 1                120,000 1              173,600*
of which:
- Federal                           n.a.                    n.a.                   600
- Regional                          n.a.                    n.a.                13,000
- Local                             n.a. In.a._                                160,000
Taxpayers
(Legal Entities)               1.3 million              1.8 million 1          2.2 milion
Total Revenue           I                  T
Collection 1st quarter  !                  T                        T
(billion Rubles)        I         n.a.     I                 4,430                 17,448
STS is authorized to increased staff positions up to 200,000.



Tecdhatl Annex
Page 12                                              Russia: Tax Admiiwain       P oderniiuo Projct
3. Types of Taxes
2.13 In all, the STS is responsible for administering the collection of 17 types of taxes at the national
level; 3 taxes at the regional level; and over 20 types of taxes at the local level (see Attachment 1). As
shown in Chart 2.6, below, in the first quarter of 1994 the four largest federal taxes accounted for the
following shares of total federal tax revenues: profit tax, 419%; Value-Added Tax (VAT), 27%; income
taxes, 14%; and excise taxes, 5%.
Chart 2.6: Collection of the Major Federal Taxes (January - March 1994)
ciu
* s0   _lSI)
24W b~190 bbbO
4 bdl*          b Pm     2%
i~ ~ I        Un_* t - 7.   _(141
14S    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~I0 &W Timm (s
mom rm.    ( is)
Is                                            Eb~TUT) -m1 b
*o_T__w_~~~~~MMab                     1~   (IS)
Financing
2.14   The main source for financing materials improvements in the STS system has boen the 'social
development fund." The social development fund is meant to cover costs of office renovations and
construction, purchase of hardware/software, transportation improvements and other social needs of the
offices. Regional offices determine how to utilize the funds within their jurisdiction. The social
development fund provides about 60% of the non-salary budget funds for tax offices. The social
development fund was financed until recently from penalties and interest collected from taxpayers. Local
tax offices kept 30% of penalties, 10% of interest collected, and 10% of any additional revenues raised
as a result of auditing activities and these amounts were shared between headquarters, regional and local
offices. This system gave the wrong incentives. A new system of financing was passed by the Duma
in late 1994 allowing the STS to retain up to 3/4ths of 1% of all revenues collected which will be
allocated by the center to regions for capital and operating expenses on the basis of need. The new
system eliminates the perverse incentives implicit in the former method of financing and is expected to
provide sufficient resources to support planned tax modemization.



TechniAl Annex
Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project                                     Page 13
4. Information Technology System
2.15   Information technology management. Like the STS, the management of information technology
is also decentralized. Because priority has been given in general to achieving collection targets set by
the government, the agency followed a pragmatic approach in coordinating the development of application
systems; hardware, software, and communications architectures; the support organization; and information
technology standards.  In 1992 the STS adopted a computerization program  for 1992-1995. Its
implementation has resulted in the development and introduction of applications for processing tax
information, and provided tax offices with computing equipment. Nevertheless, as offices attempt to
increase their ability to cope with the workload, disparate systems have been created at the local office
level. The proliferation of differing information technology systems and procedures will continue and
perhaps increase unless a strong central program offering superior alternatives is put in place.
2.16   Hardware. Local and regional tax offices are estimated to be equipped with about 35% of the
computerization program target for hardware, with the total figure across the tax administration system
being about 22,000 computers of differing capacities. The computer equipment is being utilized under
a number of different, non-coordinated, and often incompatible hardware architectures. These include
over 800 local area networks (LANs), mainly from Novell, multi-user computing complexes based on
"OS VM\386" and "OS PICK", as well as a number of stand alone computers. These investments have
been financed by the social development fund. For instance, over 1992 - 1993 approximately 22,000
million Rubles were spent within the STS system on computerization, of which 85 % was contributed by
the regional state tax inspectorates (STIs).
2.17   Most of the STS's existing tax-processing systems are based on LANs with a data server and a
number of microcomputers. An exception to the rule has been St. Petersburg where the regional office,
with assistance from the Danish government, is developing a mini-computer based tax processing system.
Unfortunately, the high cost and level of sophistication of this solution makes it inappropriate for
nationwide deployment. Elsewhere, existing hardware is typically of low quality, not up-to-date, but is
being used effectively to perform priority tasks.
2.18   Tax applications software. A large number of tax processing applications has been developed
by regional and local offices throughout the territory of the Russian Federation. These application systems
cover primarily taxpayer registration, verification of correct and timely submission of tax-related
payments by taxpayers, keeping of taxpayers' individual accounts, and generation of statistics on the
dynamics of tax collections. These systems can be found at over half of the local tax offices and
practically all of the republican, krai, oblast, and okrug-level inspectorates.
2.19    These applications were developed without standards regarding development tools, data bases,
data definition, or even a common interpretation of the rules for processing of taxes. There is a risk that
this type of decentralized applications development may lead to uneven applications of tax and tax
administration policies throughout the Federation. Tax application software was developed incrementally
and to varying standards, quality and internal controls. Some regional and local offices have their own
internal capability for information technology (IT), but systems development was primarily by
contractors. In general, current systems lack the benefit of global standards for tax processing and the
quality that can be provided by an expert systems designer. Moreover, current systems reflect a tax
administration organization and processing procedure that is not adequate for a market economy; existing



Techxical Annex
Page 14                                                   Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project
systems do not integrate tax processing functions, do not provide for proper auditing, and do not generate
effective management information. Furthermore, uncoordinated development has resulted in excessive
costs for systems development and maintenance, increased the diversity of tax administration policies and
procedures, and caused uneven treatment of taxpayers.
2.20   Communications.  Little use is made of telecommunications facilities as most data processing
activities take place at the local tax office. Some large oblasts, such as the Moscow oblast, have plans
to use ordinary telephone lines to transmit management information from the local offices to the regional
office, primarily for collection of statistics. Today, diskettes are the most common means of digital
communication, but the use of telecommunications facilities is increasing as the option becomes available
throughout the Russian Federation. Statistics are commonly made available in paper form and lack in
detail for analysis.
2.21   Information technology st4fflng. The STS has a small central information technology staff of
about 20 technical specialists. Most information technology services are contracted out to a semi-
governmental agency. It is estimated that country-wide some 1,800 technical specialists (or about 1%
of the STS labor force) provide support for data processing activities including the training of tax
inspectors and clerical staff in concepts and use of computer systems.
5. STS Staff Trining
2.22   Training is planned centrally and implemented both centrally and locally. In addition to a central
staff of about 30 members in charge of planning and coordination, the STS has three training centers.4
The central staff prepared the annual training budget, the annual training plan and coordinates training
activities at the central and local levels. On the basis of consultation with the various regional offices
about their training needs, as well as the available budget for the year, the central STS staff provides
regional offices with a list of courses to be offered under contract by almost two dozen institutions in the
next fiscal year as well as with the number of training places allocated to each region. Management of
the STS regional offices nominates participants for these various courses. In addition, local offices are
encouraged to organize and finance additional training activities. In 1993 over 20,000 individuals
participated in training activities ranging from 2 days to 3 months, and a similar volume of training is
planned for 1994. Most of this traiing is related to accounting and auditing techniques. At present,
international collaboration with the STS on training matters is coordinated by an International Tax
Training Institute (para. 4.11), which organizes about 15 two-week courses each year.
'St. Petersburg with 57 trainers and 800 trainees in 1993; Nizhny Novgorod with 54 trainers and 1300 trainees in 1993:
and Kaluga. The first two provide courses on profit tax and individual income tax; the latter specializes in computer
training.



Technica Annex
Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project                                               Page 15
CHEAPTR 3. PROBLEMS  AND ISSUES IN TAX ADMNISRTION
3.1    The introduction of the new tax system in 1991 and 1992 was made without allowing the STS
sufficient time and resources to prepare appropriate systems, accounting procedures, training and
information programs for taxpayers. The processing of tax returns and payments was mostly done
manually, procedures for processing returns and detecting delinquent taxpayers varied by office and
efforts were duplicated because organizations were built mostly along a "type of tax" structure.5
3.2    The main challenge facing the STS is to change its operations from one designed to deal with a
small number of large and trusted taxpayers (state enterprises whose returns were verified for arithmetic
mistakes) to a large number of new and relatively small taxpayers (private enterprises whose returns need
to be checked systematically for under-reporting). Consequently, tax administration systems must change
and processing capacity must be greatly increased.
A.     Expanded Workload
3.3    The number of taxpayers (legal entities) has grown from  1.3 million in 1992 to 2.2 million in
early 1994. In addition, most taxpayers must file multiple advance payments and returns. Compared
with 1992, 450,000 additional VAT returns and 3.6 million profit tax returns are expected in 1994; and
1.4 million and 10.8 million additional advance payments for VAT and the profit tax, respectively. The
dimensions of the workload problem are shown in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1: STS Workload - Numbers of Returns and Payments to Process (millions)
_   1992-   1    1993    I   1994    J Increase92-94
Legal Entities                           1.3     .    1.8           2.2     *       0.9
VAT*
Monthly Returns                     .    0.65          0.9          1.1             .45
Monthly Advanced Payments                1.95          2.7          3.3            1.35
Profit tax
....... ........................................................... ............................................ ..........   .............................
Returns                                  5.2           -            8.8             3.6
..... ....................................................  ...............  .............................  .............................  . . ....................
Advanced Payments                        15.6          -            26.4            10.8
* Assuming half the legal entities are sufficiently large to require VAT tax returns.
Source: STS Statistics
5 IMF mission report, August 31, 1992, 'Russian Federation: Tax Administration Reform.'



Technicd Ancx
Page 16                                                  Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project
The STS does not have the capacity to cope with its increased responsibilities and workload owing to
problems in organization and procedures; inadequate processing capacity and lack of adequately trained
staff.
B.     Organization and Procedures
3.4    Effective tax administrations usually organize themselves around the principal functions of the
business. The different functions then receive focussed attention, thereby facilitating achievement of
quality through depth. Local tax offices, however, lack a functional specialization. They tend to be
organized by geographical location of taxpayer or by type of taxpayer. Under this structure each unit
performs taxpayer registration, desk verification of tax returns and field audits, handling of delinquent
taxpayers, etc. This system requires tax inspectors to be knowledgeable in a wide range of fields, and
leads to delay, duplications of functions and inadequate quality. Similar to the local and regional offices,
the STS central office is organized by the type of tax payer and type of tax (Chart 2.1). Also, this
organizational structure does not provide adequate support services for lower levels. Moreover, the size
of the central office is limited legally to about 600 staff.
3.5    Current processing procedures derive from the former command economy with relatively few and
large enterprises. Taxpayers were required to visit the local office to have their returns verified. Tax
inspectors-assigned about 200-300 enterprises each-then performed a desk review. This was a
laborious, staff-intensive process that slowed collections and imposed a burden on the taxpayer. With
a growing workload tax inspectors are unable to deal effectively with each taxpayer. Such desk reviews
are often ineffective and fail to detect under reporting. The assignment of inspectors to specific
enterprises can also invite abuse.
3.6    Little effort is made in educating taxpayers of their responsibilities and what procedures to follow.
Inadequate public knowledge about taxpayer responsibilities, together with frequent changes in tax
legislation and regulations, means that even those taxpayers who want to comply cannot easily do so.
Tax seminars, guides, information pamphlets could enhance compliance and eliminate the need for
mandatory visits. A post audit would be sufficient.'
3.7    The private costs of compliance could also be reduced through simplification of tax forms. Tax
forms tend to be complicated, requesting unnecessary information. Moreover, there is no unique way to
identify taxpayers, apart from using their business names. Taxpayers need to be assigned a unique
taxpayer identification number (TIN) so as to facilitate processing and communications.
C.    Inadequate Processing Capacity
3.8    The inadequate capacity of the STS to process returns poses costly constraints on the capture of
new revenues as the. private sector grows and the tax base expands. Payments are often processed
manually, or with outdated computing equipment. Local offices, to cope with increasing workloads, tend
to purchase hardware and software and develop their own solutions. Since 1992 local offices have spent
I For an evaluation of the tax administration from the viewpoint of private enterprise, see Marie Sheppard, 'Private
Enterprise in Russia: An approach to Alleviating Constraints,' Internal Discussion Paper IDP-144, Europe and Central Asia
Regional, World Bank, August 25, 1994.



Techniea Annex
Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project                                           Page 17
about US$12 million from the social development fund (para. 2.12) to purchase hardware and software.
However, this has been done without uniform standards or guidelines. Different configurations and
different computerization of tax processes result.
3.9    Lack of effective automation means delays in processing payments and loss of revenue. Lack of
automation also makes it difficult to detect deviations efficiently, e.g. "stopfilers" and late payments.
Manual detection is made impractical by the continuous increase in the number of taxpayers and the
variation in filing and payment frequencies depending on taxpayer liability.' The lack of automation also
contributes to the inability to develop a computerized audit strategy for targeting the most promising cases
for inspector reviews.
3.10   Lack of consistent automation also means difficulties in generating accurate and timely
information needed to manage the system as a whole. Manually generated statistics tend to be time-
consuming, slow to produce and unreliable. As a result, the system lacks the capacity to produce vital
information for system management purposes, such as to predict revenue generation or detect areas where
revenues fall below potential.
3.11   A related issue is the strain the increased volume of transactions is placing on the banking sector.
Commercial banks are bearing the brunt of processing an ever greater volume of tax payments. At
present, commercial banks receive no financial compensation for timely processing of tax payments.
Control is lax over the transfer of funds into Government accounts.
D.    Lack of Adequately Trained Staff
3.12   For the current activities of the STS, training gaps already exist at various levels of the system.
The most obvious and important gap concerns the nature and level of training in accounting. At present,
there are at least three systems of accounting in Russia, the traditional one, a Western-type system of
accounting being adopted by government agencies and typical Western-type systems adopted by private
firms. Most of the STS employees, typically graduates from schools of economics, are not familiar with
these accounting systems. A second, and pervasive training gap is related to tax-specific information,
particularly knowledge of legislation and regulations. There are dozens of taxes, and in the present
system tax officials are responsible for all of them. Keeping abreast of legislation and fast changing
regulations is a daunting task, particularly when no adequate system exists for compiling legislation and
regulations. Moreover, most of the legislation and regulation are subject to ambiguity and controversy.
A third, and obvious training gap, is in the area of auditing, since there is virtually no tradition of
auditing in the country, and most of the existing accounting systems do not allow a proper audit.
Associated with the lack of technical skills in auditing is the pervasive lack of investigative and
negotiation skills. The introduction of a modern tax administration will require even further skills
associated with automation and new work procedures, thereby accounting is the prevailing training gap.
7 For example, VAT taxpayers need to file a tax return monthly or quarterly depending on their VAT liability; some
VAT taxpayers need to make payments every 10 days, others monthly or quarterly.



I



Technieal Annex
Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project                                        Page 19
CHAPER 4. STRATEGY AND PROGRAM
A.    Strategy for Tax Modernization
4.1    The Government has developed an overall strategy with IMF assistance to address the above
problems and create an effective and efficient tax administration system. The strategy integrates reforms
in organization and procedures, automation and human resource development. The strategy calls for a
carefully phased approach, based on learning from implementation experiences. It starts with the
introduction of one key tax-the VAT-for a target population of 200 taxpayers in two local offices,
progressively phases in more taxpayers in these two locations, then adds the remaining major federal
taxes for legal entities on a limited scale, covering two more regions fully, and finally scales up within
six years to incorporate all key taxes and locations in Russia. A development team at the central level
provides impetus for the reforms with implementation taking place at local offices and their respective
regions. A premium is placed on evaluation of actual results and building from experiences. Experiences
gained with the actual implementation of tax administration reforms would be used to adjust the national
strategy. Even before reforms can be financed in regions not covered by the early phases, the strategy
calls for the provision of standards and norms to guide the consistent development of activities at lower
levels. Given the difficulties of working in the uncharted and changing Russian context, this approach
permits time to learn and build capacities towards national coverage.
B.    Programs for Tax Administration Refor m
4.2    The STS has developed a long-range, integrated program with the assistance of the IMF and other
donors, to implement its strategy for modernization of tax administration. The elements of the program
are to:
a.     Develop national guidelines and standards on tax modernization to promote consistency
of approach and facilitate systems integration;
b.     Introduce a functional organizational structure at all levels of the system;
c.     Introduce modern procedures such as taxpayer "self-assessment"8 and targeted auditing
of selected tax returns;
d.     Automate tax processes and develop telecommunications;
e.     Strengthen the staffing numbers (with an authorization to reach a total of 200,000 for the
system as a whole);
f.     Train and retrain staff; and
g.     Establish a national management information system.
4.3    A national system of tax administration is to be achieved in four distinct phases, as shown in
Table 4.1.
a In which the taxpayer determines his/her tax liabilities without the intervention of tax officers and the tax
administration accepts the taxpayers' determination subject to verification in post audits.



Technical Auaer
Page 20                                                Russia: Tax Adminstion Modernization Projec
Table 4.1: Overview of Phased Approach to Tax Modernization
Details                   Phase l          Phase 2        PLrul 3 -a  4
Time Frame              1992 - 1994      1995 - 1997     1997 - 1998   1999 -2000
Number of Offices        2 regional  *    2 regional    ! 25 regional ! 62 regional
2 local      100 - I10 local  I 1000 local    1600 local
Types of Taxes             VAT        major federal taxes   All           All
for legal entities
Number of Taxpayers     400 (200 per       85,000                         -
(Enterprises)           local office)
1. Plot Project (1992-1994)
4.4    The first phase, currently under implementation with IMF and EC assistance, involves a smnall
pilot project to modernize the administration of the VAT in two local offices. The pilot aims to develop
and test a new organizational structure, procedures, automation design and staff training programs that
can be used as models for wider application.
4.5    The pilot project costs US$2.1 million, of which the EC is financing US$1.1 million, the IMF
US$0.6 million for technical assistance and the STS US$0.4 million. Two regional offices (Moscow
Municipality and Moscow Oblast) with one local office each (Taganka and Lubertsy, respectively)
participate in the pilot project. The pilot project seeks a complete modernization of tax administration
of these two offices, starting with VAT collection on a limited scale.
4.6    The pilot project integrates the following reforms at two local offices: organizational change,
taxpayer education to facilitate introduction of a self-assessment system, automation of tax processes, staff
training, and establishment of normal business practices with banks for collection purposes.  The
following outputs are expected from the pilot project by its completion in May 1995:
a.     Four hundred enterprises will have sent representatives to seminars, understood and
adopted the principle of self-assessment, registered for the VAT and been assigned a
taxpayer identification number (TIN);
b.     A new functional organization will have been introduced in the local offices specializing
staff in functions of taxpayer education, data processing, audit and default recovery of
taxes;
c.     Thirty-six staff will have been trained in the above functional areas;
d.     Procedures will have been developed for registering taxpayers; receiving and capturing
infornation from tax returns and payments; auditing and audit guidelines; handling
recovery of taxes in default;
e.     The following electronic data processing systems will have been introduced:
0      VAT registration system;



Technical Annex
Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project                                       Page 21
o      automated processing of payments and returns, including calculation of penalty
and interest, and generation of taxpayer notice;
°      automated detection of stopfilers and late payments;
O      computerized audit selection criteria; and
o      on-line enquiry system to access taxpayer data, including the generation of
management information statistics;
f.     A local area network (LAN) will have been installed in each pilot project local office and
regional office, complete with workstations, file servers, printers and software; and
g.     A memorandum of understanding will have been concluded with commercial banks
defining the responsibilities of the bank (e.g. norms for submitting tax payments to local
offices and for transferring funds to government accounts) and the STS (e.g.
compensation to banks for their services.)
4.7    Development of the Pilot Project started in February 1993; its implementation started on July 1,
1994 and is currently underway. The project management group is in place, taxpayers have been selected
(200 from each location), organizational changes have been approved, staff have been allocated to the new
functions, staff training has commenced, hardware/software has been installed in the project sites and the
application of software is underway. The processes and results are being evaluated continuously by the
project team.
4.8    The pilot project is expected to provide a foundation for expansion to other types of taxes and
other regions of the country. The organization, procedures and systems could be adapted to support other
taxes without undue difficulty. Many of the new tax forms can be used with minor adaptations for other
types of taxes, such as registration forms, assessment notices, reminder/warning letters. Many of the
procedures do not depend on the type of tax and therefore could be used in the future, such as procedures
for registering taxpayers, receiving and processing returns and payments. Most of the computer logic
has been designed to support a variety of taxes. Software to process tax returns would be essentially the
same, for example uniform method for calculating penalty and interest, generation of assessment notices,
verification of advance payments. Software to detect stopfilers and late payments has been designed to
work for most taxes. In addition, the database structures have been designed to support different types
of taxes. As a result, scaling up to include additional types of taxes is not expected to present undue
difficulties.
2. Phase 2 (1995-1997)
4.9    The second phase of the program seeks to introduce modernized tax administration to a larger
number of tax offices across Russia and prepare for nationwide implementation. It involves the following
elements:
a.     Expansion to include (i) all VAT taxpayers in both pilot project offices and (ii)
introduction of profit tax in the two pilot offices on a limited scale;
b.     Introduction of full tax administration reform and automation in two regions and about
110 local offices in two new regions;
c.     In parallel with the above, development of a national strategy for modernizing tax
administration, national guidelines for tax administration, national system architecture,
a national staff training plan and a national audit plan;



Technical Annex
Page 22                                             Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project
d.    Expansion of the data processing system to include all major federal taxes for legal entity
taxpayers; and
e.    Investigation of the possibility of including taxation of individuals.
3. National Implementation (1997-2000)
4.10   Full national implementation would take place in two additional phases. The third phase (1997-
98) would expand coverage into 25 additional regions including approximately 1000 local offices. These
regions would be selected to account for the bulk of revenue collections. The final phase (1999-2000)
would reach the remaining 62 regions and 1600 local offices in more remote areas.
C.    Donor Assistance
4.11   In addition to assistance provided under the pilot project, the STS receives assistance from a
variety of other donors mostly focussed on training of tax officials. Tax seminars have been sponsored
in Russia by the IMF, Danish tax administration, Swedish Ministry of Finance, German government and
the IRS of the United States, among others. The Danish tax administration, OECD and EC have
provided assistance in establishing an International Tax Training Center in Moscow. The Center started
its operations in September 1993 and approximately 15 courses have been given to date. The STS has
decided that the Center would be responsible for establishing a coherent framework for bilateral and
multilateral technical assistance for training. USAID has agreed to provide additional funding for the
Center, and to collaborate with the Soros Foundation in developing computer-assisted instruction for
officials of the STS. In addition, the German govermnent and Danish tax administration have provided
assistance to the STS in computerization. The German government has provided a loan to purchase
hardware and software for regional offices. The Danish tax administration is assisting the STS in
improving computerization in the St. Petersburg area.
D.    Constraints on Program Implementation
4.12   Successful implementation of the project depends on overcoming key organizational and staffing
constraints. The structure adopted for implementing the pilot project provides useful experience, but the
STS has not been properly organized at headquarters to support program implementation on a large scale.
Few Government agencies outside military industries have experience in implementing comprehensive
projects involving several interrelated components. Traditionally, Government agencies conducted
bureaucratic paper work but had little experience on managing project funds. The situation in the STS
is even more challenging because it is a relatively new organization and must operate in a difficult,
changing environment. The organizational structure of the STS (chart 2.2) does not lend itself to efficient
project management because departmental responsibilities for different types of tax makes coordination
difficult. There is little experience beyond the pilot project with proper advance planning of activities,
division of responsibilities, clear operational procedures and close supervision of results. In particular,
the STS lacks experience in international procurement and in managing the work-of external consultants.
Staff are capable, but need to be reallocated to implementation duties and retrained for new functions.
Clear standards and guidelines need to be developed and enforced to ensure coherent implementation.



Technica Annex
Russia: Tax Administation Modernization Project                                         Page 23
CHAPTER S. LESSONS OF EXPERmENCE AND BANK STRATEGY
A.    Lessons of Experience
5.1    Stand-alone tax administration modernization projects are relatively few in the Bank and most
have become effective within the past two years. Relevant examples for this project include Hungary,
the Philippines, Thailand, Jamaica, and Argentina. These were developed with IMF assistance based on
experience with tax computerization in industrialized countries. Experience in advanced countries has
demonstrated the potential to achieve: (i) faster, more accurate and inproved tax processing, auditing,
and collections; (ii) improved taxpayer compliance; (iii) improved reporting due to the expectation that
computers will detect errors; and (iv) a better managed tax system, providing accurate information at the
central and regional levels, which can facilitate better budgetary planning.
5.2    Best project design invariably has three common characteristics: (i) projects bring a high level
of automation to tax administration activities, not only to gain efficiency in the process of returns and
payments, but above all to improve taxpayer compliance, auditing and collections; (ii) projects include
parallel changes in the organizational structure of the tax administration agency to take full advantage of
investments in technology and training, and to better support data processing, auditing and collections
functions; and (iii) projects include a comprehensive training component to support implementation and
provide long-term sustainability.
5.3    Project designs also recognize the strong influence that tax policies play on the actual tax
administration activities. For example, small variations on thresholds can affect data processing volumes
substantially. Inclusion of extraneous data collection for statistical purposes can affect document entry
time, and hence efficiency and productivity of staff. Changes in legislation or regulations can have
profound influence on application systems. What appear to be simple changes can render whole
application systems obsolete. Keeping systems up-to-date and disseminated to regional and local offices
to maintain uniformity require costly logistics and coordination.
5.4    The Hungary operation has now been effective for about fifteen months and is progressing
smoothly, but supervision reports indicate that new computerized tax systems cannot be implemented
efficiently or effectively without significant improvements in tax returns, payment forms, and tax
administration policies and procedures. Computerization strategies must focus on implementing tax
administration reforms rather than simply automating current processes and systems, or merely adding
computer capacity. Moreover, IMF and Bank experience points to the need to try out reforms on a
limited scale, and make corrections on the basis of problems detected, before proceeding with large-scale
implementation of modernization programs.
'In the U.S. the number of additional tax returns filed as a result of enforcement activities increased from 689,000 to
3.6 million over a 6 year period by pursuing delinquent taxpayers with the use of computers.



Techxkal Annex
Page 24                                                Russia: Tax Admnbistrtion Modernization Project
B.    Bank Role and Strategy
5.5    The main objectives of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) are to: (i) support the
development of a market-oriented economy based on private sector initiatives; (ii) the provision of
physical, social, legal and institutional infrastructure not normally provided through the private sector;
and (iii) finance high priority public sector investments. The proposed project is fully consistent with the
CAS. It focusses on institutional development of an organization, the STS, that is a key to stable fiscal
management and indispensable for an effective system of public finance. By financing the modernization
of the State Tax Service, the Bank would contribute to increasing revenues without increasing tax rates;
ensure the continuity and sustainability of the revenue increases; and facilitate voluntary compliance
through a perception of fairness and the application of tax laws.



Tehulicul Axxex
Russi: Tax Administration Modernization Project                                     Page 25
CHAPTR 6. THE PROJECT
A.    Objectives
6.1    The overall purpose of the project is to help develop and install an effective and efficient national
system of tax administration. The proposed project would create the infrastructure needed to collect and
process intended tax revenues at reasonable a cost and speed from an expanding tax base. The project
has two main objectives:
a.     To implement the second phase of the long-term program of the STS in 2 regions with
about 110 local offices through: (i) reorganization of structures and procedures, (ii)
automation, and (iii) staff training; and
b.    To assist in the institutional development of tax administration by (i) building the capacity
of the STS, (ii) preparing for nationwide implementation of tax administration reforms,
and (iii) providing project management support.
To achieve the above objectives, the proposed project would finance (i) expert services (Russian and
international), (ii) staff training, (iii) acquisition of hardware and software, and (iv) minor upgrading of
offices to accommnodate computerization.
B.    Project Description
6.2    The proposed project consists of two main components: (i) implementation of Phase 2 of the tax
administration program, and (ii) institution development, as explained below.
1. Phase 2 of Tax Administration Modernization (US$19.2 milion of base costs)
6.3    Overiew. The proposed project would extend the structures, management and operational
procedures, and automation systems developed in the pilot phase to two new regions inclusive of about
110 local offices. In addition to the VAT, the project would introduce automation of all major federal
taxes for legal entities in these regions.
6.4    The STS has selected the Nizhny Novgorod and Volgograd regions for inclusion in the project.
Table 6.1 provides dimensions of these regions.
6.5    The choice of these regions was made by the STS on the basis of the following criteria: potential
tax revenues; similarity to other regions to be included in the next phase; dynamism of management and
receptivity to reforms; and within a reasonable distance from Moscow to simplify management of
implementation.
(a) Organizational and Procedural Reforms.
6.6    Chart 6.1 shows the new organizational structure that would be introduced at local (rayon)
offices.



Technical Annex
Page 26                                                 Russia: Tax Administraoon Modernization Project
Table 6.1: Phase 2 Dimensions
Regions
Details                              Nizhny Novgorod        Volgograd
Population (millions)                       3.8                 2.7
Number of large region offices              1I
Number of local offices, of which:          60                  48
|    - Large                  '         15         *.        5
- Medium                                45                   43
Number of staff needed for VAT
and Profit tax per office                   30                  30
Total number of staff per region           1,800               1,800
Total VAT taxpayers                       40,000              45,000
Total profit tax taxpayers                40,000              45,000
Chart 6.1: New Organizational Stmcture
Head of Local Office
.............    Appeals Advisory Service
Taxpayer             Data Processing            Audit              Default Collection
_   Eucation/Servic-es                      ___
The new structure specializes in priority functions, thereby raising quality and efficiency of service.
a.     The Taxpayer Education and Services Unit would specialize in disseminating information
to the public about tax responsibilities and processes. Means of dissemination would
include periodic seminars, development of tax guides and provision of information
pamphlets. The Unit would also perform such services as registering taxpayers,
assigning identification numbers, and answering questions and addressing complaints filed
by taxpayers.



Techicl Annex
Russia: Tax Admini stration Modernization Project                                    Page 27
b.    The Data Processing Unit would enter information into the computer database from tax
returns and payments. The Unit would consist mainly of clerical workers.
c.     The Audit Unit would be responsible for field audits to determine whether and to what
extent taxpayers have fulfilled tax obligations. Audit selection would be computerized to
identify taxpayers most likely to be under-reporting taxes.
d.    The Default Collection Unit would work with delinquent taxpayers to secure necessary
returns and collect taxes due.
e.     The Appeals Advisory Service would review formal appeals filed by taxpayers and issue
the first level of decision on the appeal. The regional office and the central headquarters
of the STS would offer the next two levels of administrative appeal, and would interact
with the judicial system when necessary.
6.7    The project would introduce taxpayer self-assessment as the main procedural change. Such a
procedure copes with the growing number of taxpayers and the volume of tax returns and payments.
Under the self-assessment system taxpayers determine their tax liabilities without the intervention of tax
officers. The tax administration accepts the taxpayer's return subject to verification. Taxpayers need not
visit the local tax office to submit returns.
6.8    To support the successful introduction of this new functional arrangement, the project would
finance specialized expertise to complement the PMU's implementation teams. These experts would work
under a twinning arrangement with experienced STS staff to ensure that the proposed reforms are backed
up by practical procedures, guidelines, handbooks, and other materials so that they could be implemented
in a predictable, monitorable, and reasonably uniform manner. The following are key areas targeted for
expert advise:
a.     Taxpayer education. Taxpayers have to be educated to understand clearly their tax
responsibilities. Accordingly, the proposed project would finance (i) one staff year of
external specialist assistance to help develop an information and education campaign to
improve taxpayer awareness, and (ii) the costs of seminars, and the development and
dissemination of pamphlets and guides.
b.    Forms simplification. In keeping with self-assessment, the STS must produce user-
friendly tax reporting forms. This means simplifying tax forms and ensuring that, in
general, tax forms and procedures follow a high level of uniformity and consistency. In
addition, the STS will need to redesign tax forms for other taxes likely to be involved in
subsequent phases of the overall program, e.g. excise and income taxes. The proposed
project would finance six months of external expertise for this purpose.
c.    Auditing techniques. The concept of auditing would radically change from the previous
pattern of reviewing all tax statements on submission to one which focuses on
computerized selection of candidates with the greatest potential for underpayment
complemented by more intensive field audits. The proposed project includes one staff
year of external expertise to help the STS develop a guideline (procedural handbook) for
how to conduct audits. This guideline would permit a uniform procedure for auditing
taxpayers.
d.    Default collection techniques. Likewise, the general concept of enforcement would
change radically from current practices. The proposed project would include one staff
year of external expertise to assist the STS in ensuring that the legal framework for



Technica Annex
Page 28                                              Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project
enforcement is sound, and, together with STS staff, develop guidelines for default
collection, and an enforcement handbook covering the techniques to be used in the
different stages of the collection process. The procedures would also establish clear
guidelines on when to refer collection cases to the Tax Police.
(b) The automation system (US$15.4 million of base costs).
6.9    The proposed project would finance hardware, software and related facilities to automate tax
processes in three major respects, i.e. computerized (i) assessment of tax returns and payments, (ii)
enforcenent of tax relations, and (iii) generation of critical management information. The component
was designed and appraised to provide automation equipment to satisfy the short- to medium-term needs
of the STS, although the adopted architecture can expand modularly and with ease. If no action is taken,
the growth in the number of tax returns resulting from the expansion of the country's market-based
economy would create an increasingly burdensome processing workload. The system could be further
adjusted to reduce wasteful workload caused by high thresholds and the excessive collection of taxpayer
information. Optimum thresholds and collection forms are important to maintain the cost effectiveness
of the tax administration system.
6.10   The new tax administration model being piloted by the STS continues to support decentralized
operations with all tax processing being done at the local offices. The local tax offices would retain all
taxpayer details for their jurisdiction and also manage decentralized collections and refunds through
commercial banks. Local tax offices would also be responsible for taxpayer registration, responding to
customer service inquiries, for printing of local taxpayer statements and notices, and carrying out
improved auditing activities. These offices would interact with the regional office for data interchanges,
primarily for statistical and control data for management information. The head office would undertake
a variety of other activities such as maintaining systemic standards for tax administration policies and
procedures, providing master copies of taxpayer education and information dissemination materials,
performing statistical analyses on country-wide data, budgeting and planning, supporting an MIS and
database, and providing appropriate data to the Ministry of Finance and the legislature.
6.11   Automatedfunctions. The tax administration automation system would introduce new functions
to local tax offices. The key procedural change being introduced with the new system is that tax
inspectors will be assigned to specific tax administration functions, rather than being assigned to specific
sets of taxpayers. In support of this change, the new automation system has been designed to provide
the following functions:
a.     Registration of taxpayers. The system would register all taxpayers liable to pay taxes.
The system would assign a taxpayer identification number (TIN) to each taxpayer and
would create a register entry in a database of taxpayers. This system would also support
the modification of registration information, including de-registration and transfer of
taxpayers. It also generates various management information reports on taxpayer
registration.
b.     Data entry. The system would capture taxpayer data from tax returns, payments, and
miscellaneous tax documents and convert them  into electronic medium.  Source
documents are received either from the banks or directly from the taxpayers. Basic
reasonableness checks would be applied at point-of data entry, including proper controls



Technical Axnex
Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project                                      Page 29
to ensure taxpayer data is neither repeated nor lost. The data entry system is also
responsible for balancing bank statements with payments received at the local office to
ensure the exactness of funds transferred by banks to government accounts.
c.     Return processing. The system processes returns sent by taxpayers. Initially the system
was set up to process only VAT returns, but the STS will add all other major federal
legal entities taxes to the system before it is deployed to the project regions. The system
performs mathematical verification of taxpayer-submitted data, ensures that indicated
payments were actually received, calculates appropriate penalties and interest, and finally
generates a notice to be sent to taxpayers in cases where there is a balance either in favor
or against the taxpayer.
d.     Stopfiler and late payment detection. The system automatically detects taxpayers who
have failed to submit tax returns or make payments as stated by the legislation. As soon
as violations are detected taxpayers are sent reminder notices. These notices are followed
up by the issuance of warning letters a few weeks later, if required. Finally, if a
taxpayer remains in delinquent status, the case would be referred to the delinquent
taxpayer section for personal follow-up by a tax inspector.
e.     Computerized audit selection. The system would have the capability to select taxpayers
to be audited according to pre-defined criteria.
f.    Management information statistics. The system would provide STS management at
central, regional, and local levels with statistics on revenue collection, return processing,
delinquent taxpayers, and auditing. To reduce costs and complexity of the project and
because of the uneven level of telecommunications facilities in the country, the project
will not include the design and implementation of a national telecommunications network.
Telecommunications may be used between the regional and central levels, and between
some large rayons and their regional office.
g.     Online enquiry system. The system would provide tax officials (taxpayer services clerks,
auditors, collectors, appeals advisors, etc.) with online access to all data submitted by the
taxpayer and all data generated by the tax administration for communication with a
taxpayer. Access to this information would be tightly secured, including audit trails
indicating who accessed the data, when, and what data was accessed.
6.12   The new tax automation system  would operate on a microcomputer-based, open systems
environment. For most regional and local tax offices this environment would consist of a local area
network, rnicrocomputers, a pc-based graphical user interface operating system, a pc-based relational
database management system, and ancillary hardware and software tools. Large local offices will require
a super-micro type of server, with a server based client-server database environment, to support the
anticipated workload. Each local tax office would operate in a decentralized mode, administering its own
database independently. Local tax office technology staff would be trained and supported to provide
professional information technology support to the office, including management of operating procedures
for backup, disaster recovery, and security management. Because hardware and software technology are
developing very fast and a number of significant technology developments are expected for the near
future, the infornation technology environmnent will have to be critically reexamined just before
procurement actions are initiated.
6.13   Hardware architecture. The proposed hardware architecture, to be financed under the project
consists of commodity-type, vendor independent, computer, and ancillary equipment including: LAN



Technical Annex
Page 30                                            Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Projea
servers operating on either large micro or super-micro computers using standard LAN or UNIX type of
operating systems, microcomputers, and peripheral equipment. Equipment to be purchased as part of the
project will be for installation either at local or regional tax offices. Intemal communications will be
based on standard Ethernet connections. It is anticipated that offices will use both laser and impact
printing technology to serve identified requirements. Each office will be equipped with a standard
communications modem to make it possible for offices to transfer electronic files over ordinary telephone
lines where and when this capability becomes available.
6.14   Table 6.2 below provides an indication of the intended investment in information technology to
be financed by the project. Further detail on the description, quantities, and estimated unit costs of the
various hardware, software, and ancillary devices is available in Attachment 2.
Table 6.2: Investments in Infonnation Technology by Region
Nizhny Novgorod         Volgograd
Key Equipment                    Regional    Local    Regional |  Local    Other
Network Servers                 .    1         60          1        50          3
Desktop Computers                   10        830         10       610        40
Dot-matrix Printers                  1        260          1       200          4
Laser Printers                       1         70          1        50          4
Desktop Publishing Workstation       1         -           1
Photocopiers                         1         60          1        50-
* Centrally located and mobile equipment used for training purposes.
6.15   Large-size local offices. Large-size local offices would receive a LAN served by a dual super-
microcomputer server, probably operating under the UNIX operating system. Ethernet would be used
for communications between the server and about 20 workstations and eight printers, two of which would
be laser printers. A strong relational database system running on the server would support a client-server
environment. Workstations would be Windows based, on standard 486-DX microcomputers. External
communications, where and when available, would be through a standard 14.4 kbaud modem, or better.
6.16   Small-size local offices. Small-size local offices would receive a LAN served by a single large
486-DX or pentium type of microcomputer server, probably operating under the Novell network
operating system (NOS). Ethemet would be used for communications between the server and about
twelve workstations and five printers, one of which would be a laser printer. A PC-based relationa'
database system would provide database support on a workstation-by-workstation environment.
Workstations would be Windows based, on standard 486-DX microcomputers. External communications,
where and when available, would be through a standard 14.4 kbaud modem, or better.



Techxica Axxex
Russia: Tax Administration Modemization Project                                  Page 31
6.17   Regional offices.  Large-size regional offices would receive an information technology
environment similar to the environment described above for small-size local offices, but with only eight
workstations and two printers, one of which would be a laser printer. In addition, these offices would
receive a suite of microcomputer-based software to facilitate data analysis and reporting both in text and
graphical formats.
6.18   Existing equipment. As indicated above, in 1992 the STS embarked on a computerization
program and a large number of tax offices are now equipped with microcomputers. The number of
workstations planned for deployment by the project corresponds to the minimum number of workstations
necessary to provide the intended level of functionality. In all cases, in anticipation of growth needs, the
LAN capacity has been designed to accommodate a larger number of workstations. Some of the existing
workstations could be added to the LAN and continue to be used for tax processing, while others could
be redirected to support administrative functions which are not covered as part of the project but are also
needed to perform ad-hoc statistical analysis, and office support functions. Final decisions will be made
on a case-by-case basis by the time of procurement of computers and installation services.
6.19 Applications system design and development. The project would continue to support the in-house
development of the new tax automation system, to include new functionality and support for additional
taxes. Responsibility for application design and development activities would be assigned to about ten
existing in-house information technology experts, who are complemented by tax administration design
specialists funded by the IMF. These are the same technical staff who created the new tax automation
system currently undergoing a pilot implementation. It is expected that this small design and development
team will be seconded temporarily to the Project Management Unit, and will remain there until all project
activities are completed and all intended application functionality is placed in production.
6.20   The development team would return to its normal assignment within the STS organization after
developmental activities are completed, the system documented, and placed in production status. It is
envisaged that the team will be charged with routine application maintenance and enhancement after
completion of the development cycle. An Electronic Data Processing (EDP) expert would assist the
development team in reviewing the possibility of incorporating the remaining taxes into the current
system, in creating guidelines for development and maintenance, and in improving the performance and
effectiveness of the automation system.
6.21   Development activities are centralized in Moscow. Hardware and software to support these
activities were obtained through a grant from the European Community. The basic applications
development environment is microcomputer based and include a fourth generation language and a pc-
based database. Application development activities will be financed by the STS, with the exception of
about US$0.5 million in foreign expenditures for expert training to be provided as part of the loan.
6.22   Financing. The proposed project would finance foreign expert services; equipment, including
hardware, software, networks, and ancillary devices; technical assistance for implementation and training
of technical staff on the use of modern information technology and application development
methodologies; technology training for system developers; and minor upgrade of tax office facilities
including necessary electrical, communications, security, and environmental control required for proper
operation of computer equipment. About 30 months of foreign expert services would be financed to
further develop the areas of forms design, auditing techniques, taxpayer education. Moreover, two full



Teclwicu Annex
Page 32                                               Russia: Tax Admhiistration Modernization Project
time advisors, financed by the IMF, would provide about 48 months of assistance to the STS in the
implementation of the automation systems component. The PMU would coordinate and provide quality
control over the goods and services delivered by the supplier or suppliers of information technology
equipment.
(c) Staff Training (US$3.8 milion of base costs).
6.23   Overall strategy and approach. The project would finance training of tax officials. Training
would be provided in various forms, including on-the-job training, coaching and role-modeling, formal
training as well as study tours in Russia and abroad. The distinctive characteristics of the approach to
training would lie in its practical, job-oriented approach. Most of the training would be imparted through
carefully detailed work procedures and carefully designed instructional manuals, coupled with coaching
and supervision by supervisors, managers, consultants and trainers. Most of the fornal training would
be carried out by managers, tax inspectors and other officers from the State Tax Service, including the
trainers allocated to the project. Some training would be acquired in the existing training institutions,
through the regular training procedures already in place at the STS. The typical training involved in the
project would consist of two stages. In the first stage, and immediately after the reform starts in a given
tax office, managers and the official in charge of information technology from each office would be
brought together to a training site located in a "demonstration office". A demonstration office would be
an office which has already implemented the changes, and where trainees would be able to observe the
changes and learn the skills associated with them. The second stage would consist of training the various
categories of staff. This training would be delivered immediately before, during or immediately after the
implementation of the reform in any given local office. This training would take various forms including
on-the-job and formal training sessions. While on-the-job training would necessarily be performed
locally, formal training could be delivered either locally or at a training site in which trainees from
different offices could participate. The decision about where to locate training would depend on the
number of trainees and the distances involved.
6.24   Training needs analysis. A substantial number of STS staff in the designated project regions,
existing or new, would need to receive training in a number of areas and procedures, which are new to
both the tax system and the individuals. Specifically:
a.     Staff assigned to the Taxpayer Education Services Unit would need to develop a broad
knowledge and skills basis which include computer related skills, information handling
skills, communication, public relations skills and -training techniques in addition to
relatively high levels of knowledge of tax-specific legislation, regulations and procedures.
b.     Staff assigned to the Data Processing Unit would need to develop keying skills, ability
to handle specific software, filing, checking and information processing skills of various
sorts. Some staff would also need basic accounting knowledge to allow them to verify
bank statements.
c.     Staff assigned to Audit Planning would require high levels of competence on accounting
and auditing, as well as specific skills to define audit plans and to analyze and evaluate
data on tax collection through the use of computers.
d.     Audit inspectors would need advanced skills on the use, manipulation and analysis of
electronic data, a high-level command of audit techniques, professional level of
accounting, total command of the legislation and procedures, professional written and



Technical Annex
Rusia: Tax Admbiibtion Modemization Project                                             Page 33
inter-personal communication skills, including investigative skills. In some cases they
will also need to develop tax-specific expertise.
e.     Staff assigned to the Contact Collection Unit of the Default Collection Section would
need to develop techniques for securing tax returns and taxes in default. Skills include
the ability to interpret balance sheets, to estimate capacity of payment by delinquent
taxpayers, mastery of the legislation, strong negotiation skills and report writing. Staff
allocated to the Enforcement Collection Unit would need to have an operational
knowledge of the legislation pertinent to their work, as well as strong investigating and
interpersonal skills.
f.     In addition to their regular professional skills, managers and trainers would need a
thorough knowledge of the new institutional model and systems, a detailed knowledge of
the areas which they manage or teach, as well as strong coaching and training skills.
The objectives of training would vary according to the functions of each individual, but virtually the
entire staff in the two designated regions would receive some form of training.
6.25   All participants would be involved in formal training sessions in which they would be exposed
to an overview of the reform and changes it entails, as well as the specific implications for the activities
of each unit and function. Table 6.3 summarizes the training needs analysis of the various target groups
within the project. Attachment 3 presents the detailed needs analysis and staff training plan.



Table 6.3: Summary of Traning Needs Analys
Briefing on A. Sysun
Com tr Red Skills
Repon Wring Sk
Communkadtn SkiUs
WorkPl       Skilb
Accounifg Sklb
Tax AuditToinqc
Tax4pecifl Speclairat
S.sdk',g,^:aoA'imi   il.d             - 
,,See abo A_shi 4 for ld
Taigi GC w.                                                                                                                                 ; onia.
3 1. b%*ud dl 6- l  gviolv  in      2.
1. Taup.yen                                 -         --_                                                                       _             2 Type mddepth of cumm  my 'wy  o io On dM  tnard Oak
guo  of ~Icii.Pr~s                 m    illu    mA    ow    r
I.I1bd                                 X          X         X          X         X          X         X                    X                      m c ol     I ?w Wm
___________________  -   - -         -                              -          -                        l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.May aihd egopdmadm nd aw.duiOa dkill b  -om immm.
1.2 Servm                              X                           ___           x                            X4 Wor X kpl skIi amee. wi nc1 d __b_ ler                           ff  bmlm  pq,r  ele
2 Vo. They wID Ichef k= p        *,11A   ...  I   opw or
2. ACCmOnAkIIbf___                                              --___                                              __ tiaa waeft  md    Iy matOns t -                              -ipmk4 Aed*k    flak'u
5.bdwmouet&o  husdlhoinsdmA 'm.ut.lkhohdudemuI        i om
2.1 RecptontpreparatXon of data        x          x      _______       -
2.2 Monitoring bankst                                       -          _         x          -      _             -      _ e                         will w1  d  _ virb
comhlnlsqmuw da  wi. some Of dak uigwil be don Amuck
2.3 Dataprocesin                       X          X         X                    I X     _             X                _____
3. Am    mctim                               x        X          x         x               =               x         x .x e           e       Tbe dwakh of eac        ai   lnWMm m_y          mgwil  soyt e d ow  f
oause Most of Am -IrsInk, howeveg. wIU be pov Ed boghIh d
4. Ddl_.e.1 T-xuy-                                   m--as s amn derud in a propm . cod  .,by                                                                                                    dr d
a m.AmtbJob. AdIIOU1 ounma    n q    iigu   a  1
4.1 Cona ° o                                      X          X         X          X                    X      _ __        _        ,        je  for Am     ednalod to dhs valm t*    w        ke      d
cam' bakv     d ula wIg heng ildo. w eMo    d u          emo
4 2 _ dikas ~~~~~~X                     X          X         X          X                    X                    X                of the S$md we  d_,    be e 11h de _in_d_
4.2Enforcmsm offlO                      X                                                   X X _xSm.
S.  ~~~~bin a m     I         -                    -       _ _ _ _ _ _  ~~~~~~~~~ x                           P I_ _ _ _   _ _



Techxcd Axnex
Russia: Tax Administration Modemnization Project                                 Page 35
6.26  Formal training program. Formal training programs include on-the-job, formal training sessions
and study trips in Russia and abroad. All 3,500 staff members involved in the process of modernization
would participate in general training sessions about the changes and in one or more specific training
sessions concerning their own functions. The number of training activities in which each individual
participant would be involved is illustrated in Table 6.4. The actual number of training sessions cannot
be estimated accurately beforehand, for two major reasons. First, most of the training would be delivered
through on-the-job training, by means of training manuals and tutorials. Second, the actual size of each
training group would depend on the implementation strategy to be followed in each region (by agency,
groups of agencies or sub-region).
Table 6.4: Approximnation of Planned Formal Training
Course                     Length (in days)     Total Staff     Total Staff Days
Planning Tax Audits               4                200               800
Tax Audit Techniques              8                1,660            13,280
Taxpayer Education                5                550              2,750
Delinquent Taxpayers              5                420              2,100
Computerization                   4               3,350             13,400
Total .                            Approximately 32,300
6.27  Financing. The proposed project would finance development of training materials and delivery
of training programs, as well as the expert services necessary. A full-time training expert to be allocated
to the project during its first 18 months would be primarily responsible to train the group of 10 full-time
trainers allocated to the project. Subject-matter experts hired to develop other project components would
also be expected to work about one third of their time developing procedures and manuals which would
serve as direct inputs for the training activities. These experts would be also involved in the direct
training of the staff of the first offices to be modernized.
2. Institution Development (US$5.2 million of base costs)
6.28  Institution development of tax administration would be achieved through three mnain components
-organizational development, preparation for national implementation, and project management unit
support.
(a) Organizational Development (US$2.6 million of base costs)
6.29   Tax administration strategy. Ordinarily, comprehensive administrative reform programns are
based on an agreed strategic plan which defines the business of the agency, the functions required of its
organizational structures and the policies and procedures that will be adopted to manage its operational
processes. Tax administration reforms are well designed for the local tax offices, but a strategic plan



T#cha*ca Annex
Page 36                                            Russia: Tax Admnistration Modernization Projea
does not yet exist for the STS as a whole. Before nationwide implementation of tax administration
reforms, a strategy must be developed to guide the process. The strategy should take into account, inter
alia, experiences in implementing the first two phases of the overall program. Consequently, the
proposed project would finance an integrated set of studies leading to a national tax administration
strategy. The project would finance expert services and fellowships abroad for STS staff for this purpose.
6.30   Organizational development at STS headquarters. The proposed project would introduce
functional organizations at the local level, but the federal level remains organized according to types of
taxes or geographical regions. Consequently, there is a parallel need to reassess the general strcture of
the STS at the center and regions to determine (i) how they can best provide effective managerial
direction and operational support to the new structures, functions and automation systems being
introduced at the lower levels with the system; and (ii) how best to support existing functions that have
been substantially altered, such as the management of appeals. The proposed study would recommend
new institutional arrangements in terms of functions, organizations and staffing and resource implications.
It would also review internal management procedures in key areas such as personnel policies and
corruption management, so as to ensure long-term sustainability of the project.
6.31  Interagency cooperaton. A second phase of the study on organizational development would help
devise a strategy and propose a protocol for cooperation among key agencies involved in taxation and
enforcement, e.g. customs and pension/social insurance agencies, so as to foster commnon approaches to
deal with taxpayers. The Taxpayer Identification Number and its general use is a specific issue to be
addressed.
6.32   Taxpayer educaton strategy. A strategy for taxpayer information would be developed with the
assistance of external experts, including an information and education campaign to advise taxpayers of
their responsibilities and procedures for compliance.
6.33   Natonal audit plan. The STS intends to develop a national audit plan which would specify the
proportion of taxpayers by category that should be audited, conditions that would trigger audits and
identify the mix of audit methods to be employed. The Plan would also define the resources required,
staff training implications and methods to evaluate effectiveness. Four staff months of external technical
assistance have been budgeted for this purpose.
6.34 National training plan. The proposed project would finance work by the STS to prepare a
national staff training plan. This would include a detailed needs analysis in relation to the performance
requirements of new functions, identification of target groups, training content, required training
approaches and materials, effective modern delivery methods and outcomes expected.
6.35   Legal and regulatory framework review.  Problems in the existing legal and regulatory
framework significantly hamper tax administration in the Russian Federation. A coherent, transparent,
equitable, and enforceable framework is necessary to reform and improve tax administration in Russia.
The Ministry of Finance and the Duma have initiated reviews of the legal framework of taxation with
foreign assistance from a number of donors including the IMF, and the U.S. and German governments.
Complementary to the above activities would be an internal STS review focussing primarily on the
regulatory framework including instructions, clarifications, methodologies, and procedures enacted by
the STS. Therefore, this subcomponent of the project would finance expert services to undertake an



Techxicl Annex
Russia: Tax Administration Modemization Project                                    Page 37
analysis of the legal and regulatory framework of the Russian taxation system from the STS viewpoint,
and establish coordination with parallel activities taking place at the MOF and Duma.
6.36  In view of the overall goals and nature of the project, the analysis would first and foremost
concentrate on the implementation and enforcement of current tax laws through the existing regulatory
framework enacted by the STS. Particular attention would be paid to the following areas: (i) consistency
between tax laws and internal STS regulations; (ii) comprehensiveness, coherency, and transparency of
laws and regulations, including taxpayer accessibility to laws and regulations; (iii) enforcement of laws
and regulations; (iv) imposition and appropriateness of penalties; (v) discretionary powers of the STS;
(vi) procedures and basis for exemptions; (vii) administrative and judicial dispute resolution between the
STS and taxpayers, including the need of specialized courts; (viii) interagency coordination and exchange
of information; and (ix) central/regional tax relationship, including collection, expenditure and
enforcement responsibilities.
6.37   The above analysis would take into account and be interrelated to the other activities financed
under the Organizational Development subcomponent of the project. Specifically, the analysis would be
integrated with the work on the national tax administration strategy (para. 6.29), institutional organization
of the STS (para. 6.30), interagency cooperation (para. 6.31), and national audit plan (para. 6.33).
6.38   The analysis would culminate in a comprehensive report outlining the problems and proposed
solutions in the regulatory area of tax administration, and indicating areas of the legal framework which
might require attention by the MOF and Duma. The analysis would be undertaken by foreign and local
consultants experienced with legal issues of tax administration both within and outside of the Russian
Federation.
6.39   Financing. The proposed project would finance fellowships, and foreign and local expert
services. About 50 months of fellowships would be financed to expose local and regional tax
administration managers to modem tax administration organizations in Western countries, and for
attendance to tax administration seminars on modern policies, procedures, and practices for tax
administration. About 38 months of foreign expert services, and 80 months of local expert services
would be financed to develop concept papers on STS modernization and inter-agency cooperation,
national plans for auditing and education, and legal and regulatory framework review. The PMU would
coordinate these organizational development activities and engage STS management in reviewing proposed
organizational changes.
(b) Preparation for National Implementation (US$1.0 milion of base costs)
6.40   National standards and guidelines. This would include development of operational standards
for the STS covering procedures, hardware and physical facilities to support automation activities (e.g.
power supply, wiring and security for equipment). These would be prepared in the form of guidelines
on tax administration modernization, the first version of which would embody the standards used for the
Phase 2 project and subsequent versions of which would incorporate modifications based on
implementation experience and technological developments.
6.41   Phase 2 evaluation study. Technical assistance would be provided to help the STS evaluate
results of the implementation in the project regions and codify lessons for future modifications in the



Techxical Ann
Page 38                                            Russia: Tax Admistration Modernization Project
program. The comprehensive evaluation would cover all key aspects of the project and would make
suggestions of how to improve the processes used in the projects for national implementation.
6.42   National automaton strategy. As a result of the review of the strategy to automate the two
regions and technological developments, the project would finance a study to define alternatives for
organizing the STS information technology functions, and national strategies for methodology for
applications development, hardware/software, communications, data collection, data security and data
processing. The study would produce standards for the central, regional and local levels and define
information flows among these levels. An important part of this strategy would be a national contingency
plan providing guidelines necessary to ensure business continuity and survival of electronic records under
extreme situations.
6.43   Feasibility study on individual taxes. A study would be made to determine whether individual
taxation should be included in the scope of the third phase of the project. The study would assess the
requirements, costs and issues in phasing in such taxation as part of the modernization program.
6.44  Implementation plan. Finally, the project would finance detailed preparation for the third phase
(1997-98) of the program, incorporating the findings of the above studies, which would be consolidated
in an integrated implementation manual.
6.45   Financing. The proposed project would finance fellowships, and foreign and local expert
services. About 7 months of fellowships would be financed to provide designers with a solid
understanding of the role of tax administration in market economies. About 28 months of foreign expert
services, and 56 months of local expert services would be financed to develop standards for automation
and office facilities; a business continuity and contingency plan; a feasibility study on inclusion of taxation
of individuals in the current automation system; and a thorough independent technical evaluation of phase
2 implementation so as to take full advantage of lessons learned in the planning for national
implementation. The PMU would coordinate these activities and engage project and STS management
in reviewing the proposals for national deployment of the tax administration modernization organization
and systems.
(c) Project Management Unit Support (US$1.6 mnion of base costs)
6.46   The new organizational structure for local tax offices, to be implemented in parallel with the
automation of these offices, has been planned to take place from the ground up with little infrastructure
support at higher levels of the organization. Higher levels need strengthening to undertake a project of
this dimension. A Project Management Unit (PMU) would be established at the central level of the STS
to provide this support. (See Chapter 7 for detailed explanation.) The establishment of this Unit would
be required to support future phases of program implementation, and some of its functions (such as the
procurement, taxpayer education, EDP development, and evaluation teams) would become permanent
features of the STS.
6.47   Financing. The proposed project would finance foreign and local expert services. About 13
months of foreign expert services, and 72 months of local expert services would be financed to support
project management activities, particularly procurement, accounting and disbursement, and translation
and interpretation services.



Techicol Amer
Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project                                       Page 39
3. Technical Assistance Sunmary
6.48   The proposed project would finance a total of about 181 person-months of external expert
services, 216 person-months of local expert services, and 252 person-weeks of fellowships and study
tours abroad. Bank-financed technical assistance would focus primarily on the development of tax
administration management to prepare the STS for its national improvement program, and overseas
training activities for selected STS management and technical operations staff. IMF-financed technical
assistance would concentrate on substantive tax policy and administration activities. A formal agreement
between the IMF and the Russian Federation on the provision of this assistance has been concluded.
Table 6.5 below sunmuarizes technical assistance by category, and Table 6.6 presents assistance by
specific subject.
Table 6.5: Summary of Technical Assistance
Expert Services (months)   Feflowshlps
Category                      Foreign__      Local        (weeks)
Tax Policy                .      -             -_*_-
Project Support                  18            96      
itutio   Development           163            120          252
TOTAL .    181             216           252



zgz            91Z      I      181     jrIViOJL
96             81           olS
96                                JJvMS uoTiiJdJiouI puio UOTI'sujL
9              3s!iizo=dS luom2nsinqstCl pue guiuunoomV
Ui                              JOSIAPV )UU.oi
i!ufl uoinuR)uaIlduWl 3oafold
ZE    ~  *09               OE         Me~olqnS
Ui             9                     SlVflp!A!pUI JO UOI1VXiJL UO APnUS
Ui             9                          APTUS UO!WfIeAg 9:3 q3TtpJL
Ui             9                         sp1VPUUnS Sam31or1 [BUOTILRN
Ui             9                           ugId A3u2guI)UOD) IguiODfN
r 1            9                        a2wufs uoflUUoinVf IRUOUivN
ZE                              ~~~~~~~~~~S2RUIOUOO3 1)IJi1AJ U! uoi1iwlSTUUpv XiJL
____________  ____________  ____________           uotiviu2ta2idta   liuonujvN
ozz            09             91'        Ioln
Ui             9                 uouri2idooD bu2w8u. iI .oj '2ow'jS
zi         zi~ ~              iu2mdopoA2a pUu gUu1md 8uminJ
V                       ~~~~~~~ULId I!PnV IiuO!WN
zi                ~~~~~Agamu.S uonumnpg i2,(edxujL
Ui             9           )daouoJ uo!~Ti  PON UOT  JSTUTWPV XEL
OTT                                                      ju2tudop2A*( IUOWMhUU14
Oil                                                    1umUTtUs UOI3IJSMTUtPy XiiL
____________  ____________                       1~~~u2tadop*A2a iuaoiwuz~ueio
1.8       IumolqnS
C             ~~~~su2dxg uoftimAsTuIIpV XUjL laTpo
Ui                        uodxg uoTWonpg ioALdxrjL
U I                       iodxg sonbunp=jL Su!iupnV
9                                   J0uSsigg  sWiOd
8 1                    u2dxg (SU1ss~o.d MVTU) dG3
sdqsA&OIPA      (supuoul) sa3W" )Jsdx3    _______________
vwdU  aouusisv ilulqjuup        MajuW   :9,9 alqBj
loofoM~ uou uzup      vupjsmwpy xujL :mssn-jOtd~
XDUWV lD4?VPeL



Techxical Annex
Rnsia: Tax Administration Modernization Project                                      Page 41
6.49   The PMU would receive assistance from a number of foreign experts with the objective of both
developing concept papers and proposals in their fields of expertise and transferring knowledge to STS
counterpart staff who would later institutionalize these functions and provide long-term project
sustainability. The following is a summary of the expertise that would be provided under the Tax
Administration Modernization Project.
6.50   Chief Technical Advisor (CTA). The CTA would work in close cooperation with the project
manager to assist in day-to-day activities of the project. The CTA would facilitate and coordinate the
foreign assistance. This assignment is expected to last for approximately 30 months. The financing of
the first 12 months has been confirmed by the IMF, which is expected to continue financing the expert
through the entire implementation period.
6.51   Electronic Data Processing (EDP) Software Specialist. The EDP expert would be responsible
for assisting the STS in modifying the recently developed tax computerization system to include support
processing of profits and other tax returns and payments, and for monitoring and tuning the performance
of the overall computerization system. The EDP software specialist would also assist the STS in moving
towards a client/server database platform for local offices requiring larger data processing capacity. On-
the-job training of STS staff would be integral part of the job to ensure continuity and sustainability. This
assignment is expected to last for approximately 18 months, and would also be financed directly by the
IMF.
6.52   Forms Design Erpert. The forms design expert would be responsible for the review and redesign
of all tax and other internal STS forms with a -view to simplifying forms and to improving consistency
and ease-of-use. This would include the profit tax form and a review of the recently developed VAT
forms, besides routine modifications because of legislative changes, forms for other taxes and internal
procedures. Transfer of practical know-how in this area would be important for project sustainability.
It is estimated that this assignment would last about six months.
6.53   Auditing Techniques Expert. The improved tax administration modernization system would
permit the STS to conduct better selected field audits. To carry out this function effectively, the STS
would need to develop guidelines (a procedural handbook) for how to conduct field audits, and to train
its inspectors in auditing techniques. The procedural handbook would create the conditions necessary for
uniform auditing of taxpayers. The auditing techniques expert would lead the effort to develop the
handbook and provide initial training to STS trainers and inspectors on how to conduct successful field
audits. It is estimated that this assignment would last for about 12 months.
6.54   Default Collection Technique Expert.  Like in the case of auditing, the improved tax
administration system, and the new division of labor being implemented in the local offices would permit
the STS to improve the effectiveness of its collection activities. To carry out this function effectively the
STS would need to develop standard guidelines, reflected on a procedural handbook, for how to conduct
the different stages of enforcement-from friendly arrangements in the early stages to referral to the Tax
Police in extreme criminal cases. Formal guidelines would increase predictability, monitorability, and
uniformity of enforcement activities. The default collection techniques expert would lead the effort to
develop these guidelines, train a number of tax inspectors in how to conduct successful enforcement at
its different stages, and assist the STS in ensuring that the legal framework is consistent with the



Tecunet Annex
Page 42                                              Russia: Tax Administration Modemization Project
enforcement requirements of the agency. It is estimated that this assignment would last for about 12
months.
6.55   Taxpayer Education Expert.  The STS would need to develop a taxpayer infornation and
education campaign to enable the implementation of self-assessment procedures, and improve the
relationship between the STS and taxpayers. This expert would assist the STS in institutionalizing the
development and maintenance of publications and other materials used for information dissemination and
in improving the services and education programs introduced during the pilot phase of the project. The
expert, while leading the effort, should provide on-the-job training to counterpart STS staff assigned to
this task. It is estimated that this assignment would last for about 12 months.
6.56   7haining Expert. The training expert would be primarily responsible for training and coaching
the STS trainers allocated to the project. Initially, the training expert would design a training plan for
the implementation activities envisaged under the project, and work with the trainers to ensure the quality
of training delivery. Subsequently and considering the initial experience, the training expert would lead
the effort to develop the National Training Plan described above. The activities of the training expert
would be those of a separate project with the International Tax Training Institute. It is estimated that this
assignment would last for about 18 months.
6.57   Procurement Adviser. The procurement adviser would assist the STS in acquiring the required
technical assistance, hardware, software, and services for project execution. This would include assisting
in finalizing the tender specification, interacting with the World Bank and potential suppliers, evaluating
bids, selecting appropriate supplier, and addressing contract execution issues. The procurement adviser
would be expected to have expertise in procurement activities under World Bank and/or other
international organizations procurement procedures. The procurement adviser would work in tandem with
and train STS procurement staff so that they would be able to carry out these duties upon completion of
the assignment. It is estimated that this assignment would last for about 12 months.
6.58   Accounting and Disbursement Adviser. The accounting and disbursement adviser would advise
the STS accounting and disbursement team in how to setup their accounting, disbursement and project
control procedures so as to ensure prudent financial management of the project. The accounting and
disbursement adviser would be expected to have expertise in financial management requirements for
World Bank loans. It is estimated that this assignment would last for about one month.
6.59   Translation and Interpretation Staff. This staff would provide translation and interpretation
services to the project in general and support the activities of the foreign experts, and international
agencies providing assistance to the STS. It is estimated that 72 staff months of translation staff would
be required to support the activities under the project over a period of about three years.



Teehxica Annex
Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project                                     Page 43
CHAFrER 7. CosIs, FINANCING AND ImPLM NTATION
A.    Project Costs
7.1    The total project cost is estimated at about US$27.4 million equivalent (287.7 billion Rubles),
including price contingencies of US$0.8 million and physical contingencies of US$2.2 million which
represent 3.0% and 9.0% respectively, of the base cost of US$24.4 million. The project costs include
the provision of technical assistance (both foreign and local), overseas fellowships and in-country training,
equipment, training materials and software, minor refurbishing and furnishing of facilities, and
incremental operating costs incurred during the implementation period. The estimated costs by project
component and by category of expenditure are shown in Tables 7.1 and 7.2, respectively, and further
detailed in Attachments 4 and 5.
7.2    Project costs were estimated as follows:
a.     Base costs. All project costs are based on January 1995 prices and conversions from the
local currency at the market rate of 3861 Rubles per US dollar prevailing on January 17,
1995.  Technical assistance (TA) costs are derived from  recent fees quoted for
comparative specialized services in Bank-financed projects in Russia and are estimated
per person-month at US$20,000 for external specialist services, US$2,000-2,400 for local
specialist services, and US$5,000 per week for overseas fellowships. The person-month
costs of TA include fees, recruitment/relocation costs, housing and subsistence, and
overheads. Equipment unit costs are based on recent quotations from suppliers of
equipment and software.
b.     Contingency allowances. Price contingencies for domestic price increases are calculated
at projected Ruble inflation rates of 122% for 1994/95, 56% for 1995/96 and 20% for
1996/97, with corresponding Rbl/US$ exchange rates of 6174, 10704, and 12762 at
project year mid-points for the samne time period. '0 Price contingencies for international
price increases are calculated at 1.5% for 1994/95, 1.8% for 1995/96 and 2.6% for
1996/97." Physical contingencies are included in the project at an average rate of 9%.
c.     Foreign exchange component.  The foreign exchange component was estimated as
follows: (i) foreign expert services and fellowships - 100%; (ii) local expert services -
0%; (iii) equipment - 100% percent; and (iv) incremental recurrent costs - 2% of base
costs. The total foreign exchange component is estimated at US$17.7 million including
contingencies, or 65% of total project costs.
d.     Taxes and import duties. Project costs include US$3.5 million in taxes and duties which
are 13% of total project costs and are included at the rate of 33% applicable to the
importation of equipment purchased internationally.
e.    Incremental recurrent costs. Incremental recurrent costs are estimated in total at 2% of
baseline costs, US$0.5 million, and include primary utility use costs to support
processing automation and its operation, on an incremental basis.
'0 Source: IBRD - ECA Department m; Country Operations Division II
" Source: Index of Unit Value of Manufactured Exports (MUV), October 1994.



Technxca Axxex
Page 44                                                  Russia: Tax Admainion Modefmtion Project
Table 7.1: FEtmated Project Costs by Project Componentt
(Rubles billions)      (US$ millions)
%          % Total
.K                     ~~~~~~Foreig  Base
Local Foreign pji  Local Foreign                  a      Cost
Ixituidoxal Developmext
Organizatonal Development         .2    10.0             .1     2.6       g     96        11
Prep. for National Implementation  -      3.9      9     -       1.0      4     100        4
Project Management Unit            -      6.1   -                1.5     d      100        6
Subtotal Inst. Development       .2    20.0             1      5.1 S  1 l      100       21
Automation
Central Office                     .3     1.6            .1      .4       5     85         2
Regional Offices                   .7      .7  .'Z2               .2            49         1
Local Offices                    19.0   36.9                   4.9              66        59
Subtotal Atomation             20.0    39.2  S3        5 .2    10.2  .1        66        63
Extemal Study Tours                -      4.0    4               1.0 .          100        4
Trainin inRussia                  9.6     1.2 $2.S 32 5           3              11       11
Subtotal Staff Traning          9.6     5.2   ijs  2.5         1.3            35        16
Tota Baseline Costs              29.8    644 I     .    7.8    16.6             69        100
Physical Contingencies            6.1     2.4           1.6       .6             28        9
Price Contingencies              69.3   115.7            .3      .5  m          62         3
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS             105.2   182.5           9.7    17.7              65       112
Figurs may not total due torounding.



TechNcl Axxex
Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project                                                                   Page 45
Table 7.2: Estimated Project Costs by Category of Expendituret
(Rubles billions)          (USS millions)
Foreign          Bawe
Local  Foreign   Tl.Local  Foreign                   Exchange    Costs
L. Investment Costs
A. Technical Assistance
1. Development of
Operations Guidelines                     1-                         .S             100         2
2. Concept Papers                 -         4.4       4               1.2      E       100         5
3. Advisory Services              .2        8.9     9         1       2.3      U       96         10
4. Overseas Training              -         47                        1. 2             100         5
5. In Country Training           6.9             ; .         1.8       -                           7
6. Training Equipment             .6           R              .5 .2    -               _
7. Training Facilities Rental     1.4        -       1        .3       -        1
Subtotal Technical Assistance     9.1       19.9 f            2.4      5.2  1'          70         31
B. Automation Systems                 12.4       39.1    $        3.2      10.1 '.          76          55
C. Office Support Equipment           .02        .07   B        B ...A    .005  .017        75
D. Civil Works                         5.6                6       1.5       -               _           6
E. Printing & Publishing               .8         5.2      '       .2       1.3      : .  87            6
Total Investment Costs    27.8       64.4 ...          7.3     16.6 0S           70          98
11. Recurrent Costs                         2.0        -      B          5             .                     2
Total Baseline Costs                       29.8      64.4  9;          7.8      16.6    2        69         100
Physical Contingencies                 6.1        2.4             1.6       .6              28          9
Price Contingencies                   69.3      115.7              .3     _5                 62          3
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS    105.2               182.5   W,        9.7      17.7     7        65         112
Figures may not total due to rounding.



Technica AJmex
Page 46                                             Russia: Tax Administration Modenization Project
B.    Project Finandng
7.3    The proposed Bank loan of US$16.8 million would finance 61 % of total project costs. The loan
would finance 95% of the foreign exchange costs of the project and no local costs (excluding taxes and
duties). The IMF would contribute US$0.9 million, 5% of foreign costs, or 3% of total project costs.
The STS would finance US$6.2 million of the project's local cost requirements, or 23 % of project costs.
The Government would commit the $3.5 million in taxes and duties. Table 7.3 outlines the distribution
of financial responsibility.
7.4    By committing itself to provide for about 23% of project costs, the STS, supported by the
Government, is mobilizing critically scarce resources in an effort to address the challenge it faces in an
effective and timely manner. During negotiations, the Government provided satisfactory evidence of the
ability of the STS to meet its commitment of counterpart funds. Most of the STS's contribution would
be used to (i) prepare and refurbish central, regional and local offices for installation operation of critical
automation equipment; (ii) train staff; and (iii) conduct taxpayer orientation seminars.
Table 7.3: Project Financing Plan
Foreign                                       Total
Exchange     Local Costs       Taxes       Project Costs
USSM     %    USSM      %    USSM     %             Project
State Tax Service             0.0    0       6.2   100      0.0      0            23
Govemment                     0.0    0       0.0    0       3.5    100   e         13
International Monetary Fund   0.9    5       0.0    0       0.0      0      .      3
World Banlc                  16.8   95       0.0    0       0.0      0            61
TOTAL                         17.7   100     6.2   100      3.5    100    v       100
t Figures may not total due to rounding.
C.    Project Management and Implementation
7.5    The following organizational structure has been introduced by the STS to ensure control and
timely implementation of the Tax Administration Modernization Project. Chart 7.1 contains a diagram
of the organizational structure, including the Project Management Unit (PMU). The key principles for
the project structure are the following:
a.     Clear reporting procedures to ensure accountability;
b.    Clear division of functions and authorities between project teams to ensure quick
implementation;
c.    Organization of project teams based on functional responsibilities; and
d.    Piloting of possible models for future organizational changes in the STS.



Technica Annex
Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project                                        Page 47
7.6    The structure is complex. Parallel work of multiple groups would require serious efforts from
the STS to manage the effective collaboration between them. The Steering Committee is the key element
of this process on all policy matters and the project leader and his deputies are responsible for
coordination at the operational level. The Project Management Unit is closely integrated into the regular
STS work and has been staffed mostly by STS personnel allocated for this purpose. Several project
implementation groups are expected to form a basis for the future new permanent organizational
structures of the STS.
1. Project Policy and Supervision
7.7    The Steering Committee is the key element for the project policy development and supervision.
The Steering Committee is responsible for the following:
a.     Overall direction of the project;
b.     Close integration of the project activities into regular STS operations;
c.     Key policy decisions on project content;
d.     Approval of the operational guidelines and long-term plans/concept papers;
e.     Allocation of the STS staff to work under the project;
f.     Coordination with regional tax services and authorities; and
g.     Supervision of project implementation progress.
7.8    The Steering Committee is made up of 12-15 permanent members, including:
a.     The Head of the STS, who would be the Chairman of the Steering Comnittee'2;
b.     2-3 Deputy Heads of the STS responsible for crucial areas of the project;
C.     3-4 Heads of those department who would be most closely involved in the project
implementation;
d.     2-3 Heads of the Regional Tax offices participating in the project;
e.     2 Heads of the rayon offices participating in the project;
f.     Representative from the Ministry of Finance;
g.     Project Leader (Head of the Project Management Unit); and
h.     Chief Technical Advisor.
When discussing specific issues, the Steering Committee would invite appropriate STS managers
responsible for those areas. The Steering Committee would meet every quarter (possibly more often
initially). The structure and staffing of the Steering Committee was approved by an Ordinance or Prikaz
of the STS Head.
7.9    The Project Director manages the overall implementation of the project and is responsible for
ensuring close cooperation between the Steering Committee and the Project Management Unit. He is
advised by the Chief Technical Advisor on technical issues related to the project. He is the main point
of contact for the Bank and IMF. The Project Director is a Deputy Head of the STS.
12 The Head of the STS is the Chairman of the Steering Committee due to the importance of the project as the
preparation phase for national tax administration modernization.



Techxial Annex
Page 48                                       Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project
Chart 7.1: Project Implementation Structure
Steering               PROJECT POLICY AND SUPERVISION
Committee
Chairman
IzI
Project
Director
I             ~~~~PROJECT KANAaSMENT UNIT (PKU)
Users'
Advisory               Project                               Procurement
Group                  Leader                                   Team
Disbursement
Deputy              Deputy              Deputy                Team
Institution         Automation          Project
Development         Systems          Implementation         Translation/!
Development                            Interpretation
Team
PROJECT IIPLEKENTATION
Operational           EDP
Guidelines      _  Development    _   Training
Development           Team               Teams
Team
Concept            Forms
Papers             Design        - Implementation
Development          Team               Teams
Teams
Taxpayer                               Site
L Education    l                          Preparation/
Team                                   Installation
Team
|Project     l
L Progress
|Evaluation 
Team       l



Techued Annex
Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project                                      Page 49
7.10   Project management. The STS has formally established the Project Management Unit (PMU)
by an Ordinance ("Prikaz") of the STS Head. It consists of:
a.     Project Leader (Head of the PMU);
b.     3 Deputy Project Leaders;
c.     Head of the Procurement Team;
d.     Head of the Disbursement Team; and
e.     2-3 Heads of the key implementation teams (to be determined by the Steering
Commnittee).
The PMU was initially organized on a limited basis (Director, Deputy Directors and one procurement
administrator) to facilitate project preparation and start initial activities. On February 3, 1995 the STS
appointed the Heads of the six main project implementation teams'3.
7.11   The Project Leader is responsible for the day-to-day management of the project and general
coordination of project activities. The Project Leader's primary responsibility is to ensure effective
coordination and cooperation between various implementation groups through effective control over his
or her deputies. He works in close contact with the Project Director on all project policy issues and is
the mnain contact point for the Bank and the IMF on all operational issues. He is assisted by the Chief
Technical Adviser.
7.12   Deputy Project Leaders are responsible for implementation of Institution Development Programs,
Automation Systems Development and Project Implementation at the sites. Their primary goal is to ensure
effective cooperation between various working groups and especially among those reporting to them. The
Heads of respective implementation teams report to them (Chart 7.1).
7.13   The Procurement Team consists of 2-3 STS staff (responsible for procurement of goods,
procurement of consultant's services and procurement of training services) assisted by international and
local procurement experts. It is expected that, besides organizing procurement of goods and services for
the project, this team would work closely on development of STS internal procurement regulations and
would possibly form a basis for the STS internal procurement department.
7.14   The Disbursement Team consists of two persons (a chief accountant and bookkeeper allocated
by the STS) to ensure proper accounting of project accounts and organize disbursement of loan proceeds.
The STS has appointed the disbursement team and approved the proper accounting rules and principles
for the project.
7.15 The Translation/lnterpretation Team consists of 5 interpreters and translators hired by the STS
to facilitate the work of foreign consultants and ensure availability to all key documents for STS staff.
13 The six main project implementation teams required at project start-up are: Procurement, Disbursement, Operational
Guidelines Development, Concept Papers Development, EDP Development, and Forms Design.



Techxical Annex
Page 50                                            Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project
Project Implementation Teams
7.16   Project implementation would be done through special teams responsible for the implementation
of specific components or specific activities under respective components. In total there would be 9
groups and a special users working group. Some groups would be permanent and some temporary
depending on the nature of the group's activity. Each group would have the group leader appointed by
the STS. Most of the groups would consist of the STS staff allocated for this work under the project.
They would be assisted by international and Russian experts.
7.17  Instiution development.  One team would be responsible for development of Operational
Guidelines. Four STS staff members (on average) would be allocated for the work under each set of
guidelines (Auditing Techniques, EDP Development Guidelines, Procurement Guidelines, Office
Standards Guidelines). The work of this group would be temporary and would be considered finished as
soon as the respective guidelines would be approved by the STS. It is envisaged that as soon as the
guidelines are approved they would be; to the extent possible, used by the STS in its regular operations.
One person from the team would continuously work on implementation of subsequent Guidelines and
possible modifications.
7.18   Another team would manage the preparation of Strategies and Concept Papers. The STS would
allocate an average of 6 persons responsible for each of the concept papers (national tax modernization
concept, national automation strategy, strategy of STS cooperation with other agencies on tax related
issues, national contingency plan, national audit plan, national training plan). These managers would
organize the development by those concepts by respective department/divisions of the STS. International
and local experts would be used, as necessary, for specific issues.
7.19   Another team would be responsible for all activities under the publication/printing part of the
taxpayer education actvity of the project as well as for all other activities related to taxpayer information.
The STS would allocate 4-5 people for this team. The group would work continuously and it is expected
that it would form a basis for the STS internal organizational structure responsible for all taxpayer
education issues (printing, publications, public relations, training seminars for taxpayers, etc.).
7.20 Automation systems development. The EDP Development Team would be responsible for
modifying and maintaining the computer system that was developed during Phase 1 (pilot project). This
includes adding all other taxes, performing functional enhancements, developing computer logic to handle
processing of tax forms for Profit Tax and applying legislative and technical changes. The same people
responsible for software development during the pilot project would be involved. The STS would provide
1 EDP manager/designer, and 6 - 8 programmers. The team would be assisted by the international EDP
development expert and possibly by Russian experts.
7.21   The Forms Design Team would be responsible for designing simplified tax forms for the profit
tax and other taxes as well as for keeping forms compliant with the current legislation. The unit would
be assigned two STS staff and would be assisted by a foreign forms design expert. It would work on a
temporary basis.
7.22   Project implementation at the sites. Most activities of the groups mentioned below would be
implemented at the regional and local level (except for the training of trainers programs).



Technial Arnwz
Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project                                       Page 51
7.23   The Training Team would be responsible for the organization and implementation of training and
overseas fellowship programs under the project. It would consist of master trainers and training program
managers (8-10 people total). The group is expected to work continuously and coordinate its activities
with the training department of the STS.
7.24   Implementation Teams would be responsible for introducing new procedures and concepts in all
local offices. There would be 3-4 teams organized with 2-3 permanent members and 6-7 rotating
members. The team would include experienced staff from those local offices where new methods and
organizational changes have been already implemented. The team would work inside the local office for
about 4-6 weeks in order to ensure that the local office has understood the organizational and procedural
changes that are needed and that staff know how to use and maintain the computer systems. In essence,
the objective is to provide on-the-job coaching (assist the office in conducting field audits, and assist in
taxpayer education). The team would also help the office to start operations under the new structure and
would be available for follow-up activities. Each team would consist of:
a.     2 experts to help with Taxpayer Education and Services work;
b.     4 experts to help with Data Processing (Data Entry) work;
c.     4 experts to help with Audit work; and
d.     2 experts to help with Default Collections work.
7.25 The Site Preparation/lInstallation Team would consist of 5-6 people responsible for development
of standards for site preparation, supervision and coordination of local offices and hardware/software
suppliers in order to ensure timely and qualified installation of equipment. It would also be responsible
for initial installation of application software.
7.26   The Project Progress Evaluation Team would consist of 2 staff (possibly on a rotating basis) not
involved in the pilot project or in the current project. These staff would: (i) develop criteria for
assessing project progress and for evaluating the impact of changes introduced by the project; (ii) carry
out regular independent assessment of project progress; and (iii) carry out an independent evaluation of
gains in productivity and cost effectiveness of the new organizational structure and systems introduced
at the local offices. This quality control function would include, inter alia, evaluation of the performance
of tax inspectors in the execution of auditing and enforcement activities. It would also be responsible for
preparing for presentation to the Project Steering Committee, semiannual progress reports which would
include recommendations for possible improvements in the project.
7.27   The Users'Advisory Group would be responsible for assisting with preparations for local office
implementation. It would be consulted on all principal policy and operational issues. This group would
consist of 1 representative from each of the two selected regional office and 1 representative from each
of the selected local offices that would be implemented during the next period, implementation would take
place in 5 local offices each month.
7.28     Table 7.4 shows Summary of STS Staff Allocation for the Tax Administration Modernization
Project. During negotiations the Government provided satisfactory infornation that at least the minimum
number of relevant qualified staff by team, as shown in Table 7.4, would be assigned to work specifically
on the project.



Tedkaka Annex
Page 52                                                                  Russia: Tax Administratidn Modernization Projec
Table 7.4: Implementation Staff by Type and Location
SIS STAFF ALLOCATED FOR THE PROJECT
Full Time     Sbort        Total           of wbic-
Term                    Cenuter/Rego./Loea
ORGANIZATIONAL  ~ M                                    m  a                       a
SM UCTIRE               MtnMxit n Max                  Mx        Min         Max
Steering Committee                        14 11    14    i       14      7/212        913/2
Project Dincr                                   I     I ;  I  1  I  I  ;   10
Project Leader                     I     1 I         -      I  i  Ii   1/0/0   ; 10/O
Deputy ProjectLeader               3     3                  3     3       3/0/0       3/010
Procurement Team                   2     3                  2     3      2/0/0        3/0/0
Disbursement Team                  2     2                  2     2      2/010        210/0
Translation/lnterpretation -Team   2     2     3      3     5     5      5/0/0        5/0/0
Operational Guidelines             2     4    10    12    12    16       4/4/4        4/6/6
Development Team
Concept Papers Development Team:               6      6     6     6      6/010        6/0/0
Publication/Printing Team          I     3     2      2     3     5    I11/1          311/1
EDP Development Team               7     9     2      2     9    11       7/2/0       9/2/0
Form Design Teanm                     - -       2     2     2     2       2/0/0       2/0/0
Training Teams                     2     4     6      8     8    12       41212       4/4/4
Implementation Teams               6     12 3 18    28    24    40       6/4/14      12/6/22
Site Pepamtionlnstllation Team       2  s 6       2   2 34        8       2/2/0       6/210
Project Progress Evahuation Team   ,     -     2  , 2       2     2       2/0/0       2/0/0
User Group                                     10    10    10 ;   10      0/37        0/37
TOTAL   30    49    75    92   105   141
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ -m          .      =  .        -                           *1
.of which from                  I       r    5
Headquarters                                                55    72
Regional Offices                                           20    27
Local Offices                                               30    42



Technical Annex
Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project                                   Page 53
2. Implementation Schediding
7.29   Overall implementation approach. The key features of the implementation strategy are:
a.    A strong Project Management Unit, supported by external advisers, capable of fully
coordinating implementation activities;
b.    A Steering Committee at the top, and users' groups at the working level, to ensure that
systems cover the needs of the offices, and to help identify and overcome difficulties of
introducing reforms;
c.    Simple procedures for the procurement and installation of equipment through the
consolidation of virtually all automation equipment in one bid with phased delivery, and
by including delivery and installation services in the same contract;
d.    A manageable implementation schedule that introduces automation at the rate of five local
offices per month so as to insure lessons learned can be fully reflected downstream;
e.    Training on the new systems and procedures on the job to maximize relevance and
immediate impact; and
f.    Special support during the first weeks of operation under the new arrangement to ensure
a smooth transition.
7.30   Similarly, the preparation for national implementation is cautious, pragmatic, and takes advantage
of external and local expertise available to review progress of implementation in the two target regions,
and the results of studies on organization issues, training, auditing, taxpayer education, automation, and
facilities.
7.31   The tight schedule and the complexity of the project require the use of computerized
implementation scheduling. A computerized planning system would be used for project progress tracking.
The Operations Manual would be prepared for use by all STS offices in the project. The Manual would
include not only the tax processing procedures, but also the internal planning procedures of the PMU.
7.32   The project scheduling would focus the activities on the main objectives and, more importantly,
establish interdependent and critical paths between the four major preparatory component parts of the
project, as well as the implementation in the field. (See Attachment 6).
7.33   The overall implementation plan consists of the following steps:
Preparatory Stage
a. The PMU would establish its planning and control systems as
well as its basic procedures by:                            Mar. 1995
b. Develop the organization framework, including design and
development of new systems and corresponding structures for
initial application:                                        May 1995
All this work would culminate in the production of an
Operations Manual:                                          Aug. 1995



Technil Annex
Page 54                                            Russia: Tax Adminitration Modernization Project
Implementation Teams would be trained in new systems and
be ready for general implementation in the selected regions:  Oct. 1995
c. Introducing automation in the Tax Offices. This would be a
major activity and would include system development and
definition and equipment specification and all the
procurement activities with the initial contract negotiated:  May 1995
The equipment would be delivered in stages, the first
delivery  coinciding  with  the  completion  of  the
organizational/systems components and training activities
prepared. Initial equipment systems would be on-line:       Oct. 1995
d. Training would be based on analysis and concentrate on new
procedures  and  work  systems.    Training  of  the
Implementation Team members would be completed:             Oct. 1995
Start of staff training in local offices which will proceed
during a lengthy period:                                   Aug. 1995
Implementation Stage
Implementation will start with five local offices on
and will continue with 5 offices every month:               Oct. 1995
The new systems including full functioning computerized
processing of all major federal taxes for legal entities with
computerized support of all the other activities should be
operational in the two selected regions with 110 local offices:  May 1997
The completion and closing dates for the project would be June 30, 1998 and December 31, 1998,
respectively.
3. Status of Project Preparation
7.34   The proposed project has reached an advanced stage of preparation. The STS has selected the
two regions to participate in the project. The two technical specialists financed by the IMF are in place
and would continue during at least the first year of implementation of the proposed project. The
automation component has been well designed and costed. Implementation planning has begun in earnest
and staff of the STS have already participated in the Bank's procurement seminars. The following
preparation was completed before negotiations of the project: (i) preparation of terms of reference for
the studies to be financed under the project, (ii) a detailed STS staff training plan, (iii) detailed equipment
specifications and bidding documents, and (iv) an overall project implementation manual. Key staff of
the Project Management Unit and Heads of key project implementation teams have been appointed.
Finally, the pilot project-from which the proposed project would draw lessons and experience-is
currently being implemented and is expected to be substantially completed by May 1995.



Technical Annex
Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project                                 Page 5S
D.    Procurenent
7.35   Procurement under this project would be the responsibility of the Project Management Unit ( the
"PMU"), located within the State Tax Service organization. A procurement specialist would be hired by
the PMU to develop and administer its procurement operations. He/she would be familiar with World
Bank, and if needed, other donors' rules and procurement guidelines. The procurement specialist would
report to the project's Chief Technical Adviser. Procurement assistance would also include general
training on procedures and contract administration for other PMU members to support procurement of
computer equipment, systems and communications software, and consulting services for policy analyses,
tax administration, training and institutional development. PMU staff would implement the World Bank's
standard bidding and procurement documentation for goods and services, with needed addenda or
supplements, as approved by the Bank. The procurement specialist would ensure that the PMU conducts
solicitations, bid evaluations, contract award processes and procurement reporting as required by the
Bank. Terns of reference; prequalified vendor and consultant short lists; and bidding, evaluation and
contract documentation would be routed to the Bank, as appropriate, for needed reviews and no-
objections. PMU procurement staff would coordinate closely with the Project Implementation Division
to ensure purchases and deliveries are timed to fit local and regional office facility preparations and
personnel training activities. The PMU would include information on its procurement activities in
periodic reports to the World Bank.
7.36   Table 7.5 below is a summary of project elements, their approximate funding requirements and
the methodology envisioned for the procurement of each category of inputs. As outlined in the following
paragraphs, procurement would be implemented in accordance with relevant World Bank Guidelines and
standard bidding documents and contracts, as appropriate. General guidance on procurement policies and
procedures would also be available from Bank staff.



Techxr,d Annex
Page 56                                                       Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Projet
Table 7.5: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements'
(USS millions)
Procurement Method
Intenational    LocalI
Competitive   Competitive                Not Bank
Bidding      Bidding      Other         Financed     Tof
A.Institutional Development
Technical Assistance:
Software Design, Tax Admin.        -             -          0.9'           0.9 
Advisors, etc.                                             (0-9)                       (UP)
Strategic Analyses and             -             -          1.7V           0.1
Policy/Options Papers                                      (1.7)           -     X
Staff Training and Management      -             -          1.78           2 5
Study Tours                                                (1.7)                       (17w -
Systems Operations and Support     -             -          0.4;           0 6          . *
(0.4)           -4
B. Equipment/Matrialsak
Automation Equipment and           11.9          -          1.2b'          0 6   .
Installation                       (8.9)                   (0.9)          -(t            *
Publications, Equipment and         1.1           0.7       0  204 b                     4 2S4
Facilities Upgrades                (1.0)         (0.7)     (0.2)                  (B 9)
C. Project Preparation Facility                               0.6d'          -             G-
(incl. Project Management Unit)                            (0.5)
TOTAL         13.0           0.7       6.6             7 1      .     ..
(Lsilc potlions) (9.9)        (0.7)     (6.2)
Figures may not total due to rounding.
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts fmanced by the World Bank.
" Consulting Services (US$4.8 million) would be procured in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Use of
Consultants, 1981.
b' Includes DC (proprietary) computer system elements and software purchased under the Guidelnes: Procurement Under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (US$300,000); Imernational Shopping for off-the-shelf items (US$500,000) purchased
in accordance with the Bank's GuideUnes; and Local Shopping (US$300,000) for small value simple works (cabling,
etc.) and off-the-shelf items, such as fax machines s provided for in the Guidelines.
c' Computer support, training and other materials (including some ancilary installation services) procured locally, using
advertised, competitive bidding, in accordance with Bank Guideines for goods, US$700,000.
'A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$500,000 is intended to be used to fnance initial consulting services
(US$200,000) and start-up equipment in International (US$100,000) and Local Shopping (US$200,000) purchases for
STS units.



Technical Anex
Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project                                 Page 57
7.37   Procurement actions are expected to be undertaken within the following categories.
7.38   Technical Assistance.  A total of about US$3.6 million, including US$200,000 in services
funded under the proposed PPF, is allocated for Bank-financed procurement of professional and technical
services to assist STS staff with the planning, development and administration of tax system
improvements. The program is expected to need technical expertise for the design of: training materials,
curricula, teaching and skills evaluation techniques. There would also be a need for foreign assistance
in EDP work, conducting tax administration and taxpayer education seminars, and for assessing options
and developing policy and strategy papers for improvement of the STS and its national operations
conversion plan. The use of local consulting firms and personnel would be encouraged to develop the
domestic consulting industry. Besides IMF-supplied advisers, the project would engage experts in EDP,
training and materials development, and tax advisory assistance. Bank-financed consulting services would
be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and the World Bank as Executing Agency, published in August, 1981. The Bank's standard bidding and
contract documentation would be used. Solicitation methods and Terms of Reference for all consultant
assignments, and all procurement documentation and contracts with consulting firms valued at greater
than US$100,000 would be subject to prior Bank review and approval. Prior Bank review and approval
would also be required for short lists and contracts with individuals that are expected to exceed
US$50,000 each. There would be about eleven technical assistance and consulting contracts with firms
and/or individuals, totaling approximately US$2.8 million, that would be over US$100,000 and subject
to prior Bank review and approval. Contracts with individuals over US$50,000 are expected to number
about five, averaging US$70,000 and totalling about US$350,000. The other four expected consulting
contracts with firms, about US$86,000 each, and three contracts with individuals, averaging about
US$35,000 each, (and together totalling about US$450,000) would be subject to ex-post reviews on a
selective basis during supervision missions and/or as part of periodic procurement implementation
reviews. Where practicable, technical assistance, such as systems installation and/or maintenance services
would be sought in contracting packages to improve accountability and reduce costs and administrative
burdens. It is estimnated that about an additional US$1.2 million of the total proposed technical assitance
would be used to finance overseas fellowships and management study tours.
7.39  ICB Procurement. International Competitive Bidding (ICB) purchases would be conducted in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and lDA Credits, dated May,
1992. ICB procedures would be used for all computer systems and publications equipment purchases
expected to exceed US$300,000 per contract. Of the total of approximately US$12.0 million allocated
for the purchase of information technology and supporting equipment, US$9.9 million or about eighty-
three percent would be procured using ICB procedures. Principal categories for ICB procurement are
personal computers, printers, and related networking and systems equipment. In the comparison of bids
for equipment purchased under ICB, Russian manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of
fifteen percent or the existing customs duty that a nonexempt importer would have to pay, whichever is
lower, over the competing price of imports, providing domestic value-added is at least twenty percent.
The project is expected to have up to four successive ICB purchases of equipment, averaging
approximately US$2.6 million per contract. The Bank would review and clear ICB and prequalification
procedures (if used), bidding documents, evaluations and resulting contracts on an ex-ante basis; and
otherwise review and provide no-objections, as provided for in the Guidelines. Because Bank-financed
equipment and software purchases are expected to involve improving technologies and declining industry
prices, ICB purchases would be spread over a period of time that mirrors expected regional and local



Technical Ancx
Page 58                                            Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project
offices' conversion and equipment installation schedules. Computer equipment suppliers would have to
demonstrate a capacity, at least by the time of tendering, successfully to supply, install and maintain the
equipment purchased. Standard Bank IT documentation and bidding procedures would be used for these
procurements.
7.40  Direct Contracting/lntemational Shopping. Direct Contracting (DC), as outlined in the Bank's
Guidelines, is expected to be employed in the procurement of some proprietary computer network
upgrades and software. Spare parts for equipment and Netware elements may also be appropriate for DC
purchases. Such procurements would be justified and procedures, documentation and prices reviewed
and cleared beforehand by the Bank. It is expected that Direct Contracting would involve about
US$300,000 in two contracting actions including purchases under a PPF. As required by the Guidelines,
all Direct Contracting documentation, awards and contracting actions would be subject to prior Bank
review and clearance. International Shopping (IS) may be authorized for readily available, off-the-shelf
purchases under US$300,000 per contract. International Shopping would be based on quotations from
at least three suppliers, from at least three different eligible countries, as indicated in the Guidelines.
International Shopping is expected to total about US$600,000 and involve three purchases averaging about
US$200,000 each. The first two IS actions would be subject to Bank prior review. All others would be
conducted on an ex-post basis during supervision missions or procurement reviews.
7.41   Local Competitve Bidding. Because they would not be attractive to foreign suppliers, some
network support equipment procurements that would be less than US$300,000 per contract would be
carried out using Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), as provided for in the Bank's Guidelines. Local
competitive bidding procedures would be established by the PMU and submitted to the Bank for review.
The four expected LCB actions are expected to total about US$700,000, and average about US$175,000
per purchase. As the Bank's Country Procurement Assessment Report has not yet been completed for
Russia and the Borrower's local competitive bidding process has not been approved by the Bank, the first
two LCB actions would be subject to Bank prior review to ensure such purchases would be carried out
in a manner consistent with relevant sections of the Guidelines.
7.42   Local Shopping. To support some regional and local tax office systems installations, it is
expected that the STS would need to initiate a few small value purchases using Local Shopping (LS)
techniques described in the Guidelines. LS purchases would complement STS-financed office upgrades
and are expected to cover contracts under US$50,000 each. These purchases would be used for small
value transactions for simple works and readily available, off-the-shelf items, such as fax machines and
office computers and printers. Local Shopping would be carried out by obtaining at least three price
quotations from different eligible suppliers. Such purchases are expected to number about twelve
transactions, averaging about US$42,000 each and totaling US$500,000 including purchases under a PPF.
The first two LS actions would be subject to Bank prior review. The other small value LS purchases
would be subject ex-post documentation reviews, with payments probably being effected by Special
Account and Statement of Expenditure.
7.43   Bank procurement supervision. In summary, ICB, DC and the first two IS, LCB and LS
purchases of automation goods would be subject to prior Bank reviews and no-objections, as provided
for in the Guidelines. Procurement of consulting services would be subject to prior Bank reviews for all
TORs, and for procedures, documentation and contracting with firms over US$100,000 and with
individuals over US$50,000. Procurements of goods and services would use the Bank's standard bidding



Tech,ied Axxex
Russia: Tax Administration Modemnization Project                                 Page 59
and contracting documents, modified or supplemented as necessary, with Bank prior approval(s). This
procurement plan would result in the Bank's prior reviews, of approximately eighty-eight percent of total
Bank funds conmmitted for materials and equipment. In addition to reviewing TORs, Bank reviews of
contracting actions for tax administration, materials development, studies and EDP technical services
would cover an estimated eighty-eight percent of total Bank funding for technical assistance inputs.
Additional details on procurement can be found in Attachment 7.
7.44   Procurement approvals and reporting. A procurement specialist would be engaged to develop
procurement plans and establish procurement procedures. The specialist would help prepare documents
and, via consultations and site visits, guide STS staff with planning, bid packages, solicitations, bid
evaluations and reports, contracting and the PMU's periodic procurement implementation reporting
requirements. The procurement specialist would also help coordinate documentation flows needed to
secure the World Bank's clearances and "no-objections" on consultants' TORs and equipment packages
requiring prior Bank review. In addition, Bank staff would monitor procurement activities, contract
administration and project record keeping during periodic supervision missions. (See Attachment 8.)
E.    Project Accounting, Financial, Auditing and Progress Reporting
7.45  Accounting.  The Borrower would be responsible for the appropriate accounting of funds
provided by the Bank under the Loan, for reporting on the use of these funds, and for ensuring that audits
of the financial statements or reports are submitted to the Bank. Audits would be carried out by auditors
satisfactory to the Bank.
7.46   The Project Management Unit (on behalf of the Borrower) would establish an appropriate project
accounting system to provide information on the proper receipt and use of funds in accordance with the
Loan Agreement. The system should ensure timely and accurate accounting of all transactions under the
Loan and clear presentation of the financial informnation.
7.47   Financial Reporting. Financial reporting, to be developed and carried out by the PMU would
include a statement of receipts and payments for the reporting period since the beginning of the program.
The reporting would be in accordance with the disbursements classified and reported by the expenditure
categories agreed with the Borrower and spelled out in the Loan Agreements. Quarterly progress reports
would be submitted, including a separate section on activities under Statement of Expenditure and the
Special Account. A Project Completion Report would be submitted to the Bank by the PMU promptly
after the completion of the program, and in any event not later than six months after the Loan closing
date.
7.48   Auditing. During negotiations assurances were provided by the Government that the financial
statements and reports on the Loan (including the Special Account) would be audited annually in
accordance with Generally Accepted Auditing Standards by independent auditors (preferably an
international accounting/auditing firm) acceptable to the Bank.
7.49   The criteria for selecting auditors would be as follows: (i) impartial and independent from the
entity to be audited; (ii) well established and reputable; (iii) experienced in the type of assignment to be
undertaken; and (iv) able to fulfill the terms of reference required with the specific timetable.



Technical Axxex
Page 60                                                      Russia: Tax Administraon Modernization Projea
7.50   The audit report would be submitted to the Bank by the Government within six months of the end
of the reporting period, i.e. the fiscal year end. The audit would cover a review of all expenditures under
the project and supporting documentation, including customs documentation.
7.51   Progress Reporting. Quarterly progress reports covering all project activities would be prepared
by the PMU and sent to the World Bank and IMF within one month of the end of the quarter in a format
to be agreed with the Bank. The main purpose of the reports would be to provide managers with timely
information on iniplementation of Project components. It would be the responsibility of the PMU to set-
up reporting guidelines and deadlines so that it receives timely information from the Regions and the
Special Account bank(s) in order to prepare the report. The first report would be issued before the first
supervision mission. The quarterly reports would include, inter alia:
a.      Progress achieved against agreed implementation and disbursement schedules, and key
performance indicators;
b.      Status of all procurement activities and contracts;
c.      Work programs and proposed expenditures for the coming quarter; and
d.      Discussion of issues or problems, if any, in managing the project and disbursing the Loan
funds.
F.      Disbursements14
Table 7.6: Loan Disbursements Schedulet
Disbursements over 42 months
Bank Fiscal Year                   95   |                           97                98
Semester (6 months)                 I         2        3        4        5         6        7
Per Semester (%)                   1.8      4.9       11.6    18.9    25.6       32.9      4.3
Per Semester (US$ millions)        0.3       0.8   .  2.0      3.2      4.3       5.5      0.7
.        ,~ .                                      -    .   - ....
Cumulative(%)                   '1.8  I  6.7   ' 18.3    37.2    62.8            95.7 
.-.. . .... .. _. _........... _.._ ......  ..............  --._...._ -----_ __ ----  .-------------
Cumulative (US$ millions)          0.3       1.1      3.1  I  6.3       10.6     16.1
Figures may not total due to rounding.
14 The disbursement table is based on the World Bank's overall experience with projects of this nature for this region.
Actual funds would be disbursed as prudent and necessary to support the actual pace of implementation.



Tachncal Axx a
Ruiai: Tax Administration Moderization Projeat                                     Page 61
Chart 7.2: Loan Disbursements Illustrated Per Semester and Cumulatively
16
10
FY9S-2   FY96-1   FY96-2   FY97-1   FY97-2   FY98-1   FY98-2
Semestn
7.52   Disbursements would be made against:
Amount Allocated      Percentage of Expenditures
Categora                      (millions)               to be Financed
a.    Goods including training materials US$ 13.8     100% of foreign expenditures;
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost); and 85% of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
b.    Technical assistance, training  US$  1.8        100% of total costs
and study tours
c.    Repayment of Project Preparation US$  0.5       Amount due according to PPF
Advance                                     Agreement
d.    Unallocated                    US$  0.7
Documentation
7.53   Disbursements will be fully documented except that disbursement for contracts of goods, training
and technical assistance under US$50,000 equivalent would be made on the basis of Statement of
Expenditures (SOE). Documentation will be retained at the PMU for review by independent auditors and
by World Bank missions.



Technical Annex
Page 62                                            Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project
Special Account
7.54   The Special Account (SA) would be maintained in a commercial bank selected by the Government
and acceptable to the World Bank. This bank would be selected, from a number of acceptable banks,
on the basis of competitive bids. Selection criteria for participation in the bids are:
a.    The bank should be financially sound as demonstrated by their latest accounts, as audited
by an internationally recognized accounting firms;
b.    The bank should have a significant foreign correspondence network covering all major
currencies;
c.    The bank should have a reasonable capacity and experience for issuing letters of credit,
for making direct foreign payments and other international transactions, with appropriate
arrangements for the training and development of their staff;
d.    The bank should be capable of performing a wide range of local banking services,
including cash payments, transfers to other domestic banks, issuance of debit notes,
application of conversion rates from foreign currencies, and maintenance of adequate
accounts for the SA;
e.    The bank should preferably be a member of Swift (Society for Worldwide Interbank
Financial Telecommunications) and should routinely use or plan to use this facility to
expedite payment transfers;
f.    The bank should be willing to issue a Comfort Letter to assure that amounts deposited
in a Special Account will not be set off or otherwise seized or attached to satisfy amounts
due to the commercial bank by the borrower;
g.    The bank should be willing to maintain adequate accounts as required by the World
Bank, provide monthly bank statements to the World Bank and, any other information
considered necessary. Copies of all transactions would be routinely submitted to the
STS;
h.    The bank should be willing to charge reasonable rates for their services and provide
reasonable interest on balances held from time to time.
7.55   The maximum authorization amount to be deposited in the SA would be US$500,000. The initial
deposit would be at the start of the project implementation, US$100,000 and would be increased to
US$500,000. The SA would be opened in the name of the Borrower and would be administered by
authorized representatives of the STS. All requests for replenishment would be submitted at frequent
intervals to the Bank through the PMU. Documentation requirements for replenishment applications
would follow procedures described in the Disbursement Handbook.  These requests would be
accompanied by detailed monthly bank statements of the SA and by all other required documentation.
G.    Monitoring and Evaluation
7.56   Monitoring and evaluation would proceed on several levels. Level 1 would focus on monitoring
execution of activities in relation to the project schedule. This would be done with the assistance of a
computerized tracking system.  Level 2 would focus on the delivery of project inputs, e.g.
implementation of the new tax administration system in local offices, concentrating on whether new
procedures were introduced, installation and operation of computerized systems, training conducted and
operation of the implementation teams.  Level 3 evaluation would focus on outputs in terms of



Techniad Axnex
Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project                                     Page 63
achievement of targets of the project in terms of (i) restructuring and procedural changes, (ii) automation
systems, (iii) staff training, and (iv) management information systems. Level 4 would deal with the effect
or impact of project outputs on compliance, the effectiveness of tax collection, fairness of the system and
tax revenues. Attachment 8 shows indicators of project monitoring and impact.
H.    Project Sustainability
7.57   The proposed project does not pose any unusual difficulties to be sustained over the long term.
It is an integral part of a long-range program of reforms which enjoys top priority with the STS and the
Government as a whole. The Government, accordingly, has fully budgeted the implementation expenses
that would be incurred by the STS and the project does not require substantially more resources for the
tax staffing budgets. In fact, an integral aim of the project is to use those existing resources more
efficiently. Adequate provisions have been made under the project for technical sustainability. Support
groups would continue at the center to provide technical support and maintenance for the systems installed
under the project. Moreover, provisions have been made for continuous training of staff to keep them
abreast of technological improvements in the system.
I.     Bank Supervision
7.58   The Bank and IMF have made a satisfactory agreement on division of responsibilities for
supervision of the project. The IMF would be responsible for providing technical assistance to the
Russian Federation related to tax policy and administration. The Bank would retain overall supervision
responsibilities and would be responsible for supervision of systems design and implementation,
procurement and disbursements. The tentative Bank supervision plan, calling for field reviews of about
6-7 staff weeks per annum, appears in Attachment 9. Bank supervision missions would be timed to
coincide with IMF review visits to ensure coordination.



II
I



Technkil Annex
Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project                                      Page 65
CHAPTR 8. BENEFfs AND RISKS
A.    Benefits
8.1    The proposed project is designed to achieve a more effective and efficient tax administration in
two regions, and would prepare the way for modernization nation-wide. Increased effectiveness would
be manifested in better tax collections through automation, a national audit strategy and better
management infornation systems. The project would also contribute to increased fairness in the tax
system by enabling the application of more uniform treatment of taxpayers. Increased efficiency would
be evidenced in faster processing of tax payments and returns. The main efficiency gains would occur
over time when the STS could handle increased numbers of taxpayers and returns with little or no
increase in staffing levels. Automation would mean that the STS could cope with increased workloads
virtually within the envelope of existing resources. The project would also contribute to expansion of the
tax base through more effective registration, better information systems and better taxpayer education and
public awareness. Increased compliance would also be the result of lowering the private cost of
compliance (through simpler tax forms and elimination of the need for enterprises to visit tax offices),
increasing the cost of non-compliance (through better detection systems and more effective auditing) and
the perception of increased fairness in the system. All these factors could contribute ultimately to
increases in tax revenues.
B.    Risks
8.2    The proposed project alone cannot guarantee increased revenues without parallel action on
improving tax legislation and policies (for examnple, simplifying taxation). In addition, there is a risk that
conditions outside the project would prevent it from realizing its full benefits, e.g. the "protection" levies
extracted by organized crime that act as an unofficial tax on business revenues and tend to reduce
compliance with official taxes. All organizational changes run into resistance of varying degrees. Within
the project, full implementation of the modernization program could be compromised by lack of
acceptance of the intended reforms. For this reason the project features the "users' groups" to smooth
the acceptance of innovations. Staff training is intended to ensure proper use of the new systems. The
pace of implementation could also be affected by changes in tax legislation, changes in accounting
methods or regulations requiring changes in project software. Change has been anticipated in project
design: systems and procedures can be adapted to new regulations without major cost or delay. Other
potential risks are as follows:
a.     The training to be provided to STS staff would raise their value in the labor market. If
STS salaries and benefits are not attractive, staff turnover could become a problem,
particularly in urban areas.  This can be countered partly by offering training
opportunities to individuals remaining in the STS as part of their career development
plan, and by making advanced training a condition for promotion. In some locations the
STS may have learn to live with high staff turnover and plan for continuous training of
new staff. In this contest training should be practical, efficient and job-oriented, so that
learning and working become virtually identical. In another sense, high staff turnover
can be regarded as a positive outcome to the extent that trained former STS staff help
private business improve their accounting, auditing and tax reporting practices.



Technial Annex
Page 66                                                Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project
b.     The benefits of taxpayer education are not well understood at present and could be
vulnerable to early cuts should budgetary resources become constrained.
Procurement, delivery and installation of equipment to about 110 different locations is a logistical
challenge with the risk of misplacement or improper installation of equipment. The STS intends to
minimize this risk through the inclusion of final installation in bidding documents and use of independent
agents for verification.
8.3    Overall, the risks have been minimized through the phased approach. This approach permits
adjustments in design based on the lessons from experience in the pilot project. In the final analysis,
however, the greatest risk is loss of potential revenues without the measures included in the project; the
STS would not have sufficient institutional capacity to capture new revenues as the private sector grows
and the tax base expands.



Technieal Axnex
Ru8ia: Tax Administration Modernization Project                                   Page 67
CHAPTER 9. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMmENDATION
9.1   The following conditions of Board presentation have been met: formal agreement between the
Russian Federation and IMF on IMF-financed technical assistance (para. 6.48); appointment of the heads
of the main project implementation teams (para. 7.10); appointment of the disbursement team and
adoption of acceptable accounting rules for the project (para. 7.14).
Recommendation
9.2   Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project is suitable for an IBRD Loan
of US$16.8 million equivalent to the Government of the Federation of Russia, for 17 years including a
5 year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
EC3HR
February 15, 1995



l  I               -    -



redude.I Anx
Runim: Tax Administrtion Modemization Project                                    Pap 69
ATACmENT 1: COMPOsrnON OF TAxEs (By LEES  OF BuDGzTs)
(As of October 1994)
A.  National Taxes
1.  Value-added tax (VAT)
2.   Special tax
3.   Excise tax
4.   Tax on profit of enterprises and organizations
5.   Tax on banks' income
6.   Tax on insurers' income
7.   Property tax
8.  Investment tax credit
9.   Exchange tax
10. Tax on transactions with securities
11. Customs duty
12. Federal duty
13. Land taxes
14.  Road taxes
15.  Deductions for reproduction of the mineral resources base
16.  Stmp duty
17.  Income tax on individuals
B.  Regional Taxes
1.  Tax on property of legal entities
2.   Forest tax
3.  Water fees on legal entities
C. Local Taxes
1.  Income tax on individuals
2.   Tax on individual property
3.   Registration fees on individuals involved in entrepreneurial activities
4.   Resort fee on individuals
5.   Land taxes
6.   Road taxes
7.   Traders' entitlement fee
8.   Militia provision duty
9.   Tax on commercial advertising
10. Tax on resold cars and computers
11. Tax on dog owners
12. Licensing fee on wine and hard liquor traders
13.  Licensing fee on auctions and lotteries
14. Issue fee on authorization papers for apartments
15. Automobile parking fee
16. Fee on utilization of local symbols
17.  Fees on betting at hippodrome races and prizes won
18. Fees on exchange transactions
19. Fees on fiming and videotaping
20. Fees on area cleaning



I



Ii~    ~     ~~~~~ II CII 
8  < 4.                     4. .________.::_.
if  XS88                       S !i -         !P                                               1
_ mXYX                "_"_"g__ _  "              a X   _flaz1  aa.,.., 
,.. ..... ...................................
1 ; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~it
nIij [(([ 11, 'i  i 'I I ' '



I
I



TechlLI( Annex
Russia: Tax Admbiirtion Modernization Project                                    Page 73
ATrACEMENT 3: DETAID STS PROECT STAFF TRAING PLAN
A. Introbduction and Summary
1.  The Tax Modernization Project introduces three simultaneous innovations in the tax system: new
organizational structures, new operating procedures (including the use of computers), and new staffing
profiles. Since these three changes widely affect the STS staff member involved in the project, training
would be required to ensure that staff members have the necessary knowledge, information and skills to
perform their jobs adequately. Given the fact that both procedures and contents are new to virtually all
staff members involved, no additional training needs analysis is required.
2.   Basic and advanced training in accounting and auditing, as well as tax-specific knowledge, are
required for most of the technical staff. Given the existing level of knowledge about accounting and
auditing, the legislative and regulatory changes, and the changes in accounting and auditing (both in
principles and practices) which would inevitably occur, further training on these issues would also be
necessary. The project, however, would limit its training activities directly related to the information and
skill associated with the modernization and automation aspects. Technical training in accounting and
auditing, tax-specific training as well as general management training would continue to be performed
by the training unit of the STS. Excluded from this training program are also the information campaigns
and training activities to be organized by the taxpayer educators, and which constitute an important
training dimension of the Tax Modernization Project.
3.  In order to ensure consistency, standardization and efficiency, most of the training would rely on
standardized training programs, manuals and materials. As a pilot project, many of the training
materials, strategies and experience accumulated during this phase would be directly useful for further
expansion of the project. In this way, a substantial part of the training efforts-particularly the
development of instructional materials and the professional development of the trainers allocated to this
project-can be considered as an R&D investment in the future expansion of the project.
B.  Training Needs
4.   Annex 1 to this Attachment presents a summary of the training needs which would be addressed
during this project. As illustrated in columns one and two, the training needs for the project were derived
directly from the tasks involved in each function and the information/knowledge/sklls required for the
performance of these tasks. The level in which these needs are required varies with the nature of the
function. For example, different occupational categories would be involved with different types of
software or report writing requirements, and thus would receive different types of training, although the
title of the course would be the same.
5.   Annex 1 excludes basic and advanced training needed in areas such as accounting, auditing, tax-
specific management, for both old and new staff. Even though training in all areas is required, it should
be included under the normal training activities coordinated by the STS training unit.



Techncl Anxex
Page 74                                            Russia: Tax Admbilnstion Modernization Projea
C. Training Program: Content and Duration
6.   Table 6.3 provides an overview of the structure of the training program, broken down by categories
of staff. Most of the training would be implemented through on-the-job training activities. Overall, all
the 3,500 staff members involved in the modernization project would participate in at least two training
activities (the general introduction about the reform and computer-specific training). Some groups would
be involved in 3 or more specific training activities which may last from 2 to 10 days, in the case of
formal training sessions.
7.   The actual content and duration of each training activity would vary according to each category of
staff, even though these activities may have the same name such as computer-related training or report
writing. The actual content and methodology for each training activity for each group would be presented
in more detailed by the project training unit. The number of formal training course sessions and
participants in each course would also vary according to the expansion strategy adopted. For example,
if five new local offices would be included in the program at each time, the number of participants in
each course would be determined by the number of staff members in the various occupational categories.
D. Training Strategy
1. Planning and Instructional Design
8.   Project-related training would be carefully designed by the project training unit, in order to ensure
an optimum timing of training activities. There would be specific training guidelines concerning the
contents, methodology, duration and evaluation of each training activity, for each group of participants.
Substantive investments would be made in the design and preparation of training materials.
2. Implementation: The Thrining Cycle
9.  In order to maximize its impact, training would follow the timing of project implementation. Thus,
the typical training cycle would be designed around the training needs of a given local office.
10. First, managers and the officer in charge of training technologies would be brought for a hands-on,
demonstration-cum-training workshop in a centralized location-ideally this should be close to or in an
office where modernization has already been successfully implemented. They would receive general
information/training about all the features of the modernization program and specific information about
the routines and software for which they are responsible. Managers would also be trained on techniques
related to planning training and coaching.
11. Immediately before, during or immediately after installation of new equipment and start of the
modernization process in a given agency, staff at all levels would receive the training adequate to their
respective function. This could take the form of on-the-job training, in service training or residential
training outside the local office. The decision concerning the time and location of training would depend
on the strategy adopted for expansion. In principle, staff from several offices undergoing modernization
could be pooled together to form a training group of a cost-effective size.



Technal Annex
Russia: Tax Administration Modemnization Project                                     Page 75
3. Types of Training Activities
12. There would be three main types of training activities, on-the-job training, formal courses and
special training programs.
(a) On-the-job training (OJT)
13. The majority of the training activities would be delivered through organized and carefully
implemented on-the-job training activities. Except as noted below, the great majority of training activities
would be performed through OJT. There are three major reasons for choosing OJT as the primary
method of training. One comes from the comparative advantage of Russia. The entire workforce has
advanced levels of education. The people are used to self-study, and have a fairly widespread familiarity
with technical subjects, including computers. Second, most of the training needed at the early stages of
project implementation would relate to information and operational, rather than conceptual issues, which
can be better grasped through hands-on training. The third consideration is cost-effectiveness. OJT
supported by high quality manuals and training materials can ensure a quick, national dissemination of
training while maintaining uniformly high standards.
14. OJT would be implemented under the direct responsibility of the immediate supervisor of each
individual being trained. The manager of each regional office would be ultimately responsible for
ensuring adequate training.
15. OJT would be based on a detailed job-description, carefully prepared operations manuals and,
whenever required, training guidelines and training materials. Supervisors and office managers would
receive special training on OJT techniques and specific instructions about their responsibilities. Timing
of training is also a critical variable, since individuals in each office would have to be trained just before
and during the initial weeks of project implementation.
16. Operations and other training materials would rely basically on printed and computer-based
tutorials. These materials would be developed in such a way that updates would become simple to
prepare, efficient and cost-effective. This would facilitate updating the information as well as retraining
individuals affected by changes in operations. These materials would also serve as training materials for
future expansion of the project to other offices, thus contributing to a decrease in training costs.
(b) Formal Training
17.  Table 6.4 summarizes formal training activities to be undertaken during the project. The actual
duration and content of the courses would vary according to the characteristics of the target-audience for
the various courses, as well as to the timing and speed of project implementation in new offices.
18. Formal training would be based on standardized contents, as well as carefully prepared,
standardized instructional materials, teaching methods and evaluations activities. Training would be
totally job-oriented, with emphasis placed on introducing and explaining the new practices being adopted.
Training would be planned and delivered by a group of 10 previously selected trainers to form a core
group of trainers. Additional trainers would be managers, immediate supervisors and subject-matter
experts drawn from the various regional offices.



TechiCAl Annex
Page 76                                              Russia: Tax Admuiistration Modernization Projec
19. Training methods would include printed and video-materials, operations manuals, training manuals
including texts and case studies, computers and tutorials, group exercises and other simulation activities
to teach interpersonal skills. Video-tapes would be used primarily to disseminate standard and clear
information about the purpose and functioning of the project and its various components. The videotapes
would also illustrate how work is actually performed in offices which have already implemented the
changes. Tapes can also be used to record the opinions and perceptions of managers, staff and client,
in order to create a favorable climate of opinion towards the change. Preparation of training materials
may involve development of new materials, as well as adaptation an translation of existing materials from
other countries or institutions.
(c) Special Training Programs
20. In addition to OJT and formal training, two other types of training would be necessary to support
the overall training effort: training of managers and supervisors and training of the trainers.
21. Managers and supervisors would be trained in project specific activities which would include a
thorough knowledge of the reform, specific training on the systems, routines and operations under their
direct responsibility and coaching techniques. Managers and supervisors would also be trained to provide
feedback to the central training unit concerning the quality of operations and of the training manuals, so
that they can be improved as the project expands. In order to make training more realistic and concrete,
and to facilitate acceptance of the changes, managers would be trained at the same time that they visit
modernized tax offices in their respective regions, in order to know first-hand about how the reforms
work. Some managers would also be invited for study tours abroad, on the basis of criteria to be
established in the detailed training plan.
E. The Management of Training
22.  There would be 10 trainers allocated full-time for this project. In principle, two trainers would be
in charge of overall planning, supervision and evaluation, and would be located in Moscow. Four full-
time trainers would be recruited and retained in each region, and would be involved in both regional
planning and actual training delivery. It is expected that these trainers would be selected on the basis of
their professional experience and expertise in accounting and auditing, so as to serve not only as training
experts, but also as professional role models.
23. A National Training Adviser would be retained during the first 18 months of the project. One of
the major tasks of the Training Adviser would be to develop a training plan for the trainers and actually
train and coach the project trainers in training techniques, including planning, development of
instructional materials, training techniques, evaluation and related training issues. During the first two
or three months of the project all trainers would probably need to work together in Moscow. The
following table illustrates the typical training cycle of the activities of the trainers.



Techxiea Axnex
Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project                                           Page 77
Typical Work Cycle
(For a given region):
1.   Identify the training targets (trainees: functions, quantities, timetable)
2.   Define training objectives for each activity or group of activities (for a group of offices)
3.   Detail training strategy
4.   Define training contents
5.   Identify/develop/adapt/translate/commnission training materials (may include participating in
the development of operations manuals)
6.   Revise/field test training materials and operations manuals (in the initial stages this can be
done in real-time, with trainees participating in implementation activities).
7.   Revise training materials
8.   Implement training program on a mass scale
24. It is expected that trainers would be involved in various activities including planning,
development/adaptation of instructional materials, commissioning, field-testing and evaluating training
materials developed by others and participating in the actual delivery of training. These 10 trainers would
also be responsible for training managers and supervisors in coaching techniques as well as working
closely with consultants and other experts to develop and field-test the operations manuals which would
serve as the basis for most of the OJT training activities.
25. Trainers would also be linked with the International Tax Training Center (ITTC) in order to
coordinate international technical assistance with their own activities, including their own training and
professional development. It is possible that the training expert would be located at the MlC, or at least
to have close relationships with the Center.
F.   The National Training Plan
26.  A by-product of the Training Adviser's work and of the activities of the trainers should be the
preparation of the National Training Program, i.e. a plan for staff training to support national
implementation of the new tax administration system.
G. Resources and Costs
27. Annex 2 to this Attachment summarizes the resources and costs involved in the training component.
Most of the expenditures would be related to training delivery, in particular for travel and
accommodations. Not included in this figure are the opportunity costs, i.e. the salaries being drawn by
the participants while being trained. Depending on the implementation strategy, offices being modernized
could be utilized for formal training activities, if space and facilities are adequate. That would minimize
the need to acquire additional computers and other equipment for training.



Teckixal Anex
Page 78                                                Russia: Tax Administrabon Modernizaton Project
28. A substantial part of the training budget would be allocated for the development of instructional
materials. Part of these resources would be spent on standardized manuals and training materials, in an
effort to maintain high standards, cost-effectiveness and efficiency as the system evolves and expands.
The initial fornatting of both operations manuals and training materials should be carefully designed, in
order to ensure standardization and to save costs in the future. A major part of these resources would
actually be used to develop new instructional materials, particularly:
a.   Videotapes. One set of videos could be used to explain the reform and provide all the
relevant information and examples, including opinions from managers and users (to be
updated as the system expands). This video, accompanied by printed materials, should
provide staff involved with a clear understanding of the entire reform, its characteristics,
benefits and how it affects each individual. Another video, or set of videos, could be used
to show how the various components of the program are implemented in other offices, and
may include actual interviews of managers, staff and clients. These videos should be used
to impart standard information as well as to motivate and mobilize people for the reform.
b.   Tutorials. Most of the OJT training would be based on carefully prepared operations and/or
training manuals. Most of the computer training and other components, such as filling out
forms and report writing could also be taught efficiently through carefully prepared tutorials
(computer-assisted instruction).  In addition to project funds, US-AID, through the
International Tax Training Centers, could provide additional expertise and resources for the
preparation of additional tutorials.
c.   Case studies and practical exercises. New training materials are required, particularly to
each new skills such as investigative auditing and human relations. Case studies, simple
simulations, and other practical activities need to be developed, taking into consideration the
lack of experience and local traditions with the use of such methods.
H.  International Cooperation
29. The success of the training program is intimately related to its ability to incorporate new training
strategies and techniques which would make training more flexible and cost-effective. Otherwise it would
be very difficult to ensure high-quality, time training to disseminate the project to the entire country.
Over time, as the project consolidates, it is expected that what has been learned would be absorbed by
the existing training unit of the STS. International cooperation is thus needed to ensure that a qualitative
change in training policies and practices occurs through a carefully planned transfer of training
technologies mediated by the 10 training experts.
30. The International Tax Training Center should serve as a bridge between the international training
community and the trainers of the STS. The Training Advisor should be located there, or at least work
in close collaboration with the ITTC and the institutions linked to it. He/she should also use the Center
to introduce Russian trainers to the international community of training and modern training practices,
and to manage the process of technology transfers and modernization of training practices.



Annex I to Attachment 3
Function Required                                    Tasks             _                       SiUcs
1. Taxpayer Education
1.1 Education                      * Organizing and delivering seminars       * Planning and delivering seminars
* Implementing National Campaigns         * Relating with local media
* Identify/reporting taxpayers problems   * Collecting/organizing information
* Report writing
1.2 Services                       * Register taxpayers                       * Identify/classify taxpayers/taxes
* Responding to general inquires          * Computer skills to access tax/related
forms/info
* Ability to identify/fill forms
* Ability to communicate with clients
2. Accounting and Data Processing
2.1 Reception and Preparation of Data   * Handling documents/filing           * Document filing skills
* Verifying documents for legibility      * Ability to identify document-specific
information
* Sampling documents for inspection       * Ability to perform simple random sampling
2.2 Monitoring Bank Performance     * Check data on Banks' statements         * Ability to access databases
* Identify inconsistencies in data        * Mastery of basic accounting concepts
* Handle problems with banks              * Task-specific knowledge (special accounts)
* Report writing
* Communication skills
2.3 Data Entry Clerks               * Key information into computers          * Typing skills
* File information/read forms             * Software-specific skills
* Maintain files in proper order          * Familiarity with forms



Function Required                                       Tasks                                       SkiUls
0 Ability to detect major mistakes
3. Audit Planning                     * Define audit/work plan                    * Advanced computer specific skills
* Perform audits                            * Report writing
* Train/advise taxpayer                     * Good verbal skills
* Reassess tax reports                      * Professional investigative skills, including
ability to take initiative based on leads
* Determine clients' ability to pay         * Ability to understand/follow the audit
handbook
* Ability to use various audit techniques
appropriately
* Professional level of competence in
accounting*
* Professional level of auditing skills*
* Specialization in tax-specific issues
4. Delinquent Tax Payer
4.1 Contact Officer                   * Identify delinquent taxpayers             * Computer-specific skills
* Determine taxpayers ability to pay        * Analyze balance sheets
* Negotiate payment schedule                * Estimate ability to pay based on various
indicators
* Negotiation skills
* Report writing
* Practical knowledge of applied legislation
4.2 Enforcement Officer               * Determine course of action to take        * Ability to apply norms to concrete situations
* Initiate administrative/legal/police action  * Decide on correct course of action
* Advise unit to write-off unpaid taxes     * Strong investigative skills (identifying hidden
assets)



Funcion Required                   |                  Tasks                                      SidUs
* Seizing assets of delinquent taxpayers  * Strong interpersonal skills
* Report writing skills
* Ability to access/use task-specific software
5. Manager                          0 General management tasks                 * Thorough knowledge of the reform
* Supervise and coach subordinates        * Thorough knowledge of the skills of
subordinates
* Manage the introduction of reforms      * Ability to develop, implement, evaluate
individual training programs for subordinates
* Basic and advance training in accounting, auditing and tax specific issues will be covered by the regular training program of the STS, with
support of the International Tax Training Institute. The project will only cover the project-specific aspects of these issues.
** General management and supervisory skills are not covered in the training program of the present project, and may be covered under the
annual regular training programs of the STS.



Annex 2 to Aaachmete 3
Approximate Resources for Training
j______             _          CQuantity                  Unit              Unit Cost (US$)         Total Cost (US$)         Source of Fuds
Space Rental                     150                training rooms                1000                   150,000                  Local
Staff Travel                     300                    travela'                  500                    150,000                   Local
Other Travel'                    200                     travel                   500                    100,000                   Local
Participants Travel              1000                    travel                  1000"I                 1,000,000                  Local
Training Materials                20                   variousd'                variable                1,000,000              World Bank
Printing Services                 5                training packages            variable                 300,000               World Bank
Study Trips                      100           i        travel                    5000                   500,000               World Bank
Notes:
i Includes trmnsportadon and lodging expenditures, calculated on an average of 3 days per travel. Actual costs will follow existing STS schedules.
h For consultants and professors outside of the STS.
Cl Assumes a 5-day course on average.
" Production of training materials would include commissioning items such as case studies, desk-top publishing services, video-production materials or the production of teaching
manuals and instructor's guidelines to accompany operations manuals.



Ii II~~~~~~~~~~~
I'[       I         ''y!   sl3fI      ei i'llt  II[ l1 lyftfi'i
X X  atS         a               a   t   8ta          f~~~~~~~~~~~~..
.  ,,,,,,,,~*   S           * RE IIll.    .  S S v
*   ~   g   *   *,            ,  -  
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ,  ,  .  .  .  .  .  ,  S    S  S  I 
....... .~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5 , ,,,. ,  .   ,.  S. S                     (II
l                                            E            R~~~~~~~i
..*SI5  ,  ,, S ..... S.......... . . ... S        
5555*5555~S S   S S S
j§IijjijIii   @6s~~ lll@|                                   I e[
* S     l  l 5  5 5 5 5   5  5  5  5  5  5  5  5  5  5 V   a  5
E o o a o X o 8 S S S   5 " 5    a S    a a a  a  IS S S 



w   g R    ~~R    R o o      9 $    .n  
a     4 o   4  4                       
o ~~~~o o44 o4 o4        
.- . . .        . .. . .
ill~~~~~ 
I~~~~~~~~~~W
.     .  .j .  .   .   .   .   .  
V          I    "   "      i°  



DSflfll ONAL DlWVEllDFM
Prep. for     Projed              AUTOAlTiON                STAFF TRAIINNG                       Phyikal
Orgmk diioa.    Nadoim     MStge          CemJd  Relomi    Locad         Oavuem"   Trains in LuiKwsres
vdeveopment luuiemtat ato     Uok         Offce   OffceTs Offdicen Ibss              TTO                     lb   A*noo
T. A__ical SyWOf
EAkCdpUrnra                                                                                106,400   10,241,000                           10,347,400   5.0   517,370
Technica STpprti                         -_--                                           -  26,600    1,316,700 -_-_1_343_3_    5.0    67,165
Pmlbudo                                            - -                                 -          -                                         417,620   5.0    20,U3
Deers                                              ---931                                                    -          -                    9 ,100   5.0      4,653
Pi n 3 RI'                                                -                   -         -        -     512,050          -           -       512,050   5.0    25,603
iUr        s -        -                                              '-k                     3,        219,40                               223,440   5.0     1,1172
SoFepd Tfa-o-   396.000   -0-0-                                                                                    -                        39.3000     -          -
Ji^"h {Au^ "iso      Sjrbo S                         -            -      -          3%.000  238,070   12,6.0040                           413,332.90   4.9   646,46
IPUn"""S Ccopuv-n                                                                   6,650       6-0                -                 -          50  35.0        333
pli -f   I1W6b                                                   -            -    1040   5              6               -          -        10.640  35.0       532
FMrbhgsedrs                                               -5320 -                                 -          -           -                    5.320, _ 5.0      266
Ji *is^X!lbe*JiwtXbi4 "ess                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~22,610  -22,610   5.0                                          1,131
TuiPace Pm &                                                                       15,000   20,0         49.000         -                   130,W0   35.0   385.00
FXf"cre                                                                       -     8.0      8 .°°° 0°°  396,000                            412,000  35.0   144;200
Sraint                                                          -                _a  0000   25500-     49               -           -      .50.000  35.0    12.730
saw  bECho *m                                      U-             -            -     2t,000   53,000    JN -,000    -           -           1,467,000  35.0   513,450
IL  h_ I 1  Hg&  W _dt
PYiindw Sevics                                     -                                                                          300,000       300.000   5.0    13,000
TaxprIn Fbon Ai Fu*.                               --100,000                                                                                100,000  35.0    35,000
Srsbin Mmkrasib                             1,050,000           ---                              ----                                      1,050,000   5.0    322S00
Procdum Mam-- - __.790 _                                              _                                                                              35.0    34,577
S       Ftb tIilu ubPubi dbMg                1.050.000            -            -          -       -           -           -     49S.790     1.54S.790   8.9   137,077
TOWl   rUs_ it C                               2,652,400     1.004.000    1,572.000   446,610  291,070   14,084,840   1,050,000    2,791,07S    23,891,99    9.0  2,161,301
IL Recr0 Ciii
A. c     Icadw S_p port                             -             -            -    22,000   48,000     150,000                       -      220.000  10.0    22,000
B. Electrty                                         -                          -    15,000   25.000     250.000                 -            290.000  10.0    29.000
Tol Recorno Cii                                                     -            -    37,000   73.000     400,000                              510.000  10.0    51,000
Tol BASELIE CXfS                               2,652,400     1,004,000    1,572,000   483,610  364,070   14,4S4,840   1,050,000   2,791,078    24,401,998   9.1  2,212,303
I



u 11jjLUrKAL DZVKLOflWiu
Prep. for     PAet                 AUTOMA'TION                SrAFF mADlMING                        F16ic
OrCqeab dmi    Nadomi    Ibiageumei    Cue.!  Regloumi    L*cal            Cme    Th bigIn                        Ci       esI
Doydoam 14*-i---me     m       Ihit        OCVol    Offa      O61m=        Trandr    Ru               TOeb       %    Am_u
Phyt  lcolntgenclks                              60,500             -             -    14.631   37,754    1.160.042      52.500      886,377     2,212,303     -         -
Law                                                -                           -   214.213  507,305   10.717,320           -   14,665,210    26.104,617     -         -
Ponis.                                        53.186        16.792        27.226     9.448    1.410      309.074      26.981       9.567       458.694      -         -
Eid d  lii..                                    53,186        16.792        27,226    223.731  509.214   11,026.394    26,911   14,674.777    26.56302D                 -
Dnsyvo-d                                             -                          -   -212.741  -503,736  -10,540.839         -  -14,563,077   -25,320.393     -
&*iN Prie Co em_mc1s                             58.186        16.792        27,226     10990    5.478     485.55        26.91       111.700      742.906   9.0    66776
TS xl UTCrO)lS                                   2.771,086     1,020,792     1599,226    509,231  407,301   16,130,437    1,129,481    3.739,655    27X7.210    3.3  2,279,079
Tau. n                                                              -             -      5,935   62,489    3.410.376          -           -      3,473,300   4.8   165,657
Pol pBcd                                      2.771,066      1,020,792     1,599,226   423,291  139,360   10,334.474    1.129,481   324,567    17,792,284   3.6   633,53!



Tedmehac Annex
Russia: Tax AdmInsraio Modernization ProJet                                                   P a 87
ATTAcmNT 5: DETAMIID FROMCr Cosrs BY FINANCIU
Govermment World lBnk      WU        rsY         Totd
I. Investment Comtb
A. Technial Assistance
1. Devulepcmnt of
operatdino guidelnes
Audidng Techniques                                                   290,160                 290,160
National Facilities Studard                          -     150,741         -           *      150,741
Other Tax Administadon Tochnius                                  -    ,50              -       60.450
Subtota Devebpmnnt of
operations gdelines                                  -      150,741   350,610                 501,351
2. Concept Papen
Tax Modenbtion Concep                                      151,154         -           -      151,154
Na tbslAutomadonStrategy                             -     151,566         -           -      151,566
Technical Evaution Study                             -      149,916        -                  149,916
Intr-Agency Cooperadon                               -      152,391        -           *      152,391
National Contngency Plans                            -      151,154        -           -      151,154
National Audit Plan                                  -      81,265         *           -       81,265
Taxpayer Educaton Strtegy                                   183,346        -                  183,346
Expnsion for Individuals' Taxaion                    -      151,154        -                  151,154
Subtol Concept Papen                                   -    1,171,946        *           -    1,171,946
3. Advibory Sevices
Chef Technical Advisor                                     371,397   241,800           -      613,197
EDP Expert                                           -      122,896   241,800          *      364,696
Forms Designer                                       -      120,900        -           *      120,900
Taxpayer Educ. Expert                                -      243,796        -                  243.796
Default Collections Expert                           -      120,900                    -      120,900
Legal & Regulatory Analysis                          -      121,898        -      48.759      170.657
Procurement Advisor                                  -      182,348        -           *      182,348
Accounting & Disbursements Spec.                     -      121,565        -           -      121,565
Transladton/lnterprettion                                   123,979    72,540          -      196,519
Training Development                                 -      274,941        -           -      274.941
Subtotal Advisory Servic                               -    1,804,621   556,140     48,759    2,409.520
4. Oversas Training
Tax Administation in Madet Economies                        172,304        -           -      172,304
Tax Administration Seminas                           -      564,741        -                  564,741
Mangement Development                                -      564741                     -      564.741
Subtotal Overses Traing                                     1,301,785                         1,301,785
5. In Country Trainng
Audit Plannig                                                     -         -    401.572      401,572
Audit Techniques                                                  -              401,572      401,572
Taxpayer Services                                                 -         -    447,670      447,670
Default Collections                                               -              447,670      447,670
Tax Administration Modernization                                            -    391,527      391,527
Taxpayer Seminars                          ______403_062                                      403,062
Subtotl In Country Traing                                           -        -   2,493,072    2,493,072
6. Trining Equipment                                   .                           208,650      208.650
7, Training Facilities Rental                                       -        -    486,850       486.850
Subtotal Techak  Assistance                                   4,429,093   906,750   3,237,331    8,573.174



TechnicA Annex
Page 88                                                    Ruum: Tax Admntrao Modernizaon Projct
GovCrumt World Bank     IM           STS         Total
B. Automation System
Equipment                                     2,778,231    8,418,883        -           -   11,197,115
Technical Support                               360.592    1,092,704        -           -    1.453,297
Distrbution                                     112.107      339,717        -           -      451,824
Desktop Publishing                               24,437       74,051        -           -       98,48S
Photocopiers                                    137,515      416,713        -           -      554,228
Air Conditioners                                 59,962      181,765                    -      241,747
Technical Training                                    -      405,315        -           -     405,315
Subtotal Automation Systems                     3,472,865   10,929,148        -           -   14,402,013
C. Office Support Equipment
Personal Computers                                1.745        5,289        -           -        7,035
Printers                                          2,793        8,463        -                   11,256
Fax Machines                                      139          4.232        -                    5.62S
Subtotal Offce Support EquIpmet                     5,935       17,984        -           -       23.919
D. CMI Works
Site Preparation                                      -            -        -    736,456       736,456
Furniure                                              -            -        -    572,843       572,843
Security                                              -           -         -    729,655       729,655
Subtotal CirU Works                                     -           -         -   2,038,954    2,038,954
EL Printing & Publsbing
Printing Services                                     -      324,567         -          -      324,567
Taxpayer Forms & Pubs.                                -            -         -    139,100      139,100
Training Materials                                    -    1,135,983         -          -    1,135,983
Procedures Manual                                     -            -         -    137,417      137.417
Subtotal Printing & Publishing                          -    1,460.5S0        -    276,517    1,737,066
Total Investment Costs                             3,478,800   16,836,775   906,750   5,552,802   26,775,127
,. Recurrent Costs
A. Commnunications Support                              -            -        -    251,039       251,039
B. Electricity                                          -                     -    331.044       331.044
Total Recurrent Costs                                     .                     -    582,083       582.083
Total Disbursement                                 3,478,300   16,836.775   906,750   6,134,885   27,357,210



ArrAcmwu 6: ImFLWaNTAOT4 PLAN
TAX ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
PHASE 11- OVERALL SCHEDULE
*   Tgb ~~~~~~~~~~~m                          04 ~~~~~Qi 102103 040  0   3 I0C4                1    03--a3r
I   PHASE II TAX ADMINTRATION PROJECT                          I  I  10
_________                                                                                             TIms2X
3   PWO.JCT MMSA@ADRT UNiT
a  ANgOo Piom.t P.Ue mid - up    URNLh                         DM   . I
4         0mwp="u                                               * mbv"&*4 2
a         Adopmn o bomb iit md  _  ,u__ d OfO 1 4
7      *GiIbU up PMU                          _d                             l s
a       W,~vvbmi oom*teui o Sthe ,nordmn of PO USt   w p afoo hW 9U'
J_ml a IN pqll_y llo                                   iDoe  
_          F,ant bk dirmi of w. md  w                               JNW
is~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M _                             IsM 
U,        Dwp--t a* bq_p__ U) W -Wm   bs buo
r         Dmvhpnwi of hdO  -   b  mad pion
@            _i S n_  aJ  17   *
3peo.am SA-quo" mtr      rdm                              o 0V
r_-l hg   _wom-~wudw" -~                                    I"_  s
lo         Puuh   w1 dW,- of**w  1 r P*m
_~~     ~~ __  I                                                 .o        .  
armsof   -&dN b. -                                       mlV
guhnbMi mid VANmS St of -t b10 ki



ass   a  a  ±  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~au    ts                    U   sa2        4i   
eLLI   II I                             111111                       II
g 3 .E {t t  g  f t  t    i  t                    f |  i  | S  n XSt  S
I  f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
g          _~~~~~~ 
..  .  ..1. 
-4                    ........  ........   .......... ............................    .... ........ 
c i
r-0
M
10



UJnJ
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1-
I-wi              p 
uj~ p 
i-a.~~~~~~~~i



co
!i ;    X
3 0~~
CLx LU...       .  .      .   . ..   .p..  ........   ..... .   .   . ..
Z     0)U             P  
IvIi



.       .     .     .      .     .      .     .     .     .      .    .      .     .      .     .      .
'lu         8    pS ' --                                                      -                                 -ssM
i1 "  @f'                                   ' p                                             i '      .m-*j            '  
.       ... .... _. ....;;;..;.;;;;;.;.;;.;;;;;.;;;;;. ;;. ;;;. ;;;;.;;;.;.;.;;;.;;;;;;;;.;;;;. ;;;;;. ;;. ;;;;. ;;.;;.;;;;;;;-.;;;.;;;.;;;.;;.*.;;..
... i..X.                                                          X.I.r.i.
IL~~~~~~~~
IL
CO)
I-a.~  ~~~~~~                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~ J  I  I  Ia



.J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
z co3           ;
0~~~
co)
*IL



Tedhnial Ansi
Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project                                            Page 95
ATTACHMENT 7: PROCuREMENT PLAN AND SCHEDULE
Categor-y         #Contracts      Loan Funds         NBF             Total
____________ #ort (US$x000)       (US$xOOO)       (USSxooo)
echual-al--e--ic-  23                     4,80    -       4,10             S
Strategic Analyses        13            1                100
& Policy Papers*                                                           -    -
Software Design, Tax                      1,100            900            2-00      -
Advisors, etc.*                                                      - _
Systems Operations and       2              00             600 
Support*        _               _
Staff Trng & Mngmnt                       1700            2S00        -    ,200
Study   Tours     _ _  _  _  _     _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _     _  _ _  _  _
pusent:& Goods          25             12,000          3,001  :        18,5:
ICB                 4             9,900          3100**            3,0
DC                  2              300            100**      -   --A
IS                 3              600            150**  -          750
LCB                 4              700              0        :       0( 
LS                 12             500             150**         : 50
Other (N.B.F.)                                         3000           -   0
Program Totals           481,001,002,0
* Includes an estimated eight contracts with individuals.
** Includes related taxes on Bank-financed procurements of equipment and goods.



Technical Anner
Page 96                                                                     Russi: Tax Administration Modermization Project
ItmI           CoIactd            Budgt      Proc.                               ntProcrent Schedule
Category     Group            Pakage           Amoui   Method          I-U Bid                           Colitacl          Beglu
Doc_meus        Bid Rdpt           Awsrd          Deliverv
TECHNICAL    I        Strategic Analyses     1600       Short      2/15/95 -        4/15/95 -        6/15/95 -        S/1/95 -
SERVICES                      & Policy Papers                  Lists*       9115/95         11131195          1131196         315/96
Softwatre, Sy         I,100      Short       3n20/95         5/20/95 -        7/25/95 -        911/95 -
2         Opu. Advisorse                  Lisu         10/195          12/10/95         2/15/96         12/31197
3     SyUCms Opers tiowe    2 400         Shor        411/95 -         6/1/95 -         3/15/95 -       10/1195 -
Support                      Lists        1151596         3115196          5/31/96         12313l97
4             uStaffTrng & Mne mnt  1,700  Sho-       4/25195         625/95           8/30/95 -       10115195
_         ~~~~Study Tours                 Litu         1 111195         1110196         3115196          511/96
zQUnsPMEN            5      Computers & Netwre    2,500         IC          4115/95          6/15/95         8/15/95          10/1195
MATERIALS                        Bquipmemt.
6     Cormptesr & Netware    3.000         IG3         711195           911/95          11115195         111196
Equipment
7     Computen & Netware    3,000          ICB         11/1/95          1/10/96         3/15/96          511196
Equipnent                  .
8     Computen & Netware    1,400          ICB         1/15/96         3/15/96          5/31D96         6/15/96
Equipmem
Software & Network      100        DC          2/15/95          415/95          5131/95         7/10/95
-         ~~~Components--
10      Sofmware A Network       200        DC         6/10195          3/15/95         10/30195         12/15195
1 1      Computer Support        200        IS         3/15/95          5/5/95           7/1/95          8/15195
Equiraent                                                                    _         .
12       Cofiputer Suppon        200        IS         8/20195          1015195         11/30/95         1/15196
Equipment
1 3      ConWsuter Support       200        is         12/20/95         2/15/96         4/25/96          6/5/96
14       Network Commo            5 0                  2/10/95          4/15/95         6/20/95          7/25/95
& Equipment
15        Network Support        170       LCB         5/10/95          7/15/95         9/30/95          11/15/95
Equipmlent
16       Network Commo           220       LCB         3/15195          10/15/95        12/20/95         2/10196
& Equipment
17        Network Support        160       L           2/15/96          4/15/96          6/20/96         7/31/96
Equip mient                            _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _    _  _ _ _ _ _    _  _ _ _ _ _
I 8  Network Comnwo    200        LS         2/20/95         4/20/95          6/2595 -         3/1/95 -
I   NEwquipment Co                                 7/1/95          9/10/95         11/15/95         12t31/95
19        Network Support        300        LS         2/1/96 -        4/1196 -         6/15/96 -       7/20/96 -
Equipment                                  6/5196          3/10/96          9/30/96         11/15/96
Includes an estimated eight contruacu with individuals.



TechniC Annex
Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project                                     Page 97
ATTACHMENT 8: MoNrrORING AND LMPACT INDICATORS
1.    The impact indicators for the project and measurements of its success are derived from the
purpose of the project and its major components. In addition, due to the nature of the project, monitoring
is strongly oriented towards measurement of progress towards milestones.
2.    The major objectives to attain the project are to modernize tax administration in two regions with
110 local offices through: (i) reorganization of structures and procedures; staff training; and introduction
of automation systems; and (ii) preparation of the basis for national implementation of modernized tax
administration.
3.    The hierarchy of project objectives is reflected in the system of impact indicators as follows.
A.    Impact Indicators
Modernization of about 110 local tax offices in two regions.
Indicator                                              Measurement
(1)    Modernization in the local offices              Completion report presented
completed (about 110 offices)                   signed by Tax Office Manager
(2)    Performance improvements                        Number of taxpayers registered
Number of tax returns processed
Income/cost of collection
Number of returns per employee
Number of taxpayers per employer
(3)    Modern structures and systems in place:
-     Mandatory visits by taxpayers reduced     Number of visits
-      Tax administration procedures             Uniform  auditing  and  enforcement
manuals issued.
(4)    Employees/managers training:
-      in new duties                            Number of staff trained
Total number of training days
-      to use computers                         Number of staff trained
Number of staff using
computers
(5)    Training provided by STS trainers               Number of trainers trained
(6)    Taxpayer education program in place             Number of publications and forms
available
Number of taxpayers served



Technk4l Annex
Page 98                                             Russia: Tax Administration Modernization Project
Preparation for national implementation
Indicator                                              Measurement
(1)    Analytical studies completed                   Number of project studies started,
finalized
(2)    National guidelines and standards prepared     Number of guidelines and
standards approved and issued
Audit plan submitted and approved
Overall training plan prepared
B.    Progress Indicators
4.    Monitoring of project progress would be carried out through the following indicators:
(1)    Project management.
(1. 1) An effective Project Management Unit would be set up.
(1.2)  Sufficient office space and all the required equipment to the Unit would be
provided.
(1.3)  The Unit would be staffed with qualified people.
(1.4)  The responsibility and authority of the Unit and each member would be clearly
defined.
(1.5)  Unit systems and procedures would be developed.
(1.6)  The Unit would have a properly defined structure with the job of each member
sufficiently defined.
(1.7)  Members of the Unit would work as a team, keep communication channels open,
and provide mutual assistance and feedback.
(1.8)  The Unit would develop and use an effective planning and control system.
(1.9)  The members of the PMU would be sufficiently motivated, for instance by
adequate compensation as well as recognition.
(1.10) Necessary training would be given to all members of PMU.
(2)    Organization development. Modernization of the tax offices in the two regions would
require close coordination of all its elements. Consequently, at least the following
prerequisites would be fulfilled:
(2.1)  The design of the tax processing procedures for major federal taxes for legal
entities would have to be completed and tested.
(2.2)  The tax processing procedures of all the other taxes would be analyzed and'
redesigned for higher effectiveness.
(2.3)  The new forms would be designed, tested, approved and printed.
(2.4)  All the tax processing systems would be based on use of computer technology.



Technkal Annex
Russia: Tax Adninistration Modemization Project                                       Page 99
(2.5)  Entire tax processing would be integrated into an effective system.
(2.6)  All workflow would be streamlined, including information and document flow
and data interchange.
(2.7)  An effective structure for the local offices would be devised and developed.
(2.8)  All manual and procedures, including training aids and reference materials would
be produced.
(2.9)  Orderly process of organizational transformation would be developed.
(3)    Procurement of computer equipment.
(3.1)  Computer equipment would be specified, including hardware, software and
peripherals.
(3.2)  Bidding documents would be developed and issued on time.
(3.3)  Proposals of suppliers would be evaluated objectively on the grounds of accepted
criteria.
(3.4)  Contract would be awarded with all the conditions of delivery, installation and -
maintenance properly formulated.
(3.5)  System for control of delivery on time and the required equipment to multiple
locations would be developed.
(3.6)  All conditions for equipment installation (wiring, etc.) would be carried out as
planned.
(3.7)  Inventory of all existing computer equipment would be carried out and decision
on its effective integration with the new equipment and utilization would be
made.
(3:8)  All systems, hardware and software would be delivered and installed as required.
(4)    Training of staff.
(4.1)  Analysis of training needs of members of PMU would be carried out.
(4.2)  Training programs for PMU staff would be developed and carried out.
(4.3)  Analysis of training needs for the staff in the local offices would be carried out
both in quantitative and qualitative terms.
(4.4)  A comprehensive training plan for the local offices would be developed.
(4.5)  Training resources needed to carry out the plan would be analyzed and recruited
(4.6)  Trainers would be trained as required
(4.7)  Training materials for training staff in local offices would be developed.
(4.8)  Training would be carried out as a part of the introduction of new systems and
then further on as an autonomous function.
(4.9)  Training activities would be regularly monitored, evaluated and adjustments
would be made as necessary.
(5)    Implementation: introduction of modern tax administration in local tax offices.
(5.1)  Overall plan of implementation would be developed in specific terms, including
schedule of new system introduction to individual offices.
(5.2)  Resources for implementation, especially people, would be allocated.



Technical AJnnX
Page 100                                                  Russia: Tax Administration Modenization Projec
(5.3)  The regional and local offices would be kept informed.
(5.4) Implementation Team Leaders would be selected and trained.
(5.5)  Sufficient information of each locale would be gathered to produce detailed
implementation plan and schedule for each office.
(5.6)  On-site preparation for introduction of new systems would be effectively carried
out.



ATTACHMENT 9: MISON SUMUVISION PLAN*
Mission Dates         Nature of Mission   Required Personnel                sw/ca.    Total sw
1. February 1995      Project Launch     Information Technology Specialist    2
Procurement Specialist              I
Accounting System Specialist        1        4 sw
2. June 1995          Supervision        Information Technology Specialist    2
Procurement Specialist              1
Training Specialist                 1        4 sw
FY96 - 9 mission s-w
3. October 1995       Supervision        Information Technology Specialist    2        2 sw
4. February 1996      Midterm Review     Information Technology Specialist    3
Procurement Specialist              I
Training Specialist                 1        5 sw
5. June 1996          Supervision        Information Technology Specialist    2        2 sw
- PY97 -8 mkion sw:
6. October 1996       Supervision                                             3        3 sw
7. February 1997      Supervision                                             2        2 sw
8. July 1997          Supervision                                             3        3 sw
sw = staff week
* Excluding headquarter review and Resident Mission staff.



1,I
I



IBRD 2670O 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
A,o . A ,. l;, S                   TAX ADMINISTRATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
~~~~~N- . ,,.,'    t                                                                                                     oErSot     
,                                                                . '.SoE
2  teihouoorosorJw            8  bonaoolst3  rkontoo02(                                        509rohi-hrk Ieuli)                   5l0ronohbd23                          _o n
of
4 Republic of Komi 11}20    Te OsooE  1                        6Fne   o   bo                   2CeZi  ooold(0                          uooong(}                  7           0bkhdTu1
4              67~~~~~~~~~~7
i .1~ ~~~~~~~5
5 Murmonskaia oblod (1)            21.Tul'skaia ablo t (11           37. Somorskoba oblot (10)       53. Kurgonskoba abbdt              67, Yomol-Nthe                   78 Amrlcs ablat
6. Vobogodskaia abhds              22. Vlad.mirskaia oblode (2)      38. Sobrtoyskoio ablat (1I)     54. Orenburgokalo ablode (2)            autonamnouo aoku9 (1I)      79. Kamdshkala *lst
7.59. Pterburg (4 7)               23. lrosbv,kiabla9(1              39. Republiof torten ()         55 prmskoiooblat/5)                68 RepublikourWIia (1)          80. Kok uo us o&t
8. Lenin9raodkaob ablat (18)        24. Republic of Chuvo h   ~      40. Ubeano,4kara ablate(5)      56. Komi-Pormyatskao               69. Chitinlkaob ablae            81 Khobaovsldl fina (6)
9. Novtgoragkobi ablaod            25. Kirovskoio ablate (2)        41. Volgagradskaob ablate (3)        autonomous okrug              70. Aginakil 8uryalkii           82 Jgw vbh auooous obiwi
10. Pikcovokao ablae                26. Republic of Morii-EI          42. Republic of Doaoedon (1)    57. Sverdlovkobl ablate (56)           outonomaus alnrug           83. Maao onel ablat (2)
11  rinko ao blt                    27. Mordovnio Republic (1)        43. Checrezh Republic           58. UdurtRepublick(1)              71. IrkuTkom a aoblts (2)        84. Chrfslol aubon-mawhodug
12  N.novki aublte   o              28. Nizhniy No losr3dablah(3)     44. KbordnsoaBolkorsteppblic    59. AIsoiokiiakroi                 72. U'tOrdynkijupi               85. 3ldi (1
13. Koluzhkoioka ablate             29 Belgarodskoil oble             45 Kronadorkii kroi (5)         60 Republic of Ahnoi                    autonomous O&ra             86. Saioinsoa aobdla )
14. KRnmskio  baet                  30. Kunkiobla                     46. Republi ofAdiya             61. Kemerovkoibo blao(34)          73. Kraonoiorkikri(51            87. ER  ioSakdh"i )
15 MoRkovpkbloablao(3)              31. Lpetkoioobloat                47. Nor3-Ooelienepublic         62. Navsibirka oblost (6)          74. R pubic     okoia            88. Ilturadpkoobbolf1
16 MoS cow  Cily (30)               32 lombovskoio oblate             48 Raopublcoio aoblda (4)       63. Omsoioa oblost (5)                                  1           8S. Kgushipubltc El)
.                          .~~~~~~~Lnnrdki   k   1)     4Rpbi  fCuah4.Uinvki ols 5,                                      5.Km-lomaki                        69- a iiU          i              1  hbrWka 6



