Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3853 RU
                              Loan Agreement
                (Tax Administration Modernization Project)
                                  between
                            RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated April 25, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3853 RU
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 25, 1995, between RUSSIAN
FEDERATION (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project;
      (B) the Borrower has obtained from the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) a grant (the IMF Grant) in an amount
equivalent to $900,000 to assist in financing the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an exchange of letters
dated December 5, 1994 and December 20, 1994 (the IMF Grant
Agreement) between the Borrower and IMF; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
                  "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have
            arisen under which any further withdrawals under the
            Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
            Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
            Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
      (b)   "PMU" means the project management unit established
and maintained by the Borrower within the STS, in accordance
with the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
      (c)   "Project Director" means the senior manager of the
STS referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
      (d)   "Project Leader" means the senior manager of the STS
referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
      (e)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated December 30, 1994, and
January 24, 1995, between the Bank and the Borrower;
      (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (g)   "Steering Committee" means the steering committee
established and maintained by the Borrower in accordance with
the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement; and
      (h)   "STS" means the Borrower's State Tax Service.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of sixteen million eight hundred
thousand Dollars ($16,800,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure
Page  3
or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of
the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                  Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                  as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                  expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                  or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                  1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                  otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                  this Section.
           (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or
                  the second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
            Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
            dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
Page  4
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."
                  "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
            respect of such Quarter."
                  "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
            1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
through the STS with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Without limitation upon any other obligation
of the Borrower under this Loan Agreement and except as the
Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
maintain within the STS the Steering Committee and the PMU,
established pursuant to Decree No. BG-3-12/91, adopted by the
STS on December 2, 1994, until the completion of the Project
and shall ensure that the Steering Committee and PMU operate
with functions, staffing, including consultants, and other
resources satisfactory to the Bank.
      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
Page  5
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                  for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six months after the
                  end of each such year, the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
           (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and
                  the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                  time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account
                  was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
           (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified:
Page  6
      (a)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph,
                  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                  proceeds of the IMF Grant made to the Borrower
                  for the financing of the Project shall have
                  been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                  whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
                  IMF Grant Agreement.
            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                  suspension, cancellation or termination is not
                  caused by the failure of the Borrower to
                  perform any of its obligations under the IMF
                  Grant Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                  Project are available to the Borrower from
                  other sources on terms and conditions
                  consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
                  under this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE VI
                                Termination
      Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The MOF is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Ul. Ilyinka, 9
            Moscow, Russia
                                          Telex:
                                                112008
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
                                          64145 (WUI) or
                                          197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
Page  7
and year first above written.
                        RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                        By  /s/ Anatoly Chubais
                                                Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Wilfried Thalwitz
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                Amount of the
                               Loan Allocated           % of
                               (Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                     Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Goods                         13,800,000        100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures,
                                                    100% of local
                                                    expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 85%
                                                    of local
                                                    expenditures for
                                                    other items
                                                    procured locally
(2) Consultants'                   1,800,000        100%
    services, including
    training and
    fellowships
(3) Refunding of                     500,000        Amounts due
    Project                                         pursuant to
    Preparation                                     Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                         of this Agreement
(4) Unallocated                      700,000
                                  __________
        TOTAL                     16,800,000
                                  ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
Page  8
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
for goods and services under contracts not exceeding $50,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to
design, implement, and maintain an effective and efficient
national system of tax administration.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Phase 2 of Tax Administration Modernization
    Strengthening of local tax administration through the
reorganization of local STS offices, introduction of modern
management and operational procedures, introduction of
automation systems, and training of staff, through the
provision of consultants' services, training, fellowships and
goods.
Part B:   Institutional Development
    Strengthening of the national tax administration through the
development of a national tax strategy, audit plan, training
plan, and taxpayer education strategy, assessment of the
necessary institutional arrangements within and outside the
STS, analysis of the legal and regulatory framework, and
preparation for the national implementation of a modern system
of tax administration, through the provision of consultants'
services and fellowships.
Part C:   Project Management Unit Support
    Support to the PMU through the provision of consultants'
services, training and goods.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
    beginning July 15, 2000
    through July 15, 2011                      700,000
And on January 15, 2012                        700,000
Page  9
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                                   Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum) applicable
                                   to the Loan on the day of
                                   prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                      0.18
    before maturity
More than three years but                      0.35
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                        0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                     0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity
More than 15 years before                      1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
Page  10
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in
accordance with the following additional procedures:
    (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract. The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior
review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1(a) of this
Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for: (i) a
first extension of the bid validity period if the period of
extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent
extension of the bid validity period.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto
as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes
of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding
documents based on other internationally recognized standard
forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in
the Russian Federation may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Network support equipment estimated to cost the equivalent
of $300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.  Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $600,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at
least three suppliers from at least three different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
3.  Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.  Contracts for goods which the Bank agrees are of proprietary
nature, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $300,000, may
be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
Page  11
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract awarded under
international competitive bidding procedures referred to in
Part A.1 hereof and estimated to cost the equivalent of
$300,000 or more, the first two contracts awarded under local
competitive bidding procedures referred to in Part C.1 hereof,
the first two contracts awarded under international shopping
procedures referred to in Part C.2 hereof, the first two
contracts awarded under local shopping procedures referred to
in Part C.3 hereof, and each contract awarded under direct
shopping procedures referred to in Part C.4 hereof, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6
to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.     Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower
shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by
the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard
forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank
review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the
Page  12
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
1.  The STS shall be responsible for implementation of the
Project. Overall Project coordination and control shall be the
responsibility of the Steering Committee. Project management
shall be the responsibility of the Project Director, a senior
manager of the STS at the level of a Deputy Chairman of the
STS. Actual implementation management will be the
responsibility of the PMU which shall be headed by the Project
Leader, a senior STS manager responsible for day-to-day
management of the Project.
2.  The Steering Committee shall have as permanent members
relevant senior managers of the STS, representatives of the
regional and/or local offices of the STS, the Project Leader,
and a representative of the MOF. The Steering Committee shall
be responsible, inter alia, for reviewing and approving major
Project proposals, approving allocation of Project resources,
ensuring close integration of the Project in regular STS
operations, and ensuring that the Project is fully responsive
to the current and future needs of the STS.
3.  The Project Director shall provide overall managerial
direction and control to the Project and be, inter alia,
responsible for mobilizing financial and staff resources to
support the Project, for arranging access to the STS and
Borrower authorities necessary for Project implementation, and
for coordinating communications between the PMU and the
Steering Committee.
4.  The Project Leader shall be responsible for, inter alia, the
following day-to-day activities related to Project: (a) Project
management including procurement, accounting, disbursement,
auditing, reporting, and monitoring and evaluation of all
central and regional activities of the Project; and (b) Project
implementation including, institutional development,
development of automation systems and activities of the
implementation teams.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                             Special Accounts
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $100,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
Page  13
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                have requested and as shall have been shown by
                said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
or
    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
Page  14
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
