Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  11/19/2009 
Report No.:  AC4765
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Kenya 
Project ID:  P119736 
Project Name:  Enhancing Agricultural Productivity Project 
Task Team Leader:  Andrew Mwihia Karanja 
Estimated Appraisal Date: November 20, 
2009 
Estimated Board Date: December 2, 2009 
Managing Unit:  AFTAR 
Lending Instrument:  Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector:  Crops (100%) 
Theme:  Global food crisis response (100%) 
SPF Amount (US$m): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
0.00 
 Special 
Financing 
0.00
0.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [X] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient to increase access to agricultural 
inputs and technologies among targeted smallholder farmers.  This improved farmer 
access is expected to contribute to higher yields, household food self-sufficiency and the 
generation of surpluses for sale, as well as reduced gap between domestic production and 
consumption in 2010 and 2011.  The support will also contribute towards promotion and 
diversification to other food crops other than maize.   
 
3. Project Description 
The Project will have three main components, which will support smallholder access to 
agricultural inputs, these components are:  
 
Component One: Up-scaling the existing Kilimo Biashara Agricultural Credit Program.  
The Project will build on the partnership already established between the Government of 
Kenya (GoK), International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), Alliance for 
Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA) and Equity Bank to leverage additional credit and 
scale up loans to farmers.  The overall strategy is to leverage financial institutions 
resources through a 10 percent guarantee fund on the basis of which Equity Bank and 
Page  2
other financial institutions will develop appropriate financial products and provide credit 
facilities to smallholder farmers, agro-input dealers and other value chain players in the 
agricultural sector.  
 
Component Two: Up scaling the existing Input Voucher Scheme (Kilimo Bora) in 84 
selected districts through the Government's National Accelerated Agricultural Inputs 
Access Program (NAAIAP) program.  The Kilimo Plus approach targets the poorest 
smallholders operating on 1 ha and less.  The Kilimo Plus Program is designed as a 
voucher scheme to enable smallholder farmers to access 10 kg hybrid seed, 50 kg basal 
fertilizer and 50 kg top-dressing fertilizer for their privately owned farms.  These inputs 
are sufficient for approximately 1 acre (0.4 ha) of maize.  The Project will support an 
additional 150,000 farmers in the next two years.  
 
Component Three: Up-scaling of the Orphan Crop Program at a cost of Euro 3.0 
million.  This component would focus on supplying planting materials of orphan crops to 
smallholder farmers in semi-arid areas.  This will involve promoting farmer involvement 
in seed bulking and multiplication of orphan and other crops, including sorghum, cassava 
and millet.  The proposed program will involve production of about 1,500 metric tonnes 
of seeds and other planting materials for distribution to 100 districts spread across all the 
provinces.  This will directly benefit about 500,000 households in the next one and half 
years.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Inputs (fertilizers and hybrid maize seeds) will be distributed to 150,000 farmers in the 84 
districts located in the high potential eco-zone of Kenya.  The Project will support 
smallholder farmers, who own at least one acre that can be planted with maize.  There 
will be no conversion of new lands into agriculture or maize planting.  There are no 
involuntary resettlement issues under this Project, as seeds and fertilizers provided will 
be used in beneficiaries' own farms and other developments on KARI land. The criteria 
for selection of these farmers includes low income, small farm size and group 
membership.  Furthermore, women farmers will be given consideration.  
 
The orphan crop support will cover over 500,000 smallholder farmers in over 100 
districts in Kenya mainly in the marginal and arid areas of the country.  Although these 
are fragile environments, no new land will be opened for cultivation.Furthermore, as 
these crops are more suitable for this environment, they will ensure that farmers get good 
yields and hence incomes that can be beneficial to environmental conservation.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Nyambura Githagui (AFTCS) 
Mr Ladisy Komba Chengula (AFTEN) 
 
Page  3
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
This Project has been assigned environmental Category B, because it will have no 
adverse impacts on human populations or environmentally important areas, such as on 
wetlands, forests, grasslands, and other natural habitats.  Where site impacts occur, 
specific mitigation measures will be designed.  The Project will enhance smallholder 
farmers' access to farm inputs by providing farming inputs, such as hybrid seeds and 
fertilizers that will be applied in the beneficiaries' farms, according to the agronomic 
specification.  
 
The Project interventions will have minimal adverse impacts on the environment and 
human beings, such as possibility of leaching agrochemical into water bodies or 
wetlands.  Despite the above, the Project triggers the Environment Assessment 
(OP/BP/GP 4.01) and Pest Management (OP 4.09) safeguard policies.  Therefore, a 
partial environmental assessment in the form of an Environmental and Social 
Management Framework (ESMF) and an Integrated Pest Management plan (IPMP), 
which were developed for the KAPAP, will be used. These safeguard instruments were 
disclosed in Kenya on April 1, 2009; and at the Bank's InfoShop on April 6, 2009.  The 
ESMF for KAPAP includes a checklist for screening environmental and social impacts of 
the physical investments, including irrigation systems.  However, there are no social 
safeguards triggered under the EAPP i.e., Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) and 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10).  All investments will be done on farmers' own private 
farms.  Therefore, in terms of social issues, the ESMF will be used for identifying 
vulnerable groups to be supported by the Project, such as women, youth, people living 
with HIV/AIDS, and other disadvantaged members of the communities.  Similarly, the 
IPMP provides guidelines for screening, safe handling, and disposal of pesticides to be 
followed by beneficiaries; and promotes the use of biological pests control methods.  
 
Mitigation measures proposed in the ESMF and IPMP for KAPAP, such as training 
farmers in safe handling and disposal of pesticides, using recommended application rates 
Page  4
and protective gear, and first aid and seeking medical attention in case of exposure to 
harmful pesticides, will be supported under this Project.  
 
The potential adverse impacts include the possibility of leaching agrochemical into 
water bodies or wetlands; and increased soil acidity due to persistent use of nitrogen 
fertilizers.  However, it is unlikely that these impacts will be of large scale, significant 
and/or irreversible.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Although the potential environmental impacts from this support are minimal, farmers are 
likely to adopt new production technologies, which may involve intensified use of 
fertilizers and pesticides.  The cumulative effect of intensification can be harmful to the 
environment of the Project area e.g. increasing soil acidity and water pollution.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
An alternative considered was to provide food vouchers to farmers to alleviate the current 
crisis.  It was rejected because it does neither address the long-term food needs, nor 
enhance food security.  In addition, the rejected alternative does not improve farm 
income, hence it was deemed unsustainable.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Under the KAPAP, the Borrower has prepared the ESMF and an IPMP.  The same ESMF 
will be used by this Project for screening the potential adverse environmental and social 
impacts using a checklist.  In turn, the Project will design the appropriate mitigation 
measures to address any environmental and social issues identified.  The IPMP will be 
used for screening of the banned agro-chemicals and pesticides, guiding safe pesticides 
use and disposal, and promoting biological control of pests.  Additional capacity building 
to plan and implement mitigation measures will be provided at district and community 
levels.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The key stakeholders include the Agricultural Sector ministries (Agriculture, Livestock, 
Fisheries, and Forestry), Ministry responsible for the Local Government, Kenya 
Agricultural Research Institute, National Environmental Management Authority, District 
Authorities, CBOs, NGOs, farming community, and other Development Partners 
supporting the Agricultural Sector.  
 
The ESMF and IPMP consultations for KAPAP took place at the national, district, and 
community levels; and involved all the above stakeholders.  Consultations were in the 
form of formal and informal meetings and workshops, including with farmers in the 
sample villages visited.   
 
Page  5
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
03/30/2009 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
04/01/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
04/06/2009 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
03/30/2009 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
04/01/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
04/06/2009 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
N/A   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
No 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
N/A 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
N/A 
OP 4.09 - Pest Management 
 
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues? 
Yes 
Is a separate PMP required? 
Yes 
If yes, has the PMP been reviewed and approved by a safeguards specialist or 
Yes 
Page  6
SM?  Are PMP requirements included in project design?  If yes, does the 
project team include a Pest Management Specialist? 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Andrew Mwihia Karanja 
11/12/2009 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Ladisy Komba Chengula 
11/12/2009 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Nyambura Githagui 
11/12/2009 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Ms Karen Mcconnell Brooks 
11/18/2009 
Comments:  The Sector Unit has agreed to accept transfer of safeguard responsibilities. 
