Page  1
                                              May  9, 1996
Andrei Vavilov
First Deputy Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Ilyinka, 9
103097  Moscow
Russian Federation
Dear Deputy Minister Vavilov:
        Re: Loan No. 3546-RU (Privatization Implementation Assistance
            Project) Amendments to the Loan Agreement -- Program for
            Development of Collective Investment Instruments and Investor
            Protection
     We refer to the Loan Agreement and Project Agreement dated May 15,
1993, as amended, for the above-referenced Loan. We also refer to the
letter, dated February 16, 1996, from Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin
to Mr. James Wolfensohn, requesting the Bank to reallocate $31,000,000
out of the proceeds of Loan No. 3546-RU, to provide financing for an
additional component of the Project.  The additional component is to
provide technical assistance in support of the Government's program of
measures to protect the rights and interests of investors in
securities issued by Russian companies (the Program for Development of
Collective Investment Instruments and Investor Protection). We have
reviewed the materials provided by the Government describing the said
Program, and have considered the anticipated financing needs of the
implementing agencies for the completion of the remaining components of
the Project, and we are pleased to inform you that the Bank accedes to
your request and proposes to introduce the following amendments in the
Loan and Project Agreements:
Loan Agreement
1.   At the end of Section 1.02 (o), the word "and," shall be deleted and
at the end of paragraph (p), the period shall be replaced with a semicolon
and new paragraphs (q), (r) and (s) shall be inserted as follows:
           "(q)  'RFCSCM' means the Russian Federation Commission for
           Securities and Capital Market, established pursuant to
           Presidential Decree No. 2063 of November 4, 1994;
           (r)   'IILE' means the International Institute for the Law-
           Based Economy, a non-commercial foundation organized and
           operating on the basis of its statutes registered on April 13,
           1995 with the Department of Public Relations of the City
           Administration of the City of Moscow (Registration No. 2235-1),
           as the same may be amended from time to time, and in accordance
           with the Law of the Borrower on Non-commercial Entities of
           January 12, 1996; and
           (s)   'Program for Development of Collective Investment
           Instruments and Investor Protection' means the program to be
           adopted by the Government of the Borrower pursuant to paragraph
           1 of Section III of Schedule 5 to this Agreement."
2.   Section 2.02 (b) shall be modified to read as follows:
           "(b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts A, B, C, and D
           of the Project, and for the purposes of Part F of the Project,
           respectively, open and maintain in Dollars two special deposit
           accounts in commercial banks on terms and conditions
           satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
           against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and
           payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance
           with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement."
3.   In Section 3.01, after the words "to this end" the remaining part of
Page  2
the Section shall read as follows:
     "shall carry out Parts A, B, C, and D of the Project with the
     assistance of the Privatization Center, and Part F of the Project
     through the RFCSCM, with due diligence and efficiency and in
     conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices
     and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
     services and other resources required for this purpose."
4.   In Section 3.05, the words "Part C of the Project" shall be replaced
to read "Parts E and F."
5.   The date referred to in Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement (mid-term
review) shall be changed from June 30, 2000 to November 30, 1996.
6.   The existing table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 (Withdrawal of the
Proceeds of the Loan) shall be deleted, and a new table shall be
substituted therefor as set forth in Annex 1 to this letter.
7.   At the end of paragraph 2 (c) of Schedule 1, the word  "and" shall be
deleted and at the end of paragraph 2 (d), the period shall be replaced
with a semi-colon, and the word "and" shall be added. Paragraph 2 of
Schedule 1 shall be supplemented at the end of sub-paragraph (d) thereof
with the additional sub-paragraph (e) as follows:
           "(e)  'Incremental Operating Costs' comprises salaries and
           benefits of staff payable within a range for each position
           acceptable to the Bank, utility charges at a rate not to
           exceed the rate in domestic prices payable by comparable
           organizations, locally-procured office equipment and supplies,
           costs payable in connection with rental of office space,
           maintenance of facilities, insurance, and other ordinary and
           necessary costs payable by the Privatization Center or the
           RFCSCM that would be payable by entities similarly situated on
           the territory of the Borrower and customarily regarded as a cost
           of doing business, including administrative costs such as travel
           allowances."
8.   At the end of paragraph 3 (d) of Schedule 1, the word "and" shall be
deleted and at the end of paragraph  3 (e), the period shall be replaced
by a semi-colon. Paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 shall be supplemented at the
end of sub-paragraph (e) thereof with sub-paragraph (f) as follows:
           "(f)  payments made for expenditures under Category (8) (a) of
           this Schedule in any year, prior to the adoption by the
           Privatization Center of the annual operating budget described
           in Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement for such year.
9.   In Schedule 2 (Description of the Project), following Part E
(Business Development and Promotion), a new Part F shall be introduced as
follows:
     "Part F: Program for Development of Collective Investment Instruments
     and Investor Protection
           Provision of technical assistance for the design of a
           comprehensive collective investment investor protection
           compensation scheme, together with institutional strengthening
           of RFCSCM. The technical assistance shall consist of specific
           activities involving the provision of expertise and policy
           studies relating to individual components as follows:
           (a)   overall policy and program coordination;
           (b)   legal, regulatory, tax and accounting policy and reforms;
           (c)   strengthening of the RFCSCM's regulatory capacity;
           (d)   institution-building technical assistance to nascent unit
           investment funds for the purpose of: (i) setting up pilot unit
           investment funds; (ii) exploring and testing new types of
           investment institutions on a pilot basis; and (iii) providing
Page  3
           technical support on a cost recovery basis to existing unit
           investment funds;
           (e)   the establishment of a state investors compensation fund;
           (f)   investor protection and recourse mechanisms;
           (g)   licensing, pilot dissemination and training; and
           (h)   public education relating to collective instruments.
                                          * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by  March 31, 1998."
10.  Schedule 5 (Implementation Program) to the Loan Agreement shall be
supplemented at the end of Section II thereof with the addition of
Sections III and IV as follows:
     "III. Organization and Management of Part F of the Project
     1.    The Borrower shall adopt all necessary policy or legislative
     measures to establish the legal framework for the functioning of the
     specific regulatory mechanisms referred to in Part F of Schedule 2
     to this Agreement, constituting the Program for Development of
     Collective Investment Instruments and Investor Protection, taking
     due regard to the proposals for the design thereof and recommendations
     provided pursuant to the technical assistance being financed pursuant
     to Part F of the Project, and shall take all necessary action,
     including adoption of enabling legislation or regulation, to ensure
     that such program may be carried out by the RFCSCM and other relevant
     implementing agencies.
     2.    Part F of the Project shall be carried out by the Borrower
     through RFCSCM in accordance with an implementation plan satisfactory
     to the Bank, including requirements that RFCSCM:
           (a)   assign a core Project team whose qualifications and
           experience and terms of reference shall be acceptable to the
           Bank, to oversee implementation of Project activities;
           (b)   make available and maintain appropriate office facilities
           and support staff, which shall be acceptable to the Bank; and
           (c)   engage a consultant in accordance with Section II of
           Schedule 4 to this Agreement to assist the core team during the
           execution of the Project.
     3.    The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set
     forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
     Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, land and
     schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
     respectively) in respect of Part F of the Project shall be carried out
     by the RFCSCM pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement.
     IV.   Implementation of Specific Project Activities under Part F of the
     Project
     A.    Program for Development of Collective Investment Instruments and
     Investor Protection
           1.    The RFCSCM shall:
           (a)   carry out its activities under the  Program for Development
           of Collective Investment Instruments and Investor Protection in
           conformity with appropriate administrative, legal, economic and
           financial management practices, as shall have been established
           by the Borrower for the purpose;
           (b)   each year during the execution of the Project, and with
           respect to each of the areas described in Part F of Schedule 2
           to this Agreement, determine the need for technical assistance
           to be provided in connection with such component, and the kind of
Page  4
           activities required in order to make available such technical
           assistance, and adopt an annual work plan describing the
           technical assistance to be provided under such Part F, together
           with an annual budget setting forth the estimated expenditures
           for the required activities; and
           (c)   be responsible for approval of the annual work program and
           budget of IILE and any other agencies carrying out specific
           activities under the technical assistance work plan referred to
           in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph 1, including the schedule
           and estimated costs of  each such technical assistance activity.
     2.    The technical assistance to be provided in support of the Program
     for Development of Collective Investment and Investor Protection shall
     be coordinated primarily by the IILE under arrangements satisfactory to
     the Bank.  The IILE shall, at all times, operate under the auspices of,
     and be accountable to, the RFCSCM in regard to the carrying out of
     technical assistance activities under the Project.
     B.    Institutional Strengthening of RFCSCM
           The IILE shall be designated to manage technical assistance
           activities relative to the program for institutional strengthening
           of RFCSCM referred to in sub-paragraphs (iii) and (iv) of Part F
           of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, under terms and conditions
           satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia: (i) management,
           by the IILE, of contracts relating to the provision of services
           for such program (employment of consultants); and (ii) creation,
           within IILE, of an internal Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to
           handle procurement, contracts and disbursement.
11.  The present Schedule 6 (Special Account) shall be deleted, and a new
Schedule 6 shall be substituted to read as set forth in Annex 2 to this
letter.
Project Agreement
12.  In Section 4.02, the word "semi-annual" (where it appears twice with
reference to the operating budget of the Privatization Center) shall be
replaced to read "annual".
     Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and dating
the form of confirmation on the enclosed copy of this letter and returning
such copy to us.  This amendment will become effective as of the date
hereof upon receipt of your confirmation copy by the Bank.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
/s/ Johannes F. Linn
    Vice President
    Europe and Central Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
By   /s/ Andrei Vavilo, First Deputy Minister
         Authorized Representative
This 22nd day of May, 1996
ANNEX 1
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
Page  5
financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated             % of
                               (Expressed in       Expenditures
           Category          Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
      (1)  Computers, equipment                    100% of foreign
           and materials:                          expenditures,
                                                   100% of local
           (a) under Part B.2     54,840           expenditures
           of the Project                          (ex-factory cost)
                                                   and 70% of local
           (b)under Part B.6   4,500,000           expenditures for
           of the Project                          other items procured
                                                   locally
     (2)   Consultants' services                   100%
           (a) under Part A     3,200,000
           of the Project
           (b)  under Part B.1          0
           of the Project
           (c)  under Part B.2    450,186
           of the Project
           (d)  under Part B.3  1,228,444
           of the Project
           (e)  under Part B.4  5,000,000
           of the Project
           (f)  under Part B.5  1,000,000
           of the Project
           (g)  under Part C.1  4,000,000
           of the Project
           (h)  under Part C.2  1,771,556
           of the Project
           (i)  under Part E    7,000,000
           of the Project
           (j)  under Part F   28,000,000
           of the Project
     (3)   Training               792,681          100%
     (4)   Media time and space 6,000,000          100%
     (5)   Refunding Project    1,002,293          Amounts due
           Preparation Advance                     pursuant to
                                                   Section 2.02 (b)
                                                   of this Agreement
     (6)   Unallocated                  0
     (7)   Sub-projects under  20,000,000          80% of the expend-
           Part D of the Project                   itures incurred during
                                                   the first semester of
                                                   the first year of the
                                                   Sub-project; 60% of the
                                                   expenditures incurred
                                                   during the second
                                                   semester of the first
                                                   year of the Sub-project;
                                                   40% of the expenditures
                                                   incurred during the first
                                                   semester of the second
Page  6
                                                   year of the Sub-project;
                                                   and 20% of the expend-
                                                   itures incurred during
                                                   the second semester of
                                                   the second year of the
                                                   Sub-project
(8)   Incremental Operating                        100%
      Costs:
      (a)  of the Privatization  3,000,000
      Center under Part B.1
      of the Project
      (b)  of the RFCSCM under   3,000,000
      Part F of the Project
                                 _________
        TOTAL                   90,000,000
                                ==========
ANNEX 2
                               SCHEDULE 6
                            Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means, Categories set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of with respect to Schedule 1 to Pertaining to
Parts to this Agreement of the Project Special Account A (1), 2 (a)
through Parts A through E (i), (3), (4) and (7) of the Project Special
Account B (2)(j) and (8) Part F of the Project
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$3,000,000 in respect of the Special Account A and an amount equivalent to
$3,000,000 in respect of the Special Account B thereof, to be withdrawn
from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions
of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
respective Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
respective Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
       (b)   (i)  For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits
                  into the respective Special Account at such intervals as
                  the Bank shall specify.
             (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
Page  7
                  other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
                  Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which
                  replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                  request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                  respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been paid out
                  of the respective Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
                  Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible
                  Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
                  shall have been justified by said documents and other
                  evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing
that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special
Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and
accounts for the Special Accounts;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount
not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special Account
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Bank into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
       (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
       (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
Page  8
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
       (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
