Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
between
THE UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION
and
MULTILATERAL INVESTMENT GUARANTEE AGENCY
Dated November 5, 1991
TECHNICAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 5, 1991, between the UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST 
REPUBLICS (the U.S.S.R.) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank), the INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION (IFC) and the MULTILATERAL 
INVESTMENT GUARANTEE AGENCY (MIGA) (the Bank, IFC and MIGA being sometimes hereinafter 
referred to as the World Bank Group).
WHEREAS (A) by a letter dated July 15, 1991, the U.S.S.R. has applied for 
membership in the Bank, IFC and MIGA;
(B)
The U.S.S.R. has requested the World Bank Group to provide technical 
assistance to the U.S.S.R. and its Republics during the transitional period before the 
U.S.S.R.'s accession to member-ship in the Bank and to assist, in particular, in the 
efforts towards the transformation of their economies into market-based economies by 
providing the U.S.S.R. and its Republics with technical assistance and expertise in 
specific areas of economic development and finance which have the highest national 
priority and which fall within the competence and expertise of the World Bank Group;
(C)
The U.S.S.R. and the World Bank Group have agreed to establish a 
framework for their cooperation, the institutional arrangements to govern their 
relationship and the procedures under which technical assistance would be provided by 
Page  2
the World Bank Group to the U.S.S.R. and its Republics;
(D)
By Resolution No. 91-18, adopted on August 27, 1991, the Executive 
Directors of the Bank resolved, subject to the adoption by the Board of Governors of 
the Bank of the Resolution referred to in paragraph (E) of this Preamble, to establish 
a Technical Assistance Trust Fund for the U.S.S.R. and its Republics, to be 
administered by the Bank and to which the Bank, its members and other international 
organizations may contribute, to finance the cost of the technical assistance to be 
provided by the Bank to the U.S.S.R. and its Republics during the transitional period 
before membership of the U.S.S.R. on the terms and conditions referred to in said 
Resolution No. 91--18; and
(E)
By Resolution No. 452, adopted on September 18, 1991, the Board of 
Governors of the Bank authorized the transfer, by way of grant, from surplus to the 
Technical Assistance Trust Fund of an amount of thirty million United States dollars 
(US$30,000,000);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Documents
Section 1.01. Documents. The World Bank Group shall provide to the U.S.S.R. and 
its Republics free of charge documents on general economic topics, as well as 
documents relevant to the U.S.S.R. economy among those it provides to its member 
countries. Such restrictions on the further distribution of these documents as may 
apply to officials of Bank member countries shall also apply to officials of the 
U.S.S.R. and its Republics.
ARTICLE II
Legal Status, Privileges and Immunities
Section 2.01. Legal Status; Privileges and Immunities. (a) To enable the World 
Bank Group to fulfill its functions under this Agreement, the U.S.S.R. shall accord 
the World Bank Group and its officers, staff and external consultants in its 
territories the status, immunities and privileges set forth in Article VII of the 
Bank's Articles of Agreement, as the provisions of such Article are applied to members 
of the Bank, and those specified in the Conven-tion on the Privileges and Immunities 
of the Specialized Agencies of the United Nations. To that end, the Bank shall notify 
the U.S.S.R. through its representative designated pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement of the names and assignment of the staff members and external consultants of 
the Bank who shall be assigned to the office referred to in Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement or to any activities under this Agreement and their families before their 
arrival in the territories of the U.S.S.R.
(b)
The personal effects of the persons notified pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section and any professional or office equipment required by them for the office 
referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement or for any activity under this Agreement 
shall be brought into, used in, and re-exported from the U.S.S.R. free from duties or 
taxes, and the U.S.S.R. shall facili-tate the importation and re-exportation of such 
effects or equip-ment. The articles referred to in this paragraph which are imported 
in the U.S.S.R. under the exemption provided for herein shall not be sold in the 
U.S.S.R. except under conditions agreed between the U.S.S.R. and the Bank.
(c)
The U.S.S.R. shall hold the World Bank Group and its staff harmless from 
any claims of any party against the World Bank Group or its staff arising from any 
action, advice or omission of the World Bank Group, its staff or its external 
consultants in the provision of services under this Agreement, except where resulting 
from willful misconduct of its staff or external consul-tants.
(d)
In the event that IFC or MIGA agree with the U.S.S.R. on work programs 
under Section 3.09 of this Agreement, the provi-sions of this Article shall apply to 
their respective officers, staff and external consultants mutatis mutandis.
ARTICLE III
Technical Cooperation
Section 3.01. General. The objectives of the technical cooperation established 
under this Article are to assist in the transformation of the economies of the 
Page  3
U.S.S.R. and its  Republics into market-based economies and to support their 
integra-tion into the world economy and the restoration of growth. Technical 
assis-tance to be provided by the Bank shall consist of specific programs, studies and 
other projects of technical assistance for which the U.S.S.R. and its Republics wish 
to obtain from the Bank technical and other advisory services, which are normally 
provided by the Bank in the course of its operations, and which the Bank would be 
able, within the scope of its competence and with the resources and expertise 
available to it, to provide to the U.S.S.R. and its Republics.
Section 3.02. Work Programs. (a) The U.S.S.R. and the Bank hereby agree that the 
work program for the three-month period commencing on November 1, 1991 and ending 
January 31, 1992 shall be as set forth in the Annex to this Agreement.
(b)
In the course of the above-mentioned three-month period, the U.S.S.R. and 
the Bank shall agree on the work program for the succeeding five-month period ending 
June 30, 1992.
(c)
In the course of the above-mentioned five-month period and in the course 
of each twelve-month period starting with the period from July 1, 1992, to June 30, 
1993, the U.S.S.R. and the Bank shall review through their representatives the 
activities currently under way, and shall agree, before the beginning of the next 
period, on the program of technical cooperation for such next period. To the extent 
such program involves services rendered or to be rendered to a Republic pursuant to 
the provisions of Section 3.08 of this Agreement, representatives of such Republic 
shall be included in such review, and inclusion of such services in the program shall 
be conditioned on the entry into force of this Agreement in respect of such Republic 
pursuant to Section 3.08.
(d)
Such programs shall specify:
(i)
the various projects, studies, training activities or other 
activities to be undertaken or continued during such period for 
which technical or other advisory services are expected to be 
rendered by the Bank to the U.S.S.R. and its Republics;
(ii)
the estimated overall manpower requirements of the Bank for such 
services; 
(iii)
the estimated overall requirements for counterpart or support 
staff and the facilities to be provided by the U.S.S.R. or the 
concerned Republic for the purpose of carrying out the activities 
specified pursuant to sub-paragraph (i); and
(iv)
the estimated cost of the goods, services and facilities to be 
procured in the U.S.S.R. and the concerned Republics.
(e)
In establishing their work program the U.S.S.R., its Republics and the 
Bank shall take into due considera-tion the technical and other advisory services 
which may be available to the U.S.S.R. and its Republics from other Special-ized 
Agencies of the United Nations and other international or national sources.
Section 3.03. Review and Modifications of Work Programs. The U.S.S.R., the 
concerned Republics to the extent necessary, and the Bank shall in the course of 
carrying out each work program exchange views from time to time on the progress of 
such program and may by mutual agreement introduce such modifications in the program, 
as they shall deem to be desirable.
Section 3.04. Provision of Services; Project Documents. (a) Within the scope of 
each of the programs referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, the services of 
the Bank required to carry out each such program shall be provided pursuant to a 
project document which shall set forth:
(i)
the objectives, description and estimated duration of the 
particular activity subject of such document;
(ii)
the methods by which the Bank's services shall be provided and the 
Bank staff's requirements for the activity;
(iii)
the counterpart or support staff and the facili-ties to be 
provided by the concerned entity in the U.S.S.R. or in a Republic 
at its own cost for the activity;
Page  4
(iv)
appropriate procedures for the exchange of information and views 
on the progress of the activity; and
(v)
any financing available from other sources for the purpose of 
cofinancing the activity.
Activities expected to cost less than $100,000 may be undertaken under simplified 
project documents which shall contain summary information on the matters set forth in 
sub-paragraphs (a) (i) and (a) (ii) above.
(b)
The Bank staff assigned to the office referred to in Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement or to any particular activity under a Bank program shall, in the conduct of 
their activities, be responsible to, and under the sole direction of the Bank. For 
this purpose, the staff of the Bank shall include the staff of IFC and MIGA, external 
consultants of the Bank, and staff and consultants of another Specialized Agency of 
the United Nations assigned by the Bank to any activity hereunder pursuant to a formal 
cooperative program or other informal administrative arrangements between the Bank and 
such Specialized Agency.
(c)
The Bank, in providing the services hereunder, shall use the same care 
and diligence as it uses in its other operations. If, at any time the Bank, after 
consultation with the U.S.S.R. and the concerned Republic, shall determine that for 
any reason it is unlikely that the activity subject to a project document can be 
successfully completed or can be carried out in accordance with the usual standards 
and practices which are applied by the Bank in its operations, the Bank may, by notice 
to the U.S.S.R. and the concerned Republic, suspend the provision of its services for 
such activity and, unless the parties to the project document providing for such 
activity shall otherwise agree, the Bank shall be relieved of any further 
responsibility for the carrying out of the services thereunder and shall take all 
measures necessary to terminate such services in an orderly manner.
Section 3.05. Bank Office in Moscow. (a) For the purpose of facilitating the 
preparation and implementation of each of the programs referred to in Section 3.02 of 
this Agreement and of ensuring continuity in the provision of technical or other 
advisory services to the U.S.S.R. and its Republics, the Bank may establish and 
maintain an office in Moscow, with such functions and staff, and under such terms and 
conditions, as shall be specified by agreement between the U.S.S.R. and the Bank.
(b)
The U.S.S.R. shall assist the Bank in obtaining office facilities, staff 
housing, vehicles and support staff required for the effective operation of said 
office, and shall provide such other facilities as may be agreed from time to time 
between the U.S.S.R. and the Bank.
Section 3.06. Cost of Services. (a) The rates at which the services rendered by 
the Bank shall be charged to the program budget shall be calculated in accordance with 
the Bank's normal budgetary procedures to cover the full incremental cost to the Bank 
of the services so rendered.
(b)
The cost incurred by the Bank in providing services under this Agreement 
shall be charged to the Technical Assistance Trust Fund, provided, however, that with 
respect to local expendi-tures to be incurred by the Bank on account of goods, 
services and facilities procured in the U.S.S.R. or the concerned Republic, for each 
of the work programs referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, the Bank, the 
U.S.S.R. and the concerned Republic shall agree on the estimated amount of such 
expenditures which shall be reimbursed by the U.S.S.R. or the concerned Republic to 
the Bank, in Ruble equivalent, such equivalent to be determined by the Bank, after 
consultation with the U.S.S.R., on the basis of the prevailing rates of exchange. The 
Bank shall furnish to the U.S.S.R. and the concerned Republic a statement of such 
expenditures actually incurred at the end of the term of each work program. The Bank 
shall be entitled to convert into a freely usable currency the amounts of Rubles which 
shall have not been utilized by the Bank at the date on which this Agreement 
terminates.
Section 3.07. Information and Data. The U.S.S.R. undertakes to provide to the 
Bank all such economic and other information and data available to it as the Bank 
shall request to carry out the technical assistance provided under this Article. The 
U.S.S.R. shall also ensure that the Bank staff and external consultants carrying out 
the technical assistance services provided under this Article have access, as 
necessary or useful, to all relevant government and government agency officials.
Section 3.08. Services to the Soviet Republics. Services may be provided by the 
Bank under this Agreement to any Republic which notifies the Bank of its acceptance of 
Page  5
its terms. On the date upon which the Bank dispatches a notice acknowledging receipt 
of the notification by a Republic, this Agreement shall enter into effect in respect 
of such Republic and the obligations of the U.S.S.R. under this Agreement shall apply 
to said Republic in the same manner as they apply to the U.S.S.R. as if such Republic 
were a signatory to this Agreement.
Section 3.09. Other Services by IFC and MIGA. The U.S.S.R., its Republics to the 
extent necessary, and IFC or MIGA may from time to time agree on work programs to be 
performed by IFC or MIGA, other than work programs referred to in Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement financed out of resources of the Technical Assistance Trust Fund, in which 
case, they shall agree on the terms of such work programs and the sources of funding 
therefor, and the relevant provisions of Sections 3.02 (c), (d) and (e) and Sections 
3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 3.06 (a), 3.07, 3.08 and 4.01 shall apply mutatis mutandis to IFC or 
MIGA as well.
ARTICLE IV
Settlement of Disputes;
Channel of Communications;
Entry into Force; Termination
Section 4.01. Settlement of Disputes. The U.S.S.R. and the Bank shall attempt to 
settle any dispute which may arise between the U.S.S.R. and the Bank as to the 
interpretation or applica-tion of this Agreement by negotiations before seeking 
arbitration. Negotia-tions shall be deemed to have been exhausted if the parties fail 
to reach a settlement within a period of sixty days from the date of the request by 
either party to enter into negotiations. If the dispute is not settled through 
negotiations, it shall, at the request of either party, be referred to arbitration. 
The arbitral tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators: one to be chosen by the 
U.S.S.R., one to be chosen by the Bank, and the third, who shall be chairman of the 
tribunal, to be chosen by the first two arbitrators. If the tribunal is not 
constituted within six months from the date of the request made for the submission of 
the dispute to arbitra-tion, the appointment of the arbitrators not yet desig-nated 
shall be made by the President of the International Court of Justice at the request of 
either party.
Section 4.02. Channel of Communications. The U.S.S.R., each Republic which has 
notified the Bank of its acceptance of the terms of this Agreement pursuant to Section 
3.08 of this Agreement and the Bank shall each designate an official who shall be the 
official channel of communications for all matters arising under this Agreement and 
who shall be authorized in the name and on behalf of the party appointing him to enter 
into agreements on the work programs.
Section 4.03. Entry into Force. This Agreement shall enter into force on the 
date of signature.
Section 4.04. Termination. This Agreement shall terminate on the date upon which 
the Technical Assistance Trust Fund shall terminate. It may be terminated earlier by 
either the U.S.S.R or the Bank upon sixty days' prior notice to the other parties. 
Upon termination of the Technical Assistance Trust Fund or receipt of such notice, the 
parties shall take all appropriate steps to terminate in an orderly fashion the 
activities then ongoing and to settle promptly all outstanding matters.
DONE at Moscow, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, on the 5th day of November, 
1991, in two originals in the English language.
For the Union of Soviet           For the International Bank for
   Socialist Republics              Reconstruction and Development
By /s/ M. Gorbachev               By /s/ Lewis T. Preston
President 
    President
                                   For the International Finance
                                       Corporation
Page  6
                                   By /s/ Lewis T. Preston
                                   President
                                  For the Multilateral Investment
                                       Guarantee Agency
                                  By /s/ Lewis T. Preston
                                  President
A N N E X
WORK PROGRAM
November 1, 1991 - January 31, 1992
The areas of technical cooperation identified below focus on selected issues of 
immediate concern to the reform process of the Soviet economy. Within each of the 
eight areas a number of tasks are expected to be initiated during the first three 
months of the technical cooperation program, i.e., task start--ups will take place 
between November 1991 and January 1992. The completion of these tasks are expected 
over the next 6-12 months in the large majority of the cases. The emphasis is on 
producing quick turnaround outputs of immediate use for the Soviet counterparts at the 
Union and Republic levels. Long gestation tasks will generate interim reports. All 
tasks carried out in this first phase of the technical coopera-tion will be expected 
to have immediate operational relevance for the reform process. They are aimed at 
assisting the Union and Republics in the elaboration of their programs, as well as in 
their implemen-tation.
The general areas of activities in the first phase of the technical cooperation 
program identified below reflect priorities articulated by counterparts of the Union 
Government and the Russian Federation. The evolving political situation means, 
however, that in some cases finalizing the precise content of tasks is an ongoing 
process. Some tasks may be subject to modification as the situation clarifies and 
there is more clarity as to who will be the counter-parts. Details and definition of 
each task, including a timetable and cost estimate, will be contained in each project 
document to be agreed between the Bank and the Union or Republic authorities 
concerned.
Additional tasks are likely to be identified for inclusion in the February - 
June 1992 work program to be presented to the Board in January 1992. A full annual 
work program for FY93 will be presented by June 1992.
I. ECONOMIC ADVISORY SERVICES
This generic task will provide Republic and Union level authorities with 
short-term, "quick response" advice on a wide range of specific issues related to 
economic management and reform. Focus on fiscal, pricing and trade policy will be 
provided by carrying out integrated tasks in these areas. Advice will be provided in 
the form of short notes as well as more elaborated papers. In other areas of urgency 
the output will be confined to technical notes and general advice. This "quick 
response" work will focus on specific requests received from committees and working 
groups preparing reform programs at the Union and Republic levels. The overall 
Economic Advisory Services project will also include a component for data collection 
and analysis in order to support the advisory work. The Economic Advisory Services 
project will be undertaken by a small number of Bank staff who may be resident in 
Moscow and who will work closely with the Soviet staff experts and consultants who are 
called in as short-term advisers in particular areas.
These teams will be supported by Bank Headquarters staff in the form of 
background and briefing papers that are prepared in response to specific requests.
The specific subcomponents under this task will comprise:
a)
Inter-governmental fiscal relations and fiscal feder-al-ism: The design 
and implications of different forms of fiscal relations between the Union and the 
Republics. Options for revenue and expenditure assignments and revenues sharing 
between the center, Republic and localities.
Page  7
b)
Price liberalization and trade policy: Draw lessons from price 
liberalization from other relevant economies, focussing on speed and scope of price 
liberalization and consistency with other policy areas. Identify key measures in 
making price libera-lization and (internal and external) trade policy consistent with 
each other. Assess appropriate pricing policies in monopolistic industries and public 
services. Assessment of costs and benefits of maintaining prices of certain goods 
controlled during a transi-tional period. Advise on the costs of erecting barriers (or 
tariffs) in inter-republican trade and key measures to minimize inter-republican trade 
disruptions. Advise on consistency between the internal and external trade regime.
c)
Specific quick-response inputs: A variety of specific quick turnaround 
inputs on a wide range of issues, responding to the needs of policy-makers at the 
Union and Republic levels. Close collaboration with the counterparts' working groups. 
Two small tasks have already been identified: (i) to advise on Union/inter-Republic 
assignment of USSR sovereign debt obligations and on foreign credits, including legal 
aspects; and (ii) to assist on selected issues in commercial banking sector 
restructur-ing and development. In areas of overlapping expertise, the Bank and the 
International Monetary Fund (IMF) will coordinate their work.
d)
Data: Data collection and analysis component to support the advisory 
work. Compilation and computerization of recent data on key economic variables 
(production, employment, financial indicators, etc). If required by the advisory work, 
a mini-survey will be carried out.
II. SOCIAL SAFETY NET AND BASIC SERVICES
a)
Cushioning the social impact of pricing and fiscal reforms: 
Identification of options for compensatory schemes and/or time-phasing of pricing 
liberalization and subsidy reduction/ elimination. Assessment of institutional 
requirements and of fiscal and resource allocation implications of various options. 
Feasibility of targeting programs to vulnerable segments of the population, and/or of 
focussing programs on selected basic goods.
b)
Assessment of targeted food assistance needs: Assess-ment of the need for 
and availability of food, with emphasis on vul-nerable segments of the population.
c)
Housing sector reform: Review and discuss drafts of new basic housing 
laws under preparation. Initiate detailed and quantified evaluation of the current 
legal, institutional, economic and financial conditions under which the housing sector 
currently operates as basis for evaluation of alternative reform proposals. Initiate 
technical cooperation work on housing privati-zation with one Republic.
III. PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND FOREIGN INVESTMENT
a)
Legal framework for private sector development: Review legislation to 
diagnose constraints to private sector commercial and investment activity and make 
recommendations.
b)
Foreign investment: Initiate review of foreign invest-ment policy and the 
regulatory and institutional framework and make recommendations to strengthen the 
investment climate. The review will identify generic obstacles to foreign investment 
as well as sector-specific constraints and opportunities, such as in energy (promotion 
of petroleum exploration and production), and in housing. Provide recommendations for 
government actions to improve the climate for foreign investment.
c)
Private enterprise development and public sector restruc-turing: Identify 
regulatory and other policy constraints to entry and growth of small and medium size 
private enterprises. Develop options for reform of the state enterprise system. Define 
and advise on approaches for: management and auditing, cor-poratization, 
commercialization, demonopolization, divestiture and bankruptcy.
d)
Pilot privatization work: Initiate pilot work at the enterprise level in 
two Republics, including assistance with methods and implementation of model 
privatizations.
IV. FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Regulatory and supervisory framework: Task will include review and assistance in 
drafting of banking laws and legislation on collateral security. Advice on 
institutional framework for onsite supervision of banks and payment system and on the 
intro-duction of accounting and auditing standards. In addition, advice on commercial 
Page  8
banking restructuring will be provided under the Economic Advisory Services (item Ic). 
In the areas where there is overlap between commercial banking and central banking 
functions, the Bank and the IMF will coordinate their advice and assistance.
V. AGRICULTURAL EFFICIENCY
Agricultural efficiency and supply response: Improved incentives and flexibility 
in the pricing, marketing and transport system can be expected to result in 
substantial gains in agricul-tural productivity and supply response. The effects of 
liberaliza-tion on agricultural consumer and producer prices will be assessed for 
their impact on supply response, household expenditures and budget subsidies. 
Implications of barriers to inter-regional trade in food on the level and stability of 
food prices will be drawn. Identification of key complementary measures (to price and 
trade reforms) to maximize supply response. Lessons from other experiences of 
agricultural price and marketing liberalization. This task will complement the shorter 
term food assessment needs (under IIb). Work on land tenure issues will be defined and 
com-mence in the next phase of the work program.
VI. ENERGY SECTOR
Legal framework: Assistance in the drafting of petroleum legal/contractual 
framework for one or two Republics. Assistance with the review of the overall climate 
for foreign investment in petroleum will be provided (under item IIIb).
VII. TRAINING ACTIVITIES
Training activities would be organized around critical issues that support work 
on above-mentioned areas:
a)
Overall reforms: Training of trainers in macro-economics in collaboration 
with the Moscow State University and the IMF.
b)
Financial sector development:
i)
Training program for banking chief executive officers in 
collaboration with the Academy of National Economy (ANE).
ii)
Training program in investment policies and analysis for bank 
officers with the State Academy of Finance.
iii)
Training program for banking supervisor/ con-trollers with the 
Academy of Finance.
c)
Private sector development: Training of enterprise managers with the 
International Business Institute (IBS).
As relevant counterparts are identified, training and seminar activities in 
other key areas (such as trade) will be prepared and carried out in the next phases of 
the work program.
VIII. PUBLICATION AND DISSEMINATION
Selected World Bank books and working papers addressing critical issues of 
economic analysis and policy reform will be translated into Russian, published and 
disseminated.
A summary of the program costs for the period November 1, 1991 - January 31, 
1992 is provided in the Attachment hereto.
Attachment
USSR TECHNICAL COOPERATION PROGRAM
Summary of Program Costs
for the First 3 Months
Commitment
Disbursement Nov. 91-Jan. 92
 (US$'000)
Foreign
Local
     (US$'000)
   (Ruble'000)
Page  9
Total Project Costs
   8,450
1,900
  __    
Field Office Costs
    __
  200    
3,000
Program Development
    __
  200
  __
Bank Overhead
   1,700
  420
  __
Total Cost
  10,150
2,720
3,000
