Page  1
December 18, 1997
Mr. Alexei L. Koudrin 
First Deputy Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Ilyinka, 9 103097  
Moscow Russian Federation
               Re:
RUSSIA:  Loan 3546-RU (Privatization Implementation Assistance 
Project) 
Amendments to the Loan Agreement—Program for 
Development of Collective 
Investment Instruments and Investor 
Protection Implementation 
Arrangements
Dear Deputy Minister Koudrin:
We refer to the Loan Agreement and Project Agreement dated May 15, 1993, as 
amended, for the above-referenced Loan.  We also refer to the recent discussions 
between the Bank staff and the Russian Federation authorities in November 1997, 
concerning a proposal by the representative of the Borrower to modify the arrangements 
for the support being provided out of the Loan for the implementation of the 
Government’s Program for Development of Collective Investment Instruments and Investor 
Protection (as specified in Part F of the Project described in the Loan Agreement), as 
such proposal was summarized in the Bank’s recent aide-memoire sent under cover of 
letter dated December 3, 1997 from Michael Carter to D. Vasilyev.  We have reviewed 
the materials provided by the Government describing the proposed implementation 
arrangements for the said Program through the Center for Capital Markets Development 
Foundation (CCMDF), including the draft “Agreement for Purpose-Oriented Funding of 
Project Implementation” to be entered into between the Federal Commission for the 
Securities Market and the CCMDF, and we have considered the expected requirements of 
other beneficiaries of the Loan for the use of the funds remaining in the Loan 
Account.  We are pleased to inform you that the Bank accedes to your request and 
proposes to introduce the following amendments in the Loan Agreement:
1.
At the end of Section 1.02 (r), the word “and” shall be deleted, and at the end 
of paragraph (s), the period shall be replaced with a semicolon, and new paragraphs 
(t) and (u) shall be inserted as follows:  
“(t)
“Compensation Fund” means the State-Public Foundation for 
the 
Protection of the Rights of Shareholders and Investors, established 
pursuant to 
Decree No. 1577 of the President of the Russian Federation, 
dated April 15, 
1996; and
(u) 
“CCMDF” means the Center for Capital Markets Development 
Foundation, a state foundation established pursuant to the Law of the 
Russian 
Federation of January 12, 1996, on Non-commercial Organizations, 
and operating on the 
basis of its Charter dated May 19, 1997, registered 
on May 22, 1997 by the Moscow 
Registration Chamber (Registration No. 
65777).”
2.
The date referred to in Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement (the Closing Date) 
shall be changed from June 30, 1998, to June 30, 1999.  
3.
In the table set forth as paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement 
(Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan), the following additions to the Categories 
enumerated therein shall be made:  
A new sub-category (c) shall be added to Category (8) (Incremental Operating Costs), 
designated:
“Incremental Operating Costs of the Compensation Fund under Part F 
of the Project” 
Expenditures under such Category (8)(c) shall be eligible to be financed under the 
Loan in the amount of 100%, as is the case for other Incremental Operating Costs under 
such Category 8.  
Page  2
4.
A reallocation of the amounts (expressed in Dollar Equivalent) provided for 
under the said table shall be made as follows:
Previous
New
Category
Allocation Allocation
(1) Computers, equipment and materials 
......
(c)
under Part F of the Project
2,500,000
900,000
(2) Consultants’ services 
.....
(j)
under Part F of the Project     20,500,000 19,800,000
.....
(8) Incremental Operating Costs
.....
(b)
of the RFCSCM under
      8,000,000 7,300,000
Part F of the Project
(c)
of the Compensation Fund
under Part F of the Project
     [0] 3,000,000
___________________________
Amounts in this column reflecting current allocations as per:  Amendment Letters dated 
March 3, 1995, May 9, 1996 and September 26, 1996, each introducing amendments to the 
allocations of the amount of the Loan as set forth in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement 
dated May 15, 1993; and Notice of Reallocation by the Bank, under letter from Michael 
Carter to Oleg V. Viugin dated November 3, 1997.
5.
Paragraph 2 (c) of Schedule 1 (definition of “Incremental Operating Costs”) 
shall be modified by introducing the words “or the Compensation Fund” after the words 
“RFCSM”.
6.
At the end of sub-paragraph (e) of paragraph 3 of Schedule 1, the word “and” 
shall be deleted, and at the end of sub-paragraph (f) of paragraph 3 the period shall 
be replaced by a semicolon.  Paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 shall be supplemented at the 
end of sub-paragraph (f) thereof with a new sub-paragraph (g) as follows:
“(g)
payments made for expenditures under Category (8) (c) of 
this 
Schedule in any year, prior to the adoption by the Compensation 
Fund of the annual 
work plan and operating budget described in paragraph 
2 of Part B of Schedule 5 
to the Loan Agreement for such year.”
7.
The first sentence of Part F of Schedule 2 (Description of the Project) to the 
Loan Agreement shall be amended by adding after the word “RFCSCM” the words “and other 
related institutions established for the purpose of carrying out specific aspects of 
the Program for Development of Collective Investment Instruments and Investor 
Protection, including the Compensation Fund.” 
8.
In paragraph (e) of Part F of Schedule 2 shall be modified by adding, after the 
words “compensation fund”, the words “(the Compensation Fund) and strengthening of its 
operating capacity”.
9.
Schedule 5 (Implementation Program) to the Loan Agreement shall be amended as 
follows:
a.
The heading designating Part B of the Project shall be amended to read 
“Institutional Strengthening”.
b. 
In Part B the words “IILE,” wherever they appear, shall be replaced with 
“CCMDF”.
c.
The present paragraph set forth as Part B of Schedule 5 shall be numbered 
Page  3
paragraph 1, and set off by a heading “RFCSCM”.
d.
A new paragraph 2 shall added to the end of Part B, set off by a heading, as 
follows:
“2.
Compensation Fund
The program for strengthening of the operating capacity of  the Compensation 
Fund, as referred to in sub-paragraph (e) of Part F of Schedule 2 to the Loan 
Agreement, shall be carried out under an agreement entered into between the Borrower 
and the Compensation Fund, or other arrangements acceptable to the Bank, including 
provisions ensuring that each year during the implementation of the Project, the 
proposed annual work plan of the Compensation Fund relating to Part F of the Project, 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review, together with other specific 
information, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, concerning the 
expenditures expected to be incurred by the Compensation Fund in respect of its 
operating expenses on account of such activities and the planned financing therefor, 
including an annual operating budget acceptable to the Bank.”
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and dating the form of 
confirmation on the enclosed copy of this letter and returning such copy to us.  This 
amendment will become effective as of the date hereof upon receipt of your 
confirmation copy by the Bank.  
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
/s/  Michael Carter
     Country Director for Russia 
CONFIRMED:  
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
/s/ A.L. Kudrin
    Authorized Representative
Date  December 30, 1997
