Document o
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repit Ne. 5264-BA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BURMA
SECOND SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 23, 1985
South Asia Projects
Agro-Industries and Credit Division
T h   d o o m a   h u     n & fe _   ri b i   _ t   o b e ed   b y   r e W m   m l   n t e p _m o
&er fie   &mftenmt  m  "Q&nw  e tow  ffwwWidBm d_b



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 = Kyat (KY) 8.8
K 1   =  US$0.11
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 mile (mi)            =        1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)            =        0.405 hectares (ha)
1 metric tou (ton)     5        1,000 kilograms
Burmese Units        English/US Units              Metric Units
1 viss                      3.6 lb                   1.633 kg
1 basket rice              75   lb                  34     kg
1 basket paddy             46   lb                  20.9   kg
1 basket groundnut:
shelled           56   lb                 25.5   kg
in-shell          25   lb                 11.4   kg
1 basket butter bean,
chick pea               69   lb                  31.4   kg
1 basket mung bean,
pigeon pea              72   lb                  32.7   kg
BURMESE FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AC            Agricultural Corporation
AFPTC         Agricultural and Farm Produce Trade Corporation
ARD           Applied Research Division (AC)
ARI           Agricultural Research Institute (AC)
ED            Extension Division (AC)
GOB           Government of Burma
HQV           High Quality VarietieL;
HYV           High Yielding Varieties
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IRRI          International Rice Research Institute
M             Million
MAB           Hyanma Agricultural Bank
NSC           National Seed Committee
PIV           Project Implementation Volume
TIC           Textile Industries Corporation
WTEP          Whole Township Extension Program



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BURMA
SECOND SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:       Government of the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
Beneficiary:    Agricultural Corporation (AC) of Ministry of Agriculture and
Forests
Amount:         Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) 14.63 milLion
(US$14.5 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard IDA
Project         The proposed project would build on the institutional and
Description:    infrastructural achievements of the first Seed Development
Project (Cr. 745-BA) successfully completed in December 1984.
The first project concentrated on creating a viable seed
production institution with a modest infrastructure to
produce two seed crops - paddy and cotton. The proposed
project would cover five additional priority crops, expand
into new geographical areas, and introduce seed quality
control up to the multiplication of the last generation of
seed (Certified Seed). The proposed project would also
strengthen and expand the existing seed handling institutions.
These include the AC's Seed Section, applied research and
project monitoring. It would fully develop 12 existing
Government farms for basic seed (Breeder, Foundation and
Registered Seed) production. For the production of
Certified Seed it would organize a seed multiplication
structure with more than 17,000 private farmers participating
as contract seed growers. It would further expand and
strengthen seed quality control and increase the seed processing
capacity through installation of new processing plants,
including drying and storage. Thus a comprehensive seed
processing and organized seed distribution system would be
in place. An important technical assistance and training
component would further ensure technical consultancies,
formal and in-service training. The main project benefits
would be increase of agricultural production and farm incomes
through use of improved seed, generation of employment on
seed farms and in seed processing plants, provision of
employment opportunities for women, and increase in
foreign exchange revenues.
Risks:          (i)   The establishment and operation of an efficient seed
industry depends on the availability of suitably
qualified manpower. The risk that such manpower would
not be available would be mitigated by the provision of
This documnt hs a rstricted distbution and may be used bY recpients only in the performance of
their ffwdutieIts contents may not otherwise be disdoc 3without World Bank authorization.



a comprehensive manpower training and technical
assistance program included under the proposed project.
(ii)  In the absence of a satisfactory seed procurement
system there is a risk that field certified seed can
be sold on the open market as commercial grain. Our
experience under the Seed I project and our review of
Burmese production and procurement arrangements indicates
that such a risk would be minimal. Moreover any such
risk would be mitigated by additional seed producer
incentives which would be put in place should there be
a significant shortfall on procurement targets.
(iii) The project would have no adverse environmental effects.
Estimated Cost:
(US$ million /1
Item                               Local       Foreign      Total
Seed Processing and Storage               8.0          3.7         11.7
Seed Production                           2.7          1.7          4.4
Research                                  0.8          0.3          1.0
Quality Control                           0.7          0.4          1.2
Organization and Management               0.5          1.3          1.8
Technical Assistance and Training         0.1          1.5          1.7
Base Cost                                12.8          8.9         21.8
Physical Contingencies                    0.8          0.2          1.0
Price Contingencies                       3.7          2.0          5.7
Total Project Cost                       17.4         11.1         28.5
Taxes and Duties                          3.7                       3.7
Project Cost net of Taxes and Duties    13.7          11.1         24.8
/1  Some figures do not add up due to rounding.



Financing Plan:
(US$ million)
Local      Foreign       Total
IDA                                        5.3          9.2         14.5
Government                                 8.3            -          8.3 /
UNDP                                       0.1          1.9          2.0
Total                                     13.7         11.1         24.8
/1 Excluding $3.7 million taxes and duties.
Estimated Disbursement:
(USs million)
IDA FY       86         87        88         89        90         91        92
Annual      0.5        2.2       3.8        4.0       2.2        1.2       0.6
Cumulative  0.5        2.7       6.5       10.5      12.7       13.9      14.5
Economic Rate of Return:  48Z



BURMA
SECOND SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND ...................................................    1
-   Introduction ........        .......................... ............    1
-   Agricultural Sector ....................  ................. .    1
-   Expansion of Paddy Production    .............  .     .............    2
-   New Priorities for Agricultural Development    . .............    3
-   IDA Involvement .............              ....*..*....*            3
-   Experience with Past Lending ..............          ..............    3
II.   THE PROJECT AREA ........                          ..    ..........    4
-   Location    ....................    ............................    4
-   Climate       .................................................     4
- Soils and Topography .. . .............   4
-   Agricultural Institutions .....       ..........................    5
-   Agricultural Extension ..................................           6
-   Agricultural Research ..... ...* ...............                    6
-   The Agricultural Situation .................    .............       7
-   The Seed Production Situation    ...........................        8
-   The Seed Development Project .....       .......................    8
III. THE PROJECT ................  9
-   Project Objectives          ......................................  9
-   Project Components          ......................................    10
-   Detailed Features ....... ...............................    11
-   (i)    Institutional Development ........         ................    11
-   (ii)   Farm  and Seed Development             .......................    11
-   (iii)  Seed Processing and Storage ......................    12
-   (iv)   Seed Quality Control   .............................    14
-   (v)    Applied Research .......        ..........................    15
-   (vi)   Technical Assistance and Training ................    16
This Report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission to Burma in
February/March 1984, comprising Messrs. R. Epworth, 0. Honisch (IDA),
T. Lohavisavapanich (FAO/CP) and V.P. Singh (Consultant).



-ii-
Page No.
IV.      PROJECT  COSTS  AND  FINANCING  ............................. ....                                           18
-     Cost  Estimates  ....................                      .... .....................                 18
-     Financing  .........................  .................                                               19
-     Procurement                     .............................................                         19
-     Disbursement  ............................................                                            21
-     Accounts  and  Audits  .....................................                                          22
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .................................    23
-     Implementing  Agencies  ...................................                                           23
-     National  Seed  Committee                           ................................                  23
-     Project  Implementation                      ........................               .......           24
-  The Certified Seed Production Unit                                          . . .    25
-     The Seed  Quality  Control  Unit  .................  ..........                                       26
-     The  Implementation  Unit  .....                       ............................                   27
-     Applied  Research  ..........................................                                         27
-   Project Coordination, Reporting and Monitoring ... .......    28
VI.   SEED PRODUCTION, PRICES, AND MARKETING .......................   29
-     Seed  Production  .....................                          ....................                 29
-     Seed  Procurement  and  Prices  .............................                                         30
-     Procurement  Targets  ................                      ...........  *.            .32
-     Processed  Seed  Sales  and  Pricing                                 ........................         36
-     Demand  for  Seed  .....................................                                              36
-     Seed  Distribution  and  Marketing  ..............                              ...........           37
VII.       PROJECT  BENEFITS  AND  JUSTIFICATION  ..........                          ................                 38
-     Overall  Impact                          ....................................... ...                  38
-     Incremental  Production  ..................................                                           38
-     Employment  Effect                        .......................................                     39
-   Foreign Exchange Effect ...........    39
-     Financial  Analysis  ..                     .............................              .......        40
-     Economic  Analysis                      .......................................                       41
-     Project  Risks  and  Sensitivity  Tests  .....................                                       41
-   i        Project  Risks  .........................................................                  41
-     (ii)  Sensicivity  Test  .                  ........................             .............       42
VIII.       ASSURANCES  AND  RECOMMENDATIONS                       ..............................                       43



-iii-
ANNEXES
1.  Technical Aspects of Seed.Production
2. Summary Accounts by Year - Project Costs
3. Project Components by Year
4. Estimated Disbursement Schedule
5. Official Procurement and Free Market Prices for Crops (1984)
6. Economic Return to the Seed Section
7. Selected Documents and Data in the Project File
CHARTS
1. Project Organization (27425)
2. Organization of Certified Seed Production Unit (26514)
3. Seed Processing Plants - Implementation Schedule (27424)
MAP No. 18275



-iv-
BURMA
SECOND.SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Clossary
The terms used in this project to describe the seed produced at
various stages of the multiplication process are based on the terminology
of the Association of Official Seed Certifying Agencies (AOSCA).
Breeder Seed        -  is produced under the direct control of the
plant breeding institution (AgriculturaL Research
Institute and selected Central Farms of the Applied
Research Division) and is the source for production
of all later generations.
Foundation Seed    -  the progeny of Breeder Seed handled to maintain
specific genetic purity and identity.
Registered Seed    -  the progeny of Foundation Seed handled to maintain
satisfactory genetic purity and identity. In this
project the bulk of the seed produced on the Applied
Research Division's farms has been referred to as
Registered.
Certified Seed      -  the progeny of Registered Seed handled to maintain
satisfactory genetic purity and identity and which is
acceptable to the certifying agency. In this project
the term has been used to describe the bulk of seed
produced by contract seed farmers.
In addition, the term pre-basic seed is summarily used to describe the plant
breeders' materials before they reach the Breeder Seed stage, and basic seed
is used as a summary term for Breeder, Foundation and Registered Seed.



BURMA
SECOND SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.01      The Government of the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
(GOB) has requested IDA assistance in financing the further development of
its seed industry. The first IDA financed Seed Development Project
(Cr. 745-BA) started in 1978, represented an important initial step towards
the establishment of an organized seed multiplication program in the country.
That project concentrated on high yielding varieties (HYV) of paddy and on
medium-staple cotton. The seed development program was also supported by
other donors (USAID, FAO/DANIDA), for some additional crops, such as wheat,
maize and oilseeds. The proposed project builds on the experience gained in
the first project, and it introduces quality control in the final stage of
seed multiplication, and processing to improve on seed quality and distribu-
tion, which was judged unsatisfactory under the first project. It expands
into new geographical areas and covers additional crops, such as high
priority pulses, and in Lower Burma groundnuts. The orientation of the seed
multiplication program would be fully in line with Government's proposed
strategy for crop diversification and for upgrading the quality of export
crops.
Agricultural Sector
1.02      Agriculture, including forestry, livestock and fisheries is the
dominant sector of the Burmese economy. In 1983, it accounted for about 48%
of GDP, employed 66% of the labor force, and produced over 80% of the
country's exports. In addition, agricultural crops, particularly paddy,
cotton, jute and sugarcane, provide raw material for more than 60% of the
country's industrial production.
1.03      Rice is Burma's major agricultural and export commodity as well as
a significant source of Government revenue through implicit taxation from
Government controlled pricing and exportation. Paddy is grown principally as
a single, low-land rainfed crop in the monsoon period. Some 12.5 M acres are
sown to paddy annually, representing over 50% of the gross cultivated area.
In 1982/83, rice accounted for more than one-third of total agricultural
output, and rice and rice products for 37% of all merchandise exports. Other
main crops include sesame, pulses, groundnuts, industrial crops such as jute
and cotton, and cereals other than paddy.
1.04      During the 1960s and early 1970s, value added in agriculture rose
at a modest rate of about 1.6% per annum, well below the 2.2Z population
growth rate. Among factors contributing to this unsatisfactory performance



-2-
were changes in land policy, insufficient incentives to farmers, and initial
failures of imported HYVs of paddy which proved ill-suited to local condi-
tions. In response, the Government introduced a series of policy reforms
beginning 1973/74, to improve incentives to farmers and to provide for
greater flexibility in the farming sector; i.e. ti) procurement prices were
substantially increased; (ii) mandatory procurement quotas were reduced;
(iii) some commodities were decontrolled; (iv) a major tax and exchange
reform was introduced; and (v) the Government invited foreign assistance on
an expanded scale to develop the sector. Also, emphasis was placed on
developing HYVs suited to local conditioni and promoting their use. These
policies proved successful, as demonstrartd by the annual growth of value
added in agriculture and paddy production of over 7% between 1974/75 and
1982/83.
Expansion of Paddy Production
1.05      The main cause of the dramatic growth of Burmese agriculture since
the mid-1970s has been Government's successful paddy intensification drive,
known as the Whole Township Extension Program (WTEP), launched in 1975/76.
This program combined improved availability of inputs and a greatly expanded
and strengthened extension service with institutional support at the township
level. The spread of HYVs to cover 50% of the country's paddy area has been
compared to the "Green Revolution" occurring elsewhere in Asia. Local fac-
tors have contributed to making the process unique, e.g. participation of
the People's Council in coordinating production and procurement, selectivity
and concentration through a campaign-type approach, mobilization of the
community to provide additional labor and the provision of consumer goods on
a priority basis to project areas to complement rising incomes. According to
official statistics based on reporting from Township Councils, average yields
in townships covered by WTEP reached 1.4 tons/ac in 1981/82, compared to 1.0
ton in non-program townships resulting in a national average yield of
1.2 tons/ac, almost 50% over the level prevailing five years earlier.
However, these official figures are generally believed to be somewhat on the
high side, and are difficult to confirm since no systematic statistically
based yield measuring methods are employed in rural areas. According to
these figures, Surma would have surpassed average yields of most developing
countries and reached about half the yield levels achieved in Japan. Total
paddy production jumped from 9.4 M tons in 1977/78 to 14.4 M tons in 1982/83,
an increase of over 50%. No significant changes in area cultivated with
paddy were reported during that period.
1.06      While there is no immediate intention to extend WTEP beyond the
presently covered townships in order to consolidate the program, HYVs are
expected to be adopted in other areas. However, after a period of very rapid
growth in paddy production, continued efforts in spreading HYVs and con-
solidating yield intensification are expected to result in a slower growth
rate as the additional scope for HYV substitution diminishes. The projected
production target of 15.6 H tons by the end of the Fourth Four Year Plan
(i.e. 1985/86) might be modified downward due to the recent policy to intro-
duce segregated belts of paddy cultivation specializing in homogenous seed
varieties. These varieties are of the traditional (locally improved) type
which have lower yields than HYVs but of a quality in high demand for the
export market.



-3-
New Priorities for Agricultural Development
1.07      Two main elements, agricultural diversification and upgrading of
the quality of export rice, have emerged as priority objectives in the
Covernment's plan for agricultural development, as well as for the Bank's
country assistance strategy. An abrupt 17% deterioration in Burma's terms of
trade between 1981/82 and 1982/83 caused a decline in GOB revenues, primarily
due to reduced export earnings from rice. The concentration of exports on
agricultural products coupled with the volatility of international rice
prices and the relatively restricted international rice market argue there-
fore for export diversification. Accordingly, GOB is seeking means for:
(i) increasing production of selected non-rice crops in dry zones through
irrigation; (ii) intensifying cropping in wet zones with short duration rice
followed by other crops; and (iii) diverting marginal crop land from paddy
production to other crops. However, a comprehensive program to implement
this strategy is yet to be formulated and put in place. In recognizing these
problems, accentuated by international rice prices falling since 1982, GOB is
confronted with the need to reassess its rice production and marketing
strategy to maintain export sales and increase revenues. The proposed
project is designed to provide major elements necessary for such a strategy
through provision of a wide range of HYV and HQV (high quality varieties) of
paddy seed, and through diversification of the seed multiplication program to
six other priority crops.
IDA Involvement
1.08      IDA lending to Burma began in 1973 and since then 25 credits
totalling US$664 M equivalent (net of cancelLations) have been made. More
than half of IDA assistance, or US$370 M, has been for development of the
agricultural sector, reflecting GOB's priority. The 15 agricultural develop-
ment projects, financed by IDA, include low-lift, medium tank and groundwater
irrigation, rubber, livestock, seed development, paddy land development (2),
forestry (2), wood industry (2), a major multi-purpose dam, and grain
storage. Thirteen of the agricultural projects are ongoing and progressing
satisfactorily, despite delays, mainly due to shortages of fuel and local
construction materials.
Experience with Past Lending
1.09      Two of the agricultural projects have been completed, the Forestry
I Project (Cr. 493-BA) and the Irrigation I Project (Cr. 483-BA). The
Project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR) consider both projects as successful
with very satisfactory ERRs. The Forestry I PPAR highlighted the positive
experience with decentralization of the administrative system in the Timber
Corporation, and of hiring technical assistance staff through a specialized
forestry consulting company under Forestry II. However, problems arose with
procurement of equipment, and direct recruitment of technical assistance by
the Timber Corporation resulting in unsatisfactory performance of consult-
ants. The PPAR on Irrigation I highlights the project's good physical
achievements, the large number of direct beneficiaries, and the safeguarding
of small farmer interests by GOB during land reform. On the negative side,



-4-
apparently too much attention was paid to engineering aspects during supervi-
sion, whiLe agricultural development, utilization of large, centralized
workshops, and monitoring and evaluation were not sufficiently attended to.
The proposed project would take such lessons into account, particularly the
needs to strengthen project monitoring and to supervise both the engineering
and agricultural aspects with equal attention.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Location
2.01      The project areas lie in Burma's dry zone and its delta region
which have the highest population densities and the greatest potential for
agricultural production. Seed development under the project would be located
in six administrative divisions of Lower and Central Burma - on 12 State
(ARD) farms and in their vicinity. Three farms are in the Irrawaddy divi-
sion, one in Rangoon division, three in Pegu division: two each in Magwe and
Mandalay divisions, and one in the Sagaing division (Map 18275).
Climate
2.02      Burma's climate is tropical monsoonal.  The project area has two
distinct seasons, the dry season from November to April, followed by the wet
season. The temperatures in Lower Burma vary very little during the year
(260 to 300 C). In contrast, in the plains of Central Burma seasonal
temperature variations between 420 C in the hot season and 160 C in the cool
season are common. The central and northern parts of the country usually
experience somewhat cooler temperatures and lower humidity throughout the
year.
2.03      Burma receives its annual rains usually from the south-west monsoon
from mid-May to mid-October.  Precipitation, however, varies depending on
locality and elevation. In the project area, mean annual rainfall varies
between 700 mm at Magwe farm (Magwe division) to 3,100 mm at Kadoke farm
(Pegu division). The rainfall gradient i3 quite steep in the south-central
part of the country, as shown by the mean annual rainfall at Kadoke farm,
which is three times higher than the 1,060 mm at Paungde farm, only about 80
miles away. In general, the southern part of the project area (Letpadan,
Kadoke, Hmawbi, Tagontaing, Myaungmya, and Thayaungchaung) receives an
assured rainfall between 2,000 and 3,000 mm annually, while in the northern
part of the area (Paungde, Aunglan, Magwe, Lungyaw, Mandalay and Kyemon),
rainfall, less secure in quantity and distribution, is between 700 m and
1,000 mm. Detailed data on rainfall and temperature for Central Burma
(Mandalay farm) and Lower Burma (Rangoon-Hmawbi area) are available in the
Project Implementation Volume (PIV).
Soils and Topography
2.04      Soils on farms situated in the project area of the Irrawaddy delta
(Thayaungchaung, Myaungmya, Tagontaing) and in the basins of Lhe Irrawaddy
and smaller rivers (Hmawbi, Kadoke, Aunglan, Magwe, Mandalay) are mostly



-5-
alluvial, usually deep and variable in structure, fine to medium textured,
slow to moderately drained, and usually have good nutrient status. In other
parts, soils are mostly heavy black clay, as in Paungde and parts of Letpadan
and Lungyaw, while on some portions these farms have Lighter textured soils,
loams, and sandy Loams. The latter soil types are also prevalent at Kyemon
farm. Topography on all 12 fax-ms is mostly flat, or very moderately sloped,
mostly well suited to irrigation, although presently only about 20Z can be
irrigated. Generally, with the exception of rich alluvial flats along the
major rivers and other tributaries and in the Irrawaddy delta, the soils of
the project area are low in organic matter and nitrogen. Available phos-
phorus and potassium in most of the soils is fair, although additional nutri-
tion is required for increased yields, and in particular, for realization of
the potential of HYV. Micro-nutrient deficiencies have been reported in some
areas, particularly zinc deficiency in paddy lands. The seed multiplication
program of the various crops and varieties under the proposed project would
vary accordingly to the diverse climatic and soil conditions as recommended
by AC's technical services, and would be reviewed and updated with the
release of new varieties. Details on the geographic distribution ot crops
and varieties are presented at Annex 1 (paras 2, 6 to 10 and 14).
Agricultural Institutions
2.05      The major implementing agencies of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forests are: (i) the Agricultural Corporation (AC), responsible for agricul-
tural research and extension, procurement and supply of agricultural inputs,
seed multiplication, and agricultural planning and project monitoring.
Although the AC is classified as a State Economic Enterprise, it functions
in reality as a Government department and is financed by GOB's budget
appropriation; (ii) the Agricultural Mechanization Department (AMD); and
(iii) the Irrigation Department (ID). Supporting roles are played by the
Settlement and Land Records Department (which inter alia carries out the
annual crop surveys), the Survey Department, and the Working Peoples'
Settlement Department. The Department of Planning and Statistics is respon-
sible for policy advice on sectoral strategy, programming, and priorities.
2.06      Outside the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests, organizations
serving the sector include those involved in procurement, marketing, process-
ing and distribution, notably; (i) the Agricultural Farm Produce and Trading
Corporation (AFPTC), which operates the compulsory procurement system for
paddy and other field crops and purchases up to 402 of annual production;
(ii) the Tcxtile Industries Corporation (TIC), which handles the whole range
of cotton industrial activities from ginning to garment manufacture, as well
as oilseed crushing, aud processing and manufacture of jute products; and
(iii) other corporations which handle such crops as sugarcane and tobacco.
Agricultural credit is provided by the Myanma Agricultural Bank (MAB) as well
as by advance schemes operated by the various procurement agencies. Finally,
there are the Peoples' Councils which not only control the occupation of land
-- which in Burma is State owned -- and through this seek to ensure that land
use and annual cropping programs are implemented, but also have become
increasingly involved in establishing general local priorities, outside the
agricultural sector. Through discussions with Government agencies these
Peoples' Councils provide a channel for ensuring local participation in
establishing and implementing agricultural programs.



-6-
Agricultural Extension
2.07      AC's Extension Division (ED) operates through about 8,600 extension
offices, organized on a state/division, township and village tract basis.
About 10 Village Extension Managers (VEM), each of whom normally takes charge
of about 4,500 acres of crop land, are supervised by a Village Tract Manager,
who in turn is supervised by the Township Manager (about equivalent to a
District Agricultural Officer in some other countries). Township Managers
report to a Division/State Manager (Provincial Agricultural Officer), respon-
sible for the extension service at division or state level. Under the WTEP,
most extension activities are organized on a campaign basis which focuses on:
(i) a proven new technology; (ii) clear Government support and leadership;
(iii) selectivity and concentration (e.g., on one or at the most two crops);
(iv) community involvement; and (v) demonstration and competition. Coor-
dinating committees are established at the township level (for agricultural
management, cultivation activities, procurement and distribution of inputs,
and disease and insect control). Production camps, which have been opened as
a focal point for 10-12 VEMs, provide training facilities for farmers and are
visited periodically by subject matter specialists. Community effort involv-
ing non-farm workers, students, etc. is organized to help meet higher labor
requirements, and prizes are given, for instance, for the highest yields. An
important part of ED's responsibilities is the distribution of seeds and
other agricultural inputs which is coordinated through the production camps
and is generally timely and satisfactory. The main market for inputs are
priority areas under the WTEP known as High Yield Centers (HYC) in different
townships. Physical distribution of inputs takes place at 675 godowns
operated by ED in 314 townships.  In order to provide an unambiguous exten-
sion message a proven new technology is promoted through 10 fairly straight-
forward "impact points" (the use of HYVs; proper tillage; high plant popula-
tion; transplanting after 25-30 days; fertilizer use; basal application of
manure; proper weeding; improved water management; control of insects and
disease; and reduced losses at harvest). The WTEP has been remarkably suc-
cessful in promoting known technologies and will now be extended, with
appropriate modifications, to 17 crops in addition to rice (wheat, maize,
millet, jute, medium staple cotton, sugarcane, groundnut, sesame, sunflower,
potatoes, and seven pulses).
Agricultural Research
2.08      Agricultural research is the responsibility of the AC and is under-
taken by two of its units: the Agricultural Research Institute (ARI) and the
Applied Research Division (ARD). The ARI was founded at Cyogon near Rangoon
in 1956, but in 1971 moved to Yezin (some 250 miles north of Rangoon), where
it is based on a 1,000 acre farm irrigated from the Yezin Dam. ARI now has
seven crop divisions (rice, maize and other cereals, oilseeds, fibers, food
legumes, sugar, horticulture and vegetables) and five disciplinary divisions
(agronomy, botany, chemistry, entomology and plant pathology). ARI's prin-
cipal orientation is basic research, and it has reasonably well equipped
laboratories and other supporting services, such as library and biometrics.
It also cooperates closely with the Agricultural University of Yezin, and for
some applied research work with ARD farms. In the past, ARI's major efforts



-7-
have been concerned with the rice varietal improvement program. This con-
tributed much to the success of the WTEP and is currently supported by a
CIDA/IRRI cooperative project. In the future, greater emphasis is expected
to be given to other crops, and UNDP/FAO, which has provided extensive sup-
port to ARI, is currently involved in programs relating to sugarcane, maize,
wheat, sunflower and groundnuts. Greater emphasis is also to be placed on
cropping systems research, and work on rice-based systems is already underway
in the context of the CIDA/}RRI cooperative project. ARD, with headquarters
at Gyogon, has a network of some 20 regional farms (stations) spread
throughout the country to represent different climatic and soil conditions.
The primary functions of these stations are adaptive research, seed produc-
tion, and training, with basic research results coming from ARI. This
separation of basic and applied research has in the past created problems
of coordination, which have extended to the linkage between research and
extension. While these problems have, to some extent, been resolved in the
context of the WTEP, involving a major cooperative effort, they may tend to
resurface as the research effort broadens in future years. Major achieve-
ments of ARI's and ARD's developmental work on crop varieties to be multi-
plied under the proposed project are reported in the PIV, (Attachment 17).
The Agricultural Situation
2.09      Agriculture in Burma can be broadly classified into three agro-
climatic areas: dry zone region, delta region (including other coastal
areas), and hill region. The dry zone includes much of Magwe, Mandalay and
Sagaing divisions. It lies in a rain shadow created by the Arakan Yoma to
the west, and rainfall is substantially lower and more erratic than elsewhere
in Burma. Under these conditions, rice cultivation is possible only where
irrigation is provided or where conditions are relatively favorable (for
instance in the flooded areas of the central plains, in other areas with
heavy soils and impeded drainage, and in the higher rainfall transitional
belts). Many crops are grown under rainfed conditions, in particular on the
lighter soils and in the upland areas. Crops include cereals (maize, wheat,
millets), oilseeds (sesame, groundnut, sunflower), pulses, and commercial
crops (cotton, tobacco, sugar). Together, these crops give the dry zone a
much more varied cropping pattern than elsewhere. Yields tend to be limited
by moisture availability except where irrigation is provided.   An overview
of the crops to be multiplied under the proposed project in terms of area,
yield and production estimates is given in the PIV (Attachment 1).
2.10      In contrast, rainfall in the delta region (much of Irrawaddy,
Rangoon and Pegu divisions) is consistently heavy during the southwest mon-
soon (May through October). Combined with the flat terrain, heavy soils, and
impeded drainage, the high rainfall largely precludes the cultivation of
crops other than paddy during the monsoon season, and rice monoculture is
therefore the rule. Double cropping based on residual moisture, mainly with
short season pulses and oilseeds, is of some significance, while dry season
pumping from perennial channels and hand-dug wells is of growing importance.
Farm size tends to be larger than in the dry zone, farm incomes are above
average, and the delta areas account for a large proportion of the country's
marketable agricultural surplus.



-8-
The Seed Production Situation
2.11      The main source of seed in Burma is still farmers' own grain
production, part of which is usually saved for seed. The low quality of
seed, combined with the low usage level of other improved inputs, is con-
sidered to be the key reason for poor crop yields in areas not covered by the
WTEP. Until 1978, small quantities of improved seed of different crops were
produced and distributed directly by ARD farms. Seed production was based on
specific requirements of selected projects, or on an ad hoc basis. No plan-
ning of seed production was carried out at either the national or regional
level, nor were any equipment or facilities available for seed processing and
quality control measures. With the launching of the WTEP, the need for
large-scale seed supplies of HYV of paddy became paramount. This led to
intensified research and the initiation of organized seed production schemes.
The Seed Development Project
2.12      The first major effort to meet the expanded demand for quality seed
of HYVs of paddy and medium staple cotton was the IDA financed Seed
Development Project (Seeds I), signed in November 1977. The project had the
dual objective of improving Burma's applied research capability and of
developing a modest seed program. Activities in both fields were to be
regarded as first phase efforts, and the project's emphasis on training and
technical assistance was to pave the way for future expansion of programs.
That project, with an estimated cost of US$11 M, was financed through a
US$5.5 H IDA Credit (Cr. 745-BA). Originally scheduled to close in December
1982, the project was extended for two years and closed in December 1984.
Despite a slow start and initial problems related to organization and manage-
ment, Seeds I achieved most of its institutional and physical objectives.
These included: the establishment of a seed production unit in ARD; substan-
tial improvement of six seed farms; procurement of four and erection of two
seed processing and storage plants; procurement of two small sawgin stands
and an acid delinting plant; establishment of seven seed testing
laboratories; and construction of five pilot air-conditioned, dehumidified
groundnut stores in Lower Burma. About 450 staff were assigned to the
project and a significant number trained in various aspects of research, seed
production and related fields. However, despite the training program, lack
of trained manpower, particularly in practical farm development and erection
and operation of processing plants has remained a problem. Delayed supply of
construction materials and perpetual fuel shortages, were also major con-
straints to project implementation.
2.13      Seeds I, was designed to produce Registered Seed of paddy on ARD
farms, to be supplied to contract seed growers who would further multiply the
seed under the supervision of the Extension Division (ED). The Registered
Seed production on ARD farms of 1,050 tons annually, which has been regularly
achieved, was expected to result in production of 75,000 tons (3.5 M
baskets) of Certified Seed, sufficient to plant 3.5 M acres for commercial
cropping. This target was based on the assumption of 100% seed exchange
among farmers, as there was no provision for purchasing, processing and
redistribution of such Certified Seed. The cotton seed programs called for
production of 2,800 t of Certified Seed, sufficient to plant 175,000 acres.



-9-
2.14      Actual production of paddy seed by contract growers was estimated
at 46,000 tons (2.3 M baskets) in 1982/83, and 51,000 tons (2.5 M baskets) in
1983/84.  The ED reported that it bought 20,000 tons (43%) of this seed in
1982/83 and 23,000 tons (45Z) in 1983/84 for redistribution to the WTEP.
However, the anticipated liberal exchange of the remaining paddy seed among
farmers was not very successful, although Township Councils exchanged some
seed for grain with producers. Due to weak monitoring of project activities,
no information on sales of this seed by contract farmers, prices charged, and
acceptability to purchasers are available, and it is suspected that substan-
tial amounts were utilized as grain rather than seed. The proposed project
would draw lessons from this experience.   It would introduce seed quality
control to Certified Seed production and procure and process 100% of the seed
produced that was certified in the field by the Seed Quality Control Unit
(para 5.09), to ensure high quality and organized distribution. At the same
time it would establish much stronger monitoring. Certified cotton seed
production fell below the project's target because of long delays in develop-
ing the farm designated for a major part of the cotton program. As a conse-
quence a smaller cotton seed program, producing about 1,400 tons in 1982/83
and 1,480 tons in 1983/84, was undertaken mainly on adjoining farmers' plots.
The concept of producing Certified Seed in cooperation with farmers is estab-
lished and working well, but implementation and staffing would be tightened
up under the proposed project. Despite some shortfall in physical seed
production, Seeds I is considered to have achieved its major objective of
laying the institutional and infrastructural base for future seed development
programs, and the proposed project is designed to make full use of these
investments.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
3.01      The proposed project has four principal objectives:
(i) strengthening of AC's existing seed unit to become a modern seed produc-
tion organization with technical expertise and management capability, and *he
necessary infrastructure for rapid dissemination of seeds of new crop
varieties as and when they are released. These seeds would include a wide
range of types and varieties of lowland rainfed and irrigated paddy which is
economically important, accounting for over 70% of paddy area planted, and
six other crops -- cotton, butter bean, chick pea, mung bean, pigeon pea and
groundnuts - selected to support Government's rice quality improvement and
crop diversification strategy; (ii) strengthening of the plant breeding and
applied research program, which is an essential element of any successful
seed multiplication scheme; (iii) physical establishment of an efficient seed
multiplication program, including Certified Seed production under controlled
conditions and its penetration into rural areas, which at full development
would have the participation of more than 17,000 smallholders as contract
seed growers; and (iv) ultimately, through increased commercial production,
increasing exports of rice and pulses, and decreasing imports of medium
staple cotton. The project would also result in a reduction in the logisti-
cal problems associated with groundnut seed storage in Lower Burma.



-10-
3.02      At full development the project would increase the annual seed
supply by 21,000 tons of paddy (17Z of Burma's HYV and HQV requirement; 3,100
tons of medium staple cotton (100%); 3,200 tons of pulses (25%); and on a
pilot basis, about 1,100 tons of groundnuts (3%).  The incremental commercial
grain production resulting from this seed would be about 87,000 tons annually
(para 7.03).
Project Components
3.03      The main components of the project would be:
(i) Institutional Development: AC's seed production unit would be
strengthened and its operations expanded to encompass all aspects of
a Certified Seed scheme for seven priority crops. Seed production
and processing, quality control, and seed distribution would be
expanded by providing incremental staffing and training, facilities,
equipment, and vehicles. Project monitoring would be reorganized and
strengthened through financing incremental staff and transport.
(ii) Farm and Seed Development: Twelve existing ARD seed farms for
production of basic seed (Breeder, Foundation and Registered Seed
stages) would be improved including land levelling, tubewell irriga-
tion, *ncremental staff and housing, and farm machinery. Seed
quality control would be introduced to Certified Seed production
which would be organized with assistance of the ED and contract seed
growers.
(iii) Seed Processing and Storage: Twelve new processing plants with
attached seed storage would be established at strategic locations,
and limited additional equipment would be provided for the four
plants procured under Seeds I.
(iv) Seed Quality Control: Provision would be made for equipment, staff-
ing, facilities, and vehicles for one seed testing laboratory to be
newly established, for the Central Seed Laboratory presently under
construction at Rangoon, and for the expansion of three of the seed
laboratories set up under Seeds I.
(v) Research: Five farms for applied research and plant breeding would
be strengthened with additional personnel and facilities to enable
improvement and expansion of the research program. Additionally,
Hmawbi Central Farm would be improved to become the focal point of
applied rice research in the humid areas.
(vi) Technical Assistance and Training: A total of 96 man-months of
technical assistance would be provided to support crucial aspects
of project implementation (mainly seed processing and storage, and
research/plant breeding), along with 426 man-months of overseas
training (246 man-months for applied research and 180 man-months for
seed production).



-ll-
Detailed Features
(i)       Institutional Development
3.04      Under Burmese conditions the key to an effective seed production
program is the establishment of an efficient organization to produce basic
seed, coordinate the production of Certified Seed, and then organize the
processing and final distribution of the seed. Parallel to this and of equal
importance, an enhanced research effort is required to accelerate the release
of new improved crop varieties through increased plant breeding. Operation
of the existing seed production unit established under Seeds I with only
limited responsibilities, would be expanded to encompass not only present
basic seed production and quality control on ARD farms but also procurement
and processing of all the Certified Seed produced by small private farmers
under contract. The unit would be called Seed Section and its head woud
report directly to the Managing Director of AC. It would be strengthened by
providing incremental staff and training, necessary office space, equipment
and vehicles to allow its effective operation throughout the country. Also,
the existing Project Analysis Cell in AC's Agricultural Planning and Statis-
tics Division (APD) would be strengthened, to enable continuous, objective
and independent monitoring of project performance, which would assist AC and
ARD to manage the project efficiently (para 5.17). Organizational and
management arrangements are discussed in Chapter V.
(ii)      Farm and Seed Development
3.05      There are 40 ARD farms  with a combined area of 16,600 ac, 19 of
which are classified as Central Farms and the remainder as Seed Farms.
Agricultural research is undertaken on the Central Farms, but only a minor
area of these farms is devoted to research, while large areas are used for
seed multiplication. Many of the farms were established more than 50 years
ago, and ad hoc development, coupled with inadequate maintenance, has led to
a decline in productive potential. The more recently established farms in
Upper Burma have not yet been developed for irrigation but this is now becom-
ing possible as the Kinda Dam project nears completion and the use of under-
ground water resources expands.
3.06      Basic seed of all project crops would be produced on 12 ARD farms
to be improved under the proposed project: They are: Myaungmya,
Thayaungchaung, Tagontaing, Kadoke, Paungde, Aunglan, Kyemon, Hmawbi,
Letpadan, Kagwe, Lungyaw and Mandalay. Investments would include tubewells,
buildings, machinery and equipment for land development and farming opera-
tions, and incremental farm staff necessary for the expanded seed production
programs. Five of these 12 farms were included in the Seeds I Project, but
require additional irrigation/drainage development which was not included
under Seeds I. Mahlaing Central Farm, also developed under Seeds I, has
trained manpower and infrastructure for Breeder Seed production. Although no
direct investments would be made under the proposed project on this farm,
it would be expected to supply annually about 1,000 lb of Breeder Seed of
pulses. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations (para
8.01, a). The Certified Seed production would be organized under controlled
conditions with the assistance of the ED and through participation of more



-12-
than 17,000 smallholders as contract seed producers (para 5.06). Further
technical aspects of seed production are discussed in more detail in Annex 1.
3.07      The total area of the 12 farms is 5,000 ac, of which 1,165 ac are
irrigated and 2,900 ac are presently cultivated under rainfed conditions.
Under the project, irrigation would be expanded to 2,700 ac, (details in
PIV, Attachment 41). Topographical and soil surveys for irrigation system
designs have been already completed on Seeds I project farms. For the seven
new farms, these works would be undertaken by AC's Land Use Bureau and the
Maintenance Unit of ARD's Seed Section, with assistance from the Irrigation
Department.
3.08      Agricultural machinery requirements under the proposed project have
been worked out on an incremental basis to complete existing farm equipment.
The requirements reflect the actual possibility of mechanizing field opera-
tions by taking into account timing and intensity of rains, and assume that
all farming operations for cotton and pulse production except harvesting
would be mechanized. For rice, only the initial ploughing and one cultiva-
tion would be done by tractors, the remaining operations would be by bullock
-ower. Heavier tractors of about 100 HP would be used for land development
and cotton production on Lungyaw Farm (large fields), and lighter tractors of
about 60 HP for all other farming operations. Each farm would be provided
with limited workshop facilities to service machinery and carry out minor
repairs. Well equipped and staffed workshop facilities would be established
at Lungyaw, Tagontaing and Hmawbi which would undertake major machinery
repairs for farms in their respective regions.
3.09      At present, only Mandalay Farm is fully irrigated, and Lungyaw and
Hmawbi Farms partially irrigated (Mandalay and Lungyaw from the Sadawgyi and
Kinda Dams, respectively, and Hmawbi from tubewells). Thayaungchaung,
Myaungmya and Tagontaing farms would not be irrigated under this project
because of their high annual rainfall, and Paungde and Aunglan farms have
no available water supply adequate for irrigation. The remaining farms at
Kyemon, Magwe, Hmawbi, Letpadan, Kadoke would be provided with tubevells.
Tubewell requirements on each farm would be determined by hydrological sur-
veys to be conducted by the Irrigation Department. Drilling of the wells
would be undertaken with AC's own drilling rigs with technical assistance
from the Irrigation Department.
3.10      Provision would also be made for farm vehicles, machinery sheds,
staff housing and farm roads. Because of the particular importance of the
Lungyaw Farm, it would be necessary to upgrade about eight miles of the
access road to a laterite all-weather road.
(iii)     Seed Processing and Storage
3.11      Forc small capacity seed processing plants for Foundation and
Registered Seed were procured under the Seeds I project, but only two were
erected, one at Hmawbi, the other at Mandalay. Under the proposed project
the remaining two plants would be erected and additional plants and equipment
would be provided to process also Certified Seed, produced by contract
growers. In doing so, the annual seed processing capacity of ARD would be
expanded from 1,200 tons to 25,000 tons.



-13-
3.12      The additional equipment not foreseen under Seeds I for the four
plants procured would include seed dressing and portable bag closers. The
installation and commissioning of the third plant would be undertaken at
Lungyaw and the fourth plant would be established at Aunglan. For cotton
processing, one of the two small sawgin stands and an acid delinting plant
purchased under Seeds I were riot installed before Credit Closing date.
Provision has therefore been made under this project for civil works, includ-
ing an effluent disposal system, and some additional equipment, to allow
commissioning of the second cotton gin, and the seed delinting plant for
processing Registered Seed of cotton produced at Lungyaw farm.
3.13      In addition to completing equipment in the four seed processing
plants provided under Seeds I, twelve new plants would be established under
this project as follows:
(i) Five 5-tons per hour (TPH) plants, at Tagontaing, Yegyi, Patheingyi,
Saintgaing, and Taikkyi;
(ii) Three 3-TPH plants at Thayaungchaung, Letpadan and Kyemon.
(iii) Three 2-TPH plants at Kadoke, Paungde, and Hmawbi; and
(iv) One 1-TPH plant at Myaungmya.
At the Certified Seed stage, only rice and pulses would be processed at the
new plants. Cotton seed would be mechanically delinted at selected ginneries
operated by TIC (details in PIV, Attachment 9) and then sun-dried. Process-
ing of groundnuts would be limited to rough cleaning, sorting and manual
grading.
3.14      Only horizontal-flow plant layouts with medium capacity equipment
would be used, for reasons of lower capital cost, operational simplicity,
ease of supervision, maintenance, and quality control. Plant layout would
permit flexibility in seed flow through any sequence of equipment and for
seeds of different crops, provide ample floor area for temporary storage of
raw seed when intake exceeds plant capacity, and allow possible plant expan-
sion later. Each plant would have adequate storage facilities for seed
stocks, equivalent to about 50% of targetted annual production. The remain-
ing seed would be transported to township warehouses immediately after
processing. A typical seed processing plant would consist of: intake
facilities for bagged seed; pre-cleaner (to remove coarse foreign material);
and air screen cleaner (main cleaning to separate fine particles); and addi-
tional cleaning/upgrading equipment (indented cylinder for rice, spiral
separator for pulses, and gravity separator for cotton seed). All seed would
be dressed with fungicide and insecticide before weighing and bagging into
1.5 basket lots. Continuous-flow dryers would be provided for plants
situated in the Rangoon and Irrawaddy divisions where unseasonal rains could
render sun-drying ineffective. Drying facilities at these sites would handle
about one-third of seasonal capacity at each plant. Storage sheds would be
of tight construction, with arrangements for forced ventilation. Seed would
be stacked on wooden pallets and handled manually.



-14-
3.15      Processing plant sites have been identified and selected with
respect to proximity to major seed producing areas, easy access, and
availability of electric power. Seed processing plant layouts, including
specifications for cleaning and drying, and buildings for the plants, have
been prepared and are available in the PIV (Attachment 38). Final technical
specifications of equipment and civil works would be prepared by a consulting
Seed Processing Specialist to be engaged in PY 1 for a three year period.
Commissioning of four plants would be expected in PY 4, four in PY 5, and
four in PY 6 (implementation schedule is in Chart 27424). Initially, the
plants would operate on one shift only, since trained plant operators would
not be available in adequate numbers to run more shifts. This would also
ease initial management problems. The seed production and processing program
is expected to be gradually expanded as from PY 6 onwards to double shift
operation without the installation of additional machinery, as management
efficiency improves and demand for Certified Seed expands.
3.16      Following ginning and mechanical delinting, Registered Seed of
cotton would be acid delinted and cleaned at the Lungyaw plant before dis-
tribution to contract growers. As the projected volume of basic cotton seed
would not utilize the total capacity of the acid delinting facility, about
250 tons of Certified Seed would also be acid delinted on a trial basis. The
bulk of Certified Seed of cotton would be sun-dried and moisture tested only,
after mechanical delinting by TIC. Proper cleaning of cotton seed can only
be done after acid delinting. The pilot acid delinting plant procured under
Seeds I is expected to be commissioned by the end of 1985. The acidic
effluent from the system would be discharged in a lagoon for disposal by
percolation and evaporation. The lagoon would be fenced and well isolated
from any living quarters and streams.
(iv)      Seed Quality Control
3.17      Seed quality control (SQC) is an essential element of any success-
ful seed development project. Seed legislation normally forms the basis of a
quality control system. However, in Burma the organized sector of the seed
trade is entirely Covernment-controlled and formal seed legislation under
present conditions would serve no useful purpose. Therefore, the National
Seeds Committee (NSC, para 5.02) would issue well acapted regulations for SQC
and this arrangement is considered fully satisfactory. The foundations for
SQC have been laid under Seeds I with the creation of an ARD Processing,
Distribution and Quality Control Unit, equipped with a seed testing
laboratory at headquarters in Rangoon, and with the establishment of another
six local laboratories at ARD farms (Hmawbi, Letpadan, Magwe, Mahlaing,
Mandalay and Lungyaw). Out of the 23 people trained in seed production under
Seeds I, about eight received training in SQC, and they would be initially
posted in leading positions in the SQC structure. Thus, the proposed project
would build on the steps taken under Seeds I, and also separate the. SQC
function from seed processing into an independent Seed Quality Control Unit
(SQCU). Such steps would help emphasize its special responsibility and
position in the seed development chain, and ensure independence in the con-
duct of field inspections and laboratory tests. At full development, SQC
would cover some 30,000 tons of Certified Seed; about 1,000 tons of
Registered Seed and 70 tons of Foundation Seed of all project crops.



-15-
Proposed field and laboratory certification standards are presented in PIV,
Attachment 16.
3.18      Under Seeds I, field inspectors received some training in quality
control, seed processing and distribution. Such training would be extended
under the proposed project, particularly for the new personnel to be employed
for the SQCU. Currently, field inspectors are using the field manual of the
National Seeds Corporation of India as a guide for the inspection of rice and
cotton. ARD is in the process of writing its own manual for seed crops and
conditions appropriate to Burma, which would also incorporate instructions
for field certification of groundnuts and pulses.
3.19      Minimum laboratory test standards have been established for paddy
and cotton seed under Seeds I, and have been proposed for groundnuts and the
four pulses to be multiplied under the proposed project. These laboratory
standards, and the field certification standards, would be subject to peri-
odic review by ARI and ARD, and changes would be proposed for approval by the
NSC as and when needed. The rules of the International Seed Testing
Association (ISTA) would be followed for sampling, dividing, analyzing and
testing.
3.20      Seed labeling would be introduced to reflect the quality standards
of a given seed bag or lot, and would be carried out under close supervision
and control. The label should be accompanied by a seal that would break once
the bag is opened. The four different classes of seed produced by ARI, ARD
and contract growers would be labeled with certification tags. Different
colors would be used to easily distinguish among the classes. The tag colors
used internationally and proposed for the project would be pink for Breeder
Seed, green for Foundation Seed, yellow for Registered Seed, and blue for
Certified Seed. The tag would include information in moisture resistant
print or ink on crop, variety, origin of the seed, purity, germination, other
seed, inert matter, moisture percentage and weight.
(v)      Applied Research
3.21      Strengthening of applied research initiated under Seeds I would
continue under the proposed project. The main objectives would be to
reinforce organization and management, planning, and coordination of the
diverse research activities, and improve professional standards of the
research work performed. Main investments included under the proposed
project would be vehicles, agricultural machinery and implements, conditioned
storage (five farms) and cold storage (two farms), research equipment,
inputs, and professional and technical staff, including training in special-
ized fields. Research improvement efforts would be concentrated on five
selected Central Farms, properly utilizing the specialized manpower and
infrastructure already available, and assuring satisfactory coverage of
project crops under relevant agroclimatic conditions. Farms selected in the
high rainfall area would be Hmawbi (rice breeding, rainfed rice, water
management, cropping systems) and Letpadan (rainfed rice, and pulse
agronomy); farms in the low rainfall area wouLd include Magwe (groundnut
breeding and agronomy), Mandalay (irrigated rice agronomy, pulse agronomy,
crowing systems, and crop protection) and Lungyaw (cotton breeding, agronomy
and water management). The research section at ARD headquarters in Rangoon



-16-
would also be reinforced, notably in research management and programming and
support disciplines, such as soil science, soil microbiology, weed science,
plant protection and biometrics. The overall objectives of applied research
under ARD would be the following:
-   Varietal improvement through introduction, hybridization, selection
and mutation breeding programs;
-   Crop management through improved cultivation methods, including crop
nutrition;
-   Development of double/multiple cropping systems; and
-   Crop protection.
3.22      Applied rice research in Burma is carried out in seven Central
Farms in different agroclimatic conditions and covering the various types and
varieties of rice (rainfed lowland, irrigated, deepwater, salt and cold
tolerant). There is very little cooperation and coordination among these
stations, and their work plans clearly show duplication of efforts. Planning
and execution of experiments are carried out poorly. There is not sufficient
senior staff responsible for planning experiments, and current staff do not
have the required training and experience to design experiments and to
provide critical evaluation and analysis of findings. Trials, therefore,
often have to be rejected, and if analyzed provide unreliable information.
Lack of physical facilities, such as conditioned storage, necessitates fre-
quent multiplication of germ plasm and breeder seed of recommended varieties,
thereby increasing the workload of already limited staff.
3.23      Consequently, there is a need for a well-defined and coordinated
approach to rice research by ARD. Efforts should be concentrated at one
major station, strategically located and well-equipped with the necessary
facilities and staff.  The Hmawbi Central Farm is the best choice as the
center for such planning and coordination of rice researc" under ARD. It is
near Rangoon and easiLy accessible, with 350 acres of fertile cultivable land
fully developed under Seeds I.   The entire area would be irrigable during
the dry season (150 acres at present), and facilities for seed processing and
testing have already been established under Seeds I. It is therefore
proposed to develop the Hmawbi Central Farm into a Rice Research Center for
the high rainfall area, and also for the planning and coordination of all
adaptive rice improvement research. The Hmawbi program itself would aim
mainly at varietal improvement work to evolve HYV of fine grain rice and of
short duration rice for double cropping. In order to achieve these objec-
tives, an internationally recruited senior scientist would be financed as a
consultant.
(vi)      Technical Assistance and Training
3.24      In view of the infant stage of the seed industry, the considerable
expansion of number and quantities of crops to be multiplied, the need for
much improved seed quality control, the important investments in seed
processing plants, and the eminent need for much stronger research back-up,
the technical assistance (TA) and training component would be a vital part



-17-
of the project. A total of 96 man-months (MM) of TA would be financed. The
main areas requiring support under the project are seed processing and
storage, research management, and farm mechanization. A Seed Processing
Specialist would design and specify the equipment and civil works for the
processing plants, assist in site selection, and supervise the installation
of the majority of the plants. He would also train staff in the operation of
existing and new plants. A Research Management Specialist with background as
a senior rice breeder or senior research agronomist would review the ongoing
ARD research program, determine areas of priority research and plant breeding
needs, and advise ARD on the optimal use of research manpower and resources.
A Farm Mechanization Specialist wouLd advise farm managers on the most effec-
tive use of machinery, and organize training programs for operators. Provi-
sion has also been made for short-term consulting assistance that would be
required during implementation, particularly with seed quality control, and
seed distribution and marketing.
3.25      Training (426 MM) would cover applied research and seed technology.
(i) Applied research training (246 MM) would involve both M.Sc. level courses
and shot~-term courses. Based on the analysis of training opportunities
provided by other projects in Burma (PIV, Attachments 28 to 30), provision
has been made for overseas training of about two years each (equivalent to
M.Sc. level) for one research planner and coordinator, one biometrician, one
groundnut breeder, and one legume breeder -- a total of eight man-years.
Assurances would be sought from Coverniment at negotiations that candidates
selected for these four positions would be satisfactory to IDA, and that
arrangements for their training be made before June 30, 1986 (para 8.01, b).
Additionally, 80 man-months of training would be provided in the form of
3 - 12 months refresher courses overseas to allow research officers to become
familiar with the latest developments in their respective fields of
specialization (e.g., cotton breeding, agronomy, and pest control; groundnut
breeding and agronomy; rice breeding and agronomy; pulse breeding and
agronomy; and experimental technique and design). The 23 incrementaL profes-
sional research officers to be newly recruited would be given priority in
more systematic formal training. (ii) Seed technology training (180 MM)
would be of about three months duration for field staff, such as plant
managers and field inspectors, covering their specific fields of operation.
A limited number of Seed Section officers would take more general seed tech-
nology courses. In addition to overseas training, arrangements would be made
for local training, especially in seed production and processing, and quality
control, with the help of the project consultants and FAO seed specialists
involved in two FAO/DANIDA projects.
3.26      The Technical Assistance and Training component would be financed
by UNDP as grant aid, and provided by a competent firm of consultants. It is
desirable that the Seed Processing Specialist, the Research Management
Specialist, and Farm Mechanization Specialist take up their posts in Burma by
March 31, 1986 at the latest and assurances to this effect would be sought
from Government at negotiations (para 8.01, c). Draft TORs are available in
PIV, Attachment 24. The approval by COB of the Project Document with UNDP,
and of the three specialists' TORs would be a condition of Credit
Effectiveness (para 8.02, a).



-18-
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
4.01       The total project cost is estimated at US$28.5 M, including import
duties and cases (US$3.7 M), physical contingencies (US$1.0 M) and price
contingencies (US$5.7 M). Thus project cost net of duties and taxes would
be US$24.8 M. Foreign exchange costs would be about US$11.1 M, representing
39Z of totaL costs. All costs arc expressed at mid-1985 prices. Physical
contingencies for the total project are assumed at 15Z for farm development,
10% for civil works, and 5% for seed processing equipment. Price contingen-
cies amount to 26Z of base cost plus physical contingencies. Price contin-
gencies are based on an estimated annual inflation rate for the years 1985/86
through 1989/90 as follows: local currency costs, 10%, 8%, 8Z, 8%, and 8Z
and for foreign exchange costs, 4.7Z, 8.0%, 8.5Z, 9.0%, and 9Z. Detailed
cost estimates are given in Annexes 2 and 3, and summarized in the following
table.
BLOW
SECONI SEED DE8ELPEfNT PROJECT
PRLECT CXS SLWARY
(KYATS '000)           (us$ '000)               Z Total
Z Foreign  bse
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange   Costs
-                                -~ ===  =-   ===  ---
A. SEED PROCESSING AND STORAGE  70,861.1 32,376.1 103,237.2  8,052.4 39679.1 119731.5  31  54
B. SEEED FROUCTION             23,752.6 159087.4 38,840.0  21699.2 19714.5 4,413.6  39    20
C. RESARCi                      66W88.0 2,523.2  9,211.2   760.0  286.7 1,046.7    27      5
D. DWLITY CONROL                6,257.6 3,887.1 10S144.B   711.1  441.7 1,152.8    38      5
E. OK ZATIOI MNAGEMENT          4,410.6 11,249.0 15i659.6   501.2 IB278.3 1,779.5  72      B
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE An TRAINING   1,074.3 134579.4 14,653.7   122.1 lX543.1 1,65.2  93  B
-~~~~-               -        -        -     -_        -
Tol BASEINE COSTS                113io44.3 78M702.2 191,746.5 12,845.9 8U943.4 21,789.4  41    100
mh%sical Contingecies          7.200.1 1822.5  9022.6   818.2  207.1 1,025.3      20      5
Price Contingencies            32,926.1 17,211.2 50,137.2  3,741.6 1,955.8 5S697.4  34   26
Total PROJECT COSTS             1539170.5 97,735.9 250906.3 17,405.7 11,106.3 28,512.1  39    131



-19-
Financing
4.02      The Technical Assistance and Training component (US$2.0 M) would be
financed through a grant from UNDP. The proposed Credit of US$14.5 M would
meet about 64% of remaining project costs net of duties and taxes, covering
all foreign exchange costs and 532 of local costs. The project financing
plan would be as follows:
FINANCING PLAN
Cost Item                   GOB      IDA      UNDP     Total      Z IDA
~~-   -ZUS-$ 000 - --
(a) Farm Development /1          400      650        -      1,050       60
(b) Civil Works                5,500    3,800        -      9,300       40
(c) Vehicles, Machinery
and Equipment              2,300    7,550        -      9,850       75
Cd) Machinery Installation &
Incremental Recurrent
Costs                      3,850    2,500        -      6,350       40
Ce) Technicsl Assistance
and Training                   -        -   1,950       1,950        -
TOTAL                  12,050  14,500   1,950      28,500       51
/1 Farm development excludes tubewell equipment which is included in
category (c).
Funds required for research investments and incremental operating costs by
ARD and ARD's Seed Section would be provided through budgetary allocations
to the Agricultural Corporation. The Seed Section would obtain working capi-
tal for Certified Seed purchases from Myanma Agricultural Bank (MAB) as
short-term credit, which is not part of project costs. These financial
arrangements functioned satisfactorily under Seeds I.
Procurement
4.03      Most of the equipment, machinery and vehicles (US$4.8 M, net of
contingencies), would be procured after ICB in accordance with IDA
Guidelines. A preference, limited to 15X of the cif price or the prevailing
customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in
the evaluation of bids. The successful bidder for machinery and equipment
for processing plants would be responsible for their installation on a
turnkey basis, and bidding documents would indicate preference for uniformity
of equipment.   IDA will be reviewing all bidding documents and will ensure



-20-
that this preference is appropriately covered. Farm machinery would be
procured, bulking the items to the extent possible. Except possibly for a
limited number of items, such as office equipment and furniture, it is
expected that machinery and equipment procurement would be from external
suppliers. To provide management flexibility, and to allow for purchases of
specialized equipment, some vehicles and small items of equipment for
laboratories and research, costing less than US$20,000 each, would be
obtained by international or local shopping through normal Government
procurement procedures, on the basis of comparing prices from no less than
three suppliers. Such purchases would be limited to a total of US$500,000.
Procurement of agricultural inputs, consisting of some fertilizer, pesticides
and chemicals for seed dressing (US$1.1 M) would be done by limited interna-
tional bidding. Consultants (US$1.l M) would be employed by IDA as executing
agency for UNDP, on terms and conditions satisfactory to UNDP and IDA. For
each tender for goods with an aggregate value in excess of US$200,000, COB
would submit bidding documents to IDA for review prior to issue and seek IDA
concurrence with bid evaluation before award of contract(s).
4.04      Civil works (US$6.6 H, net of contingencies) comprise mainly
processing plants, seed stores, houses, offices, laboratories. The works
would be widely scattered and construction is phased over four years, and
hence would not attract international contractors. There is no noteworthy
private construction industry in Burma. Therefore the bulk of the work would
be carried out under contract by COB's Construction Corporation. This con-
tract will be reviewed by IDA and performance of civil works will be followed
up in the course of project supervision. A program of the civil works to be
started each year would be agreed between ARD and the Construction Corpora-
tion. These work programs, and the terms of the contract under whichi the
Construction Corporation would execute them, would form part of the Seed
Section's annual work program (para 5.16). However, some small buildings,
each costing less than K 80,000 (US$10,000), would be constructed by ARD on
force account. Supply of construction materials, such as cement, steel,
bricks, timber, metal sheeting, electric wiring, and fuel for transport and
operation of construction equipment was a serious problem under Seeds I.
This was more due to difficulties in distribution of materials than due to
their shortage. The situation has noticeably improved over the recent two
years, particularly as far as allocation and delivery of materials to IDA
financed projects is concerned, and no major problems are, therefore,
expected. Procurement arrangements are suimnarized in the table below:



-21-
-----(US$ Million)--
Project Element                               Procurement Method  /1
Local
ICB    Contract /2   Other /3  N.A. 14  Total
Farm Development                -       0.8              -       0.2      1.0
-     (0.5)             -       (0.1)   (0.6)
Civil Works                     -       8.3              -       1.0      9.3
-     (3.2)             -       (0.6)   (3.8)
Vehicles Machinery and        6.7         -            3.2         -      9.9
Equipment                    (6.7)        -           (0.9)        -    (7.6)
Technical Assistance            -         -            1.1 /5    0.9      2.0
and Training                    --                       -         -        -
Incremental Operating           -       0.2           3.1        3.0      6.3
Costs 1                                ( -)           2.0       (0.5)   (2.5)
Total                         6.7       9.3           7.4        5.1    28.5
(6.7)    (3.7)          (2.9)     (1.2)  (14.5)
A1  Figures in parenthesis are respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
72  Contract with GOB Construction Corporation.
7T  Limited international bidding or local shopping.
74  Procurement procedures not applicable.
7.  In accordance with IDA guidelines.
7T  Include salaries, operation and maintenance of vehicles, machinery and
buildings (fuel, lubricants, utilities, stationary, sulfuric acid),
small materials for seed farms and seed processing plants, seasonal
inputs for research and basic seed production.
Disbursement
4.05      Disbursement from the credit account is expected to be completed by
June 30, 1992. The disbursement profile for agricultural projects in Burma,
which runs over ten years, has not been followed for two reasons. First, a
fairly competent project executing institution (AC's Seed Section) which is
by now familiar with procurement and disbursement procedures, has been
created under Seeds I, and it is, therefore, reasonably expected that disbur-
sements would be faster than indicated in the profile. Second, the credit
amount in Seeds I is expected to be fully disbursed in seven years. It is
therefore, reasonable to assume that the proposed project would have a dis-
bursement period of not more than seven years. Incremental operating costs



-22-
will be disbursed on a declining basis, with IDA financing 902 up to
US$1.0 M, 60% up to US$2.0 M, and 30Z up to US$2.5 M. The estimated schedule
of disbursements is presented in Annex 4. The proposed allocation of the
Credit proceeds is as follows:
Amount Allocated          Z of Expenditure to
Category             (US$ M)                   be Financed
Farm Development           0.6             60% of total expenditure.
Civil Works                3.5             40% of total expenditure.
Equipment, Machinery       6.9             100% of the foreign expendi-
and Vehicles                            ture for directly imported
goods or 80% of the local ex-
penditure for imported goods
procured locally or 100% of
local expenditure (ex-factory)
for goods manufactured locally.
Incremental Oper-           2.5             40% of total expenditure
ating Costs                               (in aggregate, to be disbursed
on a declining basis).
Unallocated                1.0
TOTAL                   14.5
4.06      Applications for withdrawals from the Credit would be fully docu-
mented except that disbursements for civil works carried out by force account
and incremental operating costs would be made against certified statements of
expenditure submitted by GOB. Documentation supporting statements of expen-
diture will be retained by GOB for review during project supervision. To the
extent practicable, withdrawal applications would be aggregated in amounts
equivalent to US$50,000 or more (but not less than US$20,000), prior to
submission to IDA for reimbursement.
Accounts and Audits
4.07      All Government agencies maintain accounts according to procedures
and format laid down by the Ministry of Planning and Finance (MPF). The
Central Audit and Inspection Office, acting on behalf of the Council of
Peoples' Inspectors, is responsible for auditing Government agency accounts
and would be acceptable to IDA as an independent auditor for this project.
The accounting and auditing practices under Seeds I were generally satisfac-
tory. Assurances were received from GOB at negotiations (para 8.01, d),
that:



-23-
(i) separate accounts for each project component would be maintained by
the respective implementing agencies, including two special accounts
for seed multiplication (one covering seed production on ARD farms up
to sale of Registered Seed to contract growers, the other covering
purchase of Certified Seed from contract growers, its processing and
resale to farmers), and assembled by the Project Coordination Commit-
tee (PCC);
(ii) these accounts would be audited annually in accordance with sound
auditing principles consistently applied by the Director General,
Central Accounts Office, acting on behalf of the Council of the
Peoples' Inspectors of the GOB; and
(iii) PCC would send to IDA copies of the summary of an unaudited annual
project account within four months of the end of the fiscal year, to
be followed by certified copies of the audited account and auditor's
report within nine months of the end of each fiscal year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Implementing Agencies
5.01      The main agencies of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
involved in project implementation would be the Seed Section, the Applied
Research Division (ARD), the Agricultural Research Institute (ARI), and the
Extension Division (ED) of the Agricultural Corporation (AC). The Textile
Industries Corporation (TIC) of the Ministry of Industries II would be
involved in the cotton seed component, and the National Seed Committee (NSC)
would have a central policy and regulatory function.
National Seed Committee
5.02      NSC, established and performing satisfactorily under Seeds I, would
continue to be the main regulatory body governing seed production in Burma
and determine seed policies as and when required. In particular, it would be
responsible for the release of new varieties, removal of outdated varieties
from the recommended list, and approval of seed quality control standards and
procedures to be applied in field and laboratory. The NSC is chaired by the
Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Forests, and its Secretary is the head of
AC's Seed Section. Membership comprises representatives of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forests (Planning and Statistics Department, Managing
Director of AC, Ceneral Managers of ARI, ARD and ED), Ministry of Planning
and Finance, Ministry of Industry II, Trade Ministry, and the Central
Peoples' Peasants Council. A technical sub-committee, headed by NSC's
Secretary, would handle the technical aspects of variety release and recom-
mendations, and keep under review quality control standards and procedures.
A "List of Recommended Varieties" and "Field and Laboratory Standards of
Seeds" would be issued by NSC as official documents and would be up-dated
upon recommendation of the technical sub-committee as and when appropriate.
These two documents should be made freely available to all officers involved
in seed production. Assurances were received from Government at negotiations



-24-
that the first editions of these two documents would be printed and made
available by March 31, 1986 (para 8.01, e).
Project Implementation
5.03      As the main implementing agency, AC would be responsible for over-
all coordination of the project, including plant breeding, production and
maintenance of Breeder, Foundation, and Registered Seed on its farms,
organization of farmers to produce Certified Seed on a contract basis, and
seed processing. Key operational administrative staff has already been
recruited under Seeds I. Continuity of service of this experienced and
qualified senior staff of the Seed Section and of ARD would be essential for
the success of the project, and it is expected that all senior management and
research staff allocated to the project would, in principle, remain in posi-
tion at least up to project completion. The involvement of ARI would be
limited to plant breeding, and production of Breeder Seed of its own
varieties. The flow of Breeder Seed from ARI to ARD farms for further multi-
plication has been smooth in the past, and no difficulties are anticipated
under the proposed project. The ED would closely cooperate with the Seed
Section in organizing the Certified Seed production program with farmers.
The concept of seed multiplication with farmers under contract was introduced
under Seeds I and worked satisfactorily (para 2.14). A sample contract is in
the PIV (Attachment 21). The contract stipulates the obligations of the Seed
Section (SS) and Extension Division (ED) on one hand and of the farmers on
the other hand. Essentially, the SS/ED would sell Registered Seed, arrange
priority for fertilizer and other inputs, extension advice on production
technology, and would carry out field certification through the Seed Quality
Control Unit (para 5.09). The farmers would supply land and labor for all
operations, agree to follow the recommended production techniques, to offer
their plot for field inspection and certification, and to sell all their
field certified seed to the Seed Section (except cotton which is bought by
TIC) for further processing and certification. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that this contract system would continue to be used under the
proposed project (para 8.01, f). The ED would also be responsible for dis-
tribution and sale to farmers producing for consumption of Certified Seed of
paddy, pulses and groundnut as part of its normal input distribution
activities. Over the years, ED has gained considerable experience with seed
and input distribution, notably in connection with the WTEP, and it is
expected to continue to perform these vital functions satisfactorily. TIC
would be responsible, as under Seeds I, for procurement and ginning of the
seed cotton produced by contract growers and the drying, storage and sale of
the processed seed to commercial growers.
5.04      Seed is presently grown on aLl 40 ARD farms, although there is an
arbitrary split in headquarters supervision of project farms (i.e., Seeds I)
and non-project farms. Management arrangements for the proposed project
would involve three important changes. Firstly, the head of the Seed Section
would not report to the GM of ARD any more, but would be directly responsible
to the Managing Director of the AC. This would substantially strengthen the
Seed Section's role, and would facilitate coordination and cooperation for
seed production purposes between ARD, ARI, ED and the Seed Section.
Secondly, the Seed Section would be made responsible for seed growing on all
40 farms, even though the proposed project would be financing investments on



-25-
only 12 of these farms. Thirdly, it would be responsible for administering
its own budget covering basic seed production, seed processing and quality
control, and also procurement of Certified Seed from contract growers. No
changes are envisaged in the organization of ARD's Research Section, although
during project implementation the consulting Research Management Specialist
might be able to propose amendments to improve present arrangements. The
head of the Seed Section (DGM I) would be more senior than other section
heads, similar to the DGM of the Land Use Section, and would be included in
the AC's General Managers' Coordination Committee. The proposed organization
of the Seed Section within AC, and its relation to ARD, is shown in Chart
27425. The Seed Section would consist of four units -- Certified Seed
Production, Seed Quality Control, Implementation, and Budget Administration.
5.05      The Certified Seed Production Unit.  This unit wouLd be headed by a
DGM I. It would organize through the Joint Farm Managers (seed) basic seed
production on ARD farms and deliver Registered Seed to contract seed
growiers. It would consist of three sub-units (Chart 26514) -- Certified
Seed Growing and Procurement (CSGP), Seed Processing and Storage, and Build-
ing and Equipment Maintenance. Contract seed growers would be organized by
the CSGP Sub-Unit in close cooperation with the ED (Village Tract Manager)
and the Village Tract Council. Under the WTEP, and under Seeds I, valuable
experience has been gained in organizing the seed growers into contiguous
blocks of approximately 200 acres. All farmers whose land lie in such blocks
with level and fertile land become contract growers. This procedure helps
the Agricultural Corporation considerably. It can concentrate staff in the
growing season, intensify advice and supervision of farmers and, importantly,
it is a major simplification in the problem of ensuring priority in input,
Lredit and irrigation water supply that the contract seed growers enjoy.
Farm holdings in Burma are usually in several parcels in different locations.
Two to three acres (four acres in cotton areas) of a farmer's land may fall
in the chosen block. Therefore, three acres of land for paddy, four acres
for cotton, and two acres for pulses and groundnuts would be the likely
average area for seed growing. The CSCP would provide these selected growers
with Registered Seed for sowing, and fertilizers and pesticides would be
supplied by ED through its High Yield Centers (para 2.07). Following the
practice of Seeds I, in a case where a farmer has all his land in a seed
block, the CSGP would purchase all seed from that land, and for the non-quota
portion of his produce (para 6.02) provide him through the ED with commercial
grain on a basket-per-basket basis. About 30 field inspectors of the Seed
Quality Control Unit (para 5.09) would be seconded to the CSGP towards the
end of each growing season, to assist with procurement of seed from contract
grers.
5.06     Paddy seed growers would usually be different from those growing
pulses as the production areas of these crops are largely different. Thus,
of some 17,500 farmers expected to become seed contract growers in PY 3,
about 6,000 would produce paddy, 6,000 pulses, 4,000 cotton and 1,500 ground-
nUts. Technical guidance would be given to seed growers of the different
crops. ARD's farm staff would demonstrate s,eed production methodology at
each crucial phase of production (planting, thinning, crop protection, iden-
tification of off-types, volunteer and diseased plants, harvest and
post-harvest handling). These demonstrations would take place in one field
io each block and ED staff and all seed growers would attend. Special



-26-
pre-season training courses in seed production methods and techniques would
also be organized by ARD for selected extension staff.
5.07      The Seed Processing and Storage Sub-Unit would be under the control
of an Assistant General Manager (ACM - junior to DCM) to whom 15 plant
managers would report. At each plant there would be a permanent core staff
of supervisors and equipment operators, supplemented by casual labor during
the processing season. All quality control, including certification, would
be carried out by field inspectors from the Seed Quality Control Unit, who
would be seconded to the plants during the processing season. These inspec-
tors would also supervise movement of seed in and out of the plants to ensure
admixtures do not occur during processing.
5.08      The Building and Equipment Maintenance Sub-Unit, headed by a
Supervising Engineer, would be responsible for land development (land levell-
ing and irrigation channel construction) on project farms, coordination of
tubewell construction, ongoing maintenance for all civil works, including
irrigation structures under the control of the Seed Section, and very impor-
tantly, the maintenance of all farm machinery and seed processing equipment.
At each farm and seed plant a resident mechanic would do day-to-day minor
servicing. The sub-unit with its more qualified staff would be better
equipped to handle overhauls and major breakdowns. Major workshops would
be located strategically at Lungyaw, Hmawbi and Tagontaing for this purpose,
and vehicles provided to ensure adequate mobility.
5.09      The Seed Quality Control Unit (SQCU). It would  be headed by a DCM
and would be composed of two Field Quality Control Sub-Units (FQCSU) headed
by officers at the ACM level, one for Upper Burma located preferably at
Mandalay, the other for Lower Burma, preferably located at Hmawbi,
(organigram in PIV, Attachment 43). The two FQCSUs would each command three
regional seed testing laboratories, and have a staff of 33 field inspectors
in Lower Burma and 35 field inspectors for Upper Burma. The laboratories
would be sited in the main seed producing areas: in Lower Burma at
Thayaungchaung (the only lab to be newly established), Hmawbi and Letpadan,
in Upper Burma at Magwe, Lungyaw and Mandalay. They would serve ARD farms,
and townships in their vicinity and those within relatively easy reach by
all-weather roads. Field inspectors would be allocated to the above six
areas on the basis of acreage under seed multiplication and on the number of
seed samples to be collected for laboratory testing. The average acreage of
Certified Seed to be inspected by one inspector would be about 600 acres in
Lower Burma, and 850 acres in Upper Burma where drier conditions allow
greater mobility. All field inspectors would ba equipped with light motor-
cycles, and it is estimated that they could inspect about 25 acres of paddy,
50 acres of cotton and some 75 acres of pulses and groundnuts per day. After
field inspections have been completed, the field inspectors would be involved
in procurement of seed and storage inspections and sampling for laboratory
analysis of seed. It is anticipated that field inspectors would command
considerable respect in the villages, since first, roguing fees to farmers
would only be paid after the inspectors' approval of the work performed, and
second, farmers' crops would have to be field certified by them, before being
accepted for further processing as seed.



-27-
5.10      To ensure continuity of work throughout the year for field inspec-
tors, these officers would be seconded to the Certified Seed Crowing and
Procurement Sub-Unit (CSCP), once harvesting of a particular crop has com-
menced. They would supervise quality control during harvesting, threshing
and post-harvest handling, and then organize the orderly delivery of seed to
the processing plants. As harvesting/threshing wanes, these officers would
be gradually transferred to quality control operations at the processing
plants, where they would undertake seed sampling and usual certification
activities. They would also supervise raw seed movement and storage of the
bagged Certified Seed.
5.11      For operational efficiency, Regional Seed Testing Laboratories
would be under the control of the FQCSUs in Upper and Lower Burma. To ensure
adherence to quality control standards at these laboratories, a proportion of
samples (about 10%) would be duplicated and sent to the Central Seed Testing
Laboratory in Rangoon, for double checking of results. The Central
Laboratory would operate separately from regional laboratories under the
direct control of the DGM Quality Control.
5.12      The Implementation Unit.  A DCM II would be in charge of this unit.
He would be responsible for coordinating the civil works program to be under-
taken by the Construction Corporation, the procurement of machinery and
equipment, and the installation of the processing plants by the equipment
suppliers. The Seed Processing Specialist, attached to this unit, would
finalize specifications for civil works and processing plant equipment
(para 3.15). The Farm Mechanization Specialist would prepare the specifica-
tions for farm machinery. Both consultants would provide technical advice on
equipment selection at the time of tender evaluation, although they would
not be members of the evaluation committee. Staff assigned to the
Implementation Unit would only be involved in the above activities and should
not be distracted by day-to-day responsibilities for seed production. This
segregation of duties is considered essential if the proposed implementation
timetable is to be achieved. The organigram of the Implementation Unit is in
PIV, Attachment 42.
Applied Research
5.13      This component would be an integral part of ARD's research program
carried out on 19 Central Farms, although project-supported applied research
would be confined to five Central Farms (Hmawbi, Letpadan, Magwe, Mandalay
and Lungyaw) which would operate on a separate budget. At the farm level,
overall administrative responsibility for research work would rest with the
Farm Manager, reporting to the CM of ARD. Scientific and technical respon-
sibility for experimentation would rest with the Joint Farm Manager
(Research), who for these purposes would report to the DCM (Research).
5.14      In current practice, there is very little coordination among
researchers at different ARD stations, and practically no qualified supervi-
sion from ARD headquarters. Coordination with ARI Yezin is minimal, and the
two institutions are insufficiently informed of each other's activities,
progress and results of their work. The infrastructure and manpower engaged
in ARD's research network is considerable, but insufficiently motivated and
clearly underutilized.



5.15      It is crucial that these deficiencies be remedied under the
proposed project. The newly proposed DGM for research management and
programming at ARD headquartrs in Rangoon, supported by administrative,
scientific and technical advice from the internationally recruited senior
Research Management Specialist of RRC Hmawbi, would be expected to introduce
much better coordination and order into research planning and execution. At
ARD farms, above all, the standards of experimental technique and trial
supervision need substantial improvement.   Preparation and detailed planning
of trials would have to be thoroughly upgraded through introduction of
annually updated Trial Outlines for each experiment, prepared to standards
defined by ARD's research management. Preparatory work for establishment of
each trial, plot, and treatment variate, as well as proper trial sitings and
field layout, would have to be demonstrated to research personnel to assure
correct procedures across all ARD stations. The scope and content of trial
maintenance and recording has to be equally well-defined and normalized,
including introduction of standardized Trial Field Books. Trial harvesting
techniques, recordings, analysis and evaluation, would have to be upgraded
and standardized to assure meaningful research results and their interpreta-
tion. It would be the obligation of ARD's research management, supported by
the above Research Management Specialist, to achieve these objectives through
full use of the international training opportunities made available under
this project and through well organized in-service training. The function of
the Agriculture Research Coordination Committees at ARD farms needs to be
revived, and participation in the research program by farmers' and extension
personnel needs to be strengthened. An important feature of rehabilitation
would be to assure proper and regular functioning of the existing National
Research Coordination Committee. This Committee would be composed of repre-
sentatives of ARD, ARI and ED, who would regularly review progress and
results of research work reported by ARD and the Project Analysis Cell and
streamline programs for future work in line with Government's national and
regional economic priorities. The committee would also review the ED's
technical crop-growing recommendations on the basis of latest research
results. The Committee's major conclusions and decisions would be regularly
included in the Seed Section's quarterly progress report for COB, and IDA for
comment.
Project Coordination, Reporting and Monitoring
5.16      Project coordination would be the responsibility of a Project
Coordination Committee (PCC), which would be chaired by the AC's Managing
Director, and would include General Managers of ARD, ARI, Agricultural Plan-
ning and Statistics, and Extension Divisions of AC, the DGM Seed Section,
along with representatives of TIC and the Construction Corporation. The
establishment of the PCC would be a condition of Credit Effectiveness
(para 8.02). The secretariat of the PCC would be provided by the
Agricultural Planning and Statistics Division. The PCC would meet as
required, at least quarterly, when the quarterly progress reports (QPR)
produced by AC's Seed Section would be reviewed. The PCC would also review
and approve the Seed Section's annual work programs and budgets, and annual
progress reports. Assurances were received from Government at negotiations
that annual work programs and budgets would be submitted to IDA for review



-29-
and comments by October 31 of each project year, annual progress reports by
April 30, and QPRs 30 days after the end of each quarter (para 8.01, g).
5.17      In view of the unsatisfactory project monitoring under Seeds I,
great care would be taken to reorganize and strengthen it under the proposed
project. Responsibility for monitoring and evaluation would be transferred
from NSC to the Project Management and Evaluation Section (PMES) of the
Agricultural Planning and Statistics Division (APD) and would be administra-
tively separated from ARD. The PMES chief would report through the GM of APD
directly to the Managing Director of AC. However, collaborative li!nks with
the Seed Section and ARD would be strong, so that feedback from monitoring
can readily serve as an efficient management tool for seed production and
research operations. The PMES is made up of two Cells, one of which under-
takes national projections of crop production and input requirements, man-
power planning, and agricultural economic surveys, while the other is respon-
sible for project analysis. The Project Analysis Cell has staff positions
for seven officers and seven support staff. The project would strengthen
this Cell by financing incremental staff -- one AGM, two junier officers and
two support staff -- and a vehicle, to enable monitoring of this project on a
full time and continuous basis. The first draft program of PMES, including
key operations to be monitored, was discussed and agreed to with Government
at negotiations. Monitoring of the seed production program would start
already in the 1985 agricultural season, concentrating initially on produc-
tion and procurement of Certified Seed. The full monitoring program as
outlined below, would start in May 1986 with the beginning of the agricul-
tural season, when the required incremental staff shall have been appointed
and trained. An important part of such work would be inter alia monitoring
the development of ARD's seed farms.  The progress of research work on the
five project-supported farms (para 5.13) would be compared to their annual
programs. The production of Breeder, Foundation, and Registered Seed at the
farms, and the Certified Seed with contract growers would be monitored, as
would the performance of the Seed Quality Control Unit in field and seed
certification. Furthermore, procurement, processing, distribution and
marketing of Certified Seed,and adoption rates of Certified Seed by farmers
and their reactions to the yield and other performance of the different
varieties and seed lots would be evaluated. Assurances to this effect were
received from Government at negotiations (para 8.01, h). On the basis of its
surveys, the Project Analysis Cell would regularly prepare observations and
comments in the QPRs. Eventually, it would take the lead, in cooperation
with ARD, in the preparation of the Project Completion Report.
VI. SEED PRODUCTION, PRICES, AND MARKETING
Seed Production
6.01      Registered Seed derived from ARD's existing basic seed production
operations would be sufficient in PY I to sow the entire 49,000 acres planned
for Certified Seed production with contract growers in PY 2 (PIV, Attachment
13). Since this area is only about 302 larger than seed production areas



-30-
organized by AC in previous years 1/, it would be feasible to organize the
multiplication program at this scale early in the project life. The addi-
tional seed processing plants would start operations in PY 4, when 16Z of
Certified Seed would be processed, progressing to about 50Z in PY 5, and all
plants would be operational in PY 6. More detailed data on seed production
are given in Annex 1, and in the PIV, Attachments 6 - 14. The Certified Seed
production program and its gradual transition from unprocessed to processed
seed is summarized below:
CERTIFIED SEED PRODUCTION (Tons)
PY 2     PY 3      PY 4    PY S   PY 6 Onwards
Unprocessed Seed
Paddy                           23,220   23,220   19,510  11,840             -
Mung Bean                           720      720       610     370           -
Butter Bean                         700      700       580     360           -
Pigeon Pea                          .70      370       310     190           -
Chick Pea                         1,790    1,790    1,500      910           -
Groundnut                         1,130    1,130    1,130   1,130        1,130
Cotton                           3,130    3,130    3,130   3,130         3,130
Phasing of Seed Procesing (X)                           16      49         100
Processed Seed /a
Paddy                                 -        -    3,340  10,240      20,900
Hung Bean                             -        -       100     320         650
Butter Bean                          -         -       100     310         630
Pigeon Pea                            -        -        50     170         340
Chick Pea                             -        -      260      790       1,610
/a  An allowance of 10Z made for processing loss.
Seed Procurement and Prices
6.02      In Burma, there is no formal pricing policy for seed, and the
prices paid to seed growers, primarily for paddy, are based on the fixed
official prices paid under GOB's compulsory procurement quota scheme operated
bv AFPTC. Seed is procured by the ED under a similar system as paddy for
consumption is being procured by AFPTC. Seed producers selling seed to the
ED are exempt from delivering paddy to the AFPTC. GOB aims to stabilize
domestic prices of basic consumer goods with only modest incentive levels to
producers. Under the procurement system, farmers are obliged to sell a
portion of their production at below free market prices through AFPTC to
Government, based on the acreage cultivated, expected yields, and an
1/ The contract grower program in 1981/82 and 1982/83 covered about
37,000 ac.



-31-
allowance for family consumption, seed, social and religious purposes.  The
intention is to buy about 40Z but in practice AFPTC procures at times only
about 30Z of the national paddy crop. Similarly, in 1983 and 1984 the ED
reportedly bought more than 401 of the paddy seed produced by contract seed
growers. Farmers are allowed to sell surplus production on the free market
within the area of the township to which they belong.
6.03      Official procurement prices intend to cover production costs plus a
modest profit margin including a premium or discount for quality. In
practice, however, prices paid to farmers for commercial crop and to seed
growers for seed have not taken into account any quality differentials and
are much below free market prices. Although official procurement prices of
paddy vary according to variety and quality (three grades), AFPTC actually
pays nearly all the procured paddy as ordinary grade. Less than 1% of paddy
procured was purchased at grade II and none at the highest priced Grade I
(Annex 5). A similar situation prevails for pulses. A lack of grading
facilities and inadequate staff are the major constraints. The Government
has been reluctant to increase prices of agricultural outputs and inputs
because of its concern for maintaining price stability. Since 1976/77, the
official procurement prices for most of the controlled crops have remained
unchanged, except for the pF'iy price which was increased in 1980/81.
6.04      The major incentive currently available to farmers producing seed
is the increased yield from sowing Registered Seed received from ARD. Com-
pared to national yield averages over the last three years for which official
statistical records are available (for 1980/81 - 82/83), it is estimated that
under the proposed project seed growers would obtain yields higher by 14% in
paddy, 33Z in cotton, 18% in groundnuts, and an average of 24Z n pulses.
The accuracy of the above statistical records is not well known and the yield
increases are, therefore, only indicative. Details on yields of project
crops that are expected to be achieved by seed producers, and areas for
multiplication are in Annex 1.
6.05      Government can provide to seed growers other assistance (non-price
incentives) consisting of a roguing fee, production credit and i r iority
allocation of recommended levels of fertilizer and pesticides. This assis-
tance would be given and improved under the proposed project and assurances
to this effect were received at negotiations (paras 6.06, 6.07, 6.09).
6.06      The payment for roguing is currently K 13/acre, which is inade-
quate. Roguing is on the average required three times per season and each
operation requires about 2 man-days, costing seed growers K 48/acre at the
average market wage rate of K 8 per man-day. Therefore, the average roguing
fee would be increased to this level. It would only be paid after the field
inspector of SQCU is satisfied that the quality of the roguing performed was
adequate and has approved the pajment. Assurances were received from
Government at negotiations that the roguing fee payable by AC's Seed Section
to seed growers would be increased on the average to K 48 acre, and that it
would be reviewed and adjusted when necessary, to cover the actual costs of
the operation as determined by the existing market wage rate (para 8.01, i).
6_07      Due to logistical problems, commercial farmers do not usually
receive fertilizer allocations in accordance with levels recommended by ED.



-32-
Because of the economic importance of the seed scheme, contract seed growers
producing paddy and groundnuts would in the future receive larger alloca-
tions, comparable to those received by participants of the WTEP, and
increased by 56 lb/ac of urea for paddy, and by 28 lb/ac of urea and 56 lb/ac
of triple superphosphate (TSP) for groundnuts. Thus, an additional 600 tons
of urea and 75 tons of TSP would be required for paddy and groundnut seed
production under the project at full development. Contract growers producing
Certified Seed of pulses and cottcn would receive at least the recommended
fertilizer rates (details in PIV, Attachment 20). Assurances were received
from Government at negotiations that seed growers would receive allocations
of fertilizer and other inputs, such as chemicals, ultra-low-volume (ULV)
sprayers and batteries, on a priority basis, as do participants of other
important development projects (para 8.01, j).
6.08      Institutional credit is not available to all farmers in Burma.  In
the past, it has been reserved mainly for participants of Government selected
priority development projects, such as Paddy I. Under the proposed project,
Certified Seed growers would be assured to receive such institutional credit
on a priority basis and in time. The per acre and total credit amounts would
be as follows:
Present          Production
Credit        Credit Requirements
Crop             (K/ac)        (Acres)    (K '000)
Rice HYV             140         18,000       2,520
Cotton               210         16,000       3,360
Mung bean             35          2,500          90
Butter bean           35          1,700          60
Pigeon pea            20          1,300          25
Chick pea             20          6,500         130
Groundnuts           100          3,000         300
Total                                       6,485
6.09      There would be no need to make special provisions for this credit
under the project. MAB would be able to make available sufficient funds for
this purpose from existing sources. Therefore, project costs do not include
the production credit requirements. Nevertheless, assurances would be sought
from Government at negotiations that the production credit required by con-
tract seed growers would be made available through MAB (para 8.01 k). As
cotton losses from pest attacks are quite substantial using the present
arduous knapsack sprayer method, ULV sprayers would be imported for cash sale
to cotton seed growers under the project. Up to five growers could share one
sprayer, since one grower's acreage under cotton is generally around four
acres (details in PIV, Attachment 20). No difficulties are envisaged with
sharing the sprayers among farmers, since this practice has already been
successfully introduced by ED.
Procurement Targets
6.10      A key objective of the proposed project would be that ARD's Seed
Section succeeds in purchasing 100% of the seed that has been field certified



-33-
by the Seed Quality Control Unit (para 5.03). In order to obtain seed of the
highest quality, it has to be properly dried, cleaned, graded, dressed,
bagged, tested and certified in the seed processing plants. Exceptions to
the process are cotton, which would be entirely handled by TIC, and ground-
nuts, which would be processed manually (para 3.13).
6.11      In absolute terms, the quantity of paddy, the major crop to be
purchased under the proposed project (about 25,000 tons annually) would be
quite similar to that reported to have been purchased under Seeds I (23,000
tons in 1983/84). The main difference would be that under the proposed
project all seed procured from farmers would be fully processed and
laboratory tested, which was not the case under Seeds I. Government is
confident that with the existing price structure and the additional above
mentioned programs that would be provided under the proposed project there
would be no difficulty in procuring all the seed produced. In view of past
favorable results, IDA is prepared to try the system out under these arrange-
ments. Agents of the AC (Seed Section in cLose cooperation with the ED),
backed up by the administrtive structure of the Township Councils, would be
responsible for this activity.
6.12      However, since the seed procurement is so vital to the success of
the project, an additional safeguard would be introduced to ensure total
purchase. The above prccurement system would be linked to annual procurement
targets of Certified Seed in each of the project crops. In case of sig-
nificant procurement shortfalls in any of the crops, additional incentives
would be introduced to seed producers, to make them cultivate and sell back
to the Seed Section that particular crop. Starting in PY 2, the procurement
targets of raw seed would, be as follows:
Crops                  Tons
Paddy           -    24,590
Cotton (seed)   -      3,500
Butter bean     -        780
Chick pea       -      2,000
Mung bean       -        800
Pigeon pea      -        420
Details on tonnage and area by division and township are in the PIV,
Attachment 6.  No targets were set for groundnuts since the main purpose of
that component is to test the quality of seed held in groundnut stores
financed under Seeds I in Lower Burma. Further, the quantity in question is
relatively small.
6.13      Each year after procurement of the Certified Seed from producers
has been completed by AC, results would be evaluated crop by crop against the
raw seed procurement targets. The first evaluation would take place in the
spring of PY 3. Based on the harvesting and post-harvest handling calendar,
actual procurement figures would be available by the end of April. In each
of the 16 township areas participating in Certified Seed production, procure-
ment teams consisting of AC agents (Certified Seed Production Unit, Seed



-34-
Quality Control Unit, ED, and in the case of cotton, TIC), would keep precise
records of seed procurement. These records would be based on weighing
results at marketing points or at seed processing plants. Earlier in the
season in the process of their regular supervisory work of seed blocks, field
inspectors together with ED agents would derive yield estimates for each
block (or parts thereof if crop is uneven). These yield estimates would be
used for approximate cross-checks of procurement results and reveal any major
deviations, which would be used for corrective measures in the next season.
Since yield estimates would be necessary only in paddy and pulses of which
there would be at the most 150 blocks annually, crop cutting samples would be
taken to back up the estimates.
6.14      As long as procurement targets of all raw Certified Seed were met,
no change in the existing procurement system would be required. If they are
not met, there would be a need to adjust the incentives. Shortfalls of
certain percentages would trigger corrective actions, to be applied for the
following season. Given the fact that procurement results would be available
well before the start of next season, this is feasible.
6.15      Because of seasonal conditions causing production and yield
variability, annual changes of acreage for individual crops, and the late
availability of official production statistics, trigger points for corrective
action would be based on an average of past production performance. For
paddy, cotton and butter bean, the trigger point is the difference between
the average production of the past five years and the highest annual produc-
tion (deviation from mean) as expressed in percentage terms. For chick pea,
pigeon pea and mung bean, the trigger point is based on the average of
production of the past four years compared with the highest annual production
in any of these years. The different method of computation is designed to
reflect the relative stability in production of paddy and cotton, crops grown
mainly in areas of high and reliable rainfall or with available supplementary
irrigation, and the larger variability in production of the pulses which are
predominantly grown as rainfed crops. Percentages derived as trigger levels
are as follows:
Rounded and
Actual             Proposed as
Calculated          Trigger Points
Paddy                14%                    15%
Cotton               18Z                    20%
Butter bean          30%                    30%
Chick pea           42%                     40%
Pigeon pea          41%                     40%
Mung bean             8%                    10Z
If Certified Seed procurement for any of these crops in any season falls by
ore than the above specified percentages, additional incentives to seed
growers would be introduced by GOB for that specific crop for the next
srason.



-35-
6.16      The system would start operating in PY 3, with the first procure-
ment season of Certified Seed. Following the establishment of any procure-
ment shortfall, within 90 days starting May 1 of each season, the additional
incentives described below shall have been made by Government and IDA shall
have been informed of the same. For seed cotton procured by TIC, the
prevailing official price of K 1.94/lb would provide sufficient incentives to
seed growers, because at the present average yield of 684 lb/ac per acre,
production costs would be only K 1.07/lb, and no additional incentives are
necessary. The incentive measures taken wouLd apply to all farmers producing
the respective seed crop. Assurances to this effect were received from
Goverment at negotiations (para 8.01, 1):
(i) With respect to paddy, the existing AFPTC price for Grade I (see
table below) will be applied as the first step, and if necessary in
combination with any one or more of the other incentive measures
stated in (b) and (c) below;
(ii) preferential and timelu allocation of seasonal credit and of agricul-
tural chemicals for the production of crops other than seed crops
would be provided to contract seed growers on condition that they
deliver the required contracted amount of Certified Seed to AC;
(iii) preferential allocation of consumer goods including construction
materials, household goods, bicycles, transistor radios, etc. would
be provided to contract seed growers following the delivery of the
required Certified Seed to AC; and
(iv) incentives for pulses would consist of meeting any additional
increase in post harvest seed handling charges and transportation
calculated in Kyats per manday, and Kyats per ton mile respectively
(current cost per manday is K 6.5 and per ton mile is k 0.5).
Price K/Basket
Applied in
Paddy                                  case of
Seed Crop               Present         Shortfall       Increase (Z)
Ngasein               9.00              10.60              18
Meedone                9.40             10.60              13
Ngakywe               10.90             13.00              19
HYV                   9.55              11.25              18
Emata Special        10.35              12.20              18
6.17      Each contract grower would only be obliged to grow a seed area
equivalent to that necessary for producing the amount of grain compulsorily
procured by AFPTC, estimated to occupy 40% of the cultivated farm area.
Following delivery of production from this seed area to the Seed Section,
the grower would be exempt from supplying a similar volume of produce to



-36-
AFPTC at controlled prices. Assurances to continue this practice were
received from Government at negotiations (para 8.01, m)
Processed Seed Sales and Pricing
6.18      Seed pricing is crucial to the development of the seed industry.
Prices should be kept as low as possible to induce farmers to use Certified
Seed, while on the other hand they should be high enough to permit an attrac-
tive premium to be paid to seed growers and to cover processing and distribu-
tion costs. However, in the Burmese economic and political setting, where
the paddy crop is highly taxed, the seed industry is in its infancy, and the
proposed executing-agency is de facto a Government department, the introduc-
tion of commercially based seed prices is not considered crucial at this
stage. Nevertheless, the Government has agreed that the annual operating
costs of ARD's Seed Section should be fully covered either through its
revenue (from seed sales) or a budgetary allocation to make up for any
deficits each year. The prices at which Government sells Certified Seed to
farmers are for paddy (depending on variety) K 12 - 15 per basket (B), K 35
per B of butter bean, K 75 per B for chick pea, K 60 and K 40 per B for mung
bean and pigeon pea, K 90 per B of groundnuts and K 1 per viss of cotton
seed. A prerequisite to the Seed Section's proper financial management would
be the introduction of an analytical accounting system as described in para
4.07. Annually at the end of each seed processing and marketing season
(August - September) the Seed Section's Budget and Administration Unit would
calculate the actual 0 & M costs and compare them to revenues from sales of
Registered and Certified Seed. The 0 & M costs of research and Breeder Seed
production and of the technical assistance and training component, would be
excluded from this calculation. If revenues from seed sales would not cover
these adjusted 0 & M costs, GOB would continue to make adequate provisions to
replenish the 0 & H account. This procedure is feasible since Government
annually recovers ample funds from indirect taxation on agricultural produce,
for example paying farmers for paddy less than 50% of the economic farmgate
price. A similar situation prevails in other crops. The 0 & M account would
be finalized by May 31 of each year and submitted to the Government (and
copied to IDA) for information. Assurances to this effect were received from
Government at negotiations (para 8.01, n).
Demand for Seed
6.19      Demand for seed is expected to be good for all seven project crops.
In paddy the concentration would be on producing seed of HYV and HQV which
have become very popular in the ITEP and for which there is a ready market in
Burma and overseas. The rice breeding program in Burma is particularly
strong and new varieties have been released in the past at the rate of one to
two per year. ARD's Seed Section would make available to farmers any new
superior varieties within three to four years of their development. There is
little risk of an over-supply of high quality seed, since project output
would represent only 17% of annual national requirements of HYV and HQV
(corresponding to about 8% of total annual national demand of all varieties
of paddy seed).



-37-
6.20      In cotton, seed has to be replaced annually due to industrial
processing of seed cotton, which makes it virtually impossible for the farmer
to retain his own seed. Therefore, no problems are anticipated with sales of
quality cotton seed.
6.21      Regarding the four project supported pulses, only negligible quan-
tities of seed have been produced so far, although demand is very strong.
The project would actually introduce organized pulse seed production for the
first time, starting with high quality seed of existing varieties. Good
foundations exist at ARI Yezin to introduce superior varieties of the four
pulses, which are expected to be released within two to three years. There-
fore, the sales of high quality pulse seed is expected to be strong, and the
project aims at producing some 25Z of annual national demand.
6.22      The program in groundnut seed production would cover only about 3%
of winter groundnut acreage in Lower Burma, a traditional seed-deficit area.
Consequently, demand is expected to exceed project production. Therefore, if
the technological aspects of the pilot groundnut storage program are success-
fuL more investments in groundnut seed production and storage in Lower Burma
could be anticipated.
Seed Distribution and Marketing
6.23      The Certified Seed produced by contract growers would be procured
by the Certified Seed Growing and Procurement Sub-Unit of the Seed Section's
Seed Certified Production Unit (Chart 26514) and would be delivered to the
Seed Processing and Storage Sub-Unit for cleaning, drying, grading, dressing
and bagging. The processed seed would be handed over to the ED, which would
continue to be responsible for its distribution and sale to farmers along
with other agricultural inputs. The seed processing plants would be located
in or near major townships and the ED's Township Manager would organize seed
delivery to priority areas of the WTEP, which are known as Hi6h Yield Centers
(HYCs). An average HYC would have about 2,500 ac, and a Village Extension
Manager (extension agent) would usually be in charge of input supply and
extension advice. In 1983, some 82 townships participated in the high yield
program, which is gradually expanding and covers 17 other crops in addition
to paddy. Project seed supplies would comprise part of the production pack-
age that would be sold by the ED to farmers participating in the WTEP through
the HYC. For seed distribution, the ED would use proven existing methods,
utilizing trucks of Township Councils, the Government's Road Transport Cor-
poration (RTC) and private truckers.  It is estimated that in 1983, under the
WMEP the ED distributed to farmers in timely fashion some 35,000 tons of
,nnual inputs including seeds.  Given the experience and satisfactory perfor-
annce of the ED with distribution and sale of seed and other inputs over the
past years, no major difficulties are expected to be encountered in this
area.



-38-
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Overall Impact
7.01      The project would increase agricultural production and farm incomes
through use of improved seed, and it would generate employment on seed farms
and seed processing plants, provide employment opportunities for women
(para 7.05), and generate foreign exchange revenues. Approximately 250,000
farms of an average size of six acres are expected to benefit from the
project. At full development, the project would benefit a total of 1.2
million persons through increased returns from the use of improved seed.
Establishment of an organized seed production and processing facility would
also provide a sound foundation for future expansion of the seed program.
Incremental Production
7.02      The main quantifiable project benefits would be incremental crop
yields that would be obtained by farmers through the use of project seed.
Yields at full development are estimated to be higher than yields from
non-field certified, unprocessed seed (all the seed produced uner Seeds I),
by 7.5% for paddy, 5% for cottoni, 12.5% for butter bean, chick pea and mung
bean, and 8.5% for pigeon pea. Achievement of these yields would be supported
by extension services better trained in crop husbandry techniques of new
varieties, and by priority and timely supply of recommended levels of
seasonal inputs. Thus, the yield estimates (tons/acre) of processed seed
are: paddy 1.075, butter bean 0.454, chick pea 0.304, mung bean 0.315, pigeon
pea 0.304, and cotton 0.326. At full development, farmers using Certified
Seed would be earning on the average a net incremental benefit per acre of K
54 for paddy, K 68 for cotton, K 76 for butter bean, K 73 for chick pea, K 70
for mung bean, and K 44 for pigeon pea (PIV, Attachment 32).
1.03      In addition to the four processing plants purchased under Seeda I,
the first of the additional 12 processing plants would start operations in
PY 4, starting with about 15% of installed seed processing capacity, increas-
ing to 50% within PY 5 and reaching full operation in PY 6. Certified Seed
would, however, be available for distribution in PY 3 when incremental
project benefits would start flowing, although some of the seed would be
initially unprocessed. At full development, the project would provide
annually about 30,000 tons of Certified Seed that would be sufficient to
cultivate 1.5 M acres. About 70% of this acreage would be in paddy. Based
on the estimated yield increases, incremental crop production at full
development would be about 87,000 tons p.a. or K 84 M p.a. (US$9.5 M) at
current farmgate prices, as shown in the following table, (details on phasing
and incremental production are available in the PIV, Attachments 13 and 14):



-39-
Projected Production          Incremental Production
Area        Without          With         At Full Development
Crop        Project         Project            PY 9 (onwards)
(000  ac)  -        00  tons)               (000 tons)    (Kyats MHF
Paddy          1,000       1,000        1,075              75           53.3
Medium Staple
Seed Cotton     200       62.00        65.10             3.10          13.4
Mung bean         73       20.44        22.98             2.54           4.7
Butter bean       40       16.00        18.16             2.16           3.2
Pigeon pea        50       14.00        15.20             1.20           1.6
Chick pea        103       27.81        31.27             3.46           7.7
Total     1,466   1,140.25      1,227.71            87.46         83.9
7.04      Groundnut production at full development would increase by 700 tons
valued at about K S million p.a. (US$0.5 H). However, the production
increase would be mainly due to investments in warehouses and storage equip-
ment already made under Seeds I. The proposed project only provides for
multiplication of the basic seed adequate for the production of Certified
Seed on 16,600 acres in the vicinity of these existing warehouses. The
groundnut seed so produced would be sun-dried, bagged and stored by using the
already existing facility and equipment. Therefore, in calculating the
economic rate of return, benefits from the groundnut component have been
excluded.
Employment Effect
7.05     At full development, the project would generate permanent employ-
ment on seed farms and seed processig plants for about 525 jobs/annum.
Casual labor requirements on AC's farms and seed processing plants would
increase by over 100,000 man-days. Incremental employment on the 17,000
Certified Seed growers' farms would increase by almost 400,000 man-days. And
finally, based on an estimated average incremental labor requirement of only
2 MD/acre for crops grown with Certified Seed, this would create another
about 3 million man-days. Most of the additional employment on farmers'
fields would benefit under-employed farm family members. Hired laborers
would be needed primarily for planting, weeding, spraying and harvesting.
The additional labor requirements during peak periods are generally met from
within the township or adjacent townships and are drawn from the ranks of the
landless or the smaller landholders. Women would be employed extensively
particularly during the peak seasons of sowing and harvesting.
Foreign Exchange Effect
7.06      Most of the incremental production (rice, mung bean, butter bean,
pigeon pea and chick pea) would be for export. In the cases of cotton and
groundnuts, increased production would replace current imports. At full
development Burma would earn additional foreign exchange of about US$12.9 M



-40-
p.a. at current f.o.b. prices 1/ and save US$2.3 M due to reduction in
imports of 1,240 tons of 'Lint and 300 tons of palm oil. At the current
c.i.f. price -- a foreign exchange earning/savings of approximately US$15.2 M
annually.
Financial Analysis
7.07      All financial costs including taxes and duties, subsidies and
physical contingencies have been taken into account for purposes of financial
analysis. All prices are expressed at mid-1985 constant prices using the
official exchange rate of K 8.8 = US$1.00. The GOB minimum wage rate for
unskilled labor is K 6.50/day. However, the market rates vary between K 6.5
and K 12/day. Thus, an average of K 8/day during the intermediate period has
been used.
7.08      The main revenues for ARD's Seed Section would come from sales of
Registered Seed to contract seed growers, and Certified Seed to commercial
farmers. Revenues would start in PY 1 from sales of Registered Seed because
Foundation Seed is already available. Revenues from all seeds between PY 1
and PY 3 would be from sales of unprocessed Registered and Certified Seed.
Subsequent sales would be a mix of unprocessed and processed seed up to PY 5,
and of processed seed only from PY 6 onwards. All seed prices are valued
ex-processing plant.
7.09      The Seed Section would, in addition, earn revenues from sales of
the residues from the processing operation, and of cotton lint produced from
Registered Seed grown on ARD farms. For paddy and pulses, approximately 8X
of totaL seed production valued at 20% below the official and free market
prices, have been assumed. About K 2.9 M p.a. would be realized from 190
tons of cotton lint.
7.10      Costs of all components, except research and technical assistance
and training, have been included. Research is considered as technical sup-
port which would not have direct impact on the Seed Section's operations. The
technical assistance and training would come as a grant from UNDP and is,
therefore, not considered in this analysis. Costs of transport and handling
seed from contract seed growers' fields and from ARD's seed farms to the
processing plants, the procurement price paid to contract seed growers, and
working capital have been included in the cost streams. On this basis, cost
of paddy seed production is about 36% more expensive than cost of paddy
grain, cotton seed is 26% more than grain, and seed of pulses is on the
average 43% more expensive than grain. If the full cost of seed processing
is included, the production cost of paddy would be about 60%, and of pulses
about 50% more expensive than that of grain. These latter figures are
slightly on the higher side, but still about in the normal range found in
seed prcduction in other countries.
I/ Current f.o.b. prices = US$196/ton for rice, US$273/ton for mung bean,
US$450/ton for butter bean, US$338/ton for pigeon pea, US$387/ton for
chick pea and US$166/ton for groundnut cake.



-41-
7.11      Costs and revenue estimates of the Seed Section under the above
assumptions are available in the PIV. These indicate that the Seed Section's
operating deficit would peak at about K 12.5 million (US$1.4 million) in
PY 6, while revenues would start at PY 8 and would stabilize at about
K 13.0 million (US$1.5 million) as from PY 10 onwards.
Economic Analysis
7.12      All costs were included in the project cost stream.  In addition,
about one-sixth, or 15%, of the recurrent costs of seed processing has been
included in the cost streams to allow for working capital, unforeseen
increases in seed processing costs due to delays in processing, and for the
time lag between processing and sales of seed. The benefits from incremental
production from use of project seed have been phased in line with the
estimated production and phasing of unprocessed and processed seed. Under
these assumptions, the Burmese economy would realize an overall economic rate
of return (ERR) of about 48%. At an OCC of 10%, the net present vaLue of the
project would be about K 345 M (US$39.2 M). The economic flow of receipts of
the project is presented in Annex 7. Real economic prices (mid-1984 base
prices) projected to 1990 are presented in the PIV (Attachments 35 to 38) and
are summarized below:
Rice/Paddy     Seed Cotton    Cottonseed /1       Mung Bean
US$/ton K/ton USS/ton K/ton US$/ton K/ton US$/ton K/ton
World Market Price   352    2,851  1,830    14,823         -       -      348   2,820 /2
FOB (CIF) Rangoon    246    1,993 (1,940)  (15,714)        -       -      358   2,896
Farmgate Price        121      981    690      5,585       -       -      313   2,537
Ex-ginnery Price        -        -       -         -    179   1,450         -       -
11  Cottonseed price ex-ginnery is a composite price derived from the
world prices of cottonseed oil (cif Rangoon) and cottonseed cake
(fob Rangoon) adjusted for processing costs.
12 Price for soybean; fob for mung bean is averaged about 3% higher
Project Risks and Sensitivity Tests
(i)       Project Risks
7.13      Three major difficulties which were particularly evident in the
Seeds I project may also be encountered in this project. They relate to the
establishment and operation of the processing plants, the procurement of the
Certified Seed, and crop yields and production.
(i) Establishment and Operation of Processing Plants. The construction
of processing plants and storage is often delayed, because of lack
of adequate construction material, particularly cement and timber.



-42-
This risk would be reduced by COB giving priority in the allocation
of construction materials for the project (para 4.04). At present,
there is no trained staff in the country to operate the seed
processing plants. Technical assistance and training provisions made
in this project would help ensure the proper processing of all the
planned Certified Seed production. Also, the unprocessed Certified
Seed produced in the early years of the project would be of a higher
quality than in Seeds I, because of a greatly strengthened SQC serv-
ice.
(ii) Procurement of Certified Seed. In the absence of a satisfactory
procurement system it is possible that significant quantities of seed
can be sold on the open market as commercial grain. Our experience
under the Seed I project and our review of Burmese production and
procurement arrangement indicates that such risk would be minimal.
This risk would be further minimized by introducing, in the event of
a significant procurement shortfall, incentives at levels that would
encourage the sale of seed by growers to ARD's Seed Section (paras
6.15 to 6.17);
(iii) Crop YieLds and Production. Estimates for commercial crop yields
that would result from use of Certified Seed are based on yield
observations of non-field certified, unprocessed seed (Seeds I) and
of field certified, processed seed on ARD farms and surrounding
farmers fields (para 7.02). The provision for priority allocations
of recommended levels of inputs, mostly through the WTEP where the
majority of the improved seed would be used, and availability of
extension agents better trained in crop husbandry practices based
on improved seed, (para 5.06), would minimize the probability of
failure to achieve assumed yield increases.
(ii)      Sensitivity Test
7.14      Switching values were calculated to assess the impact of variations
in cost and benefit streams of the project. The economic viability is more
sensitive to a decrease in benefits than an increase in costs. Assuming an
OCC of 10% p.a., costs would have to rise by 1581 or benefits fall by 61Z
before the project is no longer economicalLy viable. These results clearly
suggest that the project is economically favorable.
7.15      The economic viability of the project is not very sensitive to
variations in costs or benefits. For instance, a 20Z increase in costs would
reduce the ERR only to 42%, while a simultaneous 20% increase in costs and a
one year lag in benefits would reduce the ERR to 30%. If this lag in
benefits is increased to two years, the ERR declines to 22Z. The main com-
ponents of the analysis are price and yield assumptions of paddy and cotton.
These components individually would have to drop by more than 611 to affect
the economic viability of the proposed project, which is highly unlikely.
A summary of the economic analysis is presented in the table below.



-43-
Summary of Economic Analysis
ERR (Z)
(i) Base Estimate                              48
(ii) Variations in Cost and Benefits
Costs         Benefits
+10%          unchanged                  45
+20Z          unchanged                  42
unchanged     -10%                       42
unchanged     -20%                       37
+10%          -1O%                       38
+10Z          lagged 1 year              30
+20%          lagged 2 years             22
(iii) Switching Values (at 10% Opportunity Cost of Capital)
- Costs must increase by 158%
- Benefits must decrease by 61%
(iv) Net Present Value: K 345.7 M (US$39.2 H), discounted at 10%
VIII.      ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations assurances were received from COB that:
(a) Hahlaing Central Farm would produce annually about 1,000 lb of
Breeder Seed for the pulse multiplication program (para 3.06);
(b) ARD would select candidates with qualifications acceptable to IDA
for overseas training in organization and management of research,
biometrics, groundnut breeding and legume breeding, and would
make arrangements for such training not later than June 30, 1986
(para 3.25);
(c) the Seed Processing Specialist, Research/Management Specialist
and Farm Mechanization Specialist would take up their positions
in Burma by March 31, 1986 at the latest (para 3.26);
(d) separate accounts would be maintained for each project component,
including two special accounts for seed multiplication (one
for seed production on ARD farms, the other for Certified Seed
procurement, processing and sales); these accounts would be audited
annually in accordance with sound practices; and copies of the



-44-
summary of unaudited annual accounts would be sent to IDA for
comments within four months, and copies of audited  accounts
together with auditor's reports within nine months of the end of
each fiscal year (para 4.07);
(e) "List of Recommended Varieties" and "Field and Laboratory
Standards of Seeds" would be issued by the National Seeds Committee
and produced not later than March 31, 1986, and that these would be
periodically updated and reprinted as necessary (para 5.02);
(f) the use of contracts introduced under Seeds I and described
in para 5.03 between ARD's Seed Section and seed growers for
production of Certified Seed would be continued (para 5.03);
(g) project management would prepare annual work programs and budgets,
and quarterly and annual progress reports, which would inter alia
include major decisions of the National Research Coordination
Committee, and copies of which would be made available to IDA
for coment as follows: October 31 of each year for the work
programs and budgets, 30 days after the end of each quarter for the
quarterly reports, and April 30 for the annual reports (para 5.16);
(h) monitoring of seed production would begin already in the 1985
agricultural season, and a full monitoring program, covering all
key aspects of project activities, would start in May of 1986
with the beginning of the agricultural season (para 5.17).
Ci) Certified Seed growers would receive increased payment for roguing
the crop, currently costed at K 48/acre. The roguing fee would
be reviewed and adjusted as necessary, to cover the actual costs of
the operation as determined by the existing market wage rate
(para 6.06);
i) contract farmers producing Certified seed for the project would
receive inputs necessary for seed multiplication (fertilizer,
pesticides, ULV sprayers, batteries) on a priority and timely
basis (para 6.07);
(k) MAB would provide contract seed growers with production credit
on a priority and timely basis (para 6.09);
(1) achievement of annual procurement targets of 1OOZ of the Certified
Seed from seed growers would be tested under the existing price
structure. If targets are met no changes in incentives would
be required. If they are not met in any project year
in any of the crops and the shortfall would be greater than the
percentages established in para 6.15, enhanced incentives
to seed growers as presented in para 6.16 would be provided by
Government for that (those) particular crop(s) and would be
announced well ahead of planting in the following season
(para 6.15 and 6.16);



-45-
(m) each contract grower would only be obliged to grow a seed area
equivalent to that area of the crop which would normally be
acquired by AFPTC, and estimated at 40x. When the production
from this area is delivered to the Seed Section, the grower would
be exempt from having to supply a similar volume of produce
to AFPTC at controlled prices (para 6.17); and
(n) as a base for achieving proper financial management the Seed
Section would introduce an analytical accounting system. It
would annually evaluate its operating and maintenance (O & M)
costs and submit to Government (copied to IDA) by May 31
of each project year the updated accounts. If revenues from
seed sales would not cover the 0 & M costs GOB would continue
to make adequate provisions to replenish the 0 & M account
(para 6.18).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness will be:
(a) the approval by GOB of the Project Document with UNDP
for financing the technical assistance (TA) and training
component (para 3.26); and
(b) the establishment of a Project Coordination Committee, composition
of which would be satisfactory to IDA, to be chaired by the
Managing Director of Agriculture Corporation (para 5.16).
8.03      Subject to the foregoing assurances and conditions, the
proposed project would be suitable for an IDA Credit of
US$14.5 Million on standard IDA terms.



-46-
ANNEX I
Page 1
BURMA
SECOND SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Aspects of Seed Production
Seed Multiplication Stages
1.      The project would recognize the internationally respected four seed
stages--Breeder, Foundation, Registered and Certified Seed. Breeder Seed
would be evolved from pre-basic seed and multiplied exclusively by the
respective breeders and their trained staff under strictest isolation and
roguing conditions. Only ARI Yezin (all crops), the Rice Research Center
(RRC) at Hmawbi (various types and varieties of rice), and ARD Central Farms
at Lungyaw (cotton), Mandalay (rice HYV), Mahlaing (pulses), and Magwe
(groundnuts) are expected to have sufficiently qualified and experienced
staff to produce the highest quality expected in Breeder Seed. Mahlaing
Central Farm, although not directly supported by this project, would produce,
together with ARI Yezin, all Breeder Seed of pulses, because of their sub-
stantial development and strengthening under Seeds I and because of the
presence of qualified staff specialized in pulses. It is proposed that
breeders would multiply at one time Breeder Seed requirements adequate for
three-four years as quantities needed are small and it is often difficult for
research stations to find many isolated areas in the main growing season of
the crop. Breeders would be responsible for timely and precise write-ups of
significant characteristics of all varieties, which would allow agronomists
and extension personnel handling further multiplication stages a clear recog-
nition of the respective varieties.
2.      Foundation Seed of the recommended varieties would be produced from
Breeder Seed on ARD Central Farms in isolated fields under close supervision
of plant breeders and production specialists. All Foundation Seed supplies
would be subject to field and seed certification standards prescribed by the
NSC. Production of Foundation Seed, of which about 70 tons would be multi-
plied annually, would be concentrated in the following ARD farms:
Farm                               Foundation Seed
Hmawbi Central Farm              HYV and local improved varieties of Emata,
Ngakywe, Zeya, and other HQV of rice,
chick pea and mung bean for Lower Burma
Mandalay Central Farm            HYV of rice, butter bean and pigeon pea
for Upper Burma



-47-
ANNEX 1
Page 2
Lungyaw Central Farm             WYV of medium staple cotton, chick pea and
mung bean for Upper Burma
Nagwe Central Farm               Winter groundnuts for Lower Burma
Foundation Seed would also be multiplied in the off-season if sufficient
numbers of isolated plots are not available in the main growing season. The
crop would be raised from Breeder Seed stocks and supervised by the breeder
and/or his trained personnel. Roguing for offtypes based on distinguishing
morphological and color characteristics of the variety would be done at
seedling, flowering and seed ripening stages. For convenience, two-three
years of Foundation Seed requirements of the recommended varieties could be
multiplied at one time and stored in conditioned stores to be constructed
under the project.
3.      Registered Seed would be multiplied from Foundation Seed.  Usually
one or two varieties of a crop would be multiplied at one farm during one
season to ensure isolation and avoid mechanical mixtures during harvesting,
drying and threshing. The Registered Seed produced on each farm would be
used for Certified Seed production in the neighboring areas by contract seed
growers. Only Registered Seed of groundnuts and partly cotton would be
produced by contract growers because of the large areas involved. At full
development about 1,000 tons of Registered Seed would be produced annually.
4.      The fourth and final stage of seed multiplication, Certified Seed,
would be grown entirely by selected small farmers (seed growers) under con-
tract to the project through the Extension Division, and would be con-
centrated in suiteble areas around the 12 seed farms. No additional invest-
ment is required on contract growers' farms to enable them to undertake seed
production, and the project would provide only the Registered Seed to the
growers. General crop husbandry advice would continue to be given by the
Extension Division, although specialist seed growing information would come
from project personnel. To assist cotton seed growers in alleviating the
presently significant crop loss through insect attack, the project would
provide ULV (ultra-low volume) sprayers and insecticides which would be sold
at cost to the seed growers using credit provided by MAB.
5.      Organized Certified Seed production activities were initiated in 1978
under the Seeds I Project for rice and cotton. The second phase project nov
proposed would build on the experience gained under Seeds I and expand the
number of crops and the amounts of Certified Seed to be produced. At full
project development about 49,000 acres under the seven crops (paddy cotton,
four pulses and groundnuts) would be contracted with selected farmers and
some 30,000 tons of seed are expected to be produced annually. Detailed data
on the seed production stages and their geographical location are provided in
the PIV, (Attachments 6 to 11).



-48-
ANNEX I
Page 3
Crops to be Multiplied
6.      Paddy would continue to be the leading crop under the proposed
project as was the case under Seeds I. It dominates the food crop sector in
Burma and is grown on over 12 million acres, or more than half of the total
cultivated area. The project's support would concentrate on seed production
for irrigated paddy in Upper Burma (Mandalay, Sagaing and Magwe Divisions,
representing some 14% of total paddy area) and for paddy grown under rainfed
conditions on the plains of Lower Burma (mainly Irrawaddy, Rangoon and Pegu
Divisions), comprising about 57% of total paddy area.
7.      Paddy types and varieties in Burma come under several classifications
by different institutions and end users. The most frequently used classi-
fication is based mainly on four grain types differing in ratio between
length and width. They are indicated by names and letters which are in
descending order of grain length, and length to width ratio: A-Emata,
B-Letywezin, C-Ngasein, D-Meedone. Both, HYV and local varieties of high
eating quality (HQV) are spread across these four types. (Details on
varieties and their classification are in the Project File Attachments 4 and
5). According to official statistics, almost 6.0 million acres or about 50%,
of the present area under paddy (12.1 million acres in 1982/83) are planted
with HYVs. There are several types of paddy which include HYVs as well as
lower yielding varieties, of which the Emata group is most dominant (5.2
million acres), followed by Ngasein (3.0 million acres) and Letywezin (2.2
million acres). The proposed seed multiplication program would be adjusted
proportionately to support these paddy types.
8.      Cotton is grown in the dry zone of Upper Burma and covers about
540,000 acres (1982/83), of which about 180,000 acres (34Z) are medium staple
(locally called long-staple) varieties. Efforts are being made to increase
the area under medium staple cotton to supply the needs of national textile
mills. According to official statistics, yields of medium staple cotton
increased by about 50% over the last five years (460 lb/ac of seed cotton in
1978/79 and 690 lb/ac in 1982/83). A strong contributing factor to this
success has been the research and seed multiplication work carried out at
Lungyaw Central Farm under Seeds I, and the proposed project would build on
those achievements to further expand and improve seed multiplication of this
crop.
9.      Pulses figure prominentlv in the country's agricultural sector, are
sown over an area of 1.5 M ac (1982/83), account for more than 72 of total
export trade, and rank third among exported agricultural products. The
average yields are low due to low inherent yield potential of available
varieties, narrow range of genetic variation in the indigenous cultivars,
and low levels of inputs. Pulses can fit very well in the double cropping
scheme, particularly in the dry zone, and efforts are being made at ARI and
ARD to evolve higher yielding varieties and improved production technology.
Pulses are the major source of protein for Burma's rural population.
Regionally, 80% of the total area under pulses is concentrated in Upper Burma
in Sagaing, Mandalay and Magwe Divisions. They are almost entirely dependent
on monsoon rains for moisture. The project would support the four pulses
considered by Government as priority crops in this category--butter bean,
chick pea, mung bean and pigeon pea.



-49-
ANNEX 1
Page 4
10.     Oilseed crops are cultivated on some 5.4 million acres (over 25Z) of
the total sown area. Groundnuts comprising less than 30% of the acreage
under oilseeds (about 1.5 million acres) contribute nearly 80% of national
requirements of edible oils. They are grown in two seasons in Burma; about
half of the crop as a monsoon crop in the low rainfall, light soil areas of
Upper Burma, and the other half as a post-monsoon (or winter) crop on
residual moisture on the heavier soils of Lower Burma. While it is techni-
cally feasible 'or farmers to store seed from one season to another in Upper
Burma, there are no known successful techniques for on-farm storage during
the heavy monsoons in Lower Burma. In an attempt to solve this problem, five
conditioned stores were constructed in Lower Burma under a pilot program in
Seeds I, with a total capacity of more than 1,100 tons. The proposed project
would continue the program and multiply sufficient seed to fill these stores,
which would gain experience with technically feasible and economically viable
seed production and storage methods under the more difficult conditions of
Lower Burma.
Seed Production Targets
11.     The above mentioned seven crops are cultivated on more than 14 mil-
lion acres annually, or about 70Z of total sown area. Certified Seed produc-
tion targets at full development (PY 2 for production, PY 6 for processing)
were established on clean seed basis as follows:
Certified Seed pro-                           Percentage
Sown acres  duction of pro-       Seed rate   Area sown  of national
Crop      (1982/83)  posed project (tons)  (lb/aO)       (acres)   requirement
Paddy         12.1 M          20,900              46       1 million      17
Cotton        182,000          3,130              35       200,000       100
Groundnuts     1.4 M           1,140             150        17,000         3
(in shell)
Butter bean   156,000            630              35        40,000        26
Chick pea     400,000          1,610              35       103,000        26
Mung bean     189,000            650              20        73,000        38
Pigeon pea    174,000            340              15        50,000        29
12.     At full development, the areas under Certified Seed production by
contract growers and the estimated yields would be as follows:



-50-
ANNE 1
Page 5
Yield
National
Average
Area                      (78/79 - 82/83)
Crop          (ac)   (lb/ac) (B/ac) /1      (B/ac)
Paddy
Special Emata    4,920   2,300      50            -
HYV              9,600   3,680      80            -
Ngakywe          1,200   2,300      50            -
Zeya             1,320   2,300      50            -
Other HQV          960   2,760      60            -
Sub-total      18,000   3,000      65            52
Seed Cottois     16,000     830    230 /2         173 14
Groundnuts        3,000   1,000 /3  40             31
Pulses
Butter bean      1,700   1,035      15            13.7
Chick pea        6,500     690      10             8.8
Mung bean        2,500      720     10             6.8
Pigeon pea       1,300      720     10             6.2
Sub-total      12,000      -        -
Total          49,000      -        -
Notes:
/i  B = basket, Burmese volume/weight unit
1 B paddy = 46 lb
1 B groundnuts - 25 lb (unshelled)
1 B butter bean - 69 lb
1 B chick pea - 69 lb
I B mung bean = 72 lb
1 B pigeon pea = 72 lb
/2  Seed cotton is measured in viss (1 viss   3.6 lb).  Seed production
estimates are based on 60% of seed after ginning. These yields were
achieved in township areas selected for seed multiplication under the
proposed project.
/3  Unshelled groundnuts.
7&  Average yields in period 80/81 - 82/83 (viss/ac).



-51-
ANNEX 1
Page 6
The above yield estimates have been checked in discussions with farmers and
research and extension personnel in prospective seed multiplication areas and
are considered realistic. National yield averages for 1978/79 - 1982/83,
based on the Agricultural Corporation's statistical report (August 1983), are
shown for comparison.
Phasing for Seed Production
13.     In paddy and cotton the proposed project would extensively build on
the achievement of Seeds I, and it is expected that about 10 tons and 15
tons, respectively, of Foundation Seed would be available for use in PY 1
for Registered Seed production. Consequently, after production of Certified
Seed in PY 2, the targeted commercial areas to be sown with Fl Certified Seed
would be achieved in PY 3. Although pulses and groundnuts were not covered
in Seeds I, ARD farms have done preliminary work in variety maintenance and
in basic seed multiplication. It could, therefore, be reasonably expected
that the Seed Section of the proposed project would acquire the necessary
quantities of Foundation Seed, available at various ARD farms, before the
start of the growing season in PY 1 (9 tons of pulses and 31 tons of ground-
nuts), and would therefore phase further production as with paddy and cotton,
and have the first commercial crop in PY 3. Seed processing capacity would
be phased in somewhat more slowly, due to extensive civil works, and would be
able to cover 16Z of produced seed in PY 4, 50X in PY 5 and 100% in PY 6.
it is anticipated that farmers would on average exchange their seed every
fourth year, with the exception of cotton, which- would be renewed annually.
Variety Development Prospects
14.    The prospects for release of new varieties are very good in rice and
cotton, and foundations for a sound pulse and groundnut breeding -program have
been laid as well. The ongoing rice variety improvement program supported by
an IRRI team at ARI and carried out in Yezin and Hmawbi is particularly
strong, as documented by the release of 12 lowland varieties and another
seven varieties for other ecological conditions over the past ten years
(1972/73 to 1982/83). In cotton, a number of promising cultivars have been
recently identified through introduction, hybridization and selection at ARI
and at Lungyaw Central Farm. So far, the most successful varieties (Lungyaw
and Yezin) have been based an Stoneville 213 and SRT-1. In groundnuts, good
variety screening and selection work is being done at ARI, while the main
thrust of variety development work is at Magwe, where most of the popular
varieties have been screened and developed (Sp-121, Magwe 9, 10, 11 and 12).
Work at ARI in pulses has started only recently, but very respectable collec-
tions of chick pea, pigeon pea and mung bean have been acquired, mainly in
cooperation with ICRISAT, and release of improved varieties is expected
within two to three years. The breeding work at ARD Central Farm at Mahlaing
(strengthened under Seeds I and one of the proposed sources of Breeder seed
for this project) would include butter beans in addition to the above pulses.
Some variety screening work is also expected to be done at Letpadan Central
Farm. Actual recommended varieties include Yezin 1 and Palenet in mung bean;
Karachi in chick pea; butter bean Mahlaing Flat, Madagascar and Cangaw; and
the pigeon pea variety Yezin 1. Further details on variety development are
available in the PIV, Attachment 17.



BURMA
SECOND SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sunmary Accounts by Year - Project Costs
Totals Includinr Contingencies                       Totals Including Contingencies
(KYATS '000)                                          (US$ '000)
85/86    86/87    87/88    88/89    89/90    Total      85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90   Total
ine_:inl 5S:::=: 3:gau::   S:::u:e: :u:u:a::  urn:::::: 333333. 3333333 _:S-::: inZ:-:::-:::    *-----3
It INYE87ENT COSTS
A. FARR DEVIOPHENT                       2,550.7  26557.2  2,960.2  1.229.8        -   9t297,9   289.8  290.6  336A4  139.7           -  1i056.6
8. CIVIL ORKS                              539.3 12t230*2 22,036.0 28,400.4 18,709,2  Bli,95.1     61.3 1389.98 2.504,1 3,227.3 2t126.0  9,308.5
C. MACINJERY I EQUIPMENT                   596.7 15,452.7 12,847.0 18,959.9 24,069.0  71924.3    67.8 1,756.0 l,459*9 2,154.4 2.735,1  8,173.2
D, YEHICLES AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT         7,696.0  5533.5  1,179.0   384.5         -  14,792.9    874.5  628.8   134.0   43.7         -  16891.0
Total INVESTENT COSTS                      11,382.7 35,73.6 39,022.2 48,973.5 42,778.2 177,930.2  1,293.5 4,065.2 49434.3 5,565.2 4,861.2 20,219.3
..XXX==Z  NM2mnzmaxzmczm  2==2224  22-2223:222-3                       =zu  M-2uzazzzZZ
Il. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALRIES                              2,177.5  29984,5  3,474,6  4,067.9  4,725.9  17,430.4   247.4  339.1   394.8  462.3  537.0  1,980.7
I. CIYIL VORKS                             68.5    168.9    436.7   850.3  1,542.8  3,067.1        7.8    19.2   49.6   96.6  175.3   348.5
C. NACHIINERY AND EWUIPHENT               266.5   625.9    775.7  1,242.9  2,302.9   5t213.9    30.3    71.1   88.1   141.2  261.7   592.5
DB INUTS AKD MATERIALS                  1,293.2  2,016.0  2,183.6 46306.7  9,011.6  18011.1    147.0  229.1   248,1   489.4 1024.0  2,137.6
Es NISCELLPNEOUS COSTS                    162.4  2.396&4  2,592.5  2,917.8  3,068,9  11,037.9     19,5  272.3  294,6  320,2  348.7  1,254.3
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTACE AND TRAINING    10749#3  4,465.9  4,907.3  4918999  1291.2  16,593.6    199.8  507.5  557,6  476.1   145.6  1,885,6
6. VECHIULES AND OfFICE EQUIPfENT          74.6    124.9   190.2    206,9   225.5    822.1         8,5   14,2    21,6   23.5   25,6    93.4
Total RECURRENT COSTS                       5,792.0 12M782.4 14,54606 17,682.2 22,158.9  72,976.1    658.2 1,452.6 1,654,6 29009,3 2,519.0  8P9.7
33---3 -33- -3X-- 333 3333333                                   *_:_= -:=---: --C= 3::_-  a
Total PROACT COSTS                          17,174.7 48556.0 53,582.9 66,655.8 64,937.0 250,906.3  1,951.7 5,517.7 6,089.0 7Y574,5 7,379.2 28,512.1
:33333.3         -=3        3- ---- -  =3-- : --::-:---- -33= ------- --::::- =::::s:-  :------- --- -----
_ _ _   _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _     _ _   ......................................................   _ _ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _  _ _ _ ____    _ , _   ..............................................................         _ _ _ _ _   _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __e_ _ _



BURMA
SECOND SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ProJect Coeponents bs Year
(KYATS '000)
Base Costs                            Total
85/86    86/87    87/88    88/89    89/90         KYATS   (US$ '000)
:::::::: ::::::z --:: == 2= =2  ====                       =   = ===
A. SEED PROCESSING AND STORAGE               289.0  4.613o1 264833.4  36,096.8 359404,.5  103,237,2   11,731.5
3. SEEED M0DUCTION                         4,621.6 22,510.8  5,242.8  3.729.9  2,734.9   38,840.0    4,413.6
C. RESEARCH                                2,001.3  4,097.3  1.013.1  1,026.8  1,072.6    9,211*2    1,046.7
D. QUALITY CONTROL                         3,058.9  3o279.0  10935,2    935.9    935,9   10,144.8    1.152.8
E. ORGANIZATION I MANAGEMENT               3,987.7  3,914.8  2.557.2  2,842.7  2,557.2   15,659.6    1,779.5
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING    2,219.8  4M0OM5  4.153,3  3,266.4    924,8   14.653.7    i.665,2
Total BASELINE COSTS                        164079#3 42,404#5 41,735.4 47,998#4 43t629&8  191,746,5   21,789.4                                        Ll
Physical Contingencies                      522.2  1,303.1  2,417.7  2,760.1  2,019.4    9,022o6    1,025.3
Price Contindencies                         574.1  49849,4  99429,7 15.997.2 19,287.9   50,137.2    5t697.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                         179174.7 489556,0 534582,8 66,655.8 64U937.0  250,906.3   29,512.1
Taxes                                     3,368.6  89160.9  5,601.8  6,648.1  8,371.0   32,150,5    3,653.5
Foreign Exchange                          5,067,9 220721M4 18,760.6 22,4612 25724,9   970735.?   11P106#3
_---------------------- __ _----- - _---____-_  _         _         _       _       _ _



-54-
AMNEX 4
,BMM
SECOND SBUD DEmELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursements Schedule
(US$ Million)
IDA Fiscal Year and
Ocarter           During Quarter            Cumulative
FY 86
3rd                       0.2                      0.2
4th                       0.3                      0.5
FY 87
1st                       0.5                      1.0
2ud                       0.5                      1.5
3rd                       0.6                      2.1
4th                       0.6                      2.7
FY 88
lot                       0.8                      3.5
2nd                       0.9                      4.4
3rd                       1.0                      5.4
4th                       1.1                      6.5
FY 89
lst                       1.1                      7.6
2nd                       1.1                      8.7
3rd                       0.9                      9.6
4th                       0.9                     10.5
FY 90
1st                       0.7                     11.2
2nd                       0.6                     11.8
3rd                       0.5                     12.3
4th                       0.4                     12.7
FY 91
1st                       0.4                     13.1
2nd                       0.3                     13.4
3rd                       0.3                     13.7
4th                       0.2                     13.9
FT 92
1st                       0.2                     14.1
2nd                       0.2                     14.3
3rd                       0.1                     14.4
4th                       0.1                     14.5



-55-
ANNEX 5
BUN
SEtCOND SEED DEVELOPMET PROJECT
Official Procurement and Free Market Prices for Crops (1984)
(As of 1984)
Free Narket
Official Procurement Prices          Prices /6
I/lb /1        K/basket /2           K/lb
Paddy /3
Ngasein         0.19-0.21-0.23   9.00- 9.90-10.60
Meedone         0.20-0.22-0.23   9.40-10.00-10.60
Ngakywe         0.23-0.26-0.28  10.90-12.00-13.00      0.33-0.43
amata (KV)      0.21-0.23-0.24   9.55-10.50-11.25
Emata (Spec.)   0.22-0.25-0.27  10.35-11.40-12.20
Other Crous
Medium Staple
Cotton /4          1.94           7/viss /5              -
Nung bean            0.69              50                 0.97
Pigeon pea           0.49              35                 0.69
Butter bean          0.43              30                 0.72
Chick pea             -                  -                1.00
Groundnut                                                 3.20
(unshelled)
/1 Figures rounded and might not add up.
12 For paddy basket is 46 lbs, for mung bean and pigeon pea 72 lbs, for
butter beans and chick peas 69 lbs, and for groundnuts 25 lbs.
13 Official prices for ordinary grade, grade II and grade I respectively.
In over 95Z of cases paddy is purchased as ordinary grade.
A   Official prices for seed cotton.
15 Viss. is 3.6 lbs.
16 Average prices reported by farmers during field visits.
Source: AFPTC, TIC.



SECOND SED IIEELOIIN  MRACT
ECONOIC RETt1RN TO THlE SEED SECTION SICTATS TIJSANDS)
1961    1996    I"?7  199    299    1990   199    19M           1993 1994-1996    1997    199        1999     00      2001    2002    2003    2004
IWYE9TENT COSTS
FARN REWLOPIINT                           1919.0  1772.0  10999.0  730,0       -               -       -        --                -        -        -        -- -  -                       -191.00
CIVIL IIIRS                                 W09.   9405.0 13994.0 16751.0 10157,0      -               -        --                 -       -        -        -        -                --24354.0
W.CINEIRY MID EOJIPMENT                     WO7.    9217,0  72O4.   97490 11526.0       -      -     7.0  6126.0          -        -       -      7.0  9017.0         -  6335,0  306.60 -15179.0
'JEHICLES NM  EQUJIPMENT                  4613,0   3163,0  400%0  208,0        -       - 3140,0  2069,0   713,0-  3740.0  2019.0                    -        -        -  3740.0  -2222.0  -2222.
TOTAL INWSTIENT COSTS                     7307,0  22559,0 23557.0 27563,0 21663,0         3740,0  2096.0   9539.0        -3740.0  2069o0          7.0  9017,0        -10075.0  6394o0 -41945.0
INCRENNTAL R[CUF*ENT COSTS
SALARIES                                  165l,0  2077.0  2241.0  2444.0  2640,0  2628,0  2628.0  2629,0  2626.0   2629.0  2629.0   2629.0  2628.0  2628.0   2626.0  2629.0   2629,0   2629.0
O 1 H FOR CIVIL MORS                        43.0   109.0  266.0  476.0  762,0  762,0  762.0  762.0   762.0    762,0   762t0   762.0   762.0   762.0   762,0   762.0   742,0   7MO.
0 A N FOR MCHIIRY MD EGUIPENT              190.0   434,0  491,0  719,0  1199,0  2201,0  Ms 2201.0      2201,0   2201.0   2201,0   2201,0  2201. 0  2201. 0   2201.0   2201.0   2201,0   2201.0   201.
O 1 N FOR YEHICLES MID OFFICE EOUIPIEN'T    37.0    60.0   79.0   79.0   79.0   79,0   79,0   79.0    79,0             79,0    79,0    7960    79.0    79.0    71,0    79.0    79,0    79.0
INPUTS AND MATERIALS                      1191,0  1736.0  1739.0  3055.  5772.0  9566.0  9566,0  9566,0  956O.   9566,0  9566,0    WOO6,   9564.0  9566.    WO66.   9566.   9566.   9566
MISCELLANEOUS                              123,0  2150.0  2150.0 2150.0  2150,0  2150.0  2150.0  2130%0  2150.0    2150,0   2150,0  2150.0   2150.0  2150.0   2150.0  2150,0  2150,0  2150,0               U
011
MOAING CAPITAL FOR SEED PRIIESSINO          77.0  1234.0  1250.0  1322.0  1458,0  1616.0  1616.0  1616,0  1616.0   1616,0  1616.0  1616.0  1616.0  5616.0  1616.0  1616.0  1616,0  1616.0 
TECHUICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING         1675.0  4018,0  4089.0  3224,0  916,0  916,0  916.0  916.0   916,0    916,0   916,0   916.0   916.0   916.0   916.0   916.0   916.0   916.0
TOTAL JNCEINTAL RECLI1ANT COSTS           4 OO94.0    Os 1110I2313.0 13471,0 14965.0 19916.0 19919.0 19919.0  19916.0  19919.0  t1991.0  19919.0  19919.0  19919.0  19919.0  1991910  19919.0  1991,04
TOTAL INREENTAL COSTS
TOTAL INCREETAL COSTS                    12301.0  34377.0 35670,0 41034,0 36649.0 19919,0 23659.0 22014.0  29457.0  19915.0  23656.0  22007.0  19925.0 23935.0  1918.0  29993,0  26302,0 -22027,0
INCREETAL KNEITS
RIlm-                                                     16420.0 26220.0 30209.0 40201,0 53770, 6700290  73575.   73575.  735750  735750  73575,0  73575.   73575.0  73575.0  7357,0  73575.
COTTON                                         -           7940o017667,0 1740. 17313. 17n13, 1n s 7313,01130   17313.0  17313,0  17313.0  17313.0  17n13.  1n13.  17313.  17n13.0  17313.0
MIUEMI                                         -        -120.  1990.0  2333,0  3222.  4602,0  5996.00 6444i    64440s 6 6444 6444.0O  6444.0  6444.0  644.   6444.0O  6444,0  6444.
IIJTTERUAN-                                                 544.0  916.0  930.  1253.0  1170.0  2296.0  2510.0   2510.0  2510.0  2510,0  2510.0  2510.0  2510.0  2510.0  2510,0  2510.0
PI9EWA                                                      MOO25.   42OO  40660   W57O  979.0  1202.0  1314.0   1314,0  1314.0  1314.0  2314,0  1314.0  1314.0  1314.0  1314,0  131400
OIICICMA                        -        - ~~~~~~~~~~1340.0 20090  2290.  M090.   4606.0  5654.0   6179,0    6179.0   6179,0  6179.0  6179.0   6179.0   6179.0  6179.0  6179.0   6171.0
TOTAL INCEENAL KmiEFS                                  - 37719.0 49129,0 93736.  65736.0 65340.  ff39 Q  ,0 107  35.0 107=35,   107335.0   1073350 17o, 107335,0 107335.0 107335s0 107335,0 1073350
INCEJEIIAL NET KWITS                    -12301.0 -34377.0  1649,0  6095, 17090. 45616.0 61662.0 77339.0  77978.0  97417.0  93677. 06529.0  7410,0  7400.  97417.0  773420 61033, 129362.



-57-
ANNEX 7
Page 1
BURMA
SECOND SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA IN TEE PROJECT FILE
I. Proiect Implementation Volume
Attachment 1.   1983-84 Crop Areas and Production of Project Crops by State
and Division
Attachment 2.  Rice Production in 1982-83 by State and Division
Attachment 3.   Rice Production by Grain Type in 1982-83, Grain Type
Characteristics
Attachment 4.  Major IYV and Special Emata Varieties in 1982-83
Attacbment 5.  Major Rice Varieties by Grain Type
Attachment 6.   Summary of Certified Seed Production in Vicinity of ARD Farms
Attacbment 7.   Summary of Registered Seed Production at ARD Farms
Attachment 7a. Seed Production Summary -- All Crops and Seed Multiplication
Stages
Attachment 8.   Rice Seed Production Projections
Attachment 9.  Cotton Seed Production Projections
Attachment 10. Pulse Seed Production Projections
Attachment 11. Groundnut Seed Production Projections
Attacbment 12. Typical Crop Growing and Processing Calendar of Crops
Attachment 13. Phasing Proposed for Improved Seed Production
Attachment 14. Estimates of Incremental Production frcm Certified Seed
Attachment 15. Field Certification Areas and Staff Requirements
Attachment 16. Proposed Field and Seed Standards of Crops



-58-
AUNIX 7
Page 2
Attachment 17. Variety Development Work of Project Crops
Attachment 18. Labor Requirement Estimates for One Acre of Crop in Mbdays
Attachment 19. One Acre Budgets of Project Crops
Attachment 20. Footnotes to One Acre Budgets
Attachment 21.  Contract Between Seed Growers and Extension Division
Attachment 22.  Incremental Cost of ULV Spraying
Attachment 23.  Assumptions for Calculating Air-Conditioning and Cold Storage
Attachment 24. Draft TOR of Senior Rice Researchl/maagement Specialist
Attachment 24a. Draft TOR of Seed Processing Specialist
Attachment 24b. Draft TOR of Farm Management Specialist
Attachment 25.  Example Floor Plan of Seed Testing Laboratory
Attachment 26.  Representative Mean Rainfall and Temperature Data
Attrachment 27.  Typical Rainfall Patterns of Lower and Upper Burma
Attachment 28.  Training Under Seeds I -- Seed Production
Attachment 29. Training Under Seeds I -  Research
Attachment 30. Training Under Other Projects
Attachment 31.  Official Procurement and Free Market Prices for Outputs
(1984)
Attachment 32.  Incentives to Farmers for Use of Certified Seed
Attachment 33.  Economic Analysis Assumptions
Attachment 33a. Financial Analysis Asaimptions
Attachment 34.  Economic Prices -  Paddy
Attachment 35.  Economic Prices -  Seedcotton
Attachment 36.  Economic Prices -- Cottonseed
Attacbment 37.  Economic Prices -  Nungbean



-59-
m7
Page 3
Attachment 38. Seed Processing and Storage (Including Layouts for all
Categories of Proposed Processing Plants)
Attachment 39. Description of Current Procurement Procedures for
Equipment and Machinery
Attachment 40. Farm Development
Attachment 41. Organigram of Seed Section's Implementation Unit
Attachment 42. Organigram of Seed Section's Seed Quality Control Unit
Attachment 43. Organigram of Seed Section"s Budget and Administration Unit
Attachment 44. Detailed Project Cost Tables
_I. ReDorts
1. Report of the Burma Seed II Project Preparation Mission
(FAO/CP, 1983)
2. Five-Year Development Program 1983/84 to 1987/88
(Ninistry of Planning and Finance, 1982)
3. Report to the Pyithu Eluttaw for 1983f84
(Ninistry of Planning and Finance, 1983)
4. Production Situation of Sone Important Crops in Burma
(Ministry of Agriculture and Forests, 1983)
5. Agricultural Statistics 1977-78, 1978-79 and 1979-80 (1981)
6. Rice Production in Burma 1962/63 to 1982/83
(Ministry of Agriculture and Forests, 1983)
7. ARD Annual Research Report 1978-79
8. AD Annual Research Report 1979-80
9. Agricultural Research Report 1983-84 (in Burmese, English Abstracts)
10. Rainfall Graphs of Research Stations (1983)



BURMA
SECOND SEEDEDLOIMENT PROJECT
- O~
I!. -' ' | l -  - AM a-  a - --- --
Gm                                                      HKW                                 HB-
-     -    -     -    -     -     -     -    -     -     - - - - - - - -G   -  -- G
1  5d IW:f                 Qrz  Co*,i, a^w 
1e1~~~~~~~~ PI cl AkM:;l
GM  -D Gwwa    w
_GM Abnft -urmo Mm mW
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ bd   ,tD a**    I,_2



BURMA
SECOND SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Certified Seed Productlon Unit
DGMI
Ce,iemd Seed
Production
CettUbd Seed  I                             Seed Process ng                                  EngirgEn
Growing &    |& Staoge                                                                    Maintenance
Piocurwrnt (5)                                      1                                              )
r DAGM                             NU hoLn                   Chd
(Plont Manno n)                       Engineer               Enginew 
(15) i(2)                                                (1)
Electrical
junbof Seeds                                                                    Engree              S V&eyor Droftman
.         .                          _w                                        Mechanics             CMI Wadfs
(6) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~()Foernon (3)
Fleld Inspectors                   FbId Ingtors              Pln                 supr X  - IYff         km st
(Procureyent)                    (1Quality Control)        Operators             Support Staf          S        Saf
(30)                              (15)                   (89)                   (16)                   (4)
Note:
'Likely locotion: Mandobly, Rangoon. Mogwe, Pegu, IrrawoddV DMslon
2 Maja woaksop located at Lungww & Hmawb
3 Located at Headquarters Rangoon.
4 Nuber of operators depond$ on plant COpacity.
s Soconded from Quality Control Unit.                                                                 Word San*-26614



BURMA
SECOND SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seed Processing Plants - Implmenftaton Schedule
FY1                       PY2                        PY3                         PY4
Location        omuAon           (P1 '1917)                 (FY 196748)                (FY M9   )                  (FY 1909.90)
A M J J5.1  lo,N,D| JF M  A M J J A   O ND JFM  AM J JAS  OND JFM  AMJ JAI OND JFM
r2  t                       di'  I                A1 ,/ /       .r                 //    / I
Mmingmya roW    L //,              /  /  /                  / y                        /////
.Kunghon   l  ,.__,, ffawodd  _     ,,,,, ,  ,,
Aunglon          Magwe                                               g i  l ass If a   Is ///,-,/ 
. .       / it //       .            t/  /// /                  / /// /                    *   {{
Kyomon           Sogaing                                        /                        // ,_/
Kodoce           Pegu                              - _,                                    i n _"/ ///  /
Poungde          Pu/   /'III,js                                                     r/   v /
Potheingyl       Morndolay      ///./                                                 '////k,
rolkky          Rongoon                                       / -                      I- ///  u   u
Htn-wbl          Rongoon                                                          f  o   -1; X     |*||"    'oiei   les *g1 *g *"s i  8 ' 
I /,///  /                V
Sintgo9ng        Mandc       b        /                                      ////  _
Legend:
S Finol Plont Oesigns                         _    _        -_  _  Site irwesolgolbn & CMI Woks Designs
_ _              Equipmont Tender. Award Controct. & Estoblish  IIUIIIhUIhEIIiil Costuction PldPeriMoln Plant uidng
Letter of Credit.                          -          -   I '    ConstrutIbn Perod otme Works
Delhevy& Shipment Period                                   Rolnyboson
u      -     m lnstollotlon & Testng
Wold Bonk-27424



I ~~~  r    '.*b                  -              .\ '
INDIA                                           -         i
~ ARD HEDQtJARTES                   %CH                   A
N~~~~~~~
U   ARD CENTRAL FARMS                               .1   >                 D
'J  ARCI SEED FARMS                                        -
a IMPROWED GROUNDNUT STORES                       i      p
A ARI HEADQUARTERIS                               \      \>                   zx
- MYITTHA MODERN COTTON GINNERY                           \              :
r SEED PROCESSYNG PlANTS\ 
n   REGIONAL SEED TES71NG LAEORATORIES                                       R
MAJOR ROADS                               
- RAILWAYS                                               / 
RIVERS                                                i     -
r --IOHIYETS i. INCHES                                / 
STATE w DIVISION BOUNDARIE5S9 
I-NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                    \ 
ELEVATIONS i. METERSt
0 - tSO                                                     if
151 -1200
1201 - AbVEr                                                      ____
M-L15      *       -                                        /       _'______
4.-  ^nss  o 90 ,go s50 { -~~,~ ~
92                  ARO HEAQUA-ER



