D.cument of
The World Bank
FOR omFuCL USE ONLY
Rqp.t No  P-4099-BA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 14.63 MILLION
TO THE
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
FOR A
SECOND SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 30, 1985
Ths documen ha a resatcd IstIbtion  d may be md by redpienR 43y In t,e perno    Of 4d
dm*r ofalM dutes Ds lob ens ny nR  oerDise be discosed wihou Wodd Bank sthuoraizao



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Kyat (K)
US$1   =   K 8.80
K 1   =   US$0.11
Value of Kyat is tied to SDR and floats against US dollar.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 mile (mi)            =  1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)            =  0.405 hectares (ha)
1 metric ton (ton)     =  1,000 kilograms
Burmese Units               English/US Units       Metric Units
1 viss                           3.6 lb               1.633 kg
1 basket rice                   75   lb              34     kg
1 basket paddy                  46   lb              20.9   kg
I basket groundnut:
shelled                56   lb             25.5   kg
in-shell               25   lb             11.4   kg
1 basket butter bean,
chick pea                   69   lb              31.4   kg
I basket mung bean,
pigeon pea                  72   lb              32.7  kg
ABBREVIATIONS
AC      -  Agricultural Co...poration
AFPTC   -  Agricultural and Farm Produce Trade Corporation
ARD     -  Applied Research Division (AC)
ARI     -  Agricultural Research Institute (AC)
ED      -   Extension Division (AC)
GOB     -   Government of Burma
HQV     -   High Quality Varieties
HYV     -   High Yielding Varieties
ICB     -   International Competitive Bidding
IDA     -   International Development Association
IRRI    -   International Rice Research Institute
M       -   Million
MAB     -  Hyanma Agricultural Bank
NSC     -   National Seed Committee
SQC     -   Seed Quality Control
TIC     -   Textile Industries Corporation
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Programme
WTEP    -   Whole Township Exteusion Program
BURMESE FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFIC:IAL USE ONLY
GIOSSARY OF SEED MLTIPLIC&TION TERMS
Pre-Basic Seed           Pre-basic seed is the plant breeders' materials
before reaching the Breeder Seed stage.
Basic Seed               Basic seed is a summary term for Breeder, Foundation,
and Registered Seed.
Breeder Seed             is produced under the direct control of a plant
(first generation)      breeding institution (in this project, for example,
the Applied Research Division) and is the source for
production of all later seed generations.
Foundation Seed          is the progeny of Breeder Seed bandled so as to
(second generation)     maintain specific genetic purity and identity.
Ramistered Seed          is the-progeny of Foundation Seed handled so as to
(third generation)      maintain satisfactory genetic purity and identity.
Certified Seed           is the progeny of Registered Seed handled so as to
(fourth generation)     maintain satisfactory genetic purity and identity
and deemed acceptable by a certifying agency.
LThis dument has a rtricd ditibution and may be usd by cpients only in the performnc 
of tei oficd dute Its contents may not otherwse be discksed without Word Bank auwoih ion..



BURMA
SECOND SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:           The Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
Beneficiara:        Agricultural Corporation (AC) of Ministry of Agriculture
aud Forests
Amount:              Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 14.63 million
(Us$14.5 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard
Project Objectives  The proposed project vould build on the institutional and
and Description:   infrastructural achievements of the first Seed Development
Project (Cr. 745-BA) successfully completed in December 1984.
The first project concentrated on creating a viable seed
production institution with a modest infrastructure to
produce two seed crops - paddy and cotton. The proposed project
would cover five additional priority crops, expand into nev
geographic areas, and introduce seed quality control up to the -
multiplication of the last generation of seed (Certified Seed).
The proposed project would also strengthen and expand the
existing seed handling institutions in order to establish a
comprehensive seed processing and distribution system. The
project would achieve this objective by fully developing
12 existing Government farms for basic seed production.
For the last generation of seed, the project would organize a
seed multiplication structure with at least 17,000 private
farmers participating as contract seed growers. It would
further expand and strengthen seed quality control and
increase the seed processing capacity through installation of
new processing plants, including drying and storage. An
important technical assistance and training component would
further ensure institutional strengthening through specific
technical consultancies, as well as formal and in-service training.
Risks:              The project would have no adverse environmental effects.
Hovever, the two maiu risks that the project would face
are:
(i)  The availabilty of suitably qualified manpower.
The risk that such manpower would not be available would
be mitigated by the provision of a comprehensive manpower
training and technical assistance program included under
the proposed project.



-si-
(ii) In the absence of a satisfactory seed procurement system
there is a risk that field certified seed can be sold on
the open market as commercial grain. Our experience
under the Seed I project and our review of Burmese
production and procurement arrangements indicates that
such a risk would be minimal.. Moreover any such risk
would be mitigated by introducing additional seed producer
incentives should there be a significant shortfall on
procurement targets.
Estimated Cost:
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Local jj Foreikn Total 21
Seed Processing and Storage            8.0       3.7     11.7
Seed Production                        2.7       1.7      4.4
Research                               0.8       0.3      1.0
Quality Control                        0.7       G.4      1.2
Organization and Management            0.5       1.3      1.8
Technical Assistance and Training      0.1       1.5      1.7
Base Cost                             12.8       8.9     21.8
Physical Contingencies                 0.8       0.2      1.0
Price Contingencies                    3.7       2.0      5.7
Total Project Cost                    17.4      11.1     28.5
Financinz Plan:
(USS Million Equivalent)
Local ForeiRn Total
IDA                                    5.3      9.2     14.5
Government                            12.0 1/   -       12.0
UNDP                                   0.1      1.9      2.0
Total                             17.4    11.1      28.5
1/ Includes taxes and duties of US$3.7 million equivalent.
2/ Some figures do not add up due to rounding.



-lll-
Estimated
Disbursement:
-(US$ Million Equivalent)         --
IDA FY          1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
Annual           0.5    2.2    3.8    4.0    2.2    1.2    0.6
Cumulative       0.5    2.7    6.5   10.5   12.7   13.9   14.5
Economic Rate
of Return:    48Z
Staff Appraisal
Report:        Report No. 5264-BL dated May 23, 1985
Kai) No.         IBRD No. 18275



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
FOR A SECOND SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
Development Credit to the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma for
Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) 14.63 million (US$14.5 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms to help finance a Second Seed Development Project. The
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has agreed to provide US$2.0
million equivalent to finance technical assistance and training.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      The latest economic report entitled, "Burma:  Priorities for
Continued Growth" (Report No. 3852-BA, dated May 7, 1982) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on May 10, 1982. An economic mission visited Burma
in August 1983. The findings of that mission are included in this section.
Country data are presented in Annex I.
3.      The present leadership of Burma assumed the responsibilities of
government in 1962, and vested authority in a revolutionary council.
Thereafter, a Constitution was adopted in a nationwide referendum in December
1973, creating the Pyithu Hluttaw (People's Assembly) with supreme executive,
legislative, and judicial authority. The Burma Socialist Program Party
(BSPP) was confirmed as the only authorized political party. The
Government's guiding philosophy, stated in the 1962 document entitled "The
Burmese Way to Socialism" reflects a combination of traditional Burmese
values and socialist doctrine. Despite the apparent political stability of
Burma's leadership, insurgency is a problem in large tracts of the country.
4.      The Government's economic development strategy is summarized in the
Twenty-Year Plan adopted in 1972. The Government's main economic objectives
are to foster economic growth within the context of a socialist system, to
enhance economic strength and self-sufficiency through transformation from an
agricultural to an agriculture-based indusErial society, to eliminate
unemployment, and to reduce income disparities.
5.      The publication of the Twenty-Year Plan was followed by a wide range
of reforms and policy changes, the most important of which has been the
introduction in 1976 of two major taxes. These tax measures, accompanied by
a round of price and tariff increases, helped restore the country's public
finance to a sound basis. To encourage the state sector to operate more
efficiently, the Government also introduced in 1974 a new financial system



-2-
for the State Economic Enterprises (SEEs) and authorized greater managerial
authority and work incentives for them.
6.      In the area of agriculture, the Government launched in the mid-1970s
a successful intensification program for paddy (Whole Township Extension
Program). Now extended to 50% of total paddy-sown land, the program has
combined improved availability of inputs (improved seeds and fertilizers) and
a greatly expanded and strengthened extension service with skillfully
orchestrated institutional and political support at the township level to
spread a uniquely Burmese version of the "Green Revolution".
7.      In part as a result of these measures, and in part as a result of
generally favorable weather conditions, improving terms of trade and
increased flows of concessional foreign aid, Burma made impressive
economic progress during its Second and Third Four Year Plan periods
(1974/75-1981/82). Real gross domestic product (GDP) grew by an annual
average of 62 during the 1974/75-1981/82 period, compared with 2.7% in the
previous decade. Gross fixed capital formation increased as a share of GDP
from 10 in 1974/75 to 20% in 1981/82; the share of domestic savings in GDP
similarly increased from 11% to 17% over the same period. Significant
improvements in the Government's budgetary position also occurred during this
period, allowing the Government to reduce its dependence on borrowings from
the domestic banking system. This, in turn, contributed to a reduction in
the rate of inflation.
8.      However, as Burma entered into the Fourth Four-Year Plan period in
1982/83, the previously optimistic outlook on the economy was altered by an
abrupt deterioration in the country's balance of payments. The current
account deficit as a share of GDP widened from 4Z in 1980/81 to about 6X in
1981/82 and to 9% in 1982/83; the overall payments balance worsened from a
surplus of US$33 million in 1980/81 to a deficit of US$103 million in
1982/83. The major causal factor for this downturn was a 22X decline in
Burma's terms of trade between 1981/82 and 1982/S3, attributable principally
to a sharp drop in the international price of rice. While import volumes
have been growing faster than export volumes since the mid-1970s to support
rapidly expanding public sector investments, the resource gap did not widen
significantly until 1982/83 because of favorable export prices in earlier
years.
9.      The deterioration in the terms of trade underscored the basic struc-
tural weakness of the economy, namely, its dependence on two primary
commodities, rice and teak, for export earnings and public revenues.
Government revenue which had shown steady growth through 1981/82, declined in
1982/83, reflecting a sharp drop in contributions from the Export Price
Equalization Fund. With SEE capital expenditures growing at a fast pace, the
overall deficit in the consolidated public sector budget continued to widen
from 9% of GDP in 1980/81 to 11 in 1982/83. Though a good part of the
deficit has been financed by foreign loans and grants, borrowings from the
domestic banking system also increased steadily.
10.     Faced with a tight budgetary situation and a severe shortage of
foreign exchange, the Government's immediate concern was stabilization. In
1983/84, imports had to be reduced sharply to prevent further drawdown of
reserves. Capital expenditures by the SEEs were curtailed through rephasing



-3-
and consolidation of their investment programs. On the other hand, no new
revenue initiatives were taken. Hence, despite efforts to contain growth of
expenditure, the budgetary deficit continued to widen. Over the next few
years, the Government would need to continue to curtail expenditures; this
restraint should help significantly loosen the pressure on the balance of
payments.
11.     In the longer run, the Government's most important objective should
be to achieve high real GDP growth while maintaining domestic price
stability. New and wide-ranging initiatives would need to be taken in the
area of domestic resource mobilization to enable the Government to maintain
the level of public expenditures compatible with high growth without rapid
increases in domestic borrowings.
12.    Moreover, if Burma is to sustain high GDP growth, the initiatives
for stepping up domestic resource mobilization would need to be supported
by equally ambitious undertakings to increase export earnings. Agricultural
products now make up 80X of Burma's merchandise exports, with rice accounting
for as much as 50% of total agricultural exports. Given this export con-
centration and considerable uncertainties about Burma's future-rice export
earnings, the Government's medium-to-longer term objective should be to
generate larger exportable surpluses of crops other than rice and teak to
help broaden the country's export base. Recognizing this, the Government has
in recent years, shifted the focus of its agricultural strategy away from
paddy to expanding the production of other crops. In the shorter term,
however, the Burmese economy is expected to continue to rely heavily on rice
and teak. Priority should be given to upgrading the quality of rice and
improving the handling and distribution of teak, both for export.
13.    Burma's debt service ratio (including IMF repurchases) increased from
25% in the 1980/81 to 35Z in 1983/84, due primarily to a substantial increase
in the latter part of 1970s in loans from private financial institutions and
suppliers' credits. By March 1934, Burma's external public debt, disbursed
and outstanding, was approximately US$2.2 billion. The prospects for exports
over the medium-term are not favorable.  According to World Bank price
projections, Burma's terms of trade, which had deteriorated during the past
two years, would recover only gradually over the next five years. To contain
the country's already high debt service burden, it is essential that external
assistance continue to be on concessionary terms.
14.     Burma is potentially one of the richest countries in South Asia.
Apart from an impressive natural resource base, it is endowed with a rela-
tively healthy and literate population. The crucial issue is the quality
with which these resources will be managed and developed. The World Bank
continues to discuss with the Government its external assistance requirements
and measures for further improvements in economic management which would help
Burma realize its promising potential for economic development. Discussions
on these topics are carried on jointly with other donors and the IMF during
the Burma Aid Group-meetings which the World Bank has organized at the
Government's request. The first meeting of the Group was held on
November 30, 1976, in Tokyo; and there have been four subsequent meetings,
with indications of increasing donor support each year.



-4-
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
15.    Burma became a member of IBRD in 1952, IFC in 1956, and IDA in 1962.
Between 1956 and 1961, IBRD made three loans, totalling about US$33 million,
for the transport sector: one loan helped finance the Port of Rangoon's
reconstruction of cargo berths and storage facilities and procurement of
cargo-handling and port equipment, and two loans helped finance reconstruc-
tion and dieselization of the railways.
16.     No lending was requested between 1962 and 1972.  IDA lending resumed
in 1973, and since then, 25 credits totalling about US$663.1 r-illion equiv-
alent (net of cancellations) have been made. About 56% of this assistance
was for 15 projects in the agriculture sector: provision for irrigation
pumps, two rubber rehabi'litation projects, livestock development, seed
development, two paddyland development projects, grain storage, two forestry
projects, two wood industries projects, the Kinda Dam multipurpose project, a
tank irrigation project, and a groundwater irrigation project. About 17% of
IDA assistance supported rehabilitation of the transport sector through five
projects, namely inland water transport, railways, two port projects, and a
road construction project. The remaining 27% of IDA assistance was for two
projects in the telecommunications sector (8Z), one project in the mining
sector (2U), a power project (12%), and a textile-finishing plant project
(5%). Seven credits have been fully disbursed. Initially, after resumption
of lending in 1973, disbursements were slow, but performance has improved
considerably as government agencies, such as the Irrigation Department, have
become more familiar with IDA procedures. In general, IDA-financed projects
have been carried out satisfactorily.  Annex II contains a summary statement
of IBED Loans and IDA Credits as of March 31, 1985. IFC has made no invest-
ments in Burma.
17.    In the past, lending was partly constrained by incomplete knowledge
of some economic sectors and a lack of adequately prepared projects. Through
ongoing projects and sector work, IDA has developed more detailed knowledge
of many sectors. UNDP has provided about 10 million in technical assistance
through three Umbrella Projects, for which IDA is the executing agency. This
technical assistance has developed a project pipeline suitable for exter-nal
financing in priority sectors, such as agriculture, transport, power, and
industry. Several IDA-supported projects, namely seed development, rubber
rehabilitation, power transmission, construction industry, third port, and
groundwater irrigation, were prepared under these Umbrella Projects.
Furthermore, IDA plans to continue its technical assistance on a project-by-
project basis to help further strengthen Burmese project preparation and
implementation capabilities, as well as administrative and managerial skills
of Burmese personnel through in-service and overseas training.
18.     IDA's country assistance strategy seeks to address Burma's immediate
economic development constraints (paragraphs 8-13) and has the following
objectives: (a) to help improve foreign earnings by supporting economically
viable export promotion and import substitution activities, improving produc-
tion of export commodities, currently teak and rice, and developing other
crops for export; (b) to help enhance Government's ability to mobilize domes-
tic resources; and (c) to assist in modernizing and strengthening important
institutions, especially in sectors in which IDA is involved.



-5-
19.     In this context, IDA assistance, particularly to the agriculture and
energy sectors, will emphasize broadening of the country's export base
through programs for diversifying agricultural production and developing and
exploiting the newly found gas and oil fields. Projects under preparation
include a grain storage project designed to improve the quality of exported
rice, and an irrigation project to rehabilitate priority irrigation systems,
initially for paddy production and later for other crops within a proposed
crop diversification program. Other projects include improvements in
infrastructure and development of gas and power, water supply, industry,
telecommunications and ports, mainly to rehabilitate and maximize utilization
of existing facilities.
20.     The World Bank currently accounts for about 15Z of Burma's total
external debt outstanding and about 1% of its debt service.  In five years,
the Bank Group's share in the total external debt is projected to rise to
about 20Z and its share in the debt service to about 2-3%.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
21.     Agriculture, including forestry, livestock, and fisheries, is the
dominant sector of the Burmese economy. In 1983, it accounted for about
48% of GDP, employed 66% of the labor force, and produced over 802 of the
country's exports. In addition, agricultural crops, particularly paddy,
cotton, jute, and sugarcane, support more than 60% of the country's
industrial production.
22.     Rice is Burma's major agricultural and export commodity, as well as
a significant source of Government revenue derived through implicit taxation
from Government controlled pricing and exportation. Paddy is grown prin-
cipally as a single, low-land rainfed crop in the monsoon period. Some 12.5
M acres representing over 50% of the gross cultivated area are sown to paddy
annually. In 1982183, rice accounted for more than one-third of total
Agricultural output, and rice and rice products for 37% of all merchandise
exports. Other significant crops include sesame, pulses, groundnuts,
industrial crops such as jute and cotton, and cereals other than paddy.
23.     During the 1960s and early 1970s, value added in agriculture rose at
a modest rate of about 1.6Z per annum, well below the 2.2Z population growth.
Among factors contributing to the unsatisfactory performance were changes in
land policy, insufficient incentives to farmers, and initial failures of
imported high yielding varieties (HYVs) of paddy that proved ill-suited to
local conditions. In response, the Government introduced a series of policy
reforms in 1973/74, to improve incentives to farmers and provide for greater
flexibility in the agriculture sector: (i) procurement prices were substan-
tially increased; (ii) mandatory procurement quotas were reduced; (iii) some
commodities were decontrolled; (iv) a major tax and exchange rate reform was
introduced; and (v) foreign assistance was invited on an expanded scale to
develop the sector. In addition, emphasis was placed on developing and
promoting the use of HYVs suited to local conditions. These policies proved
successful as demonstrated by more than 7% annual growth of value added both
in agriculture and paddy production between 1974/75 and 1982/83.



-6-
Expansion of Paddy Production
24.     The main cause of the dramatic growth in Burmese agriculture since
the mid 1970s has been the Government's successful paddy intensification
campaign, known as the Whole Township Extension Program (WTEP), launched in
1975/76. The success of WTEP is founded on combined and improved
availability of inputs as well as a greatly expanded and strengthened exten-
sion service with institutional support at the township level. The spread of
paddy HYVs to cover 50X of the country's paddy area has been compared to the
"Green Revolution" occurring elsewhere in Asia.  Other factors, namely,
participation of the Peoples' Council in coordinating production and
procurement, the organization of production activities through a campaign-
type approach including the mobilization of the community to provide addi-
tional labor and the provision of consumer goods on a priority basis to
project areas to complement rising incomes, contributed to making the WTEP a
unique success. According to official statistics based on reporting from
Township Councils, average yields in townships covered by WTEP reached 1.4
tons/ac in 1981/82, compared to 1.0 ton in non-program townships. The com-
bined result was a national average yield of 1.2 tons/ac, an almost 50X gain
over in five years. Total paddy production jumped from 9.4 M tons in 1977/78
to 14.4 H tons in 1982/83, an increase of at least 50Z.  No significant
changes ia area cultivated with paddy have been reported for that period.
However, these official figures are generally believed to be somewhat high
and are ditZicult to confirm since no systematic statistically based yield
measuring methods are employed in rural areas. According to the figures
cited, Burma would have surpassed average yields of most developing countries
and reached about half the yield levels achieved in Japan.
25.     There is no immediate intention to extend WTEP beyond the presently
covered townships. Nevertheless, cultivation of HYV paddy is expected to
spread to other areas. Following a period of very rapid growth in paddy
production, continued efforts in spreading IYVs and consflidating yield
intensification can be expected to result in a slower growth rate as the
additional scope for HYV substitution diminishes. The projected production
target of 15.6 M tons by the end of the Fourth Four Year Plan period -
1985/86 might have to be scaled downward due to the decision by Government
to introduce segregated geo&raphic belts of paddy cultivation specializing in
homogenous seed varieties. These varieties are of the traditional (locally
improved) type which have lower yields than HYVs but of a quality in high
demand for the export market.
New Priorities for Agricultural Development
26.     Agricultural diversification and upgrading of the quality of export
rice have emerged as priority objectives in the Government's Plan for
agricultural development as well as for the Bank's country assistance
strategy. An abrupt 17% deterioration in Burma's terms of trade between
1981/82 and 1982/83 seriously reduced export earnings primarily from rice and
caused a decline in Government revenues. In general, Burma receives low
prices for its rice due to poor quality (between 15-201 lower than those for
Thai rice). The country's dependence and concentration on agricultural
exports coupled with the volatility of international rice prices and a rela-
tively restricted international rice market highlight the need for export
diversification. Accordingly, GOB is seeking to: (i) increase production of



-7-
selected non-rice crops in dry zones through irrigation; (ii) intensify
cropping in wet zones with short duration rice followed by other crops; and
(iii) divert marginal crop land in rice production to other crops. However,
a comprehensive program to implement this strategy is yet to be formulated
and put in place. Following a recognition of the problems of depending so
heavily on paddy, accentuated by international rice prices falling since
1982, the Government is confronted wirh a need to reassess its rice produc-
tion and marketing strategy to maintain export sales and increase revenues.
The proposed project is a basic step in a strategy for diversifying agricul-
tural production through the provision of a wide range of HYV and high
quality varieties (HQV) of paddy seed, and a seed multiplication program to
include six other priority crops (see para 34).
Rationale for IDA Involvement
27.     Investments in the seed industry have proven to be among the most
important for accelerated agricultural production and have demonstrated high
economic viability. Given the objectives outlined in para 26 above, a viable
seed industry is an essential component of a successful crop diversification
scheme. The Government has therefore placed high priority on development of
a national seed multiplication program.
28.     The first concentrated effort to meet the expanded demand for quality
seed was the IDA financed Seed Development Project (Seeds I), signed in
November 1977 and completed in December, 1984. The project had the dual
objective of improving Burma's applied research capability and of developing
a modest seed program for paddy and cotton. Activities were regarded as
first phase efforts and the project's emphasis on training and technical
assistance was to pave the way for an expansion of programs in the future.
Seeds I, with an estimated cost of US$11 M, was financed through a US$5.5 M
IDA Credit (Cr. 745-BA). Despite a slow start and initial problems related
to organization and management, Seeds I achieved most of its institutional
and physical objectives. A significant number of staff were trained in
various aspects of agricultural research, seed production and related fields.
However, despite the training program, there continues to be a shortage of
trained manpower, particularly in practical farm development and the con-
struction and operation of processing plants has remained a problem. Delayed
supply of construction materials and chronic fuel shortages, were also major
constraints to project implementation.
29.     Seed I project was designed to produce the first three generations
of paddy and cotton seed on farms belonging to the Agricultural Corporation
(AC) and managed by its Applied Research Division (ARD). In turn the output
from these farms would be supplied to seed growers who would further multiply
the seed under the supervision of ACs Extension Division (ED). The projected
Registered Seed production of paddy of 1,050 tons annually has been regularly
achieved on the ARD farms. This output was expected to result in the produc-
tion of 75,000 tons (3.5 M baskets) of the fourth generation Certified Seed,
sufficient to plant 3.5 M acres for commercial cropping. This target was
based on the assumption of 1002 seed exchange among farmers, as there was no
facility for the purchasing, processing, and redistribution of such Certified
Seed. The target for certified cotton seed was 2,800 tons annually, suffi-
cient for sowing 175,000 acres.



-8-
30.     Actual production of paddy seed by seed growers was estimated at
46,000 tons (2.3 M baskets) in 1982/83 and 51,000 tons (2.5 M baskets) in
1983/84. The Extension Division of AC reported that it bought 20,000 tons
(431) of this seed in 1982/83 and 23,000 tons (45Z) in 1983/84 for
redistribution to the WTEP.  HOweverp the anticipated exchange of the romAin-
ing seed among farmers was not very successful, although Township Councils
exchanged with producers some of the seed for grain. Due to weak monitoring
of the field phase of seed production activities there is no adequat6 infor-
mation available on sales of this seed by contract farmers, prices charged,
and acceptability to purchasers. It is likely that notable amounts of seed
was utilized as grain rather than seed. The proposed project would draw
lessons from this experience. It would introduce seed quality control to
Certified Seed production in the field and make arrangements for the procure-
ment and processing of 100Z of the seed produced thus ensuring high quality
seed and organized distribution. At the same time it would establish much
stronger monitoring. Cotton seed production fell below the project's target
mainly because of delays in developing the farm designated for a major part
of the cotton program. As a result only 1,480 tons of seed were produced in
1983/84. Despite some shortfall in physical seed production the Seeds I
project is considered to have achieved its major objective of laying the
institutional and infrastructural base for future seed development programs,
and the proposed program is designed to make full use of these investments.
31.     Burma's seed development program has also received support from other
donors (USAID, FAO/DANIDA) for certain crops, such as wheat, maize and
oilseeds. These programs are geographically limited and their objectives are
relatively modest. Nevertheless, the proposed project would complement this
support by focusing on different crops and its activities would be located in
different areas and by providing a centralized seed certification capability.
Coordination of all donor activities is well managed by the AC and in fact
the proposed project is intended to enhance this management capability.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.     The proposed project was prepared by FAO/CP and appraised by a mis-
sion which visited Burma in February/March, 1984. A Staff Appraisal Report
entitled "Burma - Second Seed Development Project" (Report No. 5264-BA dated
May 23, 1985) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. A
timetable of key events relating to the project and special conditions are
given in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from May 1-7,
1985. The Burmese delegation was led by His Excellency U Hlaing Myint,
Deputy Minister, Ministry of Agriculture and Forests.
Project Objectives
33.     The proposed project has four principal objectives:  (i) to
strengthen an existing seed unit within AC to become a modern seed production
organization with technical expertise and management capability, and the
necessary infrastructure for rapid dissemination of seeds of improved crop
varieties; (ii) strengthen the plant breeding and applied research program,
which is an essential element of any successful seed multiplication scheme;
(iii) establish an efficient seed multiplication, processing and storage



-9-
program, including the fourth generation (Certified Seed) production under
controlled conditions; and (iv) ultimately to establish the basis for a
successful crop diversification program.
34.     At full development the project would increase the annual seed supply
by 21,000 tons of paddy seed (17% of Burma's HYV and HQV seed requirement);
3,100 tons of medium staple cotton seed (100%); 3,200 tons of pulse seed
butter bean/chick pea, mung bean and pigeon pea - (25%); and on a pilot
basis, about 1,100 tons of groundnut seed (3%). The incremental commercial
grain production resulting from this seed supply would be about 87,000 tons
annually.
Description of the Project
35.     The following main aspects of the project are described more fully
below:
- Institutional Development;
- Farm and Seed Development;
- Seed Processing and Storage;
- Seed Quality Control;
- Applied Research; and
- Technical Assistance and Training.
36.     Institutional Development.  The key to an effective seed production
program is the establishment of an efficient organization to produce basic
seed, coordinate the production of Certified Seed, and then organize the
processing and final distribution of the seed. Parallel and of equal
importance, is an enhanced research effort in plant breeding. The proposed
project would expand the operation of the existing seed production unit
established under Seeds I which presently has limited responsibilities,
beyond basic seed production and quality control on ARD farms. Operations
would be expanded to encompass procurement and processing of Certified Seed
produced by small private farmers under contract. The seed production unit
would be called Seed Section and its head would report directly to the
Managing Director of AC.  It would be strengthened by providing incremental
staff and training, necessary office space, and equipment and vehicles to
allow its effective operation throughout the country. An existing Project
Analysis Cell in AC's Agricultural Planning Division would be strengthened,
to enable continuous, objective and independent monitoring of project
performance, which would assist AC to manage the project efficiently.
37.     Farm and Seed Development.  Basic seed (Breeder, Foundation and
Registered seed) of the seven crops covered by the proposed project would
be produced on 12 Government farms to be improved under the proposed project.
Investments would include tubevells, buildings, machinery and equipment for
land development and farming operations, and incremental farm staff necessary
for the expanded seed production programs. Farm vehicles, machinery sheds,
staff housing, and farm roads would also be provided. Five of these 12 farms
were included in the Seeds I Project, but require additional
irrigation/drainage deveLopment which was not provided under Seeds I.
Production of Certified Seed would be organized under controlled conditions
with the assistance of the ED and involve participation of at least 17,000
small farmers as contract seed producers.



-10-
38.     Seed Processing and Storage.  Four smalL capacity seed processing
plants were procured under Seeds I to process basic seed. Under the proposed
project, additional facilities would be provided to process Certified Seed to
be produced by contract growers. Twelve new seed processing plants with
attached seed storage would be established at strategic locations, and
limited additional equipment would be provided for the four plants procured
under Seeds I. At the Certified Seed stage, only rice and pulses would be
processed at the new plants. Cotton seed would be mechanically delinted at
selected ginneries operated by the Textile Industries Corporation (TIC) and
then sun-dried. Processing of groundnut seed would be limited to rough
cleaning, sorting and manual grading.
39.     Only plant layouts with horizontal flow and medium capacity equipment
would be used, for reasons of lower capital cost, operational simplicity,
ease of supervision, maintenance, and quality control. Plant layout would be
designed to permit flexibility in seed flow through any sequence of equipment
and for seeds of different crops, to provide ample floor area for temporary
storage of raw seed when intake exceeds plant capacity. Allowance would be
made for possible plant expansion later. Each plant would have-adequate
storage facilities for seed stocks, equivalent to about 50Z of targeted
annual production. Initially, the plants would operate on one shift only
because the number of trained plant operators to run more shifts would not be
available. The seed production and processing program is expected to be
gradually expanded from Project Year 6 onwards by doubling the shift opera-
tion without installing additional machinery, as management efficiency
improves and the demand for Certified Seed expands.
40.     Seed Ouality Control.  Seed quality control (SQC) is an essential
element of any successful seed development project. The existing National
Seeds Committee (NSC) would issue regulations for SQC. The foundations for
effective SQC have been laid under Seeds I with the creation of a Quality
Control Unit, equipped with a seed testing laboratory at ARD headquarters in
Rangoon, and with the establishment of another six local laboratories on
Government farms. The proposed project would separate the SQC function from
seed processing into an independent SQC unit. This separation would help
emphasize its special responsibility and position in the seed development
chain, and ensure independence in the conduct of field inspections and
laboratory tests. At full development, SQC would encompass some 30,000 tons
of Certified Seed; about 1,000 tons of Registered Seed and 70 tons of
Foundation Seed of all project crops. Seed labeling would be introduced to
reflect the quality standards of a given seed bag or Lot and would be carried
out under close supervision and control. The seed tag would include informa-
tion on crop, variety, origin of the seed, purity, germination, other seed,
inert matter, moisture percentage and weight.
41.     Applied Research.  Strengthening of applied research capability
initiated under Seeds I would continue under the proposed project.  Its main
objectives would be to reinforce organization and management, planning, and
coordination of the diverse research activities, and improve professional
standards of the research work performed. Main investments included under
the proposed project would be vehicles, agricultural machinery and
implements, airconditioned storage on five farms and cold storage on two
farms, research equipment, agricultural inputs, and professicual and techni-



-11-
cal staff, including training in specialized fields. Efforts to improve
research would be concentrated on five selected farms, properly utilizing the
specialized manpower and infrastructure already available, and assuring
satisfactory coverage of project crops under relevant agroclimatic
conditions. The research section at ARD headquarters in Rangoon would also
be reinforced, notably in research management and programming and supporting
disciplines, such as soil science, soil microbiology, weed science, plant
protection and biometrics. The overall objectives of applied research under
ARD would be the following:
-   Varietal improvement through introduction, hybridization, selection
and mutation breeding programs;
-   Crop management through improved cultivation methods, including crop
nutrition;
-   Development of double/multiple cropping systems; and
-   Crop protection.
42.     Technical Assistance and Training.  The technical assistance would be
a vital part of the project; in view of the infant stage of the seed
industry, the considerable expansion of the number and quantities of crops to
be multiplied, the need for much improved seed quality control, the important
investments into seed processing plants, and the need for much stronger
supporting research. A total of 96 man-months of technical assistance would
be financed. The main areas in which the project requires technical support
have been identified as seed processing and storage, research management, and
farm mechanization. The Government would ensure the timely appointment of
the required staff [Section 3.09 of draft Development Credit Agreement
(DCA)].
43.     The manpower training to be covered under the project is designed to
meet the long-term requirements of a viable seed industry in the country.
The proposed 426 man-months would cover research and seed technology. This
is broken down as follows: (i) Research Training (246 man-months) which
would involve both M.Sc. level courses and short-term courses. At the M.Sc.
level, eight man-years of overseas training of about two years each would be
provided for one research planner and coordinator, one biometrician, one
groundnut, and one legume breeder. Candidates selected for this training
would be satisfactory to IDA, and arrangements for their training would be
made before June 30, 1986 (Section 3.03 of the draft DCA). Additionally,
short-term refresher courses of three to twelve months duration would be
provided overseas to expose research officers to the latest developments in
their respective fields of specialization; (ii) Seed technology training (180
man-months) would be of about three months duration for field staff, such as
plant managers and field inspectors, covering their specific fields of
operation. In addition to overseas training, arrangements would be made for
local training, especially in seed production and processing, and quality
control, with the help of the project consultants and FAO seed specialists
involved in the FAO/DANIDA project. The technical assistance and training
component would be financed by UNDP as grant aid, and provided by a competent
firm of consultants. It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that



-12-
satisfactory arrangements for financing technical assistance and training
shall have been made with UNDP (Section 6.01(b) of draft DCA).
Organization, Implementation and Management
44.     The main agencies of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests involved
in project implementation would be the Seed Section, the Applied Research
Division (ARD), the Agricultural Research Institute (A1T), and the Extension
Division (ED), all of which are divisions of the Agricultural Corporation
(AC). Although the AC is classified as a State Economic Enterprise, it
functions in reality as a Government department and is financed by Government
budget appropriations. The Textile Industries Corporation (TIC) of the
Ministry of Industries II would be involved in the cotton seed component, and
the National Seed Committee would have a central policy and regulatory
function.
45.     As the main implementing agency, AC would be responsible for overall
coordination of the project, including plant breeding, production and main-
tenance of Breeder, Foundation, and Registered Seed on its farms, organiza-
tion of farmers to produce Certified Seed on a contract basis and seed
processing. The involvement of ARI would be limited to plant breeding and
production of Breeder Seed. The flow of Breeder Seed from ARI to ARD farms
for further multiplication has been smooth in the past, and no difficulties
are anticipated under the proposed project. The ED would be responsible for
distribution and sale to farmers of Certified Seed of paddy, pulses and
groundnuts as part of its normal input distribution activities to commercial
farmers. Over the years, ED has gained considerable experience with seed
and input distribution, notably in connection with the WTEP, and it is
expected that it would continue to perform these vital functions
satisfactorily. TIC would be responsible for the ginning of the seed cotton
produced by contract growers and the drying, storage and sale of the
processed seed to commercial growers.
46.     Seed is presently grown on all 40 ARD farms, although there is an
arbitrary split in headquarters supervision of project farms (i.e_, Seeds I)
and non-project farms. Management arrangements for the proposed project
would involve three important changes. Firstly, the head of the Seed Section
would not report to the General Manager of ARD any more, but would be
directly responsible to the Managing Director of the AC. This would substan-
tially strengthen the Seed Section's role, and would facilitate coordination
and cooperation for seed production purposes between ARD, ARI, ED and the
Seed Section. Secondly, the Seed Section would be made responsible for seed
growing on all 40 farms, even though the proposed project would be financing
investments on only 12 of these farms. Thirdly, it would be responsible for
administering its own budget covering basic seed production, seed processing
and quality control, and also procurement of Certified Seed from contract
growers. No changes are envisaged in the organization of ARD's Research
Section, although during project implementation the consulting Research
Management Specialist might be able to propose amendments to improve present
arrangements. The head of the Seed Section (Deputy General Manager I) would
be more senior than other section heads, similar to the Deputy General
Manager of the Land Use Section, and would be included in the AC's General
Managers' Coordination Committee. The Seed Section wouLd consist of four
units - Certified Seed Production, Seed Quality Control, Implementation, and



-13-
Budget Administration. The Seed Section would prepare annual work programs
and budgets and submit them to IDA for review and comment, not later than
October 31 of each project year (Section 3.05 of draft DCA).
47.     Project coordination would be the responsibility of a Project
Coordination Committee (PCC), chaired by the Managing Director of AC, and
would include the General Managers of ARD, ARI, Agricultural Planning, and
Extension Divisions of AC, the Deputy General Manager Seed Section, and
representatives from TIC and the Construction Corporation. The establishment
of the PCC will be a condition of credit effectiveness (Sections 3.04 and
6.01(a) of draft DCA). The PCC would review and approve the Seed Section's
annual work programs and budgets, and annual and quarterly progress reports.
Great care would be taken to reorganize and strengthen project monitoring
under the proposed project. The responsibility for monitoring and evaluation
would be established in AC's Agricultural Planning and Statistics Division
and would be administratively separate from ARD. The monitoring and evalua-
tion unit's chief would report directly to the Managing Director of AC. The
unit would be strengthened by financing incremental staff and transport.
48.     The National Seed Committee (NSC), established under Seeds I, would
continue to be the main regulatory body governing seed production in Burma
and determine seed policies as and when required. In particular, it would be
responsible for the release of new varieties, removal of outdated varieties
from its recommended list, and approval of seed quality control standards and
procedures to be applied in field and laboratory. The NSC is chaired by the
Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Forests, and its secretary is the head
of AC's Seed Section. A technical sub-committee, headed by NSC's secretary,
would handle the technical aspects of variety release and recommendations,
and keep under review quality control standards and procedures. The NSC
would publish by March 31, 1986 a list of recommended varieties of seeds, and
seed quality standards (Section 3.07 of draft DCA).
Cost Estimates
49.     The total project cost is estimated at $28.5 million, including
import duties and taxes ($3.7 million), physical contingencies ($1.0 million)
and price contingencies ($5.7 million). Thus, project cost net of duties and
taxes would be $24.8 million. Foreign exchange costs would be about $11.1
million, representing 39% of total costs. All costs are expressed at mid-
1985 prices. Physical contingencies for the total project are assumed at 15%
for farm development, 10% for civil works, and 5% for seed processing
equipment. Price contingencies amount to 26% of base cost plus 1'1ysical
contingencies. Price contingencies are based on the estimated annual infla-
tion rate for the years 1985/86 through 1989/90 as follows: local currency
costs, 10%, 8Z, 8Z, 8Z and 8% and for foreign exchange costs, 4.7%, 8Z, 8.5%,
9%, and 9%.
Financing
50.     The proposed IDA Credit of $14.5 million would finance about 64% of
project costs net of duties and taxes, covering all foreign exchange costs
and 53% of local costs. UNDP would finance the Technical Assistance and
Training component, estimated at $2.0 million through a grant. GOB would
finance about $12.0 million equivalent including taxes and duties.



-14-
Procurement
51.     Most of the equipment, machinery and vehicles (US$4.8 million, net
of contingencies), would be procured after ICB in accordance with IDA
Guidelines. Farm machinery would be procured in bulk to the extent possible.
Except possibly for a limited number of items such as office equipment and
furniture, it is expected that machinery and equipment would be procured from
external suppliers. To provide management flexibility, and to allow for
purchases of specialized equipment, some vehicles and small items of equip-
ment for laboratories and research, each costing less than US$20,000, would
be obtained by international or local shopping through normal Government
procurement procedures, on the basis of comparing prices from no less than
three suppliers. Such purchases would be limited to a total of US$500,000.
Procurement of agricultural inputs consisting of some fertilizer, pesticides
and chemicals for seed dressing (US$1.1 million) would be done by limited
international bidding. Consultants would be employed by IDA as executing
agency for UNDP, on terms and conditions satisfactory to UNDP and IDA. For
each tender for goods with an aggregate value in excess of $200,000, the
Government would submit bidding documents to IDA for review prior to issue
and seek IDA concurrence with bid evaluation before award of contract(s).
52.     Civil works (US$6.6 million, net of contingencies) comprise mainly
processing plants, seed stores, houses, offices and laboratories. The works
would be widely scattered and construction is phased over four years, and
hence would not attract international contractors. There is no noteworthy
private construction industry in Burma. Therefore, the bulk of the work
would be carried out under contract -by COB's Construction Corporation.
However, some small buildings, each costing less than K 80,000 (US$9,100),
would be constructed by ARD on force account. Procurement arrangements are
summarized in the table below:



-15-
(US$ Million)
Project Element                              Procurement Mrthod 1/
Local
ICB   Contract 2/   Other 3/   N.A. 41   Total
Farm Development                 -         0.8          -          0.2       1.0
-       (0.5)          -        (0.1)    (0.6)
Civil Works                      -         8.3          -          1.0      9.3
-       (3.2)          -        (0.6)    (3.8)
Vehicles, Machinery             6.7         -           3.2         -        9.9
and Equipment                  (6.7)        -         (0.9)         -       (7.6)
Technical Assistance             -          -          1.1 5/      0.9      2.0
and Training                     -          -           -           -        -
Incremental Operating 6/         -         0.2         3.1         3.0      6.3
Costs                            -                    ( _ )  (2.0)  (0.5)    (2.5)
Total                           6.7        9.3         7.4         5.1     28.5
(6.7)     (3.7)        (2.9)      (1.2)   (14.5)
1/  Figures in parenthesis are respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
1 Contract with GOB's Construction Corporation.
3/ Limited international bidding or local shopping.
Procurement procedures not applicable.
ai In accordance with IDA guidelines.
6/ Include salaries, operation and maintenance of vehicles, machinery and
buildings (fuel, lubricants, utilities, stationery, sulfuric acid), small
materials for seed farms and seed processing plants, seasonal inputs for
research and basic seed production.
Disbursement
53.     Disbursements from the IDA Credit would cover:
(a) 60% of expenditures for farm development, including land preparation
and seed production;
(b) 40% of civil works for seed processing and storage, research and
quality control;
(c) Equipment, machinery and vehicles, 100% of foreign expenditure for
directly imported goods, or 80% of the local expenditure for imported
goods procured locally (off the shelf), or 100% of local expenditure
(ex-factory) for goods manufactured locally; and
(d) 40% in aggregate of incremertal operating costs to be disbursed on a
declining basis.



-16-
Applications for withdrawals from the Credit would be fully documented,
except that disbursements for civil works carried out by force account and
incremental operating costs would be made against certified statements of
expenditure submitted by the Government. Documentation supporting statements
of expenditure would be retained by the Government for review during project
supervision. All expenditures disbursed on statements of expenditures would
be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
To extent practicable, withdrawal applications would be aggregated in amounts
equivalent to US$50,000 or more (but not less than US$20,000), prior to
submission to IDA for reimbursement.
Accou:ts and Audits
54.     (ill Government agencies maintain accounts according to procedures
and format laid down by the Ministry of Planning and Finance (MPF). The
Central Audit and Inspection Office, acting on behalf of the Council of
Peoples' Inspectors, is responsible for auditing Government agency accounts
and would be acceptable to IDA as an independent auditor for this project.
The accounting and auditing practices during Seeds I were generally
satisfactory. It was agreed with the Covernment that:
(i)  separate accounts for each project component would be maintained by
the respective implementing agencies, including two special accounts
for seed multiplication (one covering seed production on ARD farms
through to sale of Registered Seed to contract growers, the other
covering purchase of Certified Seed from contract growers, its
processing and resale to farmers), and assembled by the PCC;
(ii)  these accounts would be audited annually in accordance with sound
auditing principles consistently applied by the Director General,
Central Accounts Office, acting on behalf of the Council of Peoples'
Inspectors of the Government; and
(iii)  PCC would send to IDA copies of the summary of an unaudited annual
project account within four months of the end of the fiscal year,
to be followed by certified copies of the audited accounts and
auditor's report within nine months of the end of each fiscal year
(Section 4.01(b) of draft DCA).
Incentives to Seed Producers
55.    The major incentive currently available to farmers producing seed
is the increased yield they are getting from sowing the Registered Seed
received from ARD. It is estimated that compared to national yield averages
seed growers would obtain under the proposed project higher yields: 14% in
paddy, 33% in cotton, 18% in groundnuts and an average of 24Z in pulses. In
addition, Government can provide non-price incentives to seed growers con-
sisting of a roguing fee, production credit and priority allocation of recom-
mended levels of fertilizer and pesticides. The Government would ensure that
such assistance would be given and improved under the proposed project (paras
56-58) (Section 3.06 of draft DCA).
56.     The roguing fee is currently K 13/acre, which is inadequate.  Roguing
is on the average required three times per season and each operation requires



-17-
about 2 man-days costing seed growers K 48/acre at the average market wage
rate of K 8 per man-day. Therefore, the average roguing fee would be
increased to this level. The fee would be reviewed and adjusted when
necessary, to cover the actual costs of the operation as determined by the
existing market wage rate.
57.     Due to logistic problems, farmers do not usuaLly receive fertilizer
allocations in accordance with levels recommiended by ED. Because of the
economic importance of the seed scheme, contract seed growers producing paddy
and groundnuts would in the future receive larger allocations, comparable to
those received by participants of the WTEP. Further, seed growers would
receive allocations of fertilizer and other inputs, such as chemicals, ultra-
low-volume (ULV) sprayers and batteries, on a priority basis, as do par-
ticipants of other important development projects.
58.     Institutional credit is not available to all farmers in Burma.  In
the past, it has been reserved mainly to participants of Government selected
priority development projects. Under the proposed project Certified Seed
growers would be assured to receive such institutional credit on a priority
basis and on time. There would be no need to make special provisions for
this credit under the project. Myanma Agricultural Bank (MAB) would be able
to make available sufficient funds for this purpose from existing sources.
Therefore, project costs do not include the production credit requirements.
Procurement Targets
59.     A key objective of the proposed project would be to ensure that AC
succeeds to purchase all of the seed that has been field certified by the
Seed Quality Control Unit. In order to obtain seed of the highest quality,
it has to be properly dried, cleaned, graded, dressed, bagged, tested and
certified in the seed processing plants. The exceptions are cotton which
would be entirely handled by TIC, and groundnuts which would be processed
manually.
60.     In absolute terms, the quantity of paddy, the major crop to be pur-
chased under the proposed project, would be much the same as that reported to
have been purchased under Seeds I (25,000 tons as compared to 23,000 tons
purchased in 1983/84). The main difference would be that under the proposed
project all seed produced by farmers would be fully processed (cleaned,
dried, graded, chemically dressed) and laboratory tested, which was not the
case under Seeds I. Government is confident that with the existing procure-
ment arrangements, combined with the additional support that would be
provided under the proposed project, there would be no difficulty in procur-
ing all the seed produced.  In view of past favorable results IDA is prepared
to try the system out under these arrangements. Agents of the AC (Seed
Section in close cooperation with the ED), backed up by the administrative
structure of the Township Councils, would be responsible for procurement.
61.     Since the seed procurement is so vital to the success of the project,
an additional safeguard would be introduced to ensure successful procurement
of field certified seed. The procurement of seed under the proposed project
would be linked to annual quantity targets of Certified Seed in each of the
project crops. In case of significant procurement shortfalls in any of the
crops, additional incentives would need to be introduced to seed producers,



-18-
to induce them to cultivate and sell back to the Seed Section the field
certified crop. From the second year of project implementation (PY 2), the
procurement targets of raw seed, would be as follows:
N                        Crops                     Tons
Paddy                    24,590
Cotton (seed)             3,500
Butter bean                 780
Chick pea                 2,000
Mung bean                   800
Pigeon pea                  420
No targets were set for groundnuts since the main purpose of that component
is to test the quality of seed held in groundnut stores financed under
Seeds I in Lower Burma.
62.     Each year after procurement of the Certified Seed from producers has
been completed by AC, procurement results would be evaluated crop by crop
against the raw seed procurement targets. The first evaluation would take
place in the third year of project implementation. Based on the harvesting
and post harvest handling calendar, actual procurement figures would be
available by the end of April. In each of the sixteen Township Areas par-
ticipating in Certified Seed-production, procurement teams consisting of AC
agents (Certified Seed Production Unit, Seed Quality Control Unit, ED, and
TIC in the case of cotton), would keep precise records of seed procurement.
63.     As long as procurement targets of all raw Certified Seed are met,
no change in the existing procurement system would be required. If they are
not met, appropriate adjustments of the existing incentives package would be
required. Certain percentage shortfalls would trigger corrective actions, to
be applied for the following season. Given the fact that procurement results
would be available well before the start of next season, it would be feasible
to implement such an arrangement.
64.     It is possible that seasonal conditions can cause production and
yield variability, annual acreage could change for individual crops, or
official production statistics may be available late. In order to implement
any corrective actions it was decided to base trigger points on an average of
past production performance. The difference between the average production
of the past four to five years and the highest annual production (deviation
from mean) was expressed in percentage terms. The method of computation was
designed to reflect the relative stability in production of paddy and cotton,
crops grown mainly in areas of high and reliable rainfall or with available
supplementary irrigation and the larger production variability of the pulses
which are predominantly grown as rainfed crops. Percentages derived as
trigger levels are as follows:



-19-
Rounded and
Actual             Proposed as
Calculated           Trigger Points
Paddy                   14%                     15%
Cotton                  18Z                    20%
Butter bean             30%                    30%
Chick pea              42%                     40%
Pigeon pea             41%                     402
Mung bean                8%                     10%
If Certified Seed procurement for any of these crops in any season falls by
more than the above specified percentages, additional incentives to seed
growers would be introduced by the Government for that specific crop for the
next season.
65.     The system would start operating in Project Year 3, with the first
procurement season of Certified Seed. Following the establishment of any
procurement shortfall, within 90 days starting May 1 of each season, the
additional incentives described below shall have been made by Government and
IDA shall have been informed of the same. For seed cotton procured by TIC,
the prevailing official price of K 1.94/lb would provide sufficient incen-
tives to seed growers, because at the present average yield of 684 lb/ac per
acre, production costs would be only K 1.07/lb, and no additional incentives
are necessary. The incentive measures taken would apply to all farmers
producing the respective seed crop (Section 3.08 of draft DCA):
(a) with respect to paddy, the existing AFPTC price for Grade I will
be applied as the first step, and if necessary in combination
with any one or more of the other incentive measures stated in
(b) and (c) below;
(b) preferential and timely allocation of seasonal credit and of
agricultural chemicals for the production of crops other than
seed crops would be provided to contract seed growers on condi-
tion that they deliver the required contracted amount of
Certified Seed to AC;
(c) preferential allocation of consumer goods including construction
materials, household goods, bicycles, transistor radios, etc.
would be provided to contract seed growers following the
delivery of the required Certified Seed to AC; and
(d) incentives for pulses would consist of meeting any additional.
increase in post harvest seed handling charges and transporta-
tion calculated in Kyats per man-day, and Kyats pe! ton mile
respectively (current cost per man-day is K 6.5 and per ton mile
is K 0.5).
66.     Each seed grower would only be obliged to grow a seed area equivalent
to that necessary for producing grain which would normally be procured by
AFPTC; this area is estimated to occupy about 40% of each farmer's cultivated
farm land. Once the output from this seed area has been delivered to the



-20-
Seed Section, the grower would be exempt from supplying a similar volume of
produce to AFPTC at controlled prices.
Processed Seed Sales and Pricing
67.     Seed pricing is crucial to the development of the seed industry.
Prices should be kept as low as possible to induce farmers to use Certified
Seed, while on the other hand they should be high enough to permit an attrac-
tive premium to be paid to seed growers and to cover processing and distribu-
tion costs. However, under Burmese production and marketing arrangements,
where the Government controlled crops are highly subsidized and taxed, the
seed industry is in its infancy, and the proposed executing agency is de
facto a Government department, the introduction of commercially based seed
prices is considered inappropriate at this stage. Nevertheless, the
Government has agreed that the actual operating costs of Seed Section should
be fully covered either through its revenue (from seed sales) or a budgetary
allocation to make up for any deficits each year. A prerequisite to the Seed
Section's proper financial management would be the introduction of an
analytical accounting system as described in para 54. At the end of each
seed processing and marketing season (August-September) the Seed Section's
Budget and Administration Unit would calculate the actual O & N costs and
compare them to revenues from sales of Registered and Certified Seed. The
o & M costs of research and breeder seed production and of the technical
assistance and training component, would be excluded from this calculation.
Should revenues from seed sales not cover these adjusted 0 & K costs, GOB
would make adequate provisions to replenish the 0 & M account (Section 5.02
of draft DCA). This is consistent with Burmese practice whereby Government
recovers ample funds from indirect taxation on agricultural produce, paying
farmers for paddy and other Government controlled crops as much as 50Z less
than the economic farmgate price. The 0 & M account would be finalized by
May 31 of each year and submitted to the Government (and copied to IDA) for
information (Section 5.01(b) of draft DCA).
Benefits md Justification
68.    Overall, the output from the project would be instrumental in
increasing agricultural production and farm incomes through farmers using
improved seed. It would create employment opportunities on seed farms and
seed processing plants, and indirectly through the increased agricultural
surplus it would generate foreign exchange revenues. Approximately 250,000
farms are expected to benefit from the project, of which over 17,000 or 7%
would be directly engaged in seed production. At full development, the
project would benefit a total of 1.2 million persons through increased
returns from the use of improved seed. Establishment of organized seed
production and processing facilities would also provide a sound basis for a
viable crop diversification strategy.
69.     The main quantifiable project benefits would be incremental crop
production obtained by farmers through the use of project seed. At full
development, the project would provide annually about 30,000 tons of
Certified Seed sufficient to cultivate 1.5 million acres. About 70Z of this
acreage would be in paddy. Based on the estimated yield increases, incremen-
tal crop production at full development would be about 87,000 tons per annum,



-21-
valued at X 84 million per annum (US$9.5 million) at current farugate prices.
The overall economic rate of return of the project would be 48X.
70.     At full development, the project would generate permanent employment
on seed farms and seed processing plants for about 525 jobs per annus.
Casual labor requirements on AC's farms and seed processing plants would
increase by over 100,000 man-days. Incremental employment on the 17,000
Certified Seed growers' farms would increase by almost 400,000 man-days. And
finally, based on an estimated average incremental labor requirement of only
2 man-days/acre for crops grown with Certified Seed, this would create
another about 3 million man-days. Most of the additional employment on
farmers' fields would benefit under-employed farm family members. Rired
laborers would be needed primarily for planting, weeding, spraying and
harvesting. The additional labor requirements during peak periods are
generally met from within the township or adjacent townships and are drawn
from the ranks of the landless or the smaller landholders. Women would be
employed extensively particularly during the peak seasons of sowing and
harvesting.
71.     Most of the incremental production (r- e, mung bean, butter bean,
pigeon pea and chick pea) would be for export. In the case of cotton and
groundnuts, increased production would replace current imports.  At full
development, Burma could earn additional foreign exchange of about US$12.9
million per annum at current f.o.b. prices and save US$2.3 million due to
reduction in imports of 1,240 tons of lint and 300 tons of palm oil. At the
current c.i.f. prices this would amount to a foreign exchange earning/savings
of approximately US$15.2 million annually.
Proiect Risks
72.     The proposed project would have no adverse environmental effect.
However, the following aspects of project implementation and operation will
receive special attention:
(a) Construction of Proiect Facilities. The construction of processing
plants and storage is often delayed, because of a lack of adequate
construction material, particularly cement and timber. This risk
would be reduced by GOB giving priority in the allocation of con-
struction materials to the project.
(b)  Operation of Processing Plants.  At present, there is a very limited
number of trained staff in the coruntry to operate the seed processing
plants. Technical assistance and training provisions made in this
project would help ensure the proper processing of all the planned
Certified Seed production.
(c) Procurement of Certified Seed. In the absence of a satisfactory
procurement system it is possible that significant quantities of seed
can be sold on the open market as commercial grain. Our experience
under the Seed I project and our review of Burmese production and
procurement arrangement indicates that such risk would be minimal.
This risk would be further minimized by introducing, in the event of
a significant procurement shortfall, incentives at levels that would



-22-
encourage the sale of seed by contract seed growers to AC's Seed
Section (paras 59-66).
(d) Croy Yields and Production. Project estimates of commercial crop
yields that would result from use of Certified Seed are based on
yield observations of non-field certified, unprocessed seed (Seeds I)
and of field certified, processed seed on AR] farms and surrounding
farmers' fields. The provision for priority allocations of recom-
mended levels of inputs, mostly through the WTEP which covers areas
where the majority of the improved seed would be used, and the
availability of extension agents better trained in crop husbandry
practices based on improved seed, would minimize the possibility of
failure to achieve assumed yield increases.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Socialist Republic
of the Union of Burma and the Association, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
74.     Special Conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Conditions of Effectiveness would be: (a) arrangements satisfac-
tory to the Association shall have been made with UNDP for financing the
Technical Assistance and Training Component (Section 6.01(b) of draft DCA);
and (b) the establishment of a Project Coordination Committee, to be chaired
by AC's Managing Director, and with a composition satisfactory to IDA (Sec-
tion 6.01(a) of draft DCA).
75.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
76.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 30, 1985



-23-                                                ANNEX I
Fag. 1 of 5
a                      - somammc   ans m,
NW                   OiUST A        3T3AS) Ab
196b=                         b     At A PaCII            ASIA & PA:ncIFIzC
-M (THOUSAND. U)
TOM                                   66.4      676.6        676.6
AGRICULTURAL                         10ta0      ioe.o        104.0
m   a  carrs (s)                         40.0       S.C         11.             278.6                 1091.2
MO         U3al   i  cHs 
(EU.MOCAU  OF OIL EQUIVALET)          41.0       50.0         59.0           272.0                  567.3
POPULATION.MIE10-UA  (TWAUSU)      217J0.0   27000.0       34U8U.0
13*1 POUATI  X 00 TOTAL)              19.3       2L2          28.3            21.7                   34.7
FORWATIMl 0AJCX
POlOATInhIO IAI 20100 01CH                                  52.9
STATIOO  POPIWATIXO  (HIlL)                                115.0
IPOPULAfTON DmIMnI                                           1.5
SQ. IN.                            32       - 39.9        50.4            166.6                  261.9
SQ  M. AGR. Us                    209.4      250.0        327.7           345.5                 1735.1
FOPUIATION AGE STRUCTURE CE)
0-14 YS                    -       38.2       40.3         41.0             35.6                  39.0
I5-  Ms                             59.2       56.3        55.4             S9.$                   57.6
65 ANDASOE                           2.4        3.3          3.8             4.3                    3.3
POPmATIno  CN        RAT  CZ)
TOTAL                                1.9        2.1          2.1             1.9                    2.3
033*                                 3.7        3.9          3.9             4.1                    4.3
cues axis un n UTZ (PERT0             42.9       40.1         36.0            27.7                   30.1
QUmI  DEAT SAt CPiR TiSS)             21.0       16.8        1mg              10.1                    9.5
5065 NZIHDOCSlO  HATE                  2.8       B28           2.4             1.8                    2.0
FAIXLY IPXALCO
ACRInSA W tAL (TOS)
us CZ or KaI  V. . .)                                        ..                                    52.7
INE 0  1000 FM 00. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        100.0      101.0        113.0            12.J                  123.0
Mi CAPIT  SUPPLY Or
CAUS  C or azqmzmu.s                96.0      104.0        113.0            97.7                  114.4
P   IMS CaMs PE DA)                 52.0       57.0        63.0             56.8                   57.0
OF UHCH AIMDALIM PULSZ            11.0       12.0         12.0 /c          14.9                  14.1
Cloa CAtS 1-4) DEAn Ml                2it7       11.3         11.8             9.8                    7.2
LIU  EXPECT. AT SIRT  CLARS)          43.5       48.5         54.6            60.0                   60.4
IWANT MORT. RN   CPU 713S)           1580       127.9        95.6             83.8                   66.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATS (mmP)
TOTAL                        .        ..       11.0         17.0 /d         32.9                   37.0
gumai..                                        35.0        30.0 7d          70.9                   54.6
RURAL                                 ..       13.0         1o0 7;i         22.1                   26.4
ACCESS TO  K A DISPOSAL
CX OF PONULATIOIr)
TOTAL                                 ..       35.0         33.0 /a          1.1                   41.3
URN..                                          45.0        38.0OJ           72.8                   47.4
RURAL                                 ..       32.0        32.0  j           4.6                   33.3
POIULATO  PU  rASICI lss1 o 0                 8790.0      4660.0/f         3684.2                 7749.4
POF. PER NURSING PERSON             6520.0k  7380.0        4750.0ff         4793.1                 2460.4
POP. PER HOSPTAL nM
TOTAL                             1520.0    1170.0        1100.0k         10665                  1044.2
URAS                               330.0      350.0       370.0k           290                    651.2
RURAL                                 ..    15220.0       7160.0 t-       5993.4                 2594.6
ASIISSIUIS PE  HOSPSIL BED              ..       34.0           ..              ..                   27.0
AVUhSC SIZCE OF IIIIDI
TOTAL                                4.6         ..
ma                                    ..         ..           .                ..
RUAL                                  ..         ..
AVEURG  H. OF  ARSuSAM
TOTAL                                 .           ....
m                           ~..        ..           .                ..
RURAL                                 ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELET. (C 00 IEDI.XN)
TOTAL                                 ..         ..
~as                         ..         ..           .                ..
RURAL                        ..        ..           .                 ..



-24-                                           ANNEX I
t'ge Zof 5
~~~U  lo wm  s                  D IZ D
I,1Lk     197k       TIM&TL        AlSA A PACFIC         AM A PA* FIC
ADJUSTESD UOWLUT RATII
FRDIAfm   TOTL                     56.0       87.0        84.0            97.4                 102.0
mml                      61.0      92.0         87.0 1         110.5                 105.9
13(41                    52.0      33.0         at.o0           83.7                 98.2
3COUDAI TOTA                       10.0      21.0         20.0          35.9                    46.0
mmIZ                     13.0      26.0         22.07           44.6                  48.7
1n3A                      7.0      17.0         1S.0  C         26.8                 43.1
VOCATIONAL CZ OF SECONDARY)           0.5       0.3          O. I            2.2                  17.5
HW?ZL-T1AORR M1TM
PIDM                               42.0       47.0        540.k           33.5                  31.8
..comu                             40.0      32.0         37.0            18.7                  23.5
AWLT LrrMACTrNM  (X)                 59.7j        ^ ..      65.9            53.4                  72.9
C_X
1AlIS1 CAI/3TWI3ID PM0                0.8       1.1          1.3 h           0.9                  10.1
8ADSO DE1VZUIWABD POP                 5.3       14.3        21.0           112.1                 113.6
TV =cVKS10D1                           ..         ..          ..            15.7                  50.1
Na3PAPUR C"MflT GENKMAL
XhUT) esssso=
U IUO ID l     POPUATIC            11.3       15.3        10.1 /f         16.2                  53.9
CDIIA AIINUAL ATZUMUCE/CAflTA         6.0 /I    7.9 .         ..             3.6                   3.4
TOSAL tAUOS roCE (TIIOUS)         10404.0   11577.0      13858.0
PUAXI (PtCFN)                      40.1       36.9        35.4            33.3                  33.5
AOICULTUc (rUCE1                     ..       69.9        67.1            69.6                  52.2
INDUSaET CP3101W)                             3.0          9.B            15.8                  17.9
PA8MCICPATXUR RA2E CP9RCZNT)
TOTAL                              47.6       42.9        39.7            42.6                  38.7
AIlZ                               53.0       54.7        51.4            54.7                  50.9
dmWI                               37.8       31.3        28.1            29.8                  26.6
scOMORIC NEPUDEC  IlATO               0.9        1.0         1.1             1.0                   1.1
131080  mVTEn.ae
PERCET OD n r
=-ICIIZS   52 O IUSEIDI            14.6         ..          ..                                  22.2
HUES? 200 ar HOUSIWMS              44.7       40.011        .                                   48.0
LO-ST 2020? oir uEOLDS              6.5       8.0L          ..              ..                   6.4
LOCS  402 OF WISOUSD               16.5 A    21.0           ..              ..                  15.5
ESTDIAUD AMIOLUE POVERTY INCONI
LEME CUSI PM CAPITA)
Duxl                                 ..         ..        94.0           133.9                 188.6
URAL                                 ..         ..        6.0 I          111.6                 152.0
1823(421 SmdV POVERT DEcoU
IZVEL CUS$ PEt CUITA)
UA                                   ..         ..        50.0 l            ..                 177.9
RUAL                                 ..         ..        36.0 0            ..                 164.6
ESTrIAME  POP. ULW ARSULU=
POVTM IEOUK LEVEL CZ)
IIDm                                 ..         ..        40.0 I          43.8                  23.4
RUU                                  ..         ..        40.0            51.7                  37.7
NOT AVAUAIL
MrT APPLICABLE
a   7I. group avurtas for ach tndicAtor an popalatLum-ulghted arlttctic _nnm. COerag of comtris among thu
Sndicators dempnds an avalLablUty of data and Ia not nform
h   Di. otbwwiOe notad. "Dam  for 1960" refer to amy year  btvm 1959 and 1961; "ata for 1970" batween 1969 and
1971; an data far libet bAeat letlate  between I8 and 1982.
1977; Id 1976; /a 1975; / 1979;  A 1962; A  1978; Li 1964; 41 1972; /k 1958. 7a  eonl.
JUlAE9 193



-           lo p.. - - 1  a- 0- 
_S10   -  9    100 - 111_1010  P   050) I         09.51 1
S_    _,_                --      q    *      "     .
r_ 5-d 0                      n -     `- .9 *_-     -  p.
-     ._.- 1.0    t ldoI pg-   .  .iqI-al -..o *o   _ 
Ins .    _a-   0 1       .91_ .p o - _      _a_  _      Apl 0   0q 0 a-
...am a    .     -  9.10. l.-dp-  -  a- -s .lld * 100 .901
-" _1  a-l"c1-      .._   VWe 9. ..b-ld - (.,ua  . ,1_-
p-~~~~~ ~ ~ ~                                           1-t-      -,-T Aida- -,  ,  _a
10n01 -_ a_ n-s-I  --                                                            .a   *         91oa  .           -            
-_1S   _   _11             l    o -  l- _  1  . 9 _ .09 "-.9  a-*r
_-  af. --A A.       _, _.-_   _           .,         . s
qd_S1 Ift  M .    S a-   -    q  050 001 .W 1-. _ P
d _.60-. - hD - P  _.0  a-_c* __  l "'a_  *t  s*  S100  30-01000
- 11  F- _*-- - (. w                _-       t      -  r.0   Ia-S_ - (30d1   -109  ..M %1" (9-3 -I) v1vo
_0   ss-sr0d  P-50   _tl1           .d _91    Alc  tu l. 9 I0_ _                      I 9- 1 ,S -swt 2A5. ad -    0 -11  a       - *P - S ."
ItU10C        A9,1-s-                                                                                          S 0 a- _*           d S 9   _g.ad -  B  4 _   t   _-  _  dISC .,l
*9l-@t 2    -    @X--- *- (_ia-H-E 389 Dac0 .9.0k _ qc*  aa    aAo9                                              -. 0- -t  -9u _-- SI_e
J.  0.9  af.a91a  020 9OcC.0           Fta.-ii31 JeX    1v pacha T *fl_   .ql as %I                    a  - _   -   cl   * "_
0dm sc-I. aae 0.9lL   0                               _*~  _    a  .....1. 1-ba 10 9 ..9l 0I1 .ai - J. *clald al;
9.0 i-- J. .900 05 99 Ap9 Sd alcaco   o-. 5 a-a   p, a.- n
--d        -d of InPl.s     0-s3 _                           P-i     SI _   *gim am A1J             t *-s *J.    a  *.-
I* a-la  59 a-0       -  la.ala  05 c.9    icsc  05 1.0   -iaa-d             ]      -9  *.900-' _.U0  91 9.c  I. t - la  *ta at 1-i i hd.a
O  c-I  0  .191-(95  9c..5c wo  ~91aa9.h  o  c.adca                                              a. DS -SIA- l P-1--a1 1         loaIJ        j -...A- _c- _-
.9Uma3mo NNW.] _59 "6S _- ouis 1__ _;_                  S            !t -N., 4                  O0
01.9 -a r-   DI 1020011  1- ~1la110a  jc   i.saioip a   p- .a 
J_ _      1 _~  - --P)    D--z-                                -1_~ "a AM                       I_ *a.,=  _.,__,,
P. 0 P_ %I -       W4- 0      .9 I" -%I -%                                       1p- 9. cct -alaJ-3  10-0 iS d9 2aA0  2 = =    = - OVc t..Ril9-
oclml             l-d  c * 01-  011-* WF    s _1-ad V- '-9   p- .  _
-P-% -*3  ao  I_-it    15 -                                   aSI              .0200    _        a S 1  _la_91 *-  qc '_iMs -_    * - * a _9q _ _0
_ _F u * .^ a _s_ ss .................................-d.....                ...P.A          .I.     ._    n-*dh-  r  n-   -Ap 
M-1       0s rla   c01  -.          a-g a_ K9 aj                 5 _3                   cad cc-d .                       _S'         . 0-a tDDIc-zq   *1
-~~~~~~~" DlS' __- es*  -l"                                                                               _  1-
!tt;c         "m-w 110.9  -.9.a  ci-  90 9  t0c1p  a-It a   all.- ad LSa-i *IOz lJ. acnddccm 1-cn-  -o aca-l v- -si
-               _-L*ql c     _           - 9                                 -..)a          S _   -     ml" 5    WI"    _  J- 1-_ 
-        -USE  -t - Was 'M    - *t -*n.- T-   Aaaaa)                                                                   = _0191 acicaIIwl-.1cd
,_ F-l-.P *.a -   9I 0. WWW- c-   II -    0 --M    -                                 .c*."7.9 F- . IMSEMEM-   p                 I     0 9ccl1-SI
09i   -I  ola;jc  2c..1.4 .9.9..   - 41.90 ; 1116I :Mi51                     c.dc a                                                  u agl  c   ltw amtaI .
-^ S'alag _0    Ad F  - S-- eg  ado m- -J SP-                                                     Ir - a.m -        o _  t_
*   dac ocooma a-oacc a; aic-.,coz                                             -, %-PI -           - ,    At-11calft flwdad
___~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&m  lam                                              J_  __--%              1- 4W3| n             -    A_  _ MX-
--_ 9 _.9 _ . _  a-a-s_- _~.9  *_ 101     - *9 . a;h         191                        _ . -a-a_- a- _0010 P-paaa     1 a-.9 ciacSl__ .   -1.1
F-achuc.91   a-a   0.150  t1--aaO -  a-aa Si coal.-  Sa~c-                         l    ab 104pa -10a-a  35F-t
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s-_10                                                     5a _sa   _9-  9159 *_ 0  cldaOalS _0   _ s La -ci.c1
=__   _*aq aq_, SI .    t-n 1-1 ftl_          --   "o s-MIRWas
'ages C    -I t-  cic   a-    S_  ll-  Aa-fI  p    -am
rz_                                                                       3.~~~~.i-  1  .1a   c 11la0     ... Iaal.-  P0 As 5)   -  21dT   ftW
9- -911   I  J-                   -W -        Tr-   iits-1.0_-  - 1-0 - -1S...v..a-da- S - r_                                       -   a       P
cn  - iAL -s acoal -    P.9d .a 51 .512. _.. -.c                 la.c A.    ."% -  0          v..1a 1K-  -.n.90.  -       d   _ -3
101-la- cI11  'a- l0     'siPica. 20 1011 P-l5 ll-ca  actIl-*                                       la"600 -
*1 -aOo _1             - __" 3 *  -A "-P 11-JLW    .dac9                             .1J1 V-c1c  -.   -4q c1hc 1 W   'a  .ciaF-.a    a
--=-5p r_ a-  cc 41._9 .On           1 _   c ci F _- .ci-000                    1 a   ,SP  -.           _ -  _M   aa         -"   -_
csa-a -o       u~ *9pa-                     'l ad 50.as-   la *W tc9 I                                                  5 1 1-q _  *_M _- _a  -dad -   |   _   _  _  a_
Ow   c;-l   w..9 N U-  (.10c0  -Sql -01                                           -"-.9  saL     j.  dk-.I d -1la.ut-. p-  (-F2a)a.  .a   p
10F-OSlt 11-11.91       0  .9iO                                  '919 --"  1-0   SlatO F-  *11c1.Ild sa
.99. ic _ - _9 _ lS    a- q     *I  - a-.aa      cOOa poiO                                                           1-V a054_  ja.949 _-5 _ *,iclod
_             _s-   *r-'Z*-.- _24-_                                          -*_*   t _                    - _            8 - q          _
_;ta- lIllala- p             O @ad C_ja  psaola            c.                           am4 qcc  q,ca z t -a.a-           .; caa;z9 oa   I.o-_
*F-~~ .95 .9.91-00 5.   tl 110a   . OF-da   ^~i *ao  _09.0  cIc                                -'609  F- sa01-  o-9 105 ..-lc _
aqa-   tIalill.     -9910.91 50.9.95.6.910 la-i    - 3c.9 -n(aah   .kqa-.1910
I  v t~    1    ~"  t -k   v-       -P  Tna__.
F-  _*. _ _ ct *sa.9sa- capai50d --   .,,,. a-.         ,     -                                                  *al09 11.1 F- ozoc_ Il- M_d a - -
_.9   aI      *-  1~1  -_(calactas *.o.9.9i -1a; as _lao-I                            ac9."   4o1: Palai.-a  .9   .  F-    -     F-i" 1 -   p. (.
J. --_ 11   it S. Att-     &I&f     * 1-   F _ A1 at-i ;   ;
3 -aac      9- .1la -        01-0 a a-o d 0                         .90101c5M051.c  -191aa..  ac - -P   Mctl.aci.l   a   9.
_ (a     F- F-. * 01  -.-. cJ- r_.                                            --am .   F   *   a- 
AM     cl-sAAk  0.92 aaa                  P -" -al0 -It  ca;   .    ad -ia-a -i                  -Pacd.3s  4
-  _i  *-n    - p         _am 1   1-12-0 aba01  t    *F ha-lad                                                                    5sil cc _  lt -   n -    J.-,
ml9.2-   psni-  3010         cc F   a1.ia- 011.  IsOSlccis-  a-                                 P"          "f  0-             'Old no  t T.".a-.
*ii-n .91&.-I"  L.a--.a .  a1..k      9 -   cc.9F tia,9.c                      .-A    tocI        qdo. a-. ca;a.-s ilia  .90  9ia. 
S"       ciaVW. .919 5100 -t"Al-.-   cia-  aI.lA-.9  pt.                              a,  Tatd I-1 alaho    .91 c  laca ts-a.cla cP               i
a-6ai- -m  -         1.5-Ac.. Wsa-c;..s9s-lc                                   .91alz~   Ic.9.9 "-c.  5o.1a   a; 6 at  191  P."-"Idc  c c
-9-4 r-h .1- '[-I -.:,- ft*F-            11-I                 q      _         _1031    -  P- 0-.9 I_i-b Oda 0.9 911  lc a
_ a-la-ca-s _            I 1- _    152c  *i0oa-g oap)caod                       02200    -A  clal-P  -l jazz-"  1-a _ -  t.               *Lo
.c--   ..... 9   11.1091 -1 005   -  I   ba       a9aaa ;Ac.-9103  m9al-dc  .91t--31                                    P.9Octcs -T-"OcO  .1  "id
-a Ia-. 11015.91-  -c 0.  j.               d.      - _                     . *.I          a- _cc        c      ..cc.   cn9 _1           _ica  la-
*l-lid 063           a"-ltc0 201-910 1.9OF- 030a11                              .) F- cs           0 9P *1 111s r-     1_-*- _ * aIl - -   P-  10 F
sVI ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~          M _  *_% -  -_3-1- ___-di 3-F0o s                   _W_
aj t.ilSq   Aladp .0-11     550  -  po       ".Wc -" .SOtIclaO9  1.10529   1sc.d"P ml P-. 91t6 l(5ndl  .110090-
sss_   F- O_tvw _    a- -      .    F- .  M   .91-  1_!! t511 via    IiaM -%- -                                   1f cia
N%m                           - J 'g0--                '                 .     O p 0 -111 O  0191 ait   1w 0 1 11 -   ta    a  p _   _
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1- id F- 1.0 amO 01liS.1115 1910 
I~~~~~~~~~~i XDW                                                      -SZ- 
-h.igastum a-il:- Pi.. Gs  -im .ao     tpm.m                     In      -d~ W.99 ac. .90a. hitocn as .Aca.9.3.d 911cla11cP
F--- 5"sis,   la " .9    -310        Cft3P .011a.ilicaoac.  aatlIOa                      h.i;lc.F-11100.9190  -  - 
isuAt  I-M- .c1Atoa F-  AF-00~. A a-ad  -od.01t T"                                     sam a.d,c.10   'slaaii  -a      -  e         111.
a-.~  150. 3.  l00  laat- c90  c  M.Oc  -.  -m  W A 019lIsm
490--bi            iskI 9arls 1.101.9a;    ~    913M 1V.-                                         W    0-10 a- F.1-  ~lt1191a
stOtlIl     &Iad-aP 11910.9111-   1ala0. 51.9.9.1.9; .9  9.95  -s
a.a0a3   a a;- sIa- W        p   *.o.                                             "&I                                             .91- 10-3 F- aGiuo
F- .1Assszs  a ad.ois 1-10 .9W 1-1 (0la  Sci.9  a0a.    k j          -   o-  Al",a-  acl-  0t a-% adSt. accod~i   F- *  ftala -I  dl
2.911- *0 F-)  mi.iamps am 0   , v-59.  -tW    -   da-  11011- wf        mp-P1-0115dm JO               ftm tola.    1aa..1  1010      -1  M- 
V,- --   -"- MOMWad  la-tca           --ai. W. a,tla9 S-k" MP -a.9c31 .9 09                                                  *cdA    niI'l 10-1zP1. -  3wo-,  aeg4- *19
F   - 1020109  F- -1a4   F-   g .Oad0-0  F-o  0I9         A- 9 11 AI-   CZ      4 -ff- .ll ISa   A.ad- 10     r       - 0110  -3d02 a      -S-l j- n
1-I 10111091  p~~~~ F-15005 0_10110-9 "-1                                                         -l9(t            a.-W- %91-
*10.9l3 aci       ssiss - IG-1 -M  101."m 910.'0 15ad1    0i0.9dsss %.9609.=                     is"'rs  simfa       "I                P 05F-0
aa1afl         1100         at-       V=1-  9   1990        01  F    -.   -.ad..oa
Ft- *   1.9a it00 A." 101   0000.9 -"-90a FI a-f  F   19                          2-c as        ilt-a-0 9...9        t01 0  51     .  "A1F10  9- T1II
laollacdal          01lW1bld-.01   0.9sd a-191b015    VISION AD                                                                                 F- 050
*0-100919    0-   .1.0aipIa)   c01hi                                   _            0    0.00   -lF-10   - 'loa    .                 ssa111-



676,5U sq km           35.7 ullin (19)                                53 par sq k
late of grt: 2.OX (from 1982 to 1983)         192 par sq km of arable lad
CrUd birtb rate (per '00):                37.2           Population per physician:          4.550
Crude dath rate (par '000):               13.6           Population per hospital bad:       1.407
Infant mortality (per 'oeo live births):
DCO  DIUSTRUIOW (1972)                                   DICEUDTlIOE OP LAUD o     _  (1975)
ZSo  naial incomeo,    bhgbst quintile:     40           Z owned by top 141 of wne:            42
lonet quintile:         S          1 owed by males: 62S of owers:    26
nCCns TO oPoP warn ml                                    ACCES TO IIZMCTECTT (197?
Z of poplation - urbma:                   30.0           I of population:                     6.6
rural:                   13.0
Total:                   17.0
Calorie intke  as  e of requiremnts:       106           Adult literacy rate:                 672
Par capita protein intake (grate per day):   59          Primacy school enrollsn:             811
ososs ElTIOWL IPRODUCT IN 1Y1983                         AUnmL MIS cF GROWN CZ. caostant prices)
S Millik    1                    I2&974-78    1978-8        1I74-83
a t market price.            6.12A   100.0                    5.7            6.0         5.9
Cross capital fornation       1.344    22.0                   24.1           8.7         15.3
Creoo national earing         1.003     16A                   10.7          11.8         12.3
rerign saving 1/                341     5.6                   36.6           1.0         15.5
laports of Soods. }Ws           491      3.0                  -5.7          16.5          6.1
Imports of goods, Mfl           790    12.9                   13.8           6.7          9.8
Wnur, ]M OmC. AM
PISUCTlYTVY i 1T1983
Vulu Added                LSLber Furce       V. A. Per Worker
8 mlillion   S             Kilio    2X               M
AgricLture sI                  2.994   483A             9.6      66.3            312
xndu-sry 4/                      8l   12.9              1.5      10.3            533
Services/trade                 2,397   j.               30& a/   21-  l/         ZU.
TOTAL                     6.192   100.0           14.5    100.0             427
Pnblic Sactor                Union CoysruantL
Ettolsfll   L2 of C            Eto Killion    L of GM
m                n8    nM
Current receipt.                     8,179 V       16.5 f     -    6,8S5           13.9
Curret xpeditures                    6,802         13.7             6,640          13.4
Carrent surplus                      1.377          2.8               255           0.5
Capital expenditures                8.053 jS       16.2 gf          2.187           6A
lateral assistae  (gross)            2,550          5.1
*A11 data for F83 (195/fl) ar  evised estimates of the Covernmet of borma.
Al tast rcat estimates, referring to any yar batwem 1979 an  1981.
fl- Del fued as tCrnal current accost balance excluding grats.
ij  lncluds livestock, fiobay. and forestry.
1 Includes        , power, ad cotnetrction.
at  Includes worker not elsowbre specified.
f/ Inlude current surplus/deficit oef public corporations.
Al Include capital expenditur  of public corporation.
not  ilabia



Page 5 of 3
-27-
1mmM&at                                     im iMm   Um   am   AU  am   am
1111~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a.                                                           MarX.     Mar.
CRysLt illi  outtandin  at                         Nor.      NW.       now.      Pr.       NW.       NWfi.      NBC.
_d of period,
Money a  QuMAi NOe                                6,631     6,017     9,619      11,213    13,135    14,797   17,019
Sent Credit tD Public Sector                      6,550     7,198     6,990     10,65    13,467    15,713    18,D2
Sek Credit to Private ad                          1,706     1,728     1.653      1,651      1,749     1.617     1.796
CDopeative sectors
(Peretamtes or Index huhers)
Moey  an quai Money am Z of CDP                    22A       25.2      27.2       29.0       30.7      31.5      34.1
Consommr Price Inde at Raomo
(1976 - 100)                                    100.0    106.1      107.2      107.5    112.0      116.3    116.6
Anul. Percentaes Chaine  na:
CDone r Price 1mhz at Sang..n                    4.0        6.1       1.0        0.3       4.2       5.6        04
Dent Credit tD Public Sector                      54        9.6      25.0       21.1       23.9     16.5       16.2
leek Credit tD Private S                         14.6       1.3      -4.3       -0.1       5.9      -3.5        6.6
Cooperative sectore
UALA       Olr O N ATUT                                                          uaurns  mom   (FM) L/
MLt        m i     n                                              Lmillio n
Export  (Cw)                            515.0   437.6   491.0               Rice end Rics Products              170        38.6
Imports (cPs)                          680.5    950.7   790.0               Tes 4 Rerduood                      113       25.6
Sasoarce Balace                        -365.5  -512.9  -2".0                Pulsee  a   Besn                     26         6.
Use metale and Ore        -         37         6.
Animal Peedtuff                     10         2.3
net NeCter Inma                         -23.0   -4.7   -67.0                All Other Comoditieg                           ILL
Net Current Trmfer                       17.6     23.7    23.0
TOAL                         441       100.0
Current AccoDt kecAe                   -370.9  -535.9  -341.0
Official CGat Aid                        58.6     79.4    76.0            UTUEA. DWM. March 31. 195
Eat OLT La     (15 t) h                 317.6   332.9   242.0                                                      $million
Dieburoemmets                         431.1   401.0   326.0
Repayments                             63.5     68.2    86.0              Outatandin  a" DisbhreA                  2,221.8
Shrt-     Capital                           0     -0.7        0
Outstanding, including
other media * tng Term Capital S,       -77.4     21.8    21.0              .edisbeard                               3,360.3
Overall Delete                          -42.1  -102.5    -2.0
Crina  Sasarvee (ed-a_-rch)             221.7    79.7    96.1
Met  eseree (end-Narch)                 156.4      1.5      4.9            m Dr SUhCK RAIO Fog 198                     .
Ratin of debt serwics to aorta of           29.6
-M OF  KcuAMm                                                               gods aM services (ezcindingnIW)
1961 (Rnd of Caleder TmY)
l 1.00 - X 6.51
0S$ 1.00 - x 7.4
rmnA   Immc. Marh 31. 198I  (115 Killion)
1l    Cud of Caleder year)
S   1.00 - I 6.51                                                                                               a           a
W56 1.00 - X 7.76
OuLttanding a   Disbursed                       385.5
193 (e of CA            ar)
S   1.00  K *.51                                                          UniAburse                                        277.6
U   1.00 - K B.12
Outstanding, including
s of Jutl. I. 1 983                                                          V Adiebure                           -        663.1
l .OD - X 6.51
ll 1.00 - X SAO
j   Reported on shipment basis
Id  Transaction reported to the  orld A A's det reportixn  aeta_,
(3).
XfInludee errors ai owissions.
South Asia Progress Deartment
Division A
March 31, 1985



-2a-                          ANNEX II
STATUS OF IBRD/IDA OPERATIONS IN BURMA
STATEMENT OF IBRD LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31. 1985)
US$ million
Loan or                                              Amount (less cancellation)
Credit No. Year   Borrower         Purpose            IBRD    IDA    Undisbursed
Three loans and seven credits fully disbursed         33.1    119.4        --
597      1975   Burma   Livestock                    -      7.5       0.61
642      1976   Burma   Paddyland Development        -     30.0       5.95
745      1977   Burma   Seed Development             -      5.5       0.12
835      1978   Burma   Paddyland Development II   -       34.5      16.58
879      1978   Burma   Rubber Rehabilitation        -      4.5       0.93
949      1979   Burma   Forestry II                  -     35.0      15.61
958      1979   Burma   Telecommuuicetious II       -      35.0       8.78
1031      1980   Burma   Kinda (Nysunggyat) Dam       -     90.0      30.55
1092 b    1981   Burma   Grain Storag.e               -     23.0       6.75
1114 b/   1981   Burma   Wood Industries I            -     32.0       6.70
1245 bJ   1982   Burma   Power I                     -      80.0      44.82
1253 b/   1982   Burma   Construction Industry I    -       20.0       8.54
1315 b    1983   Burma   Tank- 'Errigation           -      19.0      13.31
1372 b/   1983   Burma   Third Port Project           -     50.0      45.87
1381 b/   1983   Burma   Groundwater Project I       -      14.0      12.85
1385 b/   1983   Burma   Rubber Rehabilitation II   -        9.0       8.33
1425 bI   1984   Burma   Textile Finishing Plant    -       29.7      27.78
1444 bI   1984   Burma  Wood Industries II            -     25.0      23.49
Total                                    33.1   663.1
of which has been repaid               33.1      1.1
Total now outstanding                      -    662.0
Amount sold                      2.7
of which has been repaid       2.7
Total now held by IBRD & IDA a/                  662.0
Total Undisbursed                                          277.57
A/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
/ IDA Sixth Replenisbment Credits. Principal amounts shown in US dollars
equivalent at date of negotiations as shown in the President's Reports,
and undisbursed amounts shown in US dollars equivalent at the rate of
exchange for the SDR on March 31, 1985.



ANNEX III
-29-                       Page  1 of 2
BURMA
SECOND SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Surplementarv Proiect Data Sheet
Section I       Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time Taken by the Country to Prepare the Proiect:
2 years
(b) Agencv Preparing the Pro;ect:
FAO/CP
(c) Date of First Presentation to the Association:
June 1983
(d)  Date of Departure of Aporaisal Mission:
February 1984
(e) Date of Completion of Ne2otiations:
May 1985
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness:
October 1985
Section II      Special IDA Implementation Action
None



ANNEX III
Page  2 of 2
Section III     Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) establishment of a Project Coordination Committee
to be chaired by the Managing Director of the
Agricultural Corporation (paras 47, 74); and
(b) arrangements satisfactory to the Association for
financing technical assistance and training shall have
been made with the United Nations Development Progra-me
(paras 43, 74).
.



l* I
'a-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
,Na;A .                                              C'',.
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~
::    --   S   ^  -                             FS        J   : j~~~~~~~~~~~~
-,-.::~ ~ ~~~J1 '-'SCN'SE   EEOMN POJC-:z,U':-     
,  i~~~~~~~~~~~~






