Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15217
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
SECOND SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1616-BA)
DECEMBER 29, 1995
Agricultural and Environment Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
GOM Fiscal Year             Exchange Rate
(Kyats per US$)
Appraisal Year                 1985-86                      8.80
1986-87                      8.80
1987-88                      6.78
1988-89                      6.35
1989-90                      6.60
1990-91                      6.45
1991-92                      6.01
1992-93                      6.24
Completion Year                1993-94                       6.50
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 foot (ft)           =           0.305 metres (m)
1 acre (ac)           =           0.405 hectares (ha)
1 kilogram (kg)       =           2.2 pounds (lb)
1 ton (t)                         metric ton =  2,200 pounds
ABBREV1IATIONS
ARD                Applied Research Division
ARI                Agricultural Research Institute
DCA                Development Credit Agreement
ED                 Extension Division
ERR                Economic Rate of Return
GOM                Government of Myanmar
HYV                High Yielding Varieties
MAS                Myanma Agriculture Service
MOA                Ministry of Agriculture
MUV                Index of Unit Value of Manufactured Exports
PCR                Project Completion Report
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
SCF                Standard Conversion Factor
SD                 Seed Division in MAS
SDR                Special Drawing Rights
SS                 Seed Section in MAS
TA                 Technical Assistance
UNDP               United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 29, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Myanmar
Second Seed Development Project (Credit 1616-BA)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Myanmar-Second Seed Development
project (Credit 1616-BA, approved in FY85), prepared by the FAO/Bank Cooperative Program and the
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. It provides a comprehensive account of the implementation of
the project. The Borrower prepared Part II.
The project, built on the foundation developed by the first Seed Development project (Credit
745-BA), was designed to establish a comprehensive and effective seed production and processing
system. Its objectives were to strengthen the seed section of the Myanmar Agricultural Service (MAS)
and the plant breeding and applied research program, to establish an efficient seed multiplication
program, and to increase agricultural exports. It provided hardware (civil works, vehicles, machinery
and equipment), software (technical assistance and training) and incremental operating costs. It was
cofinanced by UJNDP.
The project design was ambitious and sought to establish a large seed processing and distribution
system and an effective smaliholder outgrowers scheme of contract seed producers. Project
implementation was delayed by pervasive procurement problems and by political uphieaval in 1988. The
substantial difference between the economic rate of returni (ERR) as calculated at appraisal (48 percent)
and at project completion (a range of 9-16 percent depending on assumptions) was due mainly to the
substantial decline in the international price of rice and the failure of the research, cotton, pulse and
groundnut seed production components. Nevertheless, the project did succeed in establishing a seed
producing and processing system that delivered good quality rice seed to smalliholders. About 100,000
farmers are outgrowers in the seed production program.
As in the PCR, the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) rates project outcome as
satisfactory since its major institutional objective was achieved and smallholder contract seed producers
were trained to produce certified seed, although it does not yet meet international standards.
Sustainability is rated as uncertain, as despite a strong demand for seed, the borrower may be unwilling
to continue making essential investments. Realization of the full potential of the capacity created by the
project will depend on government willingness to maintain staffing levels and in-service training, and
limit the production of certified seeds to the capacity of the processing plants. The project was
successful in developing both a physical and a professional capacity in seed production and processing.
Institutional development is, therefore, rated as substantial. OED also rates the overall performance of
both the Bank and the borrower as satisfactory, although the latter was reluctant to improve procurement
procedures.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Pertinent lessons offered by this project are (i) when serious procurement problems have been
experienced in an earlier project, help in understanding and implementing the Bank's procurement
procedures should be provided prior to the start of the next project; (ii) projects should be tailored to the
capacity of the participating institutions; and (iii) in technically specialized projects, supervision
missions should include appropriate expertise.
No audit is planned.
Attachment



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
SECOND SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CR. 1616-BA)
Table of Contents
Preface    .     .     .     .     .     .    .     .     .    .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .    .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .    .     .
Evaluation Summary   ...  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .... .
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . . . . .    1
Project Identity   .1..  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  I
Background . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Project Objectives and Description    .1..  .               .  .  .  .      ...    ... .       I
Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
Project Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         9
Bank Performance    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I . I   10
Borrower Perfor%Iance  ......................                                         . .  10
Project Relationship   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Consulting Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Project Documentation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
PART II: BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
AND ITS DEVELOPMENT IMPACT                                                          12
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1s
Related Bank Credits    ..15
Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
Credit Disbursements    ..16
Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
A.  Farm Development    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
B. Processing Plants                              .1.9. .. is
C. Training..  .                                                                         19
D. Seed Production. .    .                                                                19
Project Cost and Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
A.  Project Cost    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
B.  Project Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
A. Direct Benefits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
B.  Economic Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
C. Financial Impact. .    .                                                               24
Status of Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
Use of Bank Resources ..                                                                     26
A. Staff Inputs..    .                                                                    26
B.    Missions    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  26
ANNEXES
1. Certified Rice Production and Procurement Targets for Operating Seed Centres
in 1993/94.
2. Economic Analysis and Rate of Return.
Map: IBRD 18275K
Thisdocument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






-i-
MYANMAR
SECOND SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1616-BA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Seed
Development Project in Myanmar, for which Credit No. 1616-BA in the amount of
SDR14.6 million (US$14.5 million equivalent) was approved on June 20, 1985. The
Credit closed two years behind schedule, on June 30, 1994.   The undisbursed
balance of SDR 503,884.93 remaining after the last disbu_-sement on October 4,
1994, was cancelled.
Parts I and III of the PCR, prepared with the assistance of the Food
and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations/World Bank Cooperative Program
(FAO/CP), incorporate information obtained from the Staff Appraisal Report Number
5264-BA, dated May 23,1985; the Development Credit Agreement dated October 1,
1985; the Bank's supervision reports; the Borrower's Quarterly Progress Reports;
project files; interviews with the Bank staff associated with the project; and
the data supplied by the implementing agencies.   The report was reviewed and
finalized by EAlAE staff.






-ii-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
SECOND SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1616-BA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.        The main objective of the Second Seed Development Project (Seeds II)
was to build on the foundation laid by the first Seed Development Project (Cr.
745 BA) to put in place a comprehensive seed processing and organized seed
production system through: (i) strengthening the Seed Section (SS) of the
Agricultural Corporation, which was later renamed as the Myanma Agriculture
Service (MAS); (ii) enforcing the plant breeding and applied research program;
(iii) physically establishing an efficient seed multiplication program; and (iv)
increasing the exports of rice and pulses and decreasing the imports of medium
staple cotton by increasing commercial production of these crops.
Implementation Experience
2.         Immediately after its start up, the project encountered procurement
problems which continued almost all through the implementation period and which
also had been plaguing implementation of its predecessor, the First Seed
Development Project (Seeds I), as well as several other Bank projects in Myanmar.
That procurement could have been greatly improved is clearly demonstrated by the
new rapid procurement procedures introduced by Government when it had to import
fertilizer just before the credit closure. As a result, the implementation of
all components that involved procurement, particularly through imports, was
delayed. Moreover the project was conceived in a seed policy vacuum while at the
same time, as orig-nally designed, it was too ambitious or too optimistic and
this also constrained implementation particularly before 1990. This had been
recognized by the Bank already at the start of the project but remedial action
was taken only at the Mid-Term Review in 1990.  Lastly, the sudden political
upheavals in 1988 brought the project virtually to a standstill for about one
year.
3.        After the Mid-Term Review of 1990 when the project was modified to
make it fit more appropriately to the local conditions, and extended for another
two years to enable it to complete the amended project plan for which additional
TA funds had been provided by UNDP, project implementation improved. The result
was that the seed processing plants were commissioned just before the extended
credit closing date.
4.        Before as well as after the Mid-Term Review, shortage of staff had
hindered effective project implementation. The Government should not have over-
committed itself to so many projects in agriculture during the project's
implementation period. As a result it had to assign to other projects the staff
who were originally supposed to be committed to Seeds II, including some who were



- iii -
involved in the implementation of Seeds I. The consequence is that now some 344
staff are being employed by Seeds II instead of the 601 originally intended.
Government's solution has been to involve MAS Extension Division staff (ED) in
implementation of the project since some of the functions of ED staff and Seed
Division staff (SD - formerly known as SS) overlap and both agencies work closely
together.   However, resolution of the staffing issue needs to be considered
within the overall context of other changes required including clarifying
responsibilities  of  the Departments  (para  5.3),  in  contract  design  and
supervision, and the financial performance of the program (para 5.12) together
with any restructuring resulting from suggested changes in ownership (para 6.2).
5.        A major problem that the project has not yet fully tackled concerns
the large over production of outgrowers seed.  In spite of the fact that the
quality control staff had not yet been on the ground at the inception of the
project, the project started to produce outgrowers seed in increasingly larger
quantities even though the seed processing plants had not even been constructed.
Even in 1990 when the outgrowers rice seed production had reached twice the
appraisal target (47,000t against 24,600t) and the Mid-Term Review had reduced
this target to about 15,700t, the project continued to produce yet increasingly
more up to a maximum of 70,000t in 1992/93, only to drop to about 58,000t in
1993/94.
6.        This should not have been allowed to happen since the SAR clearly
stated that the amount of outgrowers seed production should only be about 10%
higher than the effective capacity of the plants. Government has now agreed to
restrict total certified seed production to 110% of plant capacity and to enter
into firm contracts with the outgrowers selected to participate in the certified
seed production program.
Results
7.        The project has achieved its overall objective of putting in place a
comprehensive quality seed producing and processing system. Nine seed processing
plants have been established satisfactorily, institutional strengthening has been
successful, and farmers have been trained to produce certified seeds. However,
this was undertaken in the absence of a National Seed Policy.   Moreover,
implementation had to rely on greater participation by ED staff than envisaged
at appraisal. The yield of paddy, the main focus of the project, is currently
about 1.2 to 1.7 tons/ac compared with the SAR estimate of 1.075 tons/ac. As
training is intensified and as ED staff gain experience project yield and quality
should be even more favorable.
8.        The re-calculated economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated to fall
in the range from 91 to 16%, depending on assumptions, compared to the appraisal
estimate of 48%. The difference is due mainly to the substantial decline in the
international rice price, which is about 50% lower than the appraisal projection,
and to the failure of the cotton, pulse, groundnut, and research components
(paras 5.7 and 5.15).



-iv-
Sustainability
9.        The  sustainability of  the project  is likely.   However,  certain
safeguards need to be instituted for the project to achieve its full potential.
Adequate staff needs to be provided and maintained, training needs to be
intensified, production of unprocessed certified seed needs to be restricted to
the capacity of the processing plants; and most importantly, a National Seeds
Policy needs to be enunciated.   Now that Government has taken the lead in
establishing seed production and processing, it is recommended that consideration
be given to attracting private sector capital, technology and expertise to
further develop the seeds program into a commercially viable industry (para 6.2)
Lessons Learned
10.        By the Bank.  Once severe procurement problems in a previous project
in a country have been experienced, it should be ensured at the design stage of
the follow-up projezt that the Borrower's procurement procedures have been
streamlined (Part I, para. 5.2) . One way of achieving this is through providing
assistance for the establishment of new procurement procedures and, once set up,
obtaining the Borrower's assurance that they would indeed be adhered to.  If
required, some shcrt time consultancy could even be provided at the start of the
project to iron out the possible initial difficulties that could arise once the
project is being implemented.
11.       At  the design stage  the  Borrower's  institutional  capability  to
implement a rather new type of project should be assessed cautiously,
particularly when previous experiences in a less complex project have not been
encouraqing, and the project's scope and size of components should be tailored
accordingly. Institutional capability rather than project size should be the
criterion for project feasibility. If for one reason or another, a departure
from this cautious route is considered necessary and a large project is being
contemplated in spite of the higher risks of failure, then a very large Technical
Assistance (TA) and training component will be a must (Part I, para. 5.1).
12.        When  large  seed  development  projects  are  conceived,  the  seed
production activities and not just the seed processing activities should be
covered by the TA component, particularly when a new venture such as formation
of seed outgrowers groups and seed quality control in the field is being
envisaged (Part I, paras. 4.3 and 5.9).  Seed processing can be successfully
pursued only once the outgrowers seed program, in terms of quantity as well as
quality  required,  is effectively  established  and under  control.    A  Seed
Production Specialist would therefore in most such cases need to be included in
the TA component.
13.        For large and complex seed development projects, supervision missions
should include at least once a year a Seed Specialist (either a Seed Production
or a Seed Processing Specialist) depending on the problems to be tackled during
implementation (in the Myanmar case it should have been a Production Specialist -
Part I, para 8.1).



14.       Bv the Borrower.  Before firmly committing itself to any one project,
priority projects should be selected from the project pipeline on a staff-
availability basis to ensure that the commitment made can indeed be complied with
and that the priority project selected would be fully staffed and attended to.
Otherwise the available staff will be spread too thin over the various agreed
projects and many of these will experience similar difficulties to Seeds II (Part
I, para. 5.3).



MYANMAR
SECOND SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr.1616-BA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Prolect Identit-
Project Name               Second Seed Development Project
Credit No.       :         Cr. 1616-BA
RVP Unit         :         East Asia and Pacific
Country          :         Myanmar
Sector           :         Agriculture
Sub-sector       .         Seed
2. Background
2.1        The Second Seed Development Project (Seeds II) was a follow-up to the
IDA-financed first Seed Development Project (Seeds I, 1978-84, Cr. 745-BA).
Seeds I represented an important initial step towards the establishment of an
organized seed multiplication program in the country.   It focused on high
yielding varieties (HYV) of paddy and on medium staple cotton and was considered
to have achieved its major objective of having established the institutional and
infrastructural base for future seed development programs. Seeds II, which was
prepared with the assistance of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program, was to
build on the experience gained under Seeds I by introducing quality control in
the final stage of seed multiplication and processing to improve on seed quality
and distribution, which was judged unsatisfactory under Seeds I. It was also to
strengthen the existing seed handling institutions, expand into new geographical
areas and cover additional crops.
3.  Project Objectives and Description
3.1        The project objectives, which were to be achieved over a period of six
and a half years, were to:   (i) strengthen the Seed Section  (SS) of the
Agricultural Corporation (the name of which was later changed to the Myanma
Agriculture Service - MAS) so that it could become a modern seed production
organization with technical expertise and management capability, and the
necessary infrastructure for rapid dissemination of seeds of new crop varieties
(mainly paddy - 70%, but also cotton, butter bean, chick pea, mung bean, pigeon
pea and groundnuts) as and when released; (ii) strengthen the plant breeding and
applied  research program;    (iii)  physically  establish an efficient  seed
multiplication program, including Certified Seed production under controlled
conditions and ensure its penetration into rural areas;   and (iv) increase



-2-
exports of rice and pulses and decrease imports of medium staple cotton through
increased commercial production. In brief, the project was to put in place a
comprehensive seed processing and an organized seed distribution system.   In
physical terms "at full development", the project was to engage 17,000
smallholders as contract seed growers; increase the annual seed supply by 21,000
tons of paddy; 3,100 tons of medium staple cotton; 3,200 tons of pulses; and on
a pilot basis, about 1,100 tons of groundnuts.
3.2        The main components of the project were as follows:
(i)    Institutional Development:  MAS's seed production was to be
strengthened and its operations expanded to encompass all
aspects of a Certified Seed scheme for seven priority crops.
Seed production and processing, quality control, and seed
distribution were to be expanded by providing incremental
staffing and training, facilities, equipment, and vehicles.
Project monitoring was to be reorganized and strengthened
through financing incremental staff and transport.
(ii)   Farm and Seed Development:  Twelve existing seed farms of the
Applied Research Division (which was abolished and transformed
during project implementation into the Seed Division -SD-
which included the Seed Section -SS) were to be improved
through land levelling, tube well irrigation, incremental
staff and housing, and farm machinery. Seed quality control
based on a seed certification scheme was to be introduced and
was to be organized with assistance from the Extension
Division (ED) and contract seed growers.
(iii)  Seed Processing and Storaze:   Twelve new processing plants
with attached seed storage were to be established at strategic
locations, and limited additional equipment was to be provided
for the four plants procured under Seeds I.
(iv)   Seed Ouality Control: Provision was to be made for equipment,
staffing,  facilities  and  vehicles  for  one  seed  testing
laboratory to be newly established, for the Central Seed
Laboratory which was already under construction at Yangon at
the time of appraisal of Seeds II, and for the expansion of
three of the seed laboratories set up under Seeds I.
(v)    Research:      Five  farms  for  applied  research  and plant
breeding were to be strengthened with additional personnel and
facilities to enable improvement and expansion of the research
program. Additionally, Hmawbi Central Farm was to be improved
to become the focal point of applied rice research in the
humid areas.
(vi)   Technical Assistance and Training:  A total of 96 man-months
of technical assistance was to be provided to support crucial
aspects of project implementation (mainly seed processing and
storage, and research/plant breeding), along with 426 man-



-3-
months of overseas training (246 man-months for applied
research and 180 man-months for seed production).
4. Project Desicrn and Orqanization
4.1        The project was conceptually sound in that it was designed to build
on the institutional and infrastructural achievements of Seeds I which was in
principle successfully completed in December 1984. The concept of having seed
research interlinked with the proposed seed development program was also
appropriate although the implementation of the research activities under the
project were not satisfactory (para. 5.15) . Also certain crucial aspects were
overlooked at the design stage which adversely affected project implementation
and hindered achievement of the final objectives of the project within the time
span intended.
4.2        Firstly, the difficulties of establishing a large and effective seed
processing and distribution systeM in the absence of a national seed policy
seemed to have been underestimated at the project preparation and appraisal
stages. Had the se3d policies been clearly defined at the design stage, the
importance of the research component would have been realized by the government
authorities and possibly given more weight. It would also have facilitated the
subsequent discussions on subsidy matters, pricing policies, private sector
involvement, farmer participation, etc. In fact, a national seeds policy should
have been developed during Seeds I.
4.3        Secondly, the setting up of a system to effectively organize and form
seed outgrowers groups which would comply with contractual arrangements, and the
establishment of an effective seed outgrowers quality control system, were tasks
in which the project authorities had little encouraging experience (Seeds I).
Despite this, provision of Technical Assistance (TA) for these particular
activities, which could have been covered by a Seed Production Specialist, were
ignored.    Also  the training  component  should have been much larger than
originally designed in terms of time and output. The consequences of all this
have not yet been fully felt but will clearly be felt once the new project plants
start to operate at full capacity.
4.4        Finally, in spite of the fact that the project was to deal with a
difficult and relatively new activity in Myanmar (organizing outgrowers and
ensuring seed quality control), the size of the project was substantial. In this
situation a more cautious approach and thus a smaller project would have been
desirable.
5.  Project Implementation
5.1        General.  After the project had become effective in December 1985 the
SS prepared and submitted the project's detailed organization and management
proposals to the relevant authorities at the beginning of 1986.   These were
approved by the Cabinet in January 1987.  Immediately at the start of project
implementation the Bank considered it - "not recommendable to start a certified
seed production program on a full scale in view of the complications faced and



-4-
to be expected in the near futurel/ .  This design fault  (oddly enough not
identified at appraisal) well recognized at this early stage of implementation,
was apparently not acted upon. It was again acknowledged at the Mid-Term Review
in October/November 1990, when in fact some remedial action was taken: four out
of the 12 new plants were cancelled, the capacity of the others reduced, the
project extended by two years and, most important, the TA component, provided for
by UNDP, extended to cover the two additional project years.
5.2        The two year delay in implementation of the project was due not only
to the over-ambitious design of the project, but also to a shortage of staff, and
to a serious political upheaval in 1988 which, although seemingly hindering
implementation   only  for  eight  months,   effectively  postponed  project
implementation for more than one year, mainly due to re-initiation problems
(project offices had been looted and partly destroyed and all documents had
disappeared).  Another implementation stumbling block had been the cumbersome
procurement procedures (a common phenomenon experienced by most other IDA
projects in Myanmar) which extended sometimes for over a year. That this could
have been easily improved was demonstrated by the rapid procurement procedures
undertaken only receatly when fertilizers were procured within three months: GOM
realized that the goods had to arrive in Yangon before credit closure on June 30,
1994.
5.3        The shortage of staff could not have been anticipated at appraisal as
it was expected at appraisal that the staff of Seeds I (450) would be transferred
to Seeds II. However the Government of Myanmar (GOM) had overcommitted itself
on many other agricultural projects (an additional 35 projects were carried out
during the 1986-1994 period) so that MAS had to reassign staff of Seeds I to
other projects and as a result Seeds II became seriously understaffed. In May
1994, its entire staff was only 344 instead of to 601 as anticinated at
appraisal. Government s solution has been to involve MAS Extension Division (ED)
staff in implementation of the project since some of the function of the
Extension Division and Seed Division staff overlap and both agencies work closely
together. The FAO/CP completion mission considered that this arrangement is not
satisfactory since the ED staff are not seed specialists and are not
institutionally responsible for supervision and inspection of certified growers.
The mission further considered that ED staff were unable to give due attention
to their extension activities because of their extensive involvement in
commercial activities of the seeds program and that the SD had appeared to have
lost control of the program.   Certified seed production requires detailed
regulation, grower monitoring and effective field supervision. Any confusion as
to the proper enforcement of controls and application of penalties to those not
complying with contract provisions would be expected to lead to the
overproduction of seed and a decline in the yield advantage of certified seed
referred to in paras 5.9-5.12. Whether the number of SD staff should have been
the 601 anticipated at appraisal is not clear since the cotton seed and other
components have been dropped. Without clear institutional mandates, adequate
staff skills and enforcement capability it would be difficult to decide on an
appropriate staffing level.
'/ Project Status Paper, 28 February 1987.



-5-
5.4        Institutional Development.   The strengthening of the seed-related
institutions through TA has been carried out satisfactorily except for the
research part which was deleted by end 1988 (para. 5.15) .  The total of 133.7
man-months of TA recommended by the 1990 mid-term review mission was fully
utilized by the time the credit closed.
5.5        The need for strengthening the training component  (para. 4.3) was
recognized during implementation, although not to the full extent, and was
improved somewhat: more staff were trained, but courses were shortened.  The
university courses,the only overseas training, have been very successful although
merely two out of the four graduates have returned to the Seed Division.  In
contrast, the results of the short-term as well as the unclassified courses have
been less satisfactory:   the courses given are considered too short to have
meaningfully contributed to the strengthening of the staff and thus the relevant
institutions. Also more staff should have been trained (Part III, Section 4-C).
5.6         An important institutional development in the beginning of 1990 and
one beneficial to the project has been the transformation of the Applied Research
Division (ARD) of MAS into a Seed Division (SD), into which the SS staff was
incorporated, and which became fully responsible for the project as well as for
the entire seed sector.
5.7        Farm and Seed Development.  Farm development on a large scale started
really only by end 1991 mainly due to the poor procurement procedures which
delayed arrival of the farm equipment and machinery. Nevertheless all works have
now been completed. (Part III, Section 4-A).
5.8        Rice seed production has been the most successful activity of the seed
development sub-component, although there are still some improvements to be made
(paras. 5.10, 5.11 and 5.14) .  Breeder, foundation and registered seeds were
produced on the state farms as intended, in terms of quantity as well as quality,
immediately from the start of the project. Seed production of the other crops
was on average reasonable although generally below the SAR target, except for
mung bean and pigeon pea which were in excess of the Mid-Term Review target (Part
III, Section 4-D). Growing of pulse seeds has had several problems, the most
important being the lack of drought resistant varieties; other constraints were
the lack of suitable soil types, inacequate land at the seed farms, and late
sowing due to double cropping (after paddy) . All this resulted in low quality
seed (50% to 70% of the appraisal estimated yields) and a lower production than
targeted at appraisal. Groundnut seed production, basically an experimental sub-
component of the project, was not successful either since the farm selected was
agronomically inappropriate for this type of crop (yield was 330 instead of 440
kg/ac as expected at appraisal) .  The cotton seed sub-component was virtually
dropped from the project since this component was transferred in 1989/90 to the
Industrial Crop Development Project for which the Cotton Seed Multiplication
Group of the Ministry of Industry One (I) has been responsible. Due to all this,
the project thus virtually developed into a rice seed development project which
has been in line with the recent government agricultural policies, although
Government now also intends to encourage production of pulses.
5.9        As expected from the design flaws identified, outgrowers seed growing
was confronted with greater problems in organizing outgrowers and controlling the
quality of their seed in the field than anticipated at appraisal (para. 4.3).



A serious lack of experienced quality control inspectors or extension officers
in the field of seed production as well as of experienced seed farmers was the
main bottleneck right from the start of the project.   This was evidenced
initially by the fact that no differences were made between farm production
practices and handling of grain crops, and farm production practices and handling
of seed crops.   Only in 1990, after a large number of field inspectors were
recruited, did the project become more seriously involved in controlled contract
seed growing.
5.10       In spite of the fact that the quality control staff had not yet been
on the ground at the inception of the project, the project started to produce
outgrowers seed in increasingly larger quantities even though the seed processing
plants had not even been constructed. Even in 1990 when the outgrowers rice seed
production had reached twice the appraisal target (47,000t against 24,590t) and
the Mid-Term reduced this target to 15,700t, the project continued to produce yet
increasingly more up to a maximum of 70,000t in 1992/93, only to drop to about
58,000t in 1993/94.
5.11       This should not have been allowed.  The SAR clearly stated that the
amount of outgrowers seed production should be only about ten percent higher than
effective capacity of the plants and that eventually when the plants were in
place all outgrowers seed should be procured by the plants. Government has now
agreed to restrict total certified seed production to 110% of plant capacity as
recommended at appraisal and to enter into firm contracts with the outgrowers
selected to participate in the certified seed production program.
5.12       Seed Pricing.  The production of large amounts of outgrowersI seed far
in excess of the processing plants' capacity to produce certified seed has
depressed the certified seed price. The FAO/CP mission noted that the certified
seed price has been equal to or at most some 30% higher than the market price of
non-certified seed. The rule of thumb for commercial seed companies quoted by
the mission is that the price of certified seed should be about double that of
uncertified seed.  This price differential has not been achieved because the
actual yield advantage of certified seed in the project area is given as being
about only 15%. This is consistent with the seed quality problem referred to in
the certification program, referred to in para 5.15. Unless the organizational
and contract enforcement changes agreed to by Government are effectively pursued
to strengthen price incentives, the financial viability of the program appears
to be in doubt.
5.13       Seed Processing and Storacre.   Although the project provided for
additional equipment for the four plants constructed under Seeds I (which were
not properly equipped for processing certified seed), during implementation it
was only considered necessary for one plant, at Aunglan. Of the 12 new plants,
including storage, to be established only eight have been constructed, while also
their original intended capacities had been reduced by the Mid-Term Review for
reasons explained above (para. 5.1).  The first four were completed in April
1991, while the remainder were completed in the first quarter of 1994 and
successfully commissioned during the PCR mission's visit, thus just before credit
closing (Part III, Section 4-B). The main problems encountered, besides those
mentioned earlier, concerned the lack of adequate electricity supply to some of
the plants; this is still not entirely resolved.



-7-
5.14       Seed Ouality Control.  One seed laboratory was established and put
into use in 1991 at Thauyaungchaung, while the Central Seed Laboratory was moved
from the SD compound to Gyogone in the beginning of 1992. The seed laboratory
equipment was procured and distributed to the various seed testing laboratories
and the certified seed producing townships. The Quality Control Section in SD
has been strengthened with additional staff and training, but as mentioned
before, this has not been sufficient despite the overwhelming, additional support
of ED (para. 5.3).
5.15       Research.   The research activities under the project have been
disappointing and were discontinued by end-1988 mainly because of the
misplacement of the TA consultant who was placed in the ARD, which since 1985,
was supposed to share its research responsibilities with the cropwise oriented
Research Working Groups of the Agricultural Research Institute (ARI). In fact,
it appeared that ARI had been more in charge of applied research than ARD. The
TA consultant could therefore do little since he basically had little authority
viz-a-viz ARI. With the benefit of hindsight it would have been more appropriate
to have had him located in ARI.
5.16       Project Costs and Financing.   Actual total project costs (US$32.3
million) exceeded the appraisal estimate (US$28.5 million) mainly due to a
continuing increase in the SDR/US$ exchange rate during project implementation
and an increase of US$1.4 million in UNDP financing for the TA component. This
increase in US$ funds made it possible for the project to purchase fertilizer
and petroleum products which were not in the original cost package. In contrast,
the actual total project costs in Kyats (K209.4 million) was lower than that
estimated at appraisal due (K250.8 million) to a significant decrease in the
official US$/Kyat exchange rate (appraisal US$1 = Kyats 8.8; PCR time US$ = Kyats
6.5).
5.17       The expenditure  in foreign  exchange was  spent differently than
originally allocated: about 40%- of the total costs in foreign exchange (or US$6
million) was spent on costs unforeseen at appraisal, i.e. petroleum products and
fertilizers.   The main reason for the inclusion of petroleum products was to
enable the operation of the land development machinery for which there had been
no fuel in FY 1992. The same reason is valid for the expenditure on fertilizer -
the shortage of which started to hinder outgrowers seed production in FY 1993.
The fund reallocation in FY 1994 from the machinery and equipment category to
the one of fertilizer would ensure adequacy of fertilizer even beyond credit
closure. As mentioned before, a higher proportion than originally allocated for
the TA and Training component was also financed by UNDP to cover the additional
TA expenses and additional training during the two-year extended period of the
project.
6. Project Results
6.1        Overall.  The project has achieved its overall objective of putting
in place a comprehensive seed processing and organized seed production system,
which is now firmly established as SD in MAS, although SD is not yet entirely
ready to fulfil all its responsibilities and will need some more help to enable.
it to do so  (para.  7.1) .  However,  the very fact that the Government has
established SD should in itself be considered a favourable result of the project.
Nine seed processing plants have been established satisfactorily. 81 staff have



-8-
participated in overseas training programs. About 100,000 farmers are expected
to benefit from participating in the organized seed production program. Paddy
currently yields about 1.4 tons/ac compared with the SAR estimate of 1.075
tons/ac.   The quality of processed seed is expected to improve as training
becomes more intensified and as extension officers become more experienced in
quality control procedures.
6.2        Nevertheless, experience to date indicates serious problems to be
addressed if Myanmar's seed certification program is to come close to meeting
internationally accepted standards.  As the FAO//CP mission pointed out, the
certified rice seed component has met with mixed success while that of mung,
cotton and groundnut seed has been quite disappointing.   The mission raised
several points of concern requiring some further investigation as to their
general applicability to the program, namely: (i) ED staff carry out seed quality
control after only two days' training compared with the two weeks' training that
the SD staff receive for the same function and itself considered inadequate; (ii)
processing plants accept seed that is below the minimum acceptable density; (iii)
certified seed quality is different for different processing plants with some
apparently being bel-w standard for certification; and, (iv) rising seeding rates
may indicate problems with germination performance.   In summary, though, the
completion mission considered that if the recommended actions were to be taken
in a timely manner,  then project objectives would be reached.   Now that a
certified seeds program has been established, the justification for Government's
continued presence is not clear and difficulties with budget allocation remains
a threat to the sustainability of the present program, its future expansion and
technological intensification. A more acceptable solution to the problems noted
would be to attract private sector commercial experience in producing certified
seed through full or partial privatization. This would be more consistent with
present Government policy than calling for an increase in Government staff.
6.3        Rate of Return. The project's Economic Rate of Return (ERR) has been
re-estimated mainly along the lines of the SAR.   Costs and benefits were
estimated in Kyats in constant 1993 prices; local costs were adjusted by the
domestic consumer index, while costs in foreign exchange were adjusted by the MUV
index. All costs have been included except those that related to the cotton and
groundnut component. Production and replacement costs of the plants have also
been included on the basis of the information provided by the project
authorities. The benefits were derived by multiplying the net economic price per
unit of output of the farm that used certified seed by the total expected
resulting incremental farm output. The area was estimated on the basis of the
certified seed output and the seeding rate per ac.  Finally, since data were
available on several Standard Conversion Factors (SCF) of three different years
during the project's implementation period an estimate has been made of the SCF
each year of the project until 1994 through graphic interpolation; from 1994
onwards a SCF of 0.1 was applied (Part III, Section 6-B).
6.4        The re-estimated economic rate of return (ERR) is about 9t (Table 6.1-
case 4) compared to the appraisal estimate of 48%. (case 1) The difference is
due mainly to the substantial decline in the inflation-adjusted international
rice price projections, which are now about 50% lower than at appraisal, and to
the assumption that all the recommended actions are not likely to be fully
implemented because of factors outside the control of the SD (a smaller yield
advantage of 15% to 1.2 tons/acre is used as a proxy) . Under the assumption that



- 9-
all  the problems mentioned in paras 6.2,  7.1,  and 7.2 are satisfactorily
resolved, the ERR rises to about 16% (case 3) but with a corresponding decline
in likelihood. The FAO/CP completion mission also looked at the impact of the
return period. (number of years seed used before farmers need to buy new seed
to offset yield decline, cases 4 and 5) and of an annual average yield reduced
by 15% from 1.4 to 1.2 tons of paddy per acre assumed with the project to test
the impact of yield estimation error. In its comments on the draft PCR, the MAS
confirmed that farmers are, in fact, buying certified seed only once in two or
three years and this is common practice in other countries in the region.
Table 6.1: Myanmar - Second Seed Development Project
Economic Rates of Return in %
Case       Source      ERR        Yield(tons/ac)         Return Period(years)
(with project)
1.         SAR        48%         1.07                              3
2.         MTR         10%        1.2                               1
3.         PCR         15.9%      1.4                               3
4.                      9.0%      1.2                               3
5.                      9.0o      1.4                               1
6.                      1.8%      1.2                               1
7.  Prolect Sustainabilit
7.1        The sustainability of the project  is likely.   However,  certain
safeguards need to be instituted for the project to achieve its full potential.
Adequate staff needs to be provided and maintained, training needs to be
intensified, the area of unprocessed certified seed needs to be restricted to the
capacity of the processing plants, and most importantly a National Seeds Policy
needs to be enunciated.  It is therefore essential that MAS take the following
actions:
(i)       recruit a Seed Policy Advisor, as also recommended by the
TA team involved in the project, for a period of about
three months to establish a National Seed Policy.
(ii)      hire a Seed Production Specialist with experience in
outgrowers organizations and quality control measures for
a period of about six months who should, besides making an
overall assessment of the outgrowers seed production and
seed quality control measures' situation, also verify the
reliability of the laboratory tests;
(iii)      immediately rationalize the outgrowers seed production
program so that their seed output is compatible with the
processing  capacities  of  SD's  plants.    MAS  should
simultaneously   ensure   that   outgrowers   contracts,
specifically in relation to their obligation to sell their
seed output to the SD plants, are strictly adhered to;
(iv)      enforce the link between SD and ARI to review the seed
research program, which in itself should be intensified,



- 10 -
and ensure feed back to ARI on seed related field problems
(Government should keep in mind that the principal
condition for a successful and sustained performance of
any seed development program is to have timely access to
a continuous flow of new and improved varieties that are
being produced by research);
(v)       make an accurate assessment of the SD's staff situation
and recruit and train the minimum required; and
(vi)       consolidate SD's present activities and not expand its
seed program any further for the time being.
7.2        Unless these actions are taken SD will be unable to continue its
operation on a sound commercial basis and the project's sustainability will be
in jeopardy.
8. Bank Performance
8.1        The Bank's overall performance has been satisfactory except that
certain  shortcomings  at  the  design  stage  (para.  5.2)  hindered  project
implementation.   Although these shortcomings were recognized by supervision
missions at an early stage, no remedial action was taken until the Mid-Term
Review in October/November 1990. Also all supervision missions, except for the
one for the Mid-Term Review, were composed of one member i.e. either an
agronomist or an economist. Since the project could not at any time have been
considered as a non-problem project, it would have been desirable to field two-
person missions including either a Seed Production Specialist or a Seed-
Processing Specialist to guide the project implementation more appropriately.
Otherwise the supervision missions performed well and flexibly and helped the
project to perform as satisfactorily as possible under the circumstances. The
only other problem was the continued insistence of the supervision missions on
the project reaching the SAR' s seed production and procurement targets before the
processing plants were completed. The decision to restructure the project after
the Mid-Term Review was a commendable undertaking.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1        Following the Borrower's agreement at the Mid-Term Review to reduce
the scope of the project, performance has generally been satisfactory: progress
reports were submitted on time and supervision missions' recommendations were
usually followed up.    The Borrower has in principle been weak only in two
important areas, i.e. staffing and procurement.   Before committing itself it
should have estimated the staff requirements for all the projects that it wanted
to implement and for which financing was apparently available. It should have
realized that by spreading its staff so thin over too many projects it was
putting in jeopardy the successful attainment of the results of each of them.
9.2        The other area of concern has been the Borrower's attitude towards the
continuing Bank requests to improve its procurement procedures.  This may have
been due to a lack of understanding of the importance of this particular project
activity for the overall project implementation. It was perhaps only realized



- 11 -
by the end of the project when the Borrower indeed greatly improved the
procurement procedures in respect of petroleum products and fertilizer.
10. Project Relationship
10.1       Project  relationships  have  been  cordial  and  excellent,  again
particularly during the last three years of the project.   At the end of the
supervision missions tripartite meetings were held between the Borrower, UNDP and
the Bank where all issues were discussed, solutions sought and further
development actions to be taken agreed upon.
11.  Consultinc Services
11.1       Over 130 man-months of consulting services have been provided to the
project mainly assisting in project implementation particularly in seed
processing, farm mechanization, seed quality control and civil engineering. They
have also assisted in the preparation of a number of reports, supervised in-
service training courses and workshops, and guided plant and machinery
operations. Their contribution has been effective in all respects, except in
research for which the TA was not set up in the appropriate institution (para.
5.15) . UNDP's decision to finance the TA required during the project extension
had been crucial since without TA at that particular stage the project would not
have been able to continue.
12. Project Documentation
12.1       The appraisal documents (SAR and Project Implementation Volume) were
very detailed and useful reference material for the project authorities as well
as for the PCR mission.   The project records, particularly those related to
accounting, procurement and technical data such as yields of the various project
crops, had been well maintained and proved to be useful.



-12 -
PART II:   BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT AND ITS
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT.
A.         Confirmation of the adequacy and accuracy of the final information
contained in Part III of the PCR.
(a) It is required to correct the capacity of the processing plants under
actually completed as 2 tons for Hmawbi plant and 3 tons for
Tagontaing plant.
(b) According to the Revision "P' of MYA/84/005, the total actual project
cost would become (24.239) million kyats instead of 23.997 million.
B.         Comments and suggested amendments on the analysis contained, in Part
I of the PCR.
Although we generally agree with the findings and analysis contained
in part I, we would like to add up and provide some additional information
regarding the following:
(a) Fewer staff for the project than originally envisaged were required
following transformation of ARD into SD mainly due to participation
of SD staff in project activities.
(b) The ED staff involved in quality control activities, received two
days on the job training yearly and some of them also attended the
two weeks  training courses.    Therefore,  they  are competent  in
conducting their field quality control activities.
(c) The density of the seed of that variety used during commissioning of
Hmawbi plant is particularly lower than those of the other
recommended varieties.   Besides,  the efficiency of the processing
plant during the commissioning stage did not reflect its true
potential as experienced afterward.
(d) The quality of certified seed set is the same for all the processing
plants.   If the quality of processed seed is below standard for
certification, the seed is simply rejected.
(e) The increase in seeding rate of one basket to one and a half basket
per acre was not due to poor quality of seeds but due to considerable
increase in plant population per acre. At the time of appraisal, the
average plant population per acre was 100,000 to 120,000 plants but
in the later years population increased up to 150,000 to 180,000
plants per acre on the recommendation of MAS staff. Normally farmers
use two baskets of seed, but most of the outgrowers use one and a
half baskets which also reflect the appreciation of the quality of
improved seed.
(f) Recruitment of a Seed Policy Advisor may be considered in accordance
with the requirement of the National Seed Policy.



- 13 -
(g) Regardina the assignment of a Seed Production Specialist, it is
considered that the senior staff of SD are qualified to manage
organizirg outgrowers and enforcing quality control measures.
(h) It is the intention of Seed Division to reduce total certified seed
production to about 110% of plants requirement and to enter into firm
contract with selected farmers.
(i) Other points raised are agreeable and would be abided by SD.
C.         Evaluaticn of Bank's Performance.
The Bank's contribution was remarkable. We highly appreciate Bank's
performance particularly with the following:
(a) Whenever we dealt with the Bank, we usually received quick and
positive responses which helped the successful _mplementation of the
project.
(b) We are grateful to the Bank for kind consideration regarding our
request for two years extension of credit closing date.
(c) Kind approvals for the revisions of training program and extension of
TA are also acknowledged.
(d) Construct:ve criticism and suggestions of the Supervision Missions
during their field visits played an important role in taking
effective and timely actions.
(e) Strong support and keen interest of the Bank in successful
implementation of the project is greatly appreciated.
D.         Evaluaticn of the Borrower's own Performance.
It is considered that the project was successfully completed as it
fulfilled the immediate and main objectives of the project as described below:-
(a) Successful development of 3343 acres of land and 12 tube wells
against the targets of 1880 acres and 10 tube wells respectively.
(b) Seed productions of rice, mung bean and pigeon pea were much higher
than the mid-term revised targets.
(c) Eight seed processing plarts were successfully completed and one
plant was upgraded as revised by the mid-term review.
(d) Under overseas training program, a total of 81 persons were trained
against SAR provision of 62 persons.
(e) With the local training program 2832 staff were trained starting from
1986 until 1993.



- 14 -
(f) Both overseas and local training programs substantially contributed
to the successful implementation of the project.
(g) Essential equipment and machinery were procured successfully.
E.         The effectiveness of the relationship between the Bank and the
Borrower.
(a) The Borrower enjoyed cordial relations with the Bank throughout the
project implementation period.
(b) Successful and smooth implementation of the project was impossible
without a proper appreciation by Bank's staff thrcugh Supervision
Missions of local problems affecting the implementation agency.
F.         Evaluation of the Performance of Cofinancers.
Financial assistance by UTNDP for Overseas Trainin'g Program and
Technical Assistance was invaluable in implementing those sectors successfully.
UNDP's kind consideration regarding the request for provision of additional fund
was greatly appreciated. The project enjoyed strong support and quick response
of UNDP/FAO throughout the implementation period.



-15  -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Credits
Credit No. and Title                                  Purpose                                Year of           Status
Approval
Cr.483-BA                      Rehabiliutae and extcand flood protecnOin embakmrnents. repair      1974     Compieted in 1978.
Irrigation I                  available construscion equipmenc, supply irrigation pumps to
farmers and construct jute baling facilities.
C-642-BA                      Construct new and rehabilitate existing tlood procecrion             1975      Completed in 1985.
Lower Burma Paddyland         embankments, excavate drainage channels and reclaim abandoned
Development                   land.
Cr745-BA                      Improve research capabiliry of six central farms, develop seed       1977      Completed in 1984.
Seeds Developmenc             progranme for rice and cotton. create processing facilities for
seed and storage, pilot project for groundnut seed storage in
lower Burma and overseas training of staff.
Cr335-BA                      Flood protecrion and drainage of 175,000 ac including                1978      Completcd in 1990.
Paddyland Development II      reclamation of 50,000 ac abandoned lands, procurement of
consmrucion and agrcuiur-al equipment and establishing
workshops in the project area.
Cr.103.-BA                    Promote cultivaidon of non-paddy crops bv extension of irrigation   1980      Completed in 1991.
Kinda Dam Multipurpose        to 113,500 ac and stabilize paddy producton in 88.000 ac by
rehablitating its irrigation svstem, as well as generate hydropower
by consrructing a 236 ft high storage dam and appurtenant works.
C. 1092-BA                     Improve storage facilities at sel::::d locations within the country.  1981    Completed in 1986.
Grain Storage
Cr 13;15-BA                   Construct an 82 ft high dam. rehabditate and extend existing        1982      Completed in 1990.
Tank Irrigation               irriganion system for 5.000 ac. Construct another dam, 92 ft high.
for supplying water to 850 ac of orchards and 2,000 ac of paddy.
C.. 138 1 -BA                 Construct 106 deep rubewells, irrigation systems and power lines.    1983      Completed in 1992.
Groundwater Irrigation        Provide agricultural support programme for extension crop trials
and strengthening ID and MAS.
C_ 1731-BA                    Rehabilitate and modemise the Ye-U irrigation and drainage           1984      Completed in 1994.
Ye-U Irrigation               system comrnanding 121.900 ac in the Mlu river basin located in
Rehabilitaton and             the dry zone to increase rice production in that same area.
Modertisadon
Cr. 1707-BA                   Improve efficiency of rice milling through rehabilitation of        1986       Expected to be
Grain Storage El              existing facilities and construction of new mills.                            completed in 1994.



- 16 -
2. Project Timetable
Item                                  Date P!anned                                Date Actual
ld:nr.;3cation                                                -                                      'lay 1982
Pr-eparation                                             March 1983                                 March 1983
Appraisal                                               February 1984                           February/March 1984
Credit Negotiations                                     October i9S4                                 May 1984
Board Approval                                       December 11, 1984                             June 20. 1985
Cr-dit Signing                                        October 10, 1985                            October 10, 1985
Credit Effectiveness                                                                             December 27, 1985
Project Completion                                   Septemnber 30. 1991                           June 30, 1994
Credit Closing                                          June 30. 1992                              June 30. 1994
3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements
(USS million)
Barnk Fiscal Year        S.AR Estimate      Mid-Ter-n Revised          Actual                   Actual as % of
Estirnate
SAR Estimate   LMid-Term Review
Revised Estimate
1986                    0.5                  0.0                  0-0                0.0                 0
1987                    2.7                  1.0                  1.0                 37                 100
1988                    6.5                  2.0                  2.0                 31                 100
1989                   10.5                  2.2                  2.2                21                  100
1990                   12.7                  3.5                  3.5                 28                 100
1991                   13.9                  5.5                  5.8                42                  104
1992                   14.5                  12.7                 8.5                 61                 69
1993                   14.5                  14.4                 10.6                73                 74
1994 !'                14.5 '                14.5 '               19.7                1                  136'1
! Updated to October 31, 1994.
' SDR14.6 million.
' Ac Mid-Term Review (1990) rbe original credit amount in SDR as well as in USS were not revised.
 SDR14. 12 million.
2 This represents actual disbursement within 4 months after credit closing, June 30, 1994.



4.   Project min pCle1lico (a(ion
A.  Fariml Development
Land Development            Tubewells           Elevaled S Brick SupjI'y      Brlck lor Cotouir        End Slop & Door          Pipe Culverts            Farm Roads               Buildings !          Punm  Houses
Channel                   Chan el
(ac)                    (no.)                      (ac)                       (ac)                   (no)                    (no)                     (ac                    (no.)                  Ino.)
sAR        Aclual       SAR        Actual         SAR          Actual         SAR        Actual       SAR        Actual       SAR       Aclual        SAR        Aclual        SAR       Actual       SAR       Actual
Lrng Yow Famm                         700          2213                                 31i0           4.100          5.000       3120         10          6           '0         10         1S00         10.000        I           1          4           4
MAndulay Fans                          250           50           -                        800              0                                                          4           I                                    I
Magwe F-ro                             170           170          2           2              -                          -                                   -           -          -                         -          I            I
Ilmuwbi Tom                            200           350          3           2               -                         -
Kadoke r.nm                             70            70          1                           -                  -                        -           -                 -                       -            -          4           2
InrnruIl'     Ft rm                     70           70           0                                                                                                                            -            -           5           2
Ienpada,f arvn                         100          100           2           2          I 00           lOW0            -           -           -           -I 
II.yn-nfJflMnzl-  .nn   o           8                                                               -                  -. -                                                                            5           3
K5nion Fmma                            240          240           2           2                                               -                 -                            -           -                  -           5           2
tAya.,Tnya                                                                 -            -                              -                                          -          -           -            -                 4           2
Myde d-                                                           0           1                                                   -                   -
Poungd.                                  -             -          0           1              -              -                 -                 -                            -           -        -                     3           2
mosren-                                               -           -           ---                                       ----                                                 -           -                              2           2
Total                                He85D        3,34i          10           12         5,700          5,900         tS 000       ,120        10           5          14         11         1,500        10.000      3s           21          4           4
-    ,ra Id buiding aid -dlrtioins



- 18 -
B.  Processing Plants
Capacity in tons/hour
SAR            M;lid-Term                  Actually
Revised "                Completed
1.  Msvaungrnya                            1                  2                      2  (3/93)
2.  Thavaungchaung                         3                  3                      3  (3/93)
3.  Lerpadan                               3                  3                      3  (3/93)
4. Mvede!Aunglan                           0                  2                      1  (3/93)
5.  Kyemon                                 3                  3                      3  (4/94)
6.  Kadoke                                 2                  3                      3  (4/94)
7.  Paungde                                2                  3                           -
8.  Patheinayi                             5                  3                      3  (4/94)
9.  Hmwabi                                 2                  2                      3  (4/94)2'
10. Tagontain-                             S                  -                           - -
11. Taikk-vi                               5                  -                           -
12. Yegyi                                 5
13. Saintgaing                             5                  -                           --
' Bag handling was not considered suitable for larae plants, while large production units
required long tansport distances which were not considered appropriate; the maximum
capacity of the plants was therefore reduced to 3 tons/hour.
At the Mid-Term Review it was decided to cancel the construction of the plants at Tagontaing,
Taikkyi, Yegyi and Saintgaing. It was later decided to substitute the plant at Paungde with the
one at Tagontaing.



- J>9 -
C. Training
Training !                   SAR                      Rev ised October 1992                    Actual
Trainees    .Man-months           Trainees      MIan-months         Trainees    Man-months
Masrer of Science           4               96                 4              115                4             115
ShortTerm                  56             3;18                54              203               5_             203
Unclassified                2               12                23               25               2i              2j
Total                      62              426                81              343               81             343
'' Provided for by UNDP.
:' As a result of Mid-Term Review in 1990.
D. Seed Production
Crops                Seed Class !'                SAR                 Mid-Term Review               Actual
(ac)           (to nnes)          (tonres)         (ac)          (tonnes)
Rice                     B.S.                 < 1.00             -                -                1.06            !.1I
F.S.                 10.00             13.00             -              34.90            36.49
R.S.                321.00           414.00              -            1,412.93         1,587.83
C.S.              18.G00.00       24,590.00         13.015.00        38,867.00       57.897 04
Corton                   B.S.                  3.00              -                -               20.00            2 27
F.S.                 50.00             15.00             -             200.00            29 86
R.S.              2,480.00           500.00              -            2.000.00          185.73
C.S.             16.000.00          3.500.00             -           16,982.00        2,778.37
Buner Bean A             B.S.                 < 1.00                              -                        -
F.S.                  5.00              2.00
R.S.                 65.00             30.00             -
C.S.               1.700.00          785.00             54.00             -                -
Chick Pea                B.S.                 < 1.00             -                -                7.00             1.98
F. S.                14.00             5.00                   .         60.00            16.94
R.S.                320.00            115.G0             -             757.00           115.95
C.S.              6,500.00          2,000.00         2,053.00         4,255.00         1,201.07
Mung Bean                B.S.                 < 1.00             -                -                2.60            0.68
F.S.                  4.00              1.30             -              43.00             9.43
R.S.                100.00             30.00             -             490.00           108.00
C.S.              2,500.00           800.00            187.00         3,050.00          738.36
Pigcon Pea               B.S.                  1.00              -                -               2.50             0.42
F.S.                  3.00              1.00             -              61.75            14.01
R.S.                 40.00             13.00             -             255.00            57.89
C.S.               1.300.00          420.00             94.00         1.625.00          368.92
Groundnut!'              B.S.                  15.00             -                -               20.00            5.68
F.S.                 70.G0             31.00             -              103.84           18.75
R.S.                450.00           200.00              -             250.00           107.95
C.S.              3.000.00         1340.00              -            2.500.00         1,193.18
' B.S.= Breeder Seed; F.S. = Foundation Seed: R.S. = RegistEcred Se-d; C.S.  Certified Seed.
' The corton seed production component during projecc implementation was transferred to the Ministry of Industries I and
therefore beyond control of the project executing instirutions.
' Production of butter bean seed was stopped due to lack of demand.
!' Groundnut seed production was an experimental acivity and not further considered at the Mid-Term Review.



5. P'roject Cost antd Finiancing                                               A. Project Cost
Appraisal Eslimale !'                     Actual Cost                    Appraisal Esliniale !'                     Actual Cost
Local  Foreign      Tolal       L.oIlI    Foreign      Total       Local      Foreigin      Total       Local      Foreign       Total
...................... (US$000)  ....... .                                                                  (Ky '000) .
Farmu D)cCloplicilt                         888        162       I,()S0       730           U        732       7.,14        i.426       9.240        2.331                      2.331
Civil WmVik                                8.900        4(0       9.3(N)     6,280           0       6.280     78,320        3.520      81,840       42,795           0         42,795
Eluipment, Machinery &                     3,940      5,910       9.85(      2,532       6.716      9,248      34,672      52,008       86,680       13,357      36,823         50,180
Vclicics
lnciVnI)ClaI.1 (Jpeialilig Cost            3,539      2,811       6,35(0     6,487           0       6f,487    31,143      24,737       55.880       45.629           0         45,629
Unallocited ldnod                               -          -          -          0         656         656           -           -            -           0       4,168          4,168
(rell-o,l.,,,. I'lo(lzltcis)
Fcerlili2ers                                   -           -                   859        5,222      6,0R1           -                        -           -      4(0.266        40.266
ITclminal Asjs!;ilice                       142     1I.()8       1.9.5(       242       3.088    3,3301'       1,250      15,91()      17,160        l. 7 2     22,277      23,997J'
Trailliug
rotli 1'roject Cosis                      17,409     11,091      28,500     17,133      15,682    32,815    153,199        97,601      250,800      105,832     103,534        209,366
Illased onl Pr jeci linpileinieiialion Volti re.
UNI)I' committied lo finance an adt liiinnal US$IA.4 miillion afier the mid -icrin review; a total of UIS$3.17 million was spenfl iniul 31 Decenilber 1993;
litt it was clear at l'CR mission time that icarly 100% of UND)P fodis wolds( he disbluised. The local and foreign escliatge components are divided as msumed at appraisal: no actual data
no this were prov idcld



- 21 -
B. Project Financing
Development Credit       Revised I           Revised 11          Revised 111          Actual
Agreement (DCA)
SDR        USS    SDR        USS      SDR        USS        SDR       USS      SDR       USS
millon    million millton  million  million   million    million   million  rnmilijn   million
IDA TOTAL                         14.63      14.50   14.63    19.S9    14.63       20.24      14.63    20.29    14.12    19.71
Car. I Farm Development           0.61        0.60    0.16    0-''       0.16       0.22       0.16      0.22     0.16      0.22
Car. 2 Civil Vorks               3.53        3.50    1.90    2.58       1.98       2.73       1.98      2.73      1.98     2.73
Cat. 3 Equipment.                 6.96        6.90    9.57    13.01      3.32      11.56       5.62      7.81     :06       5.71
Mvachinery & Vehicles
Cat. 4 Incremental                2.52        2.50    2.50    3.40       2.31       3.21       2 31      3.21     2.74      3.84
Operating Cost
Car. 5 Unallocated                 1.01       1.00    0.50    0.68       0.49       0.67       0.49      0.67     0.49      0.67
(Pecroleum Products) !'
Cat. 6 Fertlizer ?                             -        -        -       1.37       1.85       4.07      5.66      58      6.54
Exchange Rate Loss                             --                         -          -          -         -       0.11       -
UNiDP                             N.A.       2.00 '  N.A.    3.33    N.A.           3.33      N.A.       3.33    NA.        3.33
GOM                               N.A.       12.05   N.A.   12.05    N.A.          12.05      N.A.    12.05    N.A.    9.20 y
Total Financing                   N.A.       28.55    N.A.  35.27 '  N.A.    35.629    N.A.    35.67S   N.A.    32.24"
!  This category has been disbursed for procurement of petroleum products since 1991.
-  Dtsbursement for procurement of fertliser was introduced un 1992 and was basically at the expense of Categorv *.
-  SAR indicates U?NDP conttbunon as USSI .95 Mvi. but UNDP Agreement indicates that the total aimount of
ULSS2.0M (UNDP Project Document BUP/84/005).
Rise due to an increase in UNDP's commiament and movement in the SDR/USS exchange rate.
' Rise due to movement in the SDRIUSS exchange rate.
y  Balance of tomal project cost and the sum of disbursement of IDA credit and UNDP grant.
- Decrease due to lower GOM expenditure than ornginally envisaged.
6. Project Results                                     A. Direct Benefits
Overall                   Paddy                  Mungbean              Pigeon Pea            Chick Pea
SAR           Full        SAR         Full        SAR         FuSI       SAR        Full       SAR        Full
Oevelopment             D Oevelopment 2        De"eloprnent 2         ODe'lopment           O.velqpfnlnt
Benefitbng Famnners ('000)         204            100
Area Involved 1'000 ac)          1.225 05        500 0      1iCo0 0      500 0       740         22.0       50 0        11 5      103 0      65.5
Processed Certified Seed (metons)    Z7.810     18.050       24 590      156560      8C0         240         420        95        2.000      2.055
Incremenlal Yield (kg/ac)           -              -          75          400         35          28         24         47         3.t        44
Incremental Production            82.200        204.300      75.000     200.000      2.540       880        1.200       540       3.460     2.889
(m. tons)
Estimaloc by PCR mission.
Y    Only ncluamng. pOicy. munug bean. o,geon pea encd llhck pea -vh,n  1s not enlrely corea sInce iNe pulises are also grown atter paddy. Iilus Uw  s some douoie counttng



- 22 -
B. Economic Impact
(i) Economic Rate of Return and Assumpt1cns
Indicators                                 Appraisal              PCR Estimate 1/
Estimate
Economic Rate of Return (%)                                             48                        15.9
PV of Net Benefits (Kyat million) at 10X                                345                      106.2
Basic Assumptions
- Project Life (years)                                                   20                        30
- Constant prices used for anaLysis (Year)                              1984                      1993
- Official Exchange Rate (Kyats = US$1)                                 8.1                       6.5
- Wage Rate (Kyats/day)                                                 8.0                       15.0
- Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)                                      0.8                        0.1 2'
- Economic Farm Gate Price (Kyat/ton) of:
- Paddy                                                               981                       655
- Chick peas                                                      5,094. 1                    1,304 1'
Full development estimated to be obtained in 1996/97.
Several SCFs were estimated for the ERR at PCR time: through geographical interpolation on the basis
of the SCFs estimated at appraisaL, Mid-Term Review and PCR time.
1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993         1994
and
orwards
0.8     0.59    0.45    0.35    0.25    0.15    0.13    0.12            0.10
'   Appraisal estimated mung bean price as proxy for pulses (Kyat 2,537/ton), while PCR's proxy for pulses
was the basis of chick pea.
Notes:
Costs have been converted to 1993 prices on the basis of the following:
1986      1987     1988       1989      1990     1991     1992    1993
- Domestic consumer index to           109.3    136.4    158.3       201.3    236.8   313.2   381.9    500
adjust local cost
- Foreign Costs were adjusted by the MUV index.



- 23 -
(ii) 1993 Economic Farm Gate Price of Paddy (Kvats per metric ton)
Export USS rice price f.o.b.Yangon l'                                             185
Export Kyats rice price f.o.b. Yangon J                                         1,203
Handling and loading 3!                                                          (-)5
Transport Delta to Yangon Port 4                                                (-)41
Ex-mill rice price                                                              1,157
Equivalent paddy price 5'                                                        729
Milling cost 61                                                                 (-)42
Storage and losses at transport and storage                                     (-)22
Transport farm to godown 7                                                      (-)10
Farmgate price of paddy                                                          655
Rice 25% broken, based on World Bank Commodity Price forecasts and quarterly review August 1993
of rice 5% broken for Bangkok. At 1993 constant prices discounted with 30% for lower quality.
At official exchange rate USSI = K6.50.
3  Port charges K28/m. ton and loading and unloadinag K20/m. toa: the total adjusted by SCF of 0.1.
4/ Transport Cost from Delta to Yangon:
1. Loading on boat                                                    K20/ton
2. Transport from Delta to Yangon (50 miles with private boat transport)   K87.5/ton
3. Ualoading from boat and loading on truck                           K40/ton
4. Transport to godown (2 miles)                                      Kl00/ton
5. Unloading at godown                                                K20/ton
Total:                                                             K267.5/ton
Transport Cost from Godown to Port:
1. Loading on truck                                                   K20/ton
2. Transport from godown to port (2 miles)                            K100/ton
3. Unloading at Port                                                  K20/ton
Total:                                                             K140/ton
and adjusted by SCF of 0.1.
5- Conversion rice to paddy 63%.
6t Weighted average of official price (15%  at K60/m. ton) and rate charged by private mills (85% at
K478/m. ton) and adjusted by SCF of 0.1.
2! Transport Cost from Farm to Purchasing Centre or Godown:
1. Loading on bullock cart                                            K 10/25 baskets of paddy
2. Hiring bullock cart/day                                            KIOO/25basketsofpaddy
3. Unloading at the purchasing centre                                 K10/25 baskets of paddy
Total:                                                             K120/ 25 baskts of paddy
Remarks: One basket contains 46 lbs of paddy. Farrners usually use their own bullock cart and handling
by themselves. Therefore economic value 50% of hiring bullock cart taken at K50/25 baskets. Adjusted
by SCF of 0.1.



- 24 -
(iii) 1993 Economic Farrngate Price of Chick Peas (in Kyats per metric ton)
E.xport USS chick peas price f.o.b.Yan-on L                                           22
Export K,yat chick peas price f.o.b.Yangorn                                          1,462
Handling and loadino !                                                                (-)5
Transport Dry Zone Area to Yangon Port /                                            (-)143
Transport fartm to godown                                                               0 (-)10
Farrngate price of chick peas                                                        1,304
1/ Average f.o.b.p-ice Yangon for 1992-1994considered as constant 1993 US$ price.
At official exchange USSI = K6.50.
" See footnote 3 of paddy.
t Transport Cost from Dry Zone to Yangon Port (by road and by rail):
I.  Loadina on truck                                                              K20/ton
2.  Road transport (138 miles to Mandalay -
up to 5 miles K45/ton and from 5-130 miles K106.4/ton)                        K110.9/ton
3.  Unloading from truck                                                          K120/ton
4.  Loading on rail                                                                K20/=on
5.  Rail transport 425 miles                                                       K125/ton
6.  Unloading from rail                                                            K20/ton
7.  Transport from  rail station to godown in Yangon (2 rniles)                    K100/ton
8.  Unloading ac godown                                                            K20/ton
Total:                                                                        K1,434/ton
and adjusted by SCF of 0.1.
2! See footnote 1/ of paddv.
C. Financial Impact
Prjet Net Incrcrnenal Bcnefits/2c.             Apprais2l Fsdma                 PCR Esmia  at Full
DeveIopugar
1985 yAMn          19931' Kyats             1993 Kyats
Paddy                                     54                  270 L'                 2,5142-
Mung Bean                                 70                   350                    2571/
Pigeon Pea                                                     220                    359-/
Chick Pea                                 73                   360                   463-/
LI The consumer index for 1993 was 500 compared with base year 1985.
2/ Farngate price for paddy in 1993 was K186 per basket.
3/ Farmgate Mung Bean price in 1993 was K300 per basket.
4' Farmgace Pigeon Pea price in 1993 was K250 per basket.
5/ Farmgate Chick Pea price in 1993 was K330 per basket.



- 25 -
7. Status of Covenants
DCA                      Subject              Deadlirne for           Status
Section                                       Compliance
3.03          Selection of candidates for     06. 30 S6               Complied.
MSc training.
3.04          Creation of Project             12127/35                Complied.
Coordination Committee
3.05          Draft budget and work plan for  10/3 1/S6               Complied.
1989
3.06          Contract seed growers to        Annually                Comr,lied.
-     receive sufficient inputs,
*     rogueing fees, and credit
3.07A         Maintain National Seed          NA                      Complied.
Committee
;.07B         Publish "List of Recommended   03/3 1/86                Complied.
Varieties" and "Field and
Laboratory Standards of Seeds"
3.08A         Procure 100% of certified seed   Annually               All processing plants
from contract growers                                  completed iust prior to
credit closing. Contracts
made with outgrowers to
sell 100% of their cer.ified
seed to completed plants,
have so far not been
fulfilled.
3.05B         In case of procurement          Annually                Incentives were adjuszed but
shortfall, adjust incentives.                          outgrowers expected the
market price to increase
even more.
3.09          Employ three TA consultants    03/3 1/86                Compiled.
4.01A         Maintain separate accounts for   Annually               Complied.
project components
4.01B         Fumish to IDA certified audits   Annually               Complied.
nine months after FY (3/31)
4.01C         Provide separate opinion on     Annually                Complied.
SOEs
S5O0A         Establish an analytical         Annually                Complied.
accounting system in Seed
Section (SS)
5.01B         Evaluate O&M cost of SS by    Annually                  Complied.
March 31 and submit to IDA
5.02          Provide sufficient O&M  funds   Annually                Complied.
to SS if revenue from seed
sales are inadequate



- 26 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual
Up co appraisal                                              50.5      Preparation  of FAO/CP  not included.
Appraisal through Board Approval                             97.2
Supervision                                                  33.7
Completion  Report Preparation                               10.0      Accounts onlv for FAO/CP  contribution.
Total:                                                    249.4
B. Missions
Stage of Pmject      MonrhlYear        No. of       Days in         Speciality         Perfor-mng     Remarks & Tye of
Cycle                            Persons        Field         Reprcsenced       Raring Strfis        Problem
Appraisal I/
1              2/3-1984           4            21          2 AG; EC; SS             -                   I
Supervision
I               5-1986            1            10               AG                  1                   2
2               213-1987          1             14              AG                  2                   3
3               9-1987            1             17              AG                  2                   4
4                6-1989           1             5               AG                  2                   5
5               12-1989           1             10              AG                  3                   6
6                5-1990           1             19              EC                 n.a.                 7
7              10111.1990          4            19         EC: 2 AG: FA             2                   8
8                3-1991           1             11              EC                  2                   9
9              10/111-1991        1            20               EC                  1-2                 10
10             9110-1992           1            19              EC                  1-2                 11
11              2/3-1993           1            21              EC                   1                  12
12               11-1993           1            21              EC                   1                  13
13               4-1994            1            19              EC                   I                  14
PCR
1              415-1994           1            20               EC                  -
Abbreviaions:    AG = Agronomist;  EC = Economist:  SS   Seed Specialist;  FA = Financial Analyst.
L/  Preparation undertaken by FAO/CP. and Barnk missions before appraisal, dealing with pre-appraisal work.
were apparently charged to Seeds L.
2 See notes below:
1. Price incentives to seed growers to ensure procurement of all seeds for the plants was an issue.
2. Reporting format was prepared and presented to project management.
3. Seed Section organizational stanus was recornmended to be upgraded. Also reported were slow submission of IDA withdrawal
applications, and elecnrical power supply problems.
4. Delay in procurement of vehicles. motorcycles, laboratory etc, and in appointment of seed quality control sraff.
5.  No progress reported du: to the political upheaval in 1988while probl:ms of previous mission, particularly poor staffing. had not
improved.
6. Still poor staffing: lack of leadership and delays in procurement. Linle seed procured due to inadequate seed pricing. This
mission suggested to conduct an in-depth review of the project to be subriniied to mid-term  review October/March  1990.
7. In-depth review team in place, but main issues still not entirely resolved.
8.  Seed Division established. Progress improved except for procurement. New staff appointed, but still insufficient. This mission
conducted mid-term  review and suggested to eliminate construction of four plants and an extension of the project to allow for
full disbursement of IDA credit.
9. Progress was relatively satisfactorily. UNDP was asked to provide additional funding to extend the TA support to the project.
10. Project director finally appointed together with 172 staff in totl. Progress continued and UJNDP approved request for furtber
funding of TA; in rerrospect a key and perceptive decision that ensured continued progress.
11. Progress still proceeding satisfactorily. Conton and groundnut production affected by drought.
12. Production of burter bean seed discontinued due to low demand. Groundnut affected by drought.
13. Project course has been satisfactory.
14. Project continued to progress satisfactorily. Due to shortage of fertilizer and insufficient time for procuring equipment, machinery.
etc. before project closure, reallocation of funds was made from Category 3 to Category 6 (see Secrion SB) to allow for
procurement of addidonal fertiizer which could be arranged in tine.



-27                     ~                  Annex1
NMYANMAR: Second Seed Development Project (Cr.1616-BA)
Arnnex 1: Certified Rice Production and Procurement Targets for Operating
Seed Centres in 1993/94
Certified Rice Seed Production and Procurement Targets for Operating
Seed Centres in 1993/94
Seed Production                        Seed Procurement &
Processing
Seed Centre Township         Acreage           Yield         Production          MTR !'         Actual (t)  -l of MTR
(t/ac)            (t)             Target                      Target
(t)
RICE SEED:
1. Ntvaungraya                                                      3,000              1,705       1,192           70
Myaungmya TS                   2.500               1.2            3,000             1.705       1,192
2. Thayaungch2ung SC                                                                  2,615        1,898           74
Parhein WesE                     800               1.2             960                872         538
Pathein -asE                   2,700               1.2            3.240             1.743       1,360
3. Letpadan SC                                                       5,004             2,615       2,042            78
Letpadan TS                    3,570               1.2            4,284             2.255       1,720
Tharawaddy                       600               1.2              720               360         322
!' Mid-Tcrm Review.
Source: Seed Division of MAS (Progress Report ..... 1994).



tYAIIMAR:  Second Seed Devetolmient Pr-..jrct (Cr. 1616-BA)
Anacas 2:  Economic Analysis and  tate of Rcturni
Myar.ifQi  sLc'lI Sved Devrlolownt .'rej'- t
Econsomic Anmlysis
Currenicy : .000
&abe 1            IIsree-Year-Seed Use Scenario  (yield  1.4  t/ac. or ilncreimental 0.4  t/ec.)
29/6/1994
tea6 r1                           2           3                      5           6           7           a          9          10          11         12          13         I'.         15          it          17
Total Costs            10617.1  31747.1   25619.1  15860.8   14639.6   1524e.9   13365.2    55111.0   21777.0   33'.22.0    1'.77.0    16'.1.0    2659.0    1347.0   72270.0    3./9.0    33J19.0                                       C
Total Revenues             0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0    1368.0    5304.1    9407.0   136130.9  218811.9   45558.2  65.3  63758.3   63758.3   63751.3  637W                         .3   63/511.I
Balance               -10617.7 -31747.1  -25619.1  *15860.8  -14639.6  -13ta80.9   -8060.4    3126.8  -10096.  -11533.0   4401l.2   62117.3   61099.3   62411.3   41481.3   60219.3   60369.3
. ~     ~~~~~~~~ .z .  =       :                                              - = .z        .    .g   z=   =                       = = = = =m =z =z =  = = ==               I = = =
2916/1994
Year                 l8          19         20         2Z           22          23         24          25          26         27          28          29          30
.......... ............................................................... . ........................................................................................................................................
lotal Costs             1285.0    1079.0    8145.0    9262.0    4439.0   10793.0   10403.0    1617.0    1575.0    2190.0    2924.0    2243.0    -567.0
Total Revenues        63758.3   63758.3   63758.3  63750.3   63751.3   63758.3   63158.3   63758.3   6375a.3   63750.3   63758.3   63758.3   63751.3
Balance               62473.3   62679.3   55613.3   54496.3   59319.3   52965.3   53355.3   62141.3   62113.3   60161.3   60834.3   61515.3  64325.3
=:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ :::::  =:=:  ==:  :=====                          = :=:   :::=    .  ===   == ::=   = ::==  ::  : :   ==:::   ::::: :: =   = .
Rate of Return:   15.9                                                                                                             Q  t
Costs are  iovestip.ilt/replacsAlmt an operating costs of that part oa  SO that uould need  to continue  to ensure sustalnabitlty.
Local costs have Iesi ;.djustLd by cunsu'tr prIce  index of Interniationial finiancial  statisticb  aiy 1V99. 1111).
f/ foreign cost adju:ated aiccordingj to standlard adjustnecnts MLri.,
Costs as wel(I as revenue are expressed  Int 1993 Kyats.
Revenues based on net econoiic prices per ton of rice and pulses andJ expected crolp produc:ion per acre based on certified  seeds producel. seedinig rate and yield per
acre as per data provided by time project.



HYAItHAR:   Second  Seed I.evelopriient Praject  (Cr.  1616-OA)
Annex  2:   ECoin(Aoic  Analysis  and Rate  Of  Return
Myarxitar Seconid Se-:d Developrxnit Project
Ecoriatiic Analysis
Currency : kCOO
,abte  3:                three-year-seed  Use Scenario  (1.2  t/ac.  or  incremeontal 0.2  t/ac.)
291/6 1994
lear                     1           2            3            4            5            6            7           8            9           10           11           12           13          1'.          IS                        17
. ........... .................  ..  ........ ...........  ..  .......... ................  ..               . ......  .......  ...........  .................  ..  ............  ....................   -......  ........ .... ... ..... .. ...   
lotal  Costs             10617.7   31747.1  25619.1    15860.8   14639.6   1524r.                     13365.2    5581.0   21777.0   331.?2.0              11.77.0      16'.1.0    2659.0         1347.0   22210.0    3479.0    335990
total Revenues                0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0       684 .0    2652.14        '703.9    6t!40.5    109/4 .5   22779.1   31879.1   31879.1    31179.1   318t9. 1  31l179.1   31I79.1
0.-Ianfce               -10617.7  -31747.1  -25619.1  -15860.8  -14639.6  -1.564.9  -10712.11    -87.1  -14.936.5  -22'.77.5   21302.1   30238.1   29220.1   30532.1    9609.    284.00.1   28.90.1
29/6/1994
Year                    18           19          20           21           22           23           24          25           26           27           28           29           A0
............................. ........... . ......................... .. ....  ... ...  ...  ........ .............  ..... .......... .  ........ ...  ....... ........... ... ...
lolal  Costs              1235.0       1079.0    814.5.0        9262.0       41.39.0    10793.0   104.03.0          '617.0       15/5.0       2890.0       2924.0      224.3.0       -56,7.0
local  Revernues        31879.1   31879. 1  31879.1    31879.1    31879.1   31879.1   31879.1    3 879.1   31879.1   318179.1   318f79.1   311!.9.1   31379.1
Balan ce                 30594.. 1   30800.1   23734.1   22617.1   27440.1   210866.1   21476.1   3 '62. 1   30304.1   211989.1   23955.1   29636.1   3241..6.1
Rate . f Retuirn:   8.5
Costs  are  investment/replacement  an operating  costs  of  Iliat part of SD  tiat cwould need  te  conlmuie  to  ensure  sustaiiiabi lity.
-   local  costs  ),avc  been1 adjusted  by consisner price  index  of  Internat ional f inmicial  Slat ist irs fla.y  1994. (tIff).
3/  foreign  cost  adliusted  accordinig  to  stand.r-d  adjustments H1tlV.
-    Costs as wetl  as  revenue  are  expressed  in  1993  Kyats.
-    Revenues liasril on net economic prices  per  ton  of rice  and  putlse ;   sl ixpect-d ciop  prol.ct inni  peri  acre  tas,ud ln cert it icl seedls  pfrdoucil, seedinuq  rcalt  lixl yi, lut tier 0O  g
uuci x as p-:*r itala pi ovi(led  by  tcle project.                                                                                                                                                                                           x s
I.']
0






24!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v
/1      ? -i '.            L       ,        
('ts w_.R ~~~I                          \               WaA 'T/ '
\  ~~~      r      SHNSTE
RAKHINE\K   \         ysiN
* .'STAT                     y           -2ugC                                               0
20                                                p                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20'
LA~~~~~~~~~~A
EA     DDYAV               ', STA
8 O YAI GON'     2
16                                    '6       
MYANMAR
SECOND SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-   ARD HEADQUARTERS                                   N\
n   ARD CENTRAL FARMS                              ST  E
A   ARD SEED FARMS
*   IMPROVED GROUNDNUT STORES
A   ARI HEADQUARTERS
*   MYITTHA MODERN COTTON GINNERY
f   SEED PROCESSING PLANTS
REGIONAL SEED TESTING LABORATORIES
MAJOR ROADS
- RAILWAYS
RIVERS
ISOHiYE TS mINCHES                                  '/I   
STATE o DIVISION BOUNDARIES
-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                           12' -
ELEVATIONS n METERS                                   D
'  50-
1                                                      J15j - 1200
1201 - ABOVE 
.1IES  L             '0mL0 
96'~~~~~~~ 1} %V









1:--
f- LI
J -1
, ,C
F   i               "       -i 
I~~~~~~' I               ;1--;
1-~ ~ ~~~~:.: '.        _t



