OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS CREDIT NUMBER 1616 BA
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Seed Development Project)
between
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1985


﻿CREDIT NIMBER 1616 BA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1985, between
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (herein-
after called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations
Development Programme (hereinafter called UNDP) a grant to assist
in financing part of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
(the Genetal Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02.  Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings; therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)  "AC"  means   the  Agricultural  Corporation   of  the
Borrower;
(b) "ARD" means the Applied Research Division of AC;
(c)  "ED" means the Extension Division of AC;
(d) "Kyats" or "K" means the currency of the Borrower; and


﻿-2-
(e) "MAB" means the 9.nma Agricultural Bank of the
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section  2.01. The Association    agrees  to  lend  to  the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies   equivalent   to   fourteen  million   six   hundred
twenty-eight thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,628,000)..
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association  shall reasonably   request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4


﻿-3-
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing December 1, 1995, and ending June 1,
2035, each installment to and including the installment payable
on June 1, 2005, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project or cause
AC to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate agricultural, financial and
administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governe6 by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1986, select
candidates whose qualifications shall be satisfactory to the
Association for the overseas training program provided under
Part F of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall establish and thereafter
maintain, with terms of reference satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, a Project Coordination Committee to be chaired by the
Managing Director of AC.


﻿-4-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
for its review and comment, not later than October 31 of each
year, a draft budget and work plan in respect of the Project for
the succeeding year.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that the contract
farmers producing certified seed for the Project shall receive:
(a) inputs necessary for seed multiplication on a priority basis
sufficiently prior to the beginning of the planting season; (b)
roguing fee sufficient to ensure satisfactory genetic purity of
the crop in the field, such fee to be adjusted from time to time
after consultation with the Association; and (c) through MAB,
institutional credit by crop on a priority and a timely basis.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain the National
Seed Committee established under the Seed Development Project
(Credit No. 745 BA); and (b) cause said Committee to publish, by
March 31, 1986, a list of recommended varieties of seeds as well
as materials on seed standards, such list and materials to be
revised as appropriate from time to time.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that the pro-
curement of seeds covered under the Project comprising 100% of
certified seed production from farmers, will achieve seed pro-
curement targets acceptable to the Association; and (b) within a
reasonable period of the establishment of any procurement short-
fall, make adjustments to the incentives to such 1evels as shall
be acceptable to the Association to ensure that such seed pro-
curement targets are met for the next procurement season.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
on its part to employ, by March 31, 1986: (a) a Seed Processing
Specialist; (b) a Research Management Specialist; and (c) a Farm
Mechanization Specialist, all of whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accord-
ance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments


﻿-5-
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Project Coordination
Committee to: (i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by the
Director General of the Central Accounts Office; (ii) furnish to
the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not later
than nine months after the end of each such year, a certified
copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably re-
quested; (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof and said
records as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request; and (iv) without limitation to th6 foregoing, furnish
to the Association, not later than four months after the end of
each fiscal year, the unaudited accounts provided for the purpose
of (i) above.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records  (contracts,   orders,  invoices,  bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided


﻿-6-
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01, For the purpose of strengthening financial
management capabilities of AC, the Borrower shall cause AC to:
(a) establish an analytical accounting system of its Seed
Section, with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion; and
(b) make an evaluation of the operating and maintenance
costs of the Seed Section and furnish the result of such evalua-
tion to the Borrower and the Association by May 31 of each fiscal
year.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall provide adequate funds to
AC to cover the operating and maintenance costs of its Seed
Section, if, as a result of the evaluation referred to in Section
5.01 (b) above, the revenue from seed sales is determined to be
insufficient to cover such operating and maintenance costs.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Project Coordination Committee referred to in
Section 3.04 of this Agreement shall have been established; and
(b) arrangements satisfactory to the Association for
financing technical assistance and training under Part F of the
Project shall have been made with UNDP.
Section 6.02. The date 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister or Deputy Minister of Planning
and Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of


﻿-7-
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Finance
Office of the Ministers
Rangoon
Burma
Cable address:                      Telex:
FINANCE                             713-21300
Rangoon                             BANKFE-BU
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
Authorijed  epresentative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Reg onal Vice President
South Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Farm Development            605,000         60%
(2) Civil works               3,531,000         40%
(3) Equipment, machinery      6,961,000          100% of foreign
and vehicles                                expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 80%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(4) Incremental               2,522,000         Amounts speci-
operating costs                            fied in the
Annex to this
Schedule
(5) Unallocated               1,009,000
TOTAL         14,628,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower fcr
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and


﻿- 10 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿-~ 11 -
ANNEX
Incremental Operating Costs*
1.   Disbursement shall be made as follows:
Percentage of
eligible expenses
to be financed until
all disbursements
under Category 4 reach
the aggregate amount
opposite to each                    Aggregate
percentage                        amount
90%                      SDR 1,009,000
60%                      SDR 2,018,000
30%                      SDR 2,522,000
2.   Disbursements will be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure prepared by AC. (Seed Section for seed produc-
tion and ARD for applied research).
*    For the purposes of this Annex the term "Operating Costs"
includes agricultural inputs, operating and maintenance
costs of machinery and equipment, and salaries.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve seed production
capabilities of the Borrower, strengthen applied research pro-
gram, and to increase exports of rice and pulses.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Institutional Development
Strengthening of the existing seed production unit and
expansion of its operation to encompass all aspects of a certi-
fied seed scheme of seven priority crops (paddy, cotton, butter
bean, chick pea, mung bean/pigeon pea and groundnuts), through
the provision of incremental staffing and training, facilities,
and vehicles.
Part B:   Farm and Seed Development
1.    Improvement of twelve existing Government seed farms for
production of basic seed through the provision of iand levelling,
tubewell irrigation, incremental staff and housing, and farm
machinery.
2.     Development of certified seed production subjected to
quality control with assistance of the ED and contract seed
growers.
Part C:   Seed Processing and Storage
1.   Construction of twelve processing plants with attached seed
storage at strategic locations.
2.    Provision of additional equipment for the four existing
plants provided under the Seed Development Project (Credit No.
145 BA).
Part D:   Seed Quality Control
Provision of equipment, staffing, facilities and vehicles
for the Central Seed Laboratory at-Rangoon, for one seed testing


﻿- 13 -
laboratory to be newly established at Myaungmya, and for the
expansion of three seed laboratories established under the Seed
Development Project (Credit No. 745 BA).
Part E:   Research
1.    Strengthening of five farms for applied research and plant
breeding with additional personnel and facilities to enable
improvement and expansion of the research program.
2.    Improvement of Hmawbi Central Farm to be made the focal
point of applied rice research.
Part F:   Technical Assistance and Training
1.   Provision of about 96 man-months of technical assistance to
support crucial aspects of project implementation.
2.     Provision of about 426 man-months of overseas training
(about 246 man-months for agricultural research and about 180
man-months for seed production).
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1991.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in.Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in August 1984 (hereinafter called the Guidelines).
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedure
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in The
Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma, may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions
of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs I
through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works for the construction of processing plants and
seed stores as well as -offices and other buildings shall be
carried out pursuant to a contract with the Construction Corpora-
tion, whose terms and conditions shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   Civil works for small buildings costing the equivalent of
K80,000 or less each may be carried out through force account.
3.   Items costing the equivalent of $20,000 or less each and not
exceeding the equivalent of $500,000 in the aggregate may be
procured after solicitation of quotations from at least three
independent suppliers in accordance :fth procedures satisfactory
to the Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 15 -
(a)   With respect to all contracts for seed processing
plants, vehicles and farm machinery estimated to cost the equiv-
alent of $200,000 or more each, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall appply.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ     consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Execut-
ing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
QERTIFICATE
1 hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


