Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7967-KE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
AUGUST 18, 1989
Agriculture Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance ef
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EXCHANGE RATES a!
Currency Unit      -     Kenya Shillings (KSh)
and Pound (K£)
KSh 20             -     U 1.0
KSh  1.00          =     USS 0.0541
USS  1.00          =     KSh 18.5
SDR  1.00                US11.28305 (as of July 31, 1989)
a/    Since August 1985, the Kenya Shilling has been pegged to the SDR at a
Fate of SDR 1 - Ksh 17.4. The rate vis-a-vis the US Dollar fluctuates. A rate
of USS 1 = Ksh 18.5 has been used in this Project for figures related to 1988
constant prices.
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 square kilometer (km2)             0.39 square mile
1 hectare (ha)                 -     2.47 acres
1 metric ton (t)               =     2,204.62 pounds
1 liter                        =     1.06 quarts
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFC         Agricultural Finance Corporation
ASAO        Agriculture Sector Adjustment Operation
CBK         Coffee Board of Kenya
CDC         Commonwealth Development Corporation
Coop Bank   Cooperative Bank of Kenya, Ltd.
CPCS        Cooperative Production Credit Scheme
CRF         Coffee Research Foundation
DANIDA      Danish Developmer.t Aid Agency
DCWG        District Coffee Working Group
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FCS         Farm Credit Supply
FES         Frontline Extension Staff
GOK         Government of Kenya
ICA         International Coffee Agreement
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
ICO         International Coffee Organization
KIRDI       Kenya Industrial Research Development Institute
KPCU        Kenya Planters' Cooperative Union
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
LIB         Limited International Bidding
m           Million
MOA         Ministry of Agriculture
MOCD        Ministry of Cooperative Development
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MOLD        Ministry of Livestock Development
p.a.        Per Annum
PCMU        Project Coordination and Management Unit
PMU         Project Managment Unit (SCIP)
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
PSC         Project Steering Committee
RSD         Rural Services Design Project
SACCO       Savings and Credit Cooperative Organisation
SCIP        Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project
SIDA        Swedish Development Aid Agency
T&V         Training and Visit
UBS         Union Banking Section



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Coi.tents
Page No.
?xOJECT AND CREDIT SUMMARY                                                 (i)
I.   PROJECT BACKGROUND AND THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A   Project Background ..........................              .            1
B.  Agriculture in the Economy .............................                1
C.  Agricultural Performance and Prospects ....            .............    2
D.  Agricultural Institutions and Services ....            .............    3
E.  Agricultural Credit ....................................                7
F.  Production Potential, Constraints and
Development Policies .................................               9
G.  Strategy and Past Bank Lending in Agrivoxlture ...         .......     10
H.  Status of Follow-up and Projec-' Preparation ....         ........     12
II.  THE COFFEE SUBSECTOR
A.  General ................................................               13
B.  Coffee Marketing .......................................               16
C.  Coffee Credit and Payment System .......................               18
D.  Government Coffee Policy ...............................               20
III. THE PROJECT
A.  Project Formulation and Rationale ......................               21
B.  Project Objectives and General Description ....           .........    21
C.  Detailed Weatures ......................................               22
D.  Project Costs ..........................................               25
E.  Financing ..............................................               26
F.  Procurement ............................................               28
G.  Disbursements ..........................................               30
H.  Information Systems, Accounts and Audits ....           ...........    30
I.  Environmental Impact ...................................               31
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.  Organization and Management ............................               32
B.  Executing Agencies .....................................               32
This Staff Appraisal Report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
fielded by the Section of the Eastern Africa Agriculture Operations Division
based in the Resident Mission, Kenya, in January-February 1989: comprising
Messrs. C. Warnaars  (mission leader), C. Smith, S. Muna, and Ms. C. Jones
(IDA), and Messrs. A. Finney and R. Purcell (Consultants). The Mission was
joined by Mr. C. Gatabaki of CDC.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perferanance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bdnk authorization.



C.  Impl-mantation of Specific Components ..................   33
D. Mid-Term Review ...... .........    ... *... .              39
V.  PRODUCTION AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.  Coffee Yields and Production Targets ............... ....  39
B. Project Targeted Yields snd Production ................     39
C.  Financial Analysis Outline .....   ........................  40
D. Coffee Milling .       .. ...........................       45
E.  Effects on Foreign Exchange Position
and Government Cash Flow .....   ........................  45
VI. JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Justification          ..................                   45
B.    Benefits   ............................ ...................  46
C. Economic Analysis ......................................    46
D.  Sensitivity Analysis ................ .. .................  48
E Uncertainties and Risks               ..                     48
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION ..............................   49
CHARTS
1.      MOCD Organization Chart
2 .     KPCU Management Structure
Coop Bank Organization Chart
ANNEXES
1.      Summary Cost Tables
2.      Proposed Credit Arrangements
3.      World Coffee Markets
4.      Kenya Coffee Market
5.      Organisation and Management
6.      Factory Implementation Programme
7.      Financial Analysis Tables
8.      Economic Analysis
9.      Factory Investment Criteria
10.     Fungicides, Pesticides and Herbicides used in Coffee
11.     Selected Physical and Financial Flows in Coffee (Payment System)
12.     Payments to Coffee Growers as a % of Aucticri Price - 1989/90
MAP     IBRD No. 21315



KENYA
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT AND CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Republic of Kenya
Beneficiaries:          Ministry of Cooperative Development (MOCD),
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), Cooperative Bank
of Kenya, Kenya Planters' Cooperative Union (KPCU)
Amount:                 SDR 36.5 million (m) (US$46.8 m equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard, with 40 years ftaturity ---
Onlending Terms:        The Government would onlend US$43.9 m eauivalGnt to the
Cooperative Bank for (a) inveetments in coffee factories (US$22.9 m) and seed
money for an improved payment system (US$12.1 m) at 10% and 8%, respectively
over 10 years with 2 years of grace; and (b) incremental farn inputs (US$8.9
m) at 8% over 2 years with 1 year of grace. The remaining funds (US$2.9 m)
would be retained to finance the costs of technical support for the Project
coordination and Management Unit (PCMU) and training.
Project Objectives:    The main objective of the Project is to raise the
incomes of coffee smallholders, small estate owners, and farm workers through
increased productivity and quality improvements. Related objectives are to
(a) increase Kenya's foreign exchange earnings and help it maintain its
position as an efficient high quality coffee producer; and (b) strengthen the
institutional capacities of the key participating agencies.
Project Description:      The Project would provide investments required to:
(i) improve 275 coffee factories and construct an additional 65 in the
cooperative sector; (ii) provide credit for agricultural inputs; (iii) finance
the initial credit requirements and support an improved toffee payment system
in the cooperative sector; (iv) improve production and processing on 230 small
estates; (v) increase Kenya's coffee milling capacity; (vi) provide training
and advisory services; and (vii) strengthen the planning, management and
implementation capacities of the key parti  pating agencies.
Benefits and Risks:    The major benefits of the Project would be (i) an
increase in Kenya's gross foreign exchange earnings from coffee of about US$51
m annually and (ii) creation of 11,000 manyears of unskilled employment.  In
addition,  investments in factory rehabilitation and construction in the
cooperative sector, supported by training and technical assistance, would
increase processing capacity and factory efficiency, resulting in higher
coffee quality, better overall prices, and increased factory incomes.
Flexible investment packages, individual ev.-Iation of each factory investment
proposal and strengthened lending criteria would help ensure that such
investments are economically and financially sound. Weak management could
jeopardize the Project; this riQk would be minimized by the establishment of
an improved PCMU with technicaJ support at Project start-up. The risk that
improvements in processing quality would not take place to the extent
envisaged would be minimized by the provision of technical and managerial
support services. There is a risk that the international price of coffee will



(ii)
be lower tha*i forecast and result in a permanent substantial reduction in real
prices. However, demand for Kenya's high quality arabica coffee is good, and
production of this type of coffee is expected to be sustainable with or
without quota arrangements under aa ICA.
Estimated Proijct costs a/:                LOCAL       FOREIGN    TOTAL
--------US$ million-------
Cooperative Sector
Coffee Factories                       15.6          6.4      22.0
Farm Inputs                             1.0          6.4       7.4
Improved Payment System                27.2           -       27.2
Estate Sector
Coffee Factories                        2.5          1.4       3.9
Farm Inputs                             0.1          0.3       0.4
KPCU
Coffee Mill                            14.2          6.1      20.3
MOCD
Project Coord. and  Mgmt. Unit          3.8          1.7       5.5
Training                                     2.6          0.6        3.2
Total Base Costs                            67.0         23.0       90.0
Physical Contingencies                  4.8          2.4       7.2
Price Contingencies                     7.3          2.3       9.6
Total Project Cost                          79.1         27.7      106.8
al Inclusive of duties and taxes of US$13.8 million
Financing Plan:                              Local    Foreign    Total
-------US$ million-------
IDA                                           29.4       17.4        46.8
CDC                                            9.2        8.8        18.0
Coop Bank                                     12.1         -         12.1
Coop Societies                                11.1        0.1        11.2
KPCU                                           10.3       0.3        10.6
Small estates                                  0.7         -          0.7
MOA                                             1.5       0.1         1.6
MOCD                                            4.8       1.0         5.8
TOTAL        79.1       27.7       106.8
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year:      FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97
------------------US$ million-----------------
Annual                 0.9   2.2   5.7   7.2   7.3   8.8   8.2   6.5
Cumulative             0.9   3.1   8.8  16.0  23.3  32.1  40.3  46.8
Rate of Return:      29%
Map:                 IBRD No. 21315



KENYA
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
I. PAOJECT BACKGROUND AND THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Project Background
1.01      The Project, for which an IDA Credit of SDR 36.5 m (US$46.8 m
equivalent) is proposed, forms the second phase of the World Bank Group's
assistance to the coffee subsector in Kenya.   It supports part of the
country's long term developaent plan and the Bank Group's lending strategy
to improve living standards in the smallholder and small estates sectors,
increase the country's foreign exchange earnings, and generate employment.
The Project was identified by the coffee subsector study in 1986 and during
discussions  with  Government  on  the  IDA-issisted  Smallholder  Coffee
Improvement Project (SCIP) (Credit 914-KE).  A Project proposal prepared by
the Government of Kenya (GOK) was submitted to the Bank Group and the
Commonwealth Development Corporat!.on (CDC) in September 1988; pre-appraisal
was carried out in October 1988, followed by appraisal in January-February,
1989.
B. Agriculture in the Economy
1.02      Background.  The Kenya Agricultura, Sector Report1 (1986) gives
detailed analyses of sector performance, objectives, and constraints and the
institutions involved in the sector. It demonstrates that the agricultural
sector remains vitally important for the continued growth of the Kenyan
economy. kgriculture, which provides the main livelihood for about 85% of
the total population and employs 70% of the labor force, in 1987 contributed
about 30% of GDP. The sector produces most of the nation's food and serves
as the main source of export earnings (60% in 1988) and raw materials for the
predominantly resource-based industrial sector. Larger farms (greater than
20 ha in size) account for about 40% of total farmed area and small farms
cover the remaining 60%; the proportion of land owned and operated by
smallholders is increasing with the continuing subdivision of large and group
owned farms.   Smallholder agriculture accounts for approximately 75% of
production and 85% of agricultural employment. The average size of Kenya's
two million small farms is about 2.0 ha (1987) with over three quarters of
these under 2 ha; the average size of coffee holdings is 0.5 ha.
1 Kenya Agricultural Sector Report No.4629-KRE dated January 1986.



- 2 -
C. Aqricultural Performance and Prospects
1.03      While agricultural growth between 1981 and 1987 averaged 3.2% p.a.,
population growth accelerated to 4% p.a., signalling a decline in per capita
production. Factors contributing to the slow growth included: (a) declining
land availability; (b) deteriorating quality of agricultural services; (C)
market4.:g and pricing distortions- and (d) droughts.  The rapid rate of
population increase combined with a limited amount of land with arable
potential (20% of the total) has increased population densities in some areas
imarkedly. While in the early 1960s Kenya had about 0.8 ha of high potential
land per person, by the year 2000 this is expected to be reduced to 0.2 ha.
Further increases in agricultural production must come, therefore, mainly
from intensification on existing lands and diversification into high value
crops. Distortions in marketing and pricing are fewer than in most African
countries.  Prices for the major export crops (coffee and tea) are not
controlled, while those for the major domestic commodities (maize, wheat,
milk and cotton), which are controlled, have, since 1982, been moving towards
border prices and are generally at incentive levels.  However, official
prices remain inflexible, being applied uniformly throughout the country and
allowing no  locational,  seasonal or quality variation.   Moreover,  the
Government has restricted participation in marketing and processing of
smallholder coffee largely to cooperative enterprises and of maize, wheat,
cotton  and  milk  largely  to  monopoly  parastatals.   As  a  result  of
inefficiencies in these enterprises there can be lengthy delays (up to 24
months) in payments to farmers and excessive marketing deductions.  Regarding
agricultural services, afte:: major successes in the 19608, Kenya's research
system stagnated and the extension and veterinary systems deteriorated,
suffering from poor management, underfunding and inadequate training.
1.04      GOK has recently made serious efforts to stimulate growth in the
sector through improvements in agricultural services and price and
institutional reforms initiated under the Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Operation  (ASAO)  (para 1.26).   In its most recent comprehensive policy
statement, Sessional Paper No. 1 of 1986, Government restated its objectives
for agricultural development to the year 2000 within the context of rapid
population growth, possible unemployment and foreign exchange shortages. In
the absence of strong alternatives, the Paper leans heavily on the
agricultural sector, as the largest producing sector with strong forw4rd
linkages, as the largest market and as the only hope of avoiding a massive
drift to the towns. The Paper sets overall targets for the sector of 5% p.a.
growth, employment generation of 3% p.a. and an increase in earnings from
exports of 6% p.a. The strategy for attaining these objectives is threefold:
first, intensification of existing production through extension, incentive
pricing, improved marketing efficiency and input supply; second, a major
research effort aimed at identifying new improved technology and high
yielding varieties; and third, further prudent diversification into high
value crops, notably coffee, tea and horticultural crops.
1.05      Implementation of announced strategies has often been slow in the
past because of political problems and the weak implementation capacity of
the civil service (including the situation where technical solutions agreed



- 3 -
within the civil service may not receive political endorsement). Recent
experience, however, has shown that well conceived technical solutions in
agriculture (e.g. recomendations made in the coffee subsector study) can be
endorsed at the political level. Successful implementation of development
plans thus depends on sustained commitment by top professionals to selling
these solutions to policymakers. In agriculture, this pattern is gradually
emerging. For some years, smallholder services, notably extension and more
recently veterinary servic.s, have baen given top priority in management and
project funding. The availability of major inputs is increasing. Pricing
methodology and levels have been consiitently improved and parts of the
marketing monopolies (maize and cottonj are being dismantled while
alternative marketing systems are developed. The research establishment is
being revived under a major project. Coffee and tea output is ri3ing and
will be supported by investment projects (including the proposed Project).
Stimulation of agricultural growth through greater involvement of agro-based
industries should be explored. Some areas may remain problematic for some
time - for example, maize marketing, or price setting where prices are above
border levels - but the trend overall is acc-ptable and the broad p3licy
context is favorable to investments such as those proposed here.
D. Agricultural Institutions and Services
1.06      Government services tu agriculture are delivered through six
ministrias and 15 statutory boards. The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) has
the primarv responsibility for agricultural development and farmer se-,vices.
The Ministry of Cooperative Development (MOCD) supervises cooperative
organisations and provides them with management advice. The statutory boards
involved in agriculture are eithez general, such as the National Cereals and
Produce Board, which trades in most food crops, or crop-specific, e.g. the
Coffee  Board  of  Kenya  (CBK).   The  initiation  and  implementation  of
development projects in rural areas is being decentralized through the
increased use of District Development Committees which approve and monitor
all development projects at the district level. The smallholder sector is
almost entirely serviced by Government, parastatal and cooperative
institutions whose functions range from direct participation in crop
production to distribution, processing and marketing of agricultural
produce.  Major parastatals serving the coffee industry include CBK, the
Coffee Research Foundation (CRF), the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC),
and the farmer-owned Kenya Planters, Cooperative Union (KPCU) which caters
for both the smallholders and the estate sector.
1.07      Extension Services to the farming community are provided mainly by
MOA through its Department of Agriculture. The Extension Division is one
among six in the Department. Field extension operations are directed at the
provincial level by Provincial Directors of Agriculture and are organized and
coordinated on a district basis under District Agricultural Officers. Each
district is divided into about five divisions headed by a Divisional
Extension Officer who directly supervises the frontline extension staff (FES)
comprising  Technical Assistants  and Junior  Technical  Assistants.   The
structure and density of staffing compares well to most developing



- 4 -
countries. Current extension staff for crop development number about 4,000
and the avarage number of holdings per officer is about 500.
1.08      Extension agents at farmer level now act as generalists and cover
most crops, including coffee, with the emphasis on improved management of the
farm as a whole. The introduction of the present Training and Visit (T&V)
system of extension aims to make the extension services more effective by
addressing the problems of poor communlcation,  lack of transport,  an
unbalanced mix of specialist skills, lack of regular in-service training and
poor continuity due to frequent transfers of personnel. The Government aims
to increase extension covei.,e in key development areas, to provide better
transportation and allowances, to improve housing facilities in remote areas
for extension officers, and to etrengthen in-service training programs for
extension staff in relation to coffee husbandry. These issues are being
addressed through the IDA-supported National Extension Project (Cr. 1387-KE).
i.09      The Ministry of Cooperative Development (Chart 1).  The role of
MOCD is to promote, control and supervise the cooperative movement. The
Ministry staff are concerned with the supervision and control of cooperatives
and their activities to ensure that members' decisions and wishes are
consistent with the provisions of the Cooperative Societies Act and Bye-laws
and that financial control systems are working satisfactorily. The Ministry
also carries out the bulk of cooperative training. MOCD field staff assist
the cooperative movement in project identification, preparation and
appraisal, advise societies and unions on financial transactions and help the
management to prepare budget proposals. The Commissioner is the Registrar
of Cooperatives.   In each of the eight provinces of the country the
Ministry's operations are headed by a Provincial cooperative Officer and in
each district the field staff of the Ministry are headed by a District
Cooperative Officer.  Problems arise in field work from lack of adequate
transport.
i.10      Agricultural cooperatives play an important role in fostering
agricultural development. For the smallholder sector they play an important
part in the marketing of various agricultural products such as coffee,
cotton, pyrethrum and dairy products. They provide agricultural credit and
inputs for crop production, and savings and banking services for their
members. Coffee from the smallholder subsector is marketed and processed
through  coffee  cooperatives  (societies  and  unions).   The  cooperative
societies, which serve mainly as collection points, are supported by the
unions.2  Major services provided by the unions to the primary societies
include bookkeeping, accounting, purchase of farm inputs, and banking and
credit. At present there are 19 coffee unions and 193 societies.
1.11      In  addition  to  cooperative  societies  and  unions  there  are
countrywide farmers cooperative organizations and national federations of
2 Primary Cooperative Societies are federated into cooperative unions, which
cover a district. Coffee societies are members of the unions.



cooperatives, which provide the services of a union as well as serving as a
national apex organization.   The major nationwide and apex cooperatives
include the KPCU, the Cooperative Bank of Kenya and the Kenya National
Federation Cooperative, which is an apex organization for the Kenyan
cooperative movement and serves the coffee industry mainly through training
activities.
1.12      Kenya 'Planters' Cooperative Union (Chart 2) has a dual corporate
registration. It was incorporated as a company limited by shares under the
Companies Act Chapter 486 of the Laws of Kenya on 2 June 1945. It was also
registered as a cooperative society under the Cooperative Society Act Chapter
490 of the Laws of Kenya on 19 November 1945. In practice the organization
has adhered to the regulations of the Companies Act, and has at times been
given corplete exemption from the Cooperative Societies Act. Prior to this
the organization had functioned, since 1937, to assist coffee farmers to
obtain credit for farm inputs. The share capital is KShs 400 m, divided into
single redeemable shares of KShs 10,000 each.  Only coffee farmers may hold
share3.  Estate growers (directly) and smallholder growers (through their
societies) are all members of KPCU.
1.13      KPCU's board has between eight  and 16 directors  (two-thirds
covering cooperative members and one-third covering coffee estates). Each
director except the managing director is a member of KPCU.   The present
functions of KPCU are: (a) milling of parchment and mbuni coffee;3 (b)
storage of unmilled and part of milled coffee; (c) provision of short term
credit to farmers; (d) provision of advisory services; and (e) coffee agency
services. KPCU owns and operates the central parchment milling facilities
in Nairobi, with an annual milling capacity of up to 120,000 tons of clean
coffee per year, as well as mbuni mills at three locations - Dandora, Sagana
and Meru - which have a usable annual capacity of about 23,000 tons of clean
coffee. It owns and operates stores for unmilled coffee in Nairobi, Dandora,
Sagana, Meru, Nanyuki, Nakuru and Kisumu. The Nairobi and Dandora stores are
also used for storing substantial amounts of milled coffee ready for export.
KPCU provides advances and credit for farm inputs on the basis of delivered
coffee and expected deliveries, as well as providing expertise in farm
management to the estate sector. It also functions effectively as one of
several coffee agents, acting for coffee farmers to check that the Coffee
Board quality classifications are consistent with physical deliveries and
processing payments from the Board to farmers.   KPCU's operations are
financed through milling charges and agency fees (Annex 12).
1.14      The Coffee Board of Kenya is a parastatal organization, set up
under an Act of Parliament.   It was incorporated under the Coffee Act,
Chapter 333 of the Laws cf Kenya of 5 July 19G0.  Its board consists of
Governmc-t appointees (from MOA, CRF, Departments of Agriculture and Coop-
erative Development, and the Treasury), as well as nine members appointed by
an unspecified minister (to date this has been the Minister of Agriculture)
3 Parchment coffee is the final product after red coffee cherries are fully
washed and dried in a coffee factory; mbuni is not washed, only sundried.



from a list of names of candidates who have been elected on a district basis
(three members for plantations, three for cooperative societies, and three
experienced in marketing). The -resent functions of CBX are: (a) regulation
of the coffee industry; (b) provision of finance for paying coff-o farmers;
(c) control of the auction system; (d) storage of part of the milled coffee;
(e) the control and funding of coffee research; and (f) promotion of local
consumption of coffee. CBK's operations are self-financing through a levy
based on 2% of the average auction price (Annex 12).
1.15      CBK exercises control over the  industry by licensing  coffee
growers, processors (including storage agents), and marketers of coffee. It
has overall responsibility for finding the money to pay farmers; the primary
source is the weekly coffee auctions, operated by Kenya Coffee Auctions
Limited, in which the Board has a majority interest. The Board owns and
operates one coffee store in Nairobi, used only for milled coffee. From time
to time it hires additional stores in Nairobi, anct uses some of the KPCU
stores. The Board, through the coffee cess, also provides finance to CRF.
The Board promotes local consumption of coffee by giving subsidies on coffee
sold for local consumption, and by operating or licensing a chain of coffee
houses in Kenya.
1.16      Coffee  quotas  to  producers  (Annex  3)  under  the  existing
Intern,tional Coffee Agreement (ICA) were suspended on July 3, 1989.  Even
though the chances of a new quota structure being concluded Ly September 1989
are uncertain, in terms of sales strategy and stock management it would be
prudent to assume a resumption of the quota system in the near to medium term
(1-3 years), probably in an improved format and more favorable to arabicas.
At the beginning of the 1988/89 coffee year (October 1988), stock levels
reached 60,000 tons, the highest in Kenya's history.   This was due to
increased production and Kenya's limited coffee quotas (para 2.14), with the
result that stock financing required exceeded CBXKs present facilities. In
the event quotas are reimposed, it is essential that a clear stock management
strategy be developed.   Such a stock management  strategy may require
producers to share in the burden of financing stocks, as is currently done
through delayed final payments, depending on the level of normal working
stock the industry needs to maintain (estimated to be 30,000 tons).  An
assurance was obtained that in the event of the reimposition of export quotas
under the ICA, the Borrower would immediately inform the Association of
revised measures for the better management of its coffee stocks (para
7.01(a)).
1-17      Coffee for domestic consumption is currently being subsidized in
order to stimulate coffee drinking and develop the local market in Kenya.
Up to 1983/84, local consumption remained at the 3,000 tons level; since
then, however, sales to local roasters have increased to over 10,000 tons for
1.987/88. At that time the price diffe.ential between local and international
sales prices was substantial (over 40%) in relation to non-quota market
prices, representing a possible net fina-4cial loss for coffee growers and the
country of about US$7.5 m.  Both MOA and CBK are addressing the issue,
however, and during discussions between the World Bank Group and the
Government under ASAO (para 1.26) it was agreed in principle to remove



subsidies on domestic products. This has already been implemented for tea.
Since the price differential is used as a tool to develop the market to a
mature level1 assurances were obtained that the Government would continue to
progressively reduce the price differential between sales in the local and
international markets with a view to finally eliminating it when local sales
attain a level of 10% of total sales (para 7.01(b)).
1.18      As a governing body, CBK would be responsible for implementing the
above policy-related matters under the Project. The Board has already taken
and continues to take measures to improve its policy formulation and
implementation capabilities in strategic areas. However, to assist the Board
and Government in the formulation of needed strategy proposals in respect of
storage, internatiLnal marketing and financing of coffee stocks, an assurance
was obtained that by June 30, 1990 CBK would strengthen its organizational
structure to enable it to better respond to the consequences of increased
coffee production in the formulation of such strategy proposals (para
7.01(c)). To this end it was agreed that strengthening its organizational
structure would include recruitment of specialized staff and acquisition of
necessary office equipment and information services.
E. Agricultural Credit
1.19      Credit to the agricultural sector is available through a number of
institutions in the organized credit market and individuals in an informal
market.  There are four types of credit institutions:  (a) commercial banks
which provide working capital and development credit channeled largely to
medium or large scale farmers; (b) AFC which gives loans to large, medium and
small scale farmers; (c) the Cooperative Bank of Kenya (Coop Bank) which
provides development and seasonal loans to cooperative societies; and (d)
parastatal organizations such as crop development or marketing boards which
provide seasonal or medium term loans.
1.20      Commercial Agricultural Credit.  Commercial banking is dominated
by the Kenya Commercial Bank and two multinational banks: Barclays Bank of
Kenya Ltd. and Standard Chartered Bank (Kenya) Ltd. These banks provide
broad coverage through a network of branch offices in major towns and account
for over half of the total loans outstanding as of June 1985. At the end of
1987, total commercial bank lending to the agricultural sector was KSh 5
billion. The bulk of commercial bank lending to agriculture is channeled to
large estates and farming companies (including KPCU and large Unions), and
to corporations engaged in agro-industrial activities. Commercial banks also
handle loans to medium and small scale (mainly coffee; farmers. Small scale
loans are mainly for on-farm development rather than working capital.
Normally these loans take the form of a line of credit. Most commercial
agricultural credit is short term with a maturity of less than three years.
Loans are mainly secured by traditional land titles and other tangible
securities and, regardless of the nature of the enterprise funded, loan
repayment contracts exhibit little variability. The principal constraints
to increased commercial bank lending for small and n,.dium size farms are the
high cost for small loans and the lack of dependable farm management services
in these banks.



- 8 -
1.21      The Cooperative Bank of Kenya, Ltd. (Chart 3) was commissioned in
1965 to serve as the central bank for the cooperative movement (registered
jointly under the Cooperative Societies Act and under the Banking Act). It
is a specialized public institution servicing only the cooperative movement
and is subject to the same regulations as other commercial banks. At the
time it was established, the stated objective of the Coop Bank was to
mobilize funds generated by cooperatives through the Cooperative Production
Credit Scheme (CPCS)4 launched in late 1969 with funds from the Swedish
Development Aid Agency (SIDA), the Danish Development Aid Agency (DANIDA) and
cooperative membership shares; to provide medium and seasonal finance to
cooperative societies; and to act as an outlet for societies' funds and
members' savings. It does not deal with individuals but lends to unions or
societies who make loans to their members. By the mid-1970s, its lending
activities had increased and diversified significantly with the addition of
a number of Government and donor-financed smallholder credit schemes, and
through the expansion of its own lending activities financed by cooperative
deposits, as well as by an increase in the membership share capital. The
maior lending system of the Coop Bank is the CPCS through which approximately
240,000 loans have been made since 1970. Government policy emphasizes small
farm loans through the various cooperative credit programs. The first phase,
which aimed at reaching 56,000 members by 1980 in all parts of the country,
concentrated on developing systems for assisting less progressive small
farms. The Coop Bank covered only 161 cooperatives in the late 1960s; by tl}e
end of 1985, it provided banking services for an estimated 1,800 cooperative
societies representing about Wwo million individuals.
1.22      The history of the bank's institutional development is similar in
many respects to that of AFC (para. 1.24). While it was created to provide
both savings and credit services (as opposed to AFC, whose function rrimains
limited to that of providing loans), like AFC, its policies and operations
were largely influenced by the Government thrjugh its management structure
ind the legal framework of the Cooperative Societies Act which reserved a
major role for the Ministry of Cooperative Development. In addition, a large
portion of its funds have come from the Government. The bank's financial
situation (para 5.09) in 1988 indicates advances totalling KE61.9 m; current,
deposit and other accounts totalling KE63.4 m; profit before taxes of RK1.12
m; and shareholders' funds totalling KR6.1 m.
1.23      The Coop Bank has not in the past served the cooperative movement
as well as it might. The financial needs of viablw cooperatives were not
always fully met due to lack of sufficient administrative capacity and the
value of the shareholders' investment had deteriorated with a build-up of
arrears.   The bank's institutional capacity had not kept pace with the
growing services and demands placed on it by the Government to implement
numerous  and  complicated  lending  schemes.    However,  efforts  recently
commenced and are now under way to streamline its institutional capacity,
4 CPCS was designed to be largely self-financing since the credit scheme
was contained within an integrated savings program.



- 9 -
simplify and standardize its lending schemes, and make it responsible for
loans as an independent and autonomous banking institution. Meanwhile, the
Coop Bank plays a key role in supporting its affiliated unions and societies
and would be a major implementing agency under the proposed Project. Its
administrative capacity needs to bu strengthened to enable it to carry out
effective loan appraisals, and to improve the efficiency of loan
administration and financial control. Specific measures are being carried
out to strengthen the bank's functions as they relate to the coffee industry
(paras 4.14 and 5.11).
1.24      The Agricultural Finance Corporetion is a statutory board which was
established in 1963 to assist in the development of agriculture by making
loans to individual farmers, cooperative societies or companies. Although
mainly providing medium and long term credit, AFC also provides seasonal
credit to its borrowers. Its loans are generally secured by title deeds to
land.  It is Government's policy to expand loan activitles through AFC
particularly to more progressive small farmers, in addition to its services
to the medium and large scale farming sectors. The Bank Group has assisted
the small and large scale lending programs through the Fourth Agricultural
Credit Project (Ln. 1995-RE/Cr. 1143-RE), which recently closed, and will
continue to provide such assistance to smallholders through the Rural
Services Design (RSD) Project (Cr. 1974-RE).   Experience gained from the
Fourth Agricultural Credit Project indicates that the institution is only
just starting to recover from the weak and ineffective management and
Government interference which constrained its activitWes in the early 1980s.
The result has been a deterioration in AFC's loan portfolio, and the present
management team is in the process of financially restructuring the
Corporation.
F. Production Potential, Constraints and Development Policies
1.25      A major constraint facing agricultural development for the two
million farm households in Renya is the shortage of arable land, exacerbated
by rapid population growth. Only about 20% of Kenya's 575,000 km2 surface
area is high potentitl land, while another 9% can produce crops but is
subject to periodic drought. The remaining land area is suitable mainly for
extensive livestock production. Related problems are soil erosion, forest
depletion and the subdivision of large farms.  Kenya is only gradually
developing a coherent land policy and an institutional framework for
addressing land resource issues under its sector adjustment programs. The
major potential for increasing agricultural growth and development to meet
the needs of the 1990's is through crop intensification, higher yields and
crop diversification in high value crops. In the higher potential areas the
climate is generally favorable for the cultivation of a wide range of crops,
but irrigation potential is limited. Although input use for industrial crops
such as coffee, tea, and sugarcane is relatively high, use of fertilizers and
improved seeds for major food crops had been stagnating in the past because
of:  (i) low financial returns to farmers using fertilizer on cereal food
crops; (ii) insufficient farmer knowledge; (iii) fertilizer shortages caused
by lack of foreign exchange and GOR's discouragement of commercial imports,



- 10 -
restrictive import quotas, late deliveries, inappropriate fertilizer types
and distribution problems; and (iv) lack of adaptive research recommendations
and improved crop varieties.
1.26      To address these constraints, GOK in 1985 initiated preparation of
an agricultural adjustment program with Bank Group assistance.   The measures
taken in the context of this program are at the core of GOK's development
strategy; their implementation would create an environment in which
investments in the sector would be more rewarding.   Specifically,  they
include: (i) increased fertilizer imports and improved fertilizer policy
(pricing, marketing, distribution); (ii) adjustment in prices for other
inputs (seeds, chemicals and machinery); (iii) expansion in credit
availability through policy reform; (iv) higher producer prices and improved
agricultural marketirng systems including a greater role for the private
sector; (v) removal of consumer subsidies; (vi) greater Government budget
allocations to agriculture; and (vii) more officient investment in
agriculture through the budget rationalization program, improved sector
management and aid coordination.   Despite slow implementation of ASAO,
progress was made in maintaining incentive producer price levels and partial
market deregulation (maize and beef); increased fertilizer imports; financial
and organizational restructuring of two parastatals (the National Cereals and
Produce Board and South Nyanza Sugar Company); and improved cost recovery of
animal health services.
G. Strategy and Past Bank Lending in Agriculture
1.27      At the level of development objectives and strategy for the
agricultural sector there is substantial agreement between Government and
the Bank Group.  The Bank's role is therefore to support Government in
implementation, specifically through sound analysis and policy advice,
support to institution building, and investment in projects of high priority
within Government's strategy. This strategy is growth oriented, with primary
emphasis on intensification of production, and meets the complementary goals
of income distribution, employment and foreign exchange generation. The Bank
Group's lending program consists of two complementary components:   (i)
policy-oriented lending (e.g. the adjustment program); and (ii) project
lending.   The impact of the latter is being enhanced by the former and
includes projects to: (i) improve essential farmer services, especially
research, extension, animal health, input supply, marketing and credit; (ii)
address key physical resource management issues such as forestry and soil
conservation; (iii) support better policy planning and implementation; (iv)
assist in restructuring public investment; (v) improve training for
agricultural staff; and (vi) promote aid coordination.
1.28      To date, the Bank Group has financed over 30 projects in Kenya's
agriculture sector (including forestry and fisheries). The present portfolio
5 Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation (ASAO) (Cr. 1717-KE, SFA Cr.
A-21-KE).



- 11 -
of seven ongoing projects reflects sabstantial pruning and a redirection of
effort toward strategic priorities. Future project lending will directly
complement the Government-s sector adjustment program, providing integrated
support for longer term institution building and development of improved
agricultural and farmer services. The pipeline includes, in addition to the
present Project, proposals in the areas of forestry, semi-arid land
development, agricultural extension Phase II, agricultural sector adjustment
Phase II, and credit.  The practical experience gained through project
implementation has been complemented by considerable  sector work.   In
addition to th.t 1986 Agricultural Sector Report, studies have been done
recently on coffee, tea, forestry, agricultural inputs, credit, maize
marketing and pricing, farmer incentives, irrigation, cooperatives, the
public investment program, resourc-t allocation, and private sector
investment. Sector studies on food and nutrition and Kenya's agricultural
growth prospects are ongoing. These studies provide the basis for continuing
Bank Group lending .ncluding further elaboration of policy reforms.  Recent
Project Completion Reports for agricultural projects in Kenya have provided
many useful recommendations. One major lesson learned is that project design
must take into account GOR's limited institutional and management capacity
within the framework of a low financial reward system in the civil service.
1.29      The First Coffee Project.  The Bank Group has been involved in the
development of the coffee subsector through SCIP (Cr. 914-RE). This project,
cofinanced by CDC, was appraised in 1978, became effective in 1979, and was
scheduled to be implemented over four years. The main obiectives were to
improve the quality of coffee produced by smallholders and processed by
factories owned by cooperative societies, and to rehabilitate neglected
smallholder coffee farms. It also included a comprehensive coffee subsector
study, completed in early 1987. The project cost was estimated at US$62.2
m of which IDA was to provide US$27 m, CDC US$15 m, and the balance of
US$20.2 m by GOK and farmers. The final project cost at completion was
US$36.4 m (XSh 494 m}. The decrease was due primarily to the significant
devaluation of the Kenya shilling over the project period (50%) and the
failure of the  farm  inputs component.   The project provided  for the
construction of 14 new factories and the rehabilitation of 400 throughout the
coffee growing areas of Kenya. The farm input component was expected to
reach 70,000 smallholders growing coffee on very small land holdings,
rehabilitating about 15,000 ha. Following three extensions of the closing
date, the project was completed in 1987. A Project Completion Report (PCR)
was issued in July 1988.
1.30      Weaknesses in the design and implementation of the SCIP components
were highlighted in the PCR. It was to be managed by a coordinating unit
with the assistance of two coordinators, one each from MOA and MOCD.  This
arrangement proved to be ineffective and during the project's mid term review
in  1982  a  semi-autonomous  Project  Management  Unit  (PMU/SCIP)  was
established. This arrangement, supported by a steering committee under the
chairmanship of the Office of the President and a Project Working Group,
proved to be successful. The withdrawal of the Office of the President from
the chairmanship in 1986 again resulted in slowing down of implementation.
The implementation period of four years proved to be unrealistic; a major



- 12 -
constraint was insufficient budgetary provision for loan funds for onlending
to the Cooperative Bank. The farm input component was limited to a small
target group of smallholders who had neglected coffeeholdings and who failed
to take up SCIP input loans as anticipated. In any case other loan schemes
available were equally or more attractive to these farmers. Consequently,
only US$2 m was spent out of a targeted US$13.4 m.
1.31      The largest component, factory development, which accounted for
about 74% of estimated project costs, surpassed its appraisal targets mainly
due to project  extensions.   Some  183 new and resited  factories were
constructed as compared with 14 envisaged at appraisal while 280 factories
were rehabilitated as compared with the appraisal target of 400. However,
the technical and economic criteria for selecting and evaluating proposals
for factory development were incomplete and loosely applied in practice.
There was a tendency to invest in new factories rather than renovate existing
ones which resulted in a number of uneconomic investments and overall
utilization rates of only 72%. The impact on coffee quality was very uneven
and much lower than anticipated - a major factor here was the continued weak
physical management of processing facilities.
1.32      The lessons learned from SCIP have been incorporated in the design
of the proposed Project.   These include improved project and cooperative
factory management; more precise and rigorous lending criteria, favoring
factory rehabilitation; a better focussed farm inputs component; better
access to budget and project funds; and streamlining of disbursement
mechanisms.
H. Status of Follow-up and Project Preparation
1.33      Following the 1987 coffee subsector study and the completion of
SCIP, a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance for a Second Coffee
Improvement Project was approved to keep the PMU in operation and hire
consultants for follow-up project preparation. Implementation of the Pk3F has
been difficult and slow due to the inability of the PMU to make decisions.
GOK completed a project preparation document in September 1988 which formed
the basis of project appraisal. In this document IDA and CDC funding was
envisaged for a US$90 m project along similar lines to SCIP, including
assistance to small estates, introduction of an improved payment system and
removal of other institutional constraints. The proposal for investments in
405 cooperative factories (new and rehabilitated) was based on ambitious
production objectives.   In addition,  the emphasis on new and re-sited
factories (47% of the proposed factory component cost) tended to ignore one
lesson from SCIP that improving existing factories in many cases would have
bet,n more cost effective than constructing new factories. Past experience
withi budgetary, implementation and supervision constraints suggests that a
realistic approach would be to restrict total cooperative improvements to
more modest targets with the emphasis on improvements to existing factories.
Field surveys also have indicated a considerable scope for a number of
comparatively small investments for field and factory equipment to improve
the performance of small and very small estates. The factory component of
the proposed Project is therefore based on a much lower annual production
growth (2%) and lays more emphasis on renovation of existing factories than



- 13 -
on new factory construction (275 and 65, respectively) while the estates
component proposes to upgrade production and processing for 230 small
estates. Provision is also made for incremental milling capacity which was
not considered at preparation.
II. THE COFFEE SUBSECTOR
A. General
2.01      Historically, arabica coffee has been the single most important
agricultural commodity in Kenya in terms of its contribution to GDP and to
foreign exchange earnings. Annual production has increased from about 10,000
tons of clean coffee per year in the late 1940's to about 110,000 tons in
1988/89 (estimated), with a peak production of about 130,000 tons recorded
in 1984 and 1988. Although year to year growth has been uneven due to the
cyclical nature of the crop, on average it has been in the order of 7% per
annum over the last 40 years (although during the last 10 years this increase
in production declined to about 2.5% per year).  Most of this increase
occurred due to area expansion in the smallholder sector which rose from
13,000 ha to about 117,000 ha during the same period (9.5% p.a.), while that
of the estate sector increased from 32,000 ha to about 38,000 ha.
Consequently, the smallholder sector now produces almost 70% of Kenya's
exportable coffee.
2.02      Coffee Research is concentrated at the CRF located at Ruiru with
some ancilliary research being conducted by the Kenya Industrial Research
Development  Institute  (KIRDI).   CRF  is  funded  through  CBK  by  cess
contributions  from growers.   Since its inception in 1951 CRF has been
confined to the very successful production of improved disease resistant
varieties, nutrition, bush management and harvesting. Research into various
aspects of coffee processing such as fermenting, drying and storage has been
carried out by CRF and KIRDI but currently is limited. CRF, through its
liaison department, conducts regular training courses for cooperative coffee
factory staff and field extension workers designed to provide up-to-date
information through them to coffee growers. Demand for such training is high
and the training capabilities would be strengthened under the Project.
2.03      Technology  and  Agricultural  Production.   Coffee  growing  is
distributed over 22 districts in Kenya (IBRD Map No. 21315). However the
optimum growing conditions are found in nine districts of the Central and
Eastern Provinces which currently account for 83% of area and 92% of national
production. Cultivation is based on selected cultivars of arabica "Bourbon"
supplemented by new, improved varieties distributed by the CRF. Robusta
cultivation is negligible, amounting to only 100 ha. Arabica cultivation in
Kenya requires specific conditions: soil pH should be between 4.5 and 6.0 and
since the majority of coffee is non-irrigated, deep soil with good water
retention qualities is preferable; temperatures between 80C and 220C and
rainfall between 1,000 and 1,800 millimeters are required. These conditions
are usually found at altitudes of between 1,450 and 1,900 meters above sea
level ard the majority of coffee is grown at about 1,600 meters.



- 14 -
2.04      Coffee is a monoculture, with limited interplantJng of food crops
such as beans in immature coffee blocks only.  The recomended planting
density is 1,350 trees per ha, although a number of new improved varieties
use densities of 2,000-3,000 trees per ha. Coffee berry disease (glomerella
cingulata) and leaf rust (hemeleia vastatrix) affect all coffee growing
areas, requiring intensive applications of fungicides throughout the growing
season to prevent crop losses.
2.05      The cooperative and estate sectors are both involved in coffee
production. In order to have access to coffee factories, all smallholders
growing coffee must belong to a cooperative. Cooperative production comes
from about 230,000 registered smallholder coffee growers with average coffee
plots of about 0.5 ha. The estate6 sector has been characterized by the
increasing number of small and very small estates vith less than 20 ha of
coffee. Many of these have low input levels, low yields and inadequate
processing facilities. There are now a total of 1,111 registered estates
varying in size from 4 ha to over 500 ha but most of the production in this
group ccmes from the 383 medium and large estates of 20 ha and over.
Irrigation is practised by about a third of the medium and large eiLates,
particularly those in marginal rainfall areas, while smallholder coffee ie
almost entirely rainfed. Currently (3 year average) the cooperative sector
accounts for 70% of national production and the estate sector 30%, annually.
2.06      A recent survey (1987) by CRF indicates that smallholder coffee is
generally not irrigated and that approximately 44% of those farmers with
about 52,000 ha of coffee operate at a low level of inputs witi. yields of
about 360 Kg/ha. A further 38% with about 44,000 ha operate at a medium
level of inputs with yields of about 600 Kg/ha, about the national average.
About 18%, with 21,000 ha of coffee, operate at a high level of inputs with
yields of about 940 Kg/ha (Annex 7, table 1). The overall smallholder yields
have shown a disappointing decline over the past 10 years from 740 Kg/ha
(1977-80 average) to 600 Kg/ha (1984-86 average). Estate yields, including
areas under irrigation, have shown a small increase from 1,076 Kg/ha to 1,170
Kg/ha over the same period. The decline in smallholder productivity can be
attributed to a number of constraints outlined below (para 2.09).
2.07      In future only limited expansion of the area under coifee can take
place due to the  lack of available high potential coffee  land.   The
opportunities for improved output will be mainly in the more intensive use
of inputs and improved, high yielding varieties on existing coffee areas to
raise yields.  The potential for higher productivity by smallholders has
already been demonstrated in certain districts such as Nyeri and Muranga'a
which in recent years have recorded average yields in excess of 900 kg/ha
clean  coffee  with  existing  varieties.   But  in  recent  years  estates
consistently outperform smallholders. Consequently under good management
there is considerable scope to intensify production from existino plantings.
6 A registered estate must have its own coffee factory.



- 15 -
2.08      The 1987 coffee subsector report shows that relative to returns
from coffee investments, production cost iL high, although this varies
considerably depending on location and level of management. The two largest
investment items are labor (36%) and chemicals (30%) but with the
introduction of clisease resistant varieties (e.g. Ruiru 11) this latter cost
can be greatly reduced.
2.09      On average, estates use inputs more intensively than smallholders
and thus record higher yields and lower unit production costs. Although
about 75% of smallholders use chemicals (fertilizers, insecticides and
fungicides), their use is sub-optimal. Major constraints restricting input
use by s*allholders are: (i) delayed and irregular coffee payments (up to 13
months from time of cherry delivery to receipt of first payment) and the need
to borrow to buy inputs thus decreasing the farmers' incentive to increase
input usage; (ii) the need for farmers to spend cash on other non-farming
activities like school fees, food purchases, clothing, and transport- (iii)
dependence of nearly all farmers on cooperative stores for their input
requirements due to lack of ready cash to purchase inputs elsewhere; (iv)
non-availability of inputs at many cooperative stores at the right time; and
(v) seasonal and medium term credit conditions tied to three year cherry
deliveries which lead to inadequate input application (para 2.19).
2.10      Most of the above constraints would be addressed by the proposed
Project (paras 4.13 and 4.14). The issue of dependence of farmers on the
cooperative stores for their inputs is due to lack of cash to purchase inputs
from other suppliers. The Project proposes to reduce the farmers' dependence
on cooperative credit for inputs by providing loan packages which include
cash. The uptake of inputs can also be increased by improved cooperative
management capability which is being addressed under the RSD in collaboration
with cont..nued assistance from the Nordic countries' foreign aid agencies.7
2.11      Coffee Processing.  Kenya coffee is "wet processed" to produce
fully washed mild arabica, (also known as Colombian mild arabica in the world
market). A small proportion, currently about 15%, is processed as mbuni
coffee, mostly from small lots of coffee cherry rejected during hand-sorting
at factory reception, which are not suitable for wet processing. In Kenya
coffee processing is carried out in two distinct phases: (a) wet processing
whose end product is parchment coffee; (b) dry milling and export preparation
whose end product is green coffee ready for export.  Wet processing is
carried out by the approximately 1,900 coffee factories (cooperative and
estate owned) distributed throughout the coffee growing regions. In this
phase the ripe coffee cherry is delivered immediately after harvesting to the
coffee factory where it is pulped, fermented, washed, soaked and then
sun-dried carefully on raised tables covered with hessian cloth - a procedure
which develops the desirable quality characteristic of mild s.;offee.
2.12      Dry milling and export preparation are carried out in the four
central milling works operated by the KPCU. The producers (both cooperative
7 Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden



- 16 -
and estates) deliver dry parchment coffee to tile nearest KPCU hulling works
where it is milled, polished, graded and bagged ready for export. Only a
very few estates undertake the final dry milling of parchment coffee. Where
possible all deliveries of dry parchment to the coffee mills are treated
separately - i.e., sampled, milled and graded by KPCU and finally auctioned
as separate lots by CBK.  In this way differential prices according to
quality can be awarded to individual estates or cooperative factories which
are subsequently passed on to the growers. The current relationship between
quality differential and price differential is adequate. The quality of the
final green coffee is related very closely to the standards of wet processing
described earlier. Over the past 8-10 years there has been a decline in
quality, particularly in the cooperative sector (para 3.05).
B. Coffee Marketing
2.13      World Coffee Market.  World production of all types of coffee is
expected to grow at the rate of 1.1% per annum, and reached an all time high
in 1988 of over 100 m bags (60kg. per bag), while consumption will be only
about 88 m bags. The latest World Bank projections estimate that consumption
in ICO importing members would grow at about 1.5% p.a. with relatively high
rates of growth in Japan and the EEC while the USA (the world's largest
market) will show a slight decline of 0.4%. Arabica coffee constitutes about
75% and robusta about 25% of world coffee production. While consumer demand
for high quality arabicas continues to be high, there is an over production
of low quality arabicas and robusta coffee. A detailed description of the
world coffee market is in Annex 3.
2.14      Kenya  Coffee  Market  (Annex  4).   Kenya  is  one  of  the  main
beneficiaries of the increasing demand for quality arabicas, partly because
when blended with other origins the good acidity and excellent flavor of its
coffee improves the quality of the bulk, and partly because more and more
individual consumers insist on "original" tasting coffees produced by
speciality roasters, for which Kenya's are eminently suitable. Kenya arabica
is used in the top blends of leading roasters, with the majority of exports
going to the quality conscious and high priced markets of the Federal
Republic  of  Germany,  the  United  Kingdom  and  Northern  Europe.   Good
penetration of the fast growing "gourmet" market in the United States has
been made but sales to the important Japanese market are disappointingly low
which suggests insufficient attention given to thiA area. Annual exports to
quota and non quota markets are given in Annex 1, Table 1. Kenya's export
performance when no quotas were in force was impressive with over 110,000
tons shipped to ICO member countries during 1985/86, that is about 30% more
than the allotted quota for 1988/89 of about 84,000 tons. This underpins
consumer statements that demand for this type of arabica is not satisfied by
ICO quotas.
2.15      Government aggressively pursued a larger quota market share under
the ICA; fortuitously demand for Kenya's high quality arabica coffee
continued to be excellent in both quota and non quota markets. The premium



- 17 -
paid for high quality Kenya arabicas has ranged between 15% and 25% above the
price fetched by lower quality arabicas, which together with robusta coffee
have been responsible for the surplus situation in the market.  Premia
estimates are based on prices realized at quota market auctions compared to
ICO indicators. Thus quality is increasingly a major consideration in the
marketability of coffee. As a result, in recent years Kenya has managed to
sell substantial quantities of its quality coffee on the growing non quota
market.  Following the suspension of coffee quotas in early July 1989 the
market is still fluid and uncertain, with long term trends unaole to be
discerned at present. However, initial indications are that Kenya coffee is
maintaining its historical price differentials, and the prospects for
exporting the Project's small incremental production at premium prices are
good.
2.16      Internal Coffee  Flowu.   CBK  only  accepts  clean  coffee;  a2l
parchment and mbuni is processed by KPCU and other licensed millers. The
general dividing line between KPCU and CBK therefore is the milling process
although KPCU may also act as a warehouse for account of CBK and at times
even executes bulking for CBK as well. After milling, the clean coffee is
transferred to CBK, either directly by the miller concerned or by the
producer himself if he has done the actual milling (this represents only a
minimal  tonnage).   Almost  the  entire  crop  reaches  CBK  through  the
intermediary of licensed Commission Agents (of which there are seven); KPCU
has the largest phy,.ical involvement, as it is by far the largest operator
acting as both miller and agent. In addition a number of private sector
companies also offer agency services which include technical and financial
assistance. Cooperatives use the agency services of KPCU. In general the
agents provide valuable services, especially to smaller estates which often
lack adequate management and infrastructure. Most agenits also liquor their
client's coffee to advise them on quality and to check that the
classifications awarded by CBK are appropriate. If not they may advise their
clients to lodge official appeals against CBK's findings.  Smallholders
deliver cherry to Primary Societies who, after wet processing, deliver
parchment through their Unions to KPCU for milling and final delivery to
CBK. Estates deliver parchment directly to KPCU. Estates who mill their owr.
coffee may deliver clean coffee directly to CBK if they wish.
2.17      CBR classifies clean coffee by quality and presents it for sale at
the weekly Nairobi Auctions. Proceeds are remitted back to growers through
their agents.   CBK sells on behalf of producers and collects a sales
commission. Neither the Board nor any of the other participants in the
delivery chain trade in coffee - they handle it on behalf of the producer.
The charges and deductions made by CBK, KPCU and agents are fixed by MOA and
CBK (Annex 8, Tables 1 and 2). In theory those made by Cooperative Unions
and Societies are also fixed but in practice they vary enormously. The Kenya
grading and classification system is complex, consisting of no less than 10
quality classes and 7 physical grades of wet processed coffee as well as 3
grades of mbuni.   Nevertheless,  through the classification of all lots
separately into these grades, the Board is able to pay actual market value
to each producer in accordance with the quality delivered. This is done
through the annual coffee pool which combines all ealee by each class of



- 18 -
coffee.  Physical coffee flows from primary processors to millers and CBK do
not present major problems;  however, there appears to be room foir some
simplification and rationalization in the manner in which classes 6 to 10 and
mbunis are milled, stored and presented for sale. Such changes could lead
to more efficient use of existing storage space and permit the introduction
of different storage systems such as bulk silos for example. Major changes
in the present methods of milling and presentation for sale of classes of 1
to 5 are not recommended.
2.18      Internal marketing is concerned with the physical movement of
coffee from producer to CBK through a number of channe l and a complex system
of advance, interim and final payments from CBK back to producers (Annex
11).   Especially  in  the  cooperative  sector,  problems  are  caused  by
inefficient primary processing, lack of money up front to individual growers,
and excess .ve costs and deductions.  By world standards, farmers in Kenya
receive a high proportion of the world market price. Of the auction (fob)
price . O,n average over 84% is paid to producers of parchment (estates and
cooperative societies) and over 77% to smallholders delivering cherry to
cooperative-owned coffee factories (Annex 12). A sales tax on agricultural
producers  (including coffee growers)  of 5% at f3rst point of sale was
introduced in the June 1989 budget. At the same time, the export duty (on
average 10%) was abolished. At present there is no evidence that the sales
tax is a disincentive to coffee producers, because of adequate gross margins.
However, this possibility needs to be carefully monitored during Project
implementation and should be included as one of the items to be addressed in
the mid-term review (para 4.24).
C. Coffee Credit aaid Payment System
2.19      The most important credit scheme available to coffee farmers is the
CPCS (para 1.21). The main credit line supporting input use under CPCS is
the Farm Credit Supply (FCS). The CPCS offers three lines of credit to
smallholder coffee growers: (a) seasonal loans for inputs which at present
have an upper limit of 20% of the average value of the previous three years'
deliveries of coffee cherry; (b) short term loans, normally used to purchase
tools and equipment, which at present have an upper limit of 22% of the
average value of the previous three years' deliveries of coffee cherry; and
(c) medium term loans to purchase sprayers etc. currently limited to 50% of
the value of the previous three years' deliveries of coffee cherry. The
credit calculations tend to be restrictive, since they are based on past
performance in output, and do not account for increased inpuc use in the
future; certain changes would be introduced under the Projezt to address
these constraints (para 4.13).
2.20      The coffee payment system in Kenya was conceived at a time when
estater were predominant in the industry. A system was developed consisting
of a series of uneven but cumulatively increasing payments tbroughout the



- 19 -
coffee year (Annex 11).  Under the current system producers8 receive four
basic types of payments: (a) Delivery Payment. This is an advance made by
CBK through KPCU to the producer to be refunded from proceeds of eubsequent
payments. This payment is made after parchment coffee has been delivered to
RPCU. The size of this payment is 25% to 30% of the total payment, is
determined and announced by CBK at the start of a coffee season based on its
expectations of uniW. prices for coffee, and is meant to assist farmers to
finance on-going operations. In the case of cooperatives this payment is
seldom passed on to smallholders at time of receipt, but instead is retained
by the cooperative societtes to finance other activities, including their
working capital requirements at coffee factories;   (b)  Milling Payment.
This is made following milling of parchment coffee. The size of this payment
together with the delivery payment has ranged between 40% and 60% of the
total payment made per year; (c) Interim Payments. These are individually
small payments made during the coffee year (3 - 6 cimes), and are based on
CBK's assessment of the rate and the level of sale proceeds. The cumulative
amount of these "interim" payments is added to the delivery and milling
payments to pay for coffee delivered; and (d)  Final Payment.  This last
payment reflects the balance of coffee proceeds of the coffee year including
a quota market raluation of stocks on hand and is also used to correct any
accounting imbalances and discrepancies.  Normally, payment is made to
producers within one to four months after the close of the coffee year
(Eeptember 30), although in the 1987/88 coffee year this was delayed
considerably due to large carryover stocks (para 1.16) and CBK's consequent
financing difficulties.
2.21      The existing payment system results in (i) a considerable time lag
betv'een cherry delivery and receipt of initial coffee payments by farmers
(up to 13 months). This is due to parchment coffee being retained as stock
by coffee factories rather than being ielivered immediately to KPCU (caused
in turn by poor management), or to socie.ies not distributing coffee receipts
to farmers (for the reasons outlined in para 2.20); and (ii) smallholder
money remaining for too long a period in the control of intermediaries
(cooperative unions and societies) with limited competence in financial
management. In addition, financial mismanagement (unreasonably high coffee
processing costs, or diversion of coffee receipts to societies, other
activities) has at times resulted in low farmer payouts in relation to sale
proceeds realized by CBK auctions.
2.22      The net effects of the foregoing are that smallholder farmers are
uncertain about the timing and extent of the various payments, are unable to
make accurate projections of cash due them, and may not have the ready cash
available to acquire inputs when required. They are therefore likely either
to seek w3rking capital creAit or, where this is not possible, to neglect
important cash consuming operations such as spraying. Attempts by Government
in 1986 to make radical changes in the amounts and methods of payment met
8 Producers are defined as (i) estate sector: estate owners; and (ii)
cooperative sector: cooperative societies.



- 20 -
with considerable resistance from cooperative societies and far-tars, who
nevertheless preferred the existing system.  In view of this, th  Project
includes measures to be introduced nationally to streamline the existing
payment system with minimum disruption, and to augment the financing of
payments (paras 3.08 and 4.14). These proposals follow closely those made
in 1988 for the introduction of such a scheme on a pilot basis, but which was
deferred following a decision by Government to introduce the scheme
nationally. The proposed scheme has been endorsed by the two cooperative
societies  originally targetted  for the pilot  effort.    other measures
currently being introduced under the Project, and which complement the
proposed changes in the payment system, include hose aimed at strengthening
cooperative society bookkeeping procedures and accountability to members
(para 4.14).
D. Government Coffee Policy
2.23      Production Targets.  Government's official objective as outlined
in Sessional Paper No. 1 of 1986 was to increase coffee production from itp
present estimated level of 110,000 tons per year to 354,000 tons by the year
2000. This increase (8% p.a.) was expected to come from area expansion,
intensification, and replacement of existing coffee with a new high yielding
and disease resistant variety. During the coffee subsector study it was
generally acknowledged that, given the financial, marketing and land
constraints, and the lag in adopLion of new varieties, this production target
was unrealistic, and the report suggested a more modest growth of slightly
over 3% p.a. Estate production was forecast to increase from 42,000 tons to
78,000 tons, including 18,000 ha expansion, and smallholder production from
73,000 tons to 137,000 -ons including area expansion of 66,000 ha.   The
robusta area was expected to produce 35,000 tons. Historically, production
has fluctuated, with the 1989 crop expected to reach about 110,000 tons
(which is below the highest level of about 130,000 tons achieved in 1984 and
1988'.   Consequently  the  overall  targets  are  currently  under  review
considering the production constraints (paras 2.06 - 2.09).
2.24      Strategy.  Government's strategy for promoting increases in coffee
production and exports comprises continued support to the cooperative
movement and KPCU; strengthening of CBK's marketing capabilities; improvement
of the payment system; and an increase in the domestic coffee price to reach
export parity. Support to these programs is the objective of the proposed
Project.
2.25      Kenya is an exception among African countries in successfully
increasing coffee production steadily over the last decade because of its low
export taxes, strong private sector involvement and good research and
development. A growth rate of up to 2% per annum should be achievable and
acceptable by the trade and under likely future coffee quotas; faster growth
rates and large scale expansion would seriously jeopardize Kenya's unique
position in the market as a quality producer, particularly if this would be
diluted by the introduction of robusta coffee for which the market ouclook
is highly unfavorable.



- 21 -
2.26      Bank Guidelines.  The proposed Project is compatible with Bank
Group guidelines on financing primary commodities, as they apply to coffee,
since it emphasizes improvements in coffee quality and in marketing
arrangements,   while   supporting   modest   production   increases   from
intensification and rehabilitation which fall within the limits specified in
the guidelines. The Project would have no adverse impact on international
coffee prices because Kenya's total production represents less than 3% of
world exports, while its 84,000 tons quota under the recently disbanded ICA
was about 2.4% of global quotas. Furthermcre, the proposed Project would
strengthen Government marketing intelligence and planning capabilities for
coffee, so that a more realistic expansion program would be chosen which
would avoid coapromising Kenya's position as a high quality arabica coffee
producer.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Formulation and Rationale
3.01      Two of the major inputs to the design of the Project were the
findings and recommendations of the 1987 coffee subsector study, and the
lessons learned under SCIP. Project preparation was undertaken by GOR under
the coordination of the PMU, and the report, issued in September 1988, formed
the  basis  of  the  appraisal  of  the  proposed  Project.   At  Government
invitation, CDC and the World Bank Group conducted a joint pre-appraisal
mission in October 1988, followed by appraisal in January-February, 1989.
3.02      Rationale for Bank Group Support.  The proposed Project would meet
major country and sectoral objectives spelled out in the Government's
Sessional Paper No. 1 of 1986 (para 1.04), and the Bank Group strategy for
agricultural  development  in Kenya  (para  1.27).   The  Bank's  continued
involvement in the coffee subsector would enabie it to assist GOK to tackle
effectively the constraints affecting the industry. More specifically, it
would serve the needs of the smallholders and small estates which require
considerable strengthening, injection of financial assistance and training.
It would also play a catalytic role in attracting cofinancing.   Project
objectives fit squarely with national development policy.  Of particular
interest to Government is the Project's contribution to rapid increase in
growth, employment creation, and foreign exchange earnings. The institution
building and strengthening of the cooperative sector, and collaboration with
the Coffee Board, KPCU and small estates, are examples of efficient
cooperation between public and private sectors, and the wide scope of the
services provided (touching over 230,000 farm families and 800 estates -
about 12% of all small farmers in Kenya) makes the Project an important
vehicle ir. the country's assistance strategy.
B. Project Objectives and General Description
3.03      The main objective of the Project at full development would be to
raise the incomes of coffee farmers and workers in the smallholder and small
estate subsectors through increased productivity and quality improvements.



- 22 -
Related objectives are to (a) increase the country's foreign e.achange
earnings and help it maintain its position in the coffee market by raising
quality; and (b) strengthen the institutional capacities of key participating
agencies.  To meet these objectives, the Project would remove important
production, quality, financial and institutional constraints, through coffee
factory improvements; increased credit; improved coffee payments; increased
coffee milling; and training. The main thrust of the Project would be to
maintain Kenya's position as an efficient producer of high quality arabica
coffee.
3.04      Project Description.  To meet the above objectives, the Project
would provide investments required to: (i) rehabilitate and improve 275
existing, and construct 65 new coffee factories in the cooperative sector;
(ii) provide credit for agricultural inputs; (iii) finance the initial credit
requirements and improve the institutional arrangements to formulate and
implement an improved coffee payment system in the cooperative sector; (iv)
improve production and processing on 230 small estates; (v) increase Kenya's
coffee milling capacity; (vi) provide training and advisory services to
trainers, cooperative and factory managers, and farmers, in order to upgrade
existing coffee plantings and raise the proportion of high quality arabica
coffee; and (vii) strengthen the planning, management and implementation
capacities of key participating agencies.
C. Detailed Features
Cooperative Subsector
3.05      Cooperative Coffee Factory Development (US$22.0 m Annex 1, Table
6j. The quality of cooperative coffee has declined considerably over the
last decade. The percentage of low quality coffee (i.e coffee falling into
classes 7 - 10 and mbuni) has risen over the past 10 years from 14% to almost
30%, while that of the top quality classes 1 - 3 has fallen from 20% to about
17%. Major factors have been seasonal congestion in coffee factories and
lack of overall processing capacity to meet increased production from
smallholder farmers. These factors also contribute to the higher processing
costs and lower conversion ratios experienced by cooperative factories as
compared with the estate sector.  In addition, about 25% of cooperative
factories still have only partial water recirculation systems which poses a
problem of pollution from excessive quantities of factory effluent.
3.06      The Project aims to remove these cor-straints by providing funds for
the rehabilitation and construction of 340 coffee factories. Construction
of 65 new and re-sited factories would be based on designs to suit low,
medium and high throughput levels. These would be electrified where possible
and would have the full range of modern wet processing facilities including
ventilated parchment storage as well as water recirculation and pollution
control systems.  In addition, 275 of the present 780 factories in the
9 All financial amounts in this section are expressed as base costs.



- 23 -
cooperative sector would undergo improvements based on specific requirements
- i.e. minor, selective or major rehabilitation - which would ensure maximum
cost-effectiveness.   Electrification  and  ventilated  parchment  storage
facilities would be included where appropriate as well as upgrading the water
recirculation and pollution control systems. At full development, this
component would provide additional processing capacity for about 20,000 tons
of clean coffee and improve the overall quality of about 30,000 tons.
Investments in the form of vehicles and office equipment would be provided
to strengthen the Coop Bank in the initial phase of its start-up activities
to appraise the loans required under the Project.
3.07      Input Requirements  (US$7.4 m Annex 1, Table 7).  Field surveys
have shown that about 75% of smallholders use chemicals (fertilizers,
insecticides, fungicides), but the use is sub-optimal. While some farmers
(less than 10%) buy inputs for cash the majority rely on credit facilities
through the Cooperative Bank. The Project would finance incremental input
requirements for both existing and new coffee varieties through the provision
of  incremental  credit.   Total  incremental  production  expected  from
implementation of this component would be about 18,100 tons (14,000 tons from
existing coffee and 4,100 tons from the introduction of improved varieties).
3.08      Improved Payments System (US$27.2 m Annex 1, Table 8).  In order
to remove the principal constraint in the present payment system to
cooperative coffee farmers, the Project would provide the incremental credit
required and assist the Government to implement an improved payments system.
The improved system would ensure that farmers are paid for coffee cherry at
incentive amounts soon after delivery, similar to the successful system
pr-vailing for smallholder tea farmers (i.e. a material proportion of the
tc_al price to farmers paid in the month following delivery).  The Project
would provide for an initial payment to farmers of not less than KShs 1.00
per kg of coffee cherry (representing about 20% of the total season's
payments). Adoption by Government of an improved payment system would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness (para 7.02(a)).
Estate Subsector
3.09      Small Estate Improvement (US$4.3 m Annex 1, Tables 9 and 10).  The
number of small estates (4-20 ha) has continued to increase in recent years
and has now reached a total of 728 with an output of some 3,500 tons of clean
coffee (about 5% of the national production). The majority of these estates
are non-irrigated with low input levels and poor management, resulting in low
yields (in the region of 600-700 Kg/ha.). More than 50% of the small estates
have their own coffee factory but many of these are of "ad hoc" construction
and often lack pollution control systems.
3.10      The Project would remove these constraints by providing financing
for capital development through an intermediary in the form of irrigation
equipment,  field  equipment  and coffee  processing  facilities.   Further
financing would be provided to increase farm1 inputs thus raising yields from
the present 600-700 Kg/ha to 1,100-1,500 Kg/ha of clean coffee. A total of
230 small estates with 2,400 ha of coffee would be rehabilitated. The output



- 24 -
from these estates would be increased from the current 1,560 tone to
approximately 3,100 tons per year by project completion. The base cost of
the capital developmert package for this component would be KShs 73.3 m
(US$3.9 m), and of the accompanying farm inputs package KSh 8.05 m (US$0.4
m).
Other Components
3.11      Milling and Export Preparation (US$20.3 m Annex 1, Table 11).
Considering the anticipated incremental production (about 20,000 tons) and
over-utilization of the present facility,  Kenya's milling capacity  is
inadequate, and an additional mill is urgently required. The Project would
provide funds for a new mill at Dandora of approximately 50,000 tons.
Financing for this component would be made available from CDC on a parallel
financing basis.
3.12      Project Coordination and Management Unit (US$5.5 m Annex 1, Table
12).  The experience under SCIP highlighted clearly the need for a competent
and  semi-autonomous  unit  for  project  management  and  coordination.
Considering the scope and complexity of the proposed Project, the former PMU,
which has continued as a distinct entity in the coffee industry, would be
strengthened and its functions expanded. In addition, it would be given the
prime responsibility for Project implementation and supervision. This would
entail the reorganizing of the PMU and the engagement of additional qualified
staff under a general manager. A description of the Project Coordination and
Management Unit (PCMU) organization and functions is detailed in Annex 5.
The Project would support the incremental costs for transport and equipment
as well as the incremental costs for specialised technical staff and
technical assistance.
3.13      Training and Advisory Services (US$3.2 m Annex 1, Table 13).  The
Project would address specific problem areas in the present systems for
training in coffee production and processing. In addition to providing funds
for expansion of existing CRF training facilities, the Project would support
additional training programs which would give the MOA T&V system a better
coffee focus in the coffee growing areas. The Project would also support
training programs for MOA, MOCD, and the Coop Dank for staff involved in the
major elements of Project implementation such as coffee factory management,
factory engineering and related transport needs.
3.14      The Project would provide financial support only for Project-
specific coffee extension services. Because MOA's FES must provide advice
to farmers on a whole range of farm development issues, there is limited time
to meet the specific requirements of the coffee farmer.   In addition,
supervision of FES is weak due to lack of adequate transport for district and
division extension. To assist the extension services to coffee farmers, the
Project would provide additional resources such as vehicles and training
materials, as well as funds to: (a) strengthen the technical advisory
services of organizations providing these services (including MOA, CRF and
KPCU); (b) intensify and improve training at all levels of the coffee
industry; (c) improve training coordination; and (d) support the production



- 25 -
of coffee handbooks, leaflets and technical bulletins.
D.  Pro1ibt Costs
3.15            The total cost of the Project, including taxes and duties of XSh
283 m (US$13.8 m equivalent) or 13% of total costs, is estimated at Kah 2,211
m (US$106.8 m equivalent). Of this total, KSh 570 m (US$27.6 a equivalent),
or 26%, are foreign exchange costs, and KSh 1,641 m (US$79.3 m equivalent),
or 74%, are local costs. All estimates are based on August 1989 prices and
reflect recent quotations and appraisal estimates. Physical contingencies
amounting to KSh 136 m (US$7.2 m equivalnt) or 8% of base costs have been
included calculated at 15% on civil works and 10% on all other itms where
there is some uncertainty as to quantity or final dotailed specifications.
Price contingencies, which are consistent with latest Bank projections,
amounting to KSh 384 m (US$9.6 m equivalent), or 11% of base coats have been
estimated using the rates set out in Annex 1, Table 2. The implicit exchange
rates included in the Annex refl ct price contingencies based on the constant
purchasing power parity of the Kenya Shilling. A summary cost table is given
in Table 1 below.
Table 1
Project Cost Summary
KShs(OOOs)                               US5(O00s)                            I Total
--------- - ----------------------    -------------------- - -----  2               Foreign        Base
Local     Foreign        Total         Local   Foreign        Total        Exchange        Costs
A. COOPERATIVE SECTOR
1. COFFEE FACTORIES                292871.4   120417.0   413288.4           15581.1    6396.8   21967.9               29.1        24.4
2. FARM INPUTS                      18975.5   120475.7   139451.2            1008.6    6403.7    7412.4               86.4          8.2
3. IMPRnVED PAYMENTS SYSTEM    512504.8              0.0   512504.8         27241.6         0.0   27241.6              0.0         30.3
Sub-Total                             824351.8   240892.6  1065244.4           43831.3   12790.5   56621.9                22.6        63.0
B. ESTATE SECTOR
1. COFFEE FACTORIES                 47645.0    25691.4    73336.4            2535.3    1362.9    3898.1               35.0         4.3
2. FARM Ik?UTS                       725.5       7326.4      8051.9           38.6       389.4      428.0            91.0          0.5
Sub-Total                              48370.5    33017.0    81388.3             2573.8     1752.3    4326.1              40.6         4.8
C. KPCU
1. COFFEE MILL                     267432.0    114485.2   381917.2          14217.1    6083.3   20300.4               30.0        22.6
D. MIN. COOPERATIVE DEVLPNNT
1. PROJ COOROIN HANAGHT UNIT         71239.8    31749.1    102989.9           3787.3     1687.0    5474.3              30.8          6.1
E. ALL PROJ IHPLMG A6ENCIES
1. TRAINING                         49120.9      11218.3    60339.1          2611.6      595.6    3207.3              IB.6          3.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                 1260514.9   431363.1  1691878.0           67021.2   22908.7   89929.9                25.5       100.0
Physical Contingencies              89523.9    46280.0   135803.9            4758.5    2460.0    7218.5               34.1          8.0
Price Contingencies                291171.0    92536.1   383707.1            7355.6    2270.4    9626.0               23.6         10.7
Total PROJECTS COSTS                 1641209.8   570179.2  2211389.0           79135.4   27639.0  106774.4                25.9       118.7
Values Scaled by 1000.0 - 7/18/1989 12:20



- 26 -
E. Financing 10
3.16      Project  costs would be  financed  in  the  following  amounts  and
proportions:
Table 2
Financing Plan
Local                 Foreign   Total    % of Project  % of Total
Source of   Currency  Taxes and  Exchange  Project  net of Taxes  Project
Finance     Costs      Duties     Costs      Costs    and Duties    Costs
IDA         29.4                    17.4       46.8         50         44
CDC          9.2                      8.8      18.0         19         17
Coop Bank   12.1                               12.1         13         11
Cooperative  7.6         3.5          0.1      11.2         18         10
Societies
KPCU         2.2         8.1          0.3      10.6          3         10
Small
Estates      0.1         0.6                    0.7          -          1
0OK
- MOA        1.0         0.5         0.1        1.6          2          2
- MOCD       3.7         1.1          1.0       5.8          5          5
65.3       13.8         27.7     106.8        100        100
3.17      The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 36.5 m (US$46.8 m equivalent), including
a PPF of US$750,000, would finance about 50% of the total Project cost net of
taxes and duties. An additional US$18.0 m of external financing would be made
available by CDC. The CDC Loan would finance (a) 85% of capital investments in
the estate sector; (b) 100% of incremental farm inputs in the estate sector and
(c) the costs of KPCU's coffee mill, excluding taxes and duties and incremental
operating costs. A summary of the financing for different categories of works,
goods and services is set out in Annex 1, Table 3.
3.18      US$2.9 m of the IDA credit wculd be retained by GOK to finance the
costs of (i) technical support for the 2CMU, and (ii) the training component.
10 All amounts in this section include contingencies unless otherwise
stated.



- 27 -
The remaining funds would be onlent to the Coop Bank to finance investments in
the cooperative sector, namely (i) coffee factories totalling US$22.9 m,
representing 85% of the investment costs, (ii) 100% of incremental farm inputs
totalling US$8.9 m, and (iii) weed money totalling US$12.1 m for the improved
payments system, representing 40% of the complete credit package. Government's
contributions to the Project (US$7.4 m) would be by budgetary allocation.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government would (a) by November
1 each year, review and agree with the Association on the forward budget
allocations for the Project; and (b) ensure that adequate allocations are
included in the approved budget for each year (para 7 01(d)).
3.19      Onlending terms.  Details of the onlending terms to be included in a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, which would be satisfactory to IDA, are set out in
Annex 2* The credit arrangements and terms for cooperative societies, coffee
factories are that amounts would be lent at 10% p. a. frm GOK to the Coop Bank,
repayable in 10 years with 2 years of grace. The subloans from the Coop Bank
to cooperative societies would carry an interest rate of 15% and would be
repayable in 10 years with 2 years of grace. For incremental farm inputs and
credit for the improved payment system the rates of interest would be 8% from
GOK to the Coop Bank and 13% from the Coop Bank to cooperative societies. A
further 2% would be added on by the cooperative societies to cover their
administrative costs, giving a 15% rate of interest to the final borrower (the
farmer). The loans in the case of farm inputs would be for 2 years with a 1 year
grace period; for the improved payment system they would be repayable by the Coop
Bank to Government in 10 years with 2 years grace period and in 1 year by
cooperative societies to the Coop Bank, since such credit would be in the form
of working capital loans. Assurances on the above lending terms and conditions
were obtained during negotiations (para 7.01(e)). The above rates are currently
in line with existing agricultural lending rates in Kenya, and assurances were
also obtained that rates of interest to the final borrowers under the Project
would be positive in real terms throughout the period of Project implementation.
In addition, any future modifications to general interest rates for agricultural
loans arising from review by Government of interest rates in Kenya and
discussions with the Bank Group would be applied to this Project. Finally, the
execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOK and the Coop Bank,
satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (para
7.02(b)). Financing arrangements for small estate coffee factcries and inputs,
and the KPCU mill, have still to be finalized by CDC. Preliminary indications
are that CDC would lend US$13.3 m equivalent to finance KPCU's coffee mill at
a rate of 8.5%, repayable over 12.5 years including 2 years of grace. Loans to
small estates totalling US$4.7 m equivalent would be lent to a financial
intermediary at 7.5% repayable over 12.5 years with 2 years of grace.  The
intermediary would onlend the funds at 15%, with the same repayment and grace
periods for capital investments (US$4.1 m); incremental farm inputs (US$0.6 m)
would be repayable over 2 years with 1 year of grace.



- 28 -
F.  Procurement
3.20      items to be financed from the IDA Credit would be procured as outlined
in paras 3.21-3.24 below, and assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations  (para  7.01(e)).   Table  3  below  summarizes  the  procurement
arrangements of all Project items. The procurement of CDC-financed items would
follow CDC guidelines.
3.21      Works.  The procedure established under SCIP, combining civil works
and equipment in a single contract, would be followed. The Project works are
both too scattered, spaced in time, and too small for bulk procurement under
international competitive bidding (ICB). Consequently civil works, together with
related machinery and equipment, would be packaged for individual locations both
for the coffee factories (US$26.9 m) and for the training school (US$0.6 m).
The procurement relating to coffee factories involves rehabilitation at 275
locations (at an average cost of US$56,000) and new factories at 65 locations
(average cost USS177,000). Many international contractors have subsidiaries in
Kenya and, moreover, experience under SCIP and other projects in Kenya indicates
adequate local capacity to undertake such works. Competitive bids are expected
under local competitive bidding (LCB) with foreign firms allowed to participate;
in case the number of bids received is less than three, the Borrower would be
requested to consult IDA before award. No local preference to majority-owned
Kenyan firms would be permitted. LCB procedures on a similar basis would also
be followed for the training school, in view of the relatively small value of
this procurement.
3.22      Goods.   Vehicles totalling US$1.9 m  for the PCMU and training
components would be grouped into packages to be procured under ICB in accordance
with World Bank guidelines (issued May 1985) for works and goods. Fertilizers
(US$1.7 m) and chemicals (fungicides, herbicides and insecticides - US$7.2 m)
totalling US$8.9 m represent a small percentage of the requirements for the whole
coffee sector, and it would not be practical to establish special procurement
channels for requirements under the Project.   Procurement procedures for inputs
have been well established under SCIP and found to be satisfactory to IDA; in
particular, distributors are satisfactory and prices competitive. This method
of procurement has also been supported under other IDA-financed projects in
Kenya. Thus inputs would continue to be procured by the cooperative societies
mainly from commercial firms.
3.23      Contract Review.  All bidding packages for works and goods in excess
of US$250,000 equivalent would be subject to prior IDA review of procurement
documentation.  This would result in a coverage of about 40% of the total
estimated value of the contracts. The balance of contracts would be subject to
random review by IDA after contract award.
11 All amounts in this Section include contingencies unless otherwise
stated.



.. 29 -
3.24      Technical Services.  The technical adviscrs under the Project (US$0.9
m) would be hired in accordance with the latest Bank's guidelines on the use of
consultants. They would have qualifications, terms of reference (Annex 5) and
terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA.
Table 3
Procurement Arrangements
---- Procurement Method ----         Total
Project Element                  ICB        LCB      Other       NA      Cost
-------------USS million------------------
Civil Works                                11.5 1/    6.5               18.0
(9.7)      (-)               (9.7)
Vehicles, machinery and          1.9       16.0 1/    18.9              36.8
equipment                     (0.5)    (13.6)        (-)             (14.1)
Credit scheme for coffee                                       30.3     30.3
cherry deliveries                                           (12.1)   (12.1)
Annual Operating Costs
(a) Technical support for                             3.6               3.6
the PCMU                                        (0.9)             (0.9)
(b) Incremental coffee                                         1.1      1.1
factory processing costs                                  (-)      (-)
(c) Incremental coffee                                         3.3      3.3
milling costs                                             (-)      (-)
(d) Incremental farm inputs                           9.4               9.4
(8.9)            (8.9)
(e) Vehicle, machinery and                                    2.4       2.4
equipment operating costs                                 (-)      (-)
(f) Building maintenance costs                                  -2/      -2/
(-)      (-)
(g) Training costs                                             1.1      1.1
(1.1)
(h) Other operating costs                                      0.8      0.8
(-)      (-)
TOTAL                  1.9      27.5        38.4    39.0    106.8
(0.5)    (23.3)       (9.8)  (13.2)   (46.8)
Note: Figures in parentheses are respective amounts financed by IDA.
1/ Packaged together for coffee factories financed by IDA. Foreign firms are
eligible to participate under LCB.
2/ Less than US$50,000.



- 30 -
G.  Disbursements 12
3.25      The proceeds of the IDA Credit would be disbursed over seven and a half
years (Annex 1, Table 4) in line with Kenya's disbursement profile against the
following categories of expenditure; (a) civil works for cooperative coffee
factories and training facilities - 85% of total expenditures; (b) machinery and
equipment for cooperative sector coffee factories - 100% of foreign and 75% of
local expenditures; (c) vehicles, machinery and equipment for the PCMU and
training components - 100% of foreign expenditures and 6s% of local expenditures;
(d) credit scheme for coffeo cherry deliveries - 40% of overall incremental
credit based on 90% of new lending by the Coop Bank in the first Project year
(to December 31, 1991), decreasing 15% per annum thereafter to a minimum of 15%
of new lending by the Coop B&nk (it is estimated that 20% of overall incremental
credit would be financed from cooperative societies' own resources); (e)
incremental farm inputs for the cooperative sector - 100% of total expenditures;
(f) technical support for the PCMU component - 100% of total expenditures; and
(g) training - 100% of total expenditures.   It would be a condition of
disbursement for the coffee cherry delivery scheme that IDA credit funds would
only be released to the Coop Bank for those Coffee Cooperative Unions whose
primary societies all had the capability to make prompt (in the month following
delivery) payments to farmers (para 7.03). This capability would have to be
demonstrated to an MOCD-led Inspection Committee. Because of the likelihood that
different coffee unions would be able to meet these requirements only at
different times throughout the Project period, it is likely that disbursements
from the IDA credit would be spread over a similar period. Further details of
the disbursement arrangements are set out in Annex 1, Table S. Disbursements
are expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.  CDC would handle its own
disbureement arrangements.
3.26      Disbursement against all items would be based on full documentation,
except for disbursements against contracts under US$50,000 and for categories
(e) to (g) of para 3.25 above which would be made against statements of
expenditure certified by the Coop Bank and retained for audit and review by IDA
supervision missions.
R. Information Systems, Accounts and Audit
3.27      Separate Project accounts would be maintained by each of the executing
agencies under the Project as follows: (i) by the Finance Department of the Coop
Bank for each of accounts using IDA credit funds channeled through the bank; (ii)
by the Accounting Department of PCMU for costs incurred under the PCMU,
cooperative sector coffee factories, and training components; and (iii) by the
accounting departments of the cooperative societies procuring farm inputs under
the Project.  An assurance was obtained that the above accounts would be
maintained in accordance with sound and generally accepted accounting principles
and practices acceptable to IDA 'para 7.01(f)).
12 All amounts in this Section include contingencies unless otherwise
stated.



- 31 -
3.28      The present auditing arrangements of the institutions involved _fn the
Project are satisfactory. The responsibility for auditing MOA's and MOCD's
accounts, as in the case of all Government entities, rests with the Auditor
General. The accounts of cooperative unions and societies are audited by the
Audits and Accounts Division of the Department of Cooperative Development. The
accounts of other institutions involved in the Project are audited by independent
private auditing firms established in Xenya. Assurances were obtained that all
accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association
and that the auditor's opinion and long form report satisfactory to IDA on such
Project accounts would be provided not later than nine months after the close
of each fiscal year (para 7.01(f)).
I. Environmental Impact
3.29      Coffee forms a fairly closed canopy.  This habit of growth, as well
as existing mulching practices, improves soil moisture retention and reduces
run-off,  a particularly  beneficial  effect  in erosion  prone  areas.   The
environment in coffee producing areas could be adversely affected from two
sources: (a) farm chemicals used for pest, disease and weed control; and (b)
coffee pulp and processing effluent from coffee factories.  Integrated pest
control methods are highly recommended by CRF for coffee production. To minimize
the negative effects of insecticides, fungicides and herbicides, the Project
would only fund those acceptable to IDA which are recommended by CRF and suitable
for use by small scale farmers (Annex 10). A World Bank Group "Checklist of
Chemicals not Recommended for Use in Agriculture or Suitable Only for Restricted
Use" has been made available to the PCMU.  It should be noted that Kenya has
enacted legislation controlling the importation and sale of pesticides which
has eliminated a number of hazardous materials from the market. However, some
of the materials which are available and approved are nevertheless too hazardous
for use by smallholders who are likely to lack specialized equipment and
training. The status of farm chemicals for use in coffee is detailed in Annex
10, together with a list of pesticides, fungicides and herbicides currently
approved and recommended by CRF and the GOX's Pesticides Board.
3.30      Typically a modern "3-disc" factory produces about 24,000 liters of
polluted effluent per ton of clean coffee processed with a biological oxygen
demand (BOD) of up to 3,000 parts per million. Stringent legislation already
exists in Kenya which forbids the disposal of coffee pulp or factory effluent
in any nearby water source. The Project would comply with these regulaLions by
providing each new and rehabilitated factory with a system of full water
recirculation and pollution control. The essential features of the system would
be separation of pulp and water and separate disposal of the pulp; recirculating
the process water; and seepage pits/lagoons for the disposal of the post pulping
and post-washing effluent.  A beneficial effect of skin separation is that
farmers can collect decomposed pulp later for use as a fertilizer.



- 32 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization ind Management
4.01      The Project would be implemented through a Project Steering Committe
(PSC) and the PCMU (para 3.12). The PSC would be chaired by the Permanent
Secretary MOCD with the Permanent Secretary MOA as alternate chairman. The PSC
would meet quarterly to deal with both policy and operational problems affecting
Project execution and would comprise the General Manager of the PCMU and
representatives of the seven main implementing agencies. The PCWU would be
established within MOCD by upgrading and reorganizing the existing PMU and would
be responsible for the day-to-day execution of Project components. The PCMU
would operate under a General Manager and two section managers. The technical
section would cover design, engineering and technical management aspects. The
financial/economic section would deal with feasibility appraisals, budgeting,
accounting,  planning  and  monitoring  of  Project  activities.   To  provide
orientation and training to the PCMU management team, a trainer would be
appointed as a condition of Credit effectiveness (para 7.02(c)).   The detailed
composition and functions of the PSC and the PCMU are set out in Annex 5.
4.02      Since it is not envisaged that the PCMU would be a permanent body, it
would also train and build up experience in concerned agencies which would take
over PCMU's responsibilities after Project completion (for example, project
appraisal and supervision by the Coop Bank).
B. Executing Agencies
4.03      The Cooperative Bank of Kenya.  The Coop Bank would have the largest
role, implementing three Project components in the cooperative sector: (a) coffee
f&ctory development; (b) crecit for inputs; and (c) the improved payment system.
The Coop Bank would, in collaboration with the PCMU, appraise each proposal for
factory investment prepared by the District Coffee Working Groups (DCWGs).  This
would include a detailed review of technical, organizational, managerial and
financial aspects and involve field visits. The Coop Bank would be responsible
for determining the creditworthiness of the societies (borrowers). The criteria
for coffee factory investment appraisals would be expanded and improved, and
would be agreed with IDA (para 4.08). A summary of the improved criteria is
given in Annex 9.  IDA would review the first six investment appraisals;
thereafter, appraisals would be reviewed only during IDA's regular supervision
missions. However, Project financing would only be available for investments
which met the agreed criteria. Appropriate provisions would be made in the
subsidiary loan agreement. It is anticipated that by Project completion the
implementing ag^'ncies, including the Coop Bank, would have strengthened the staff
of their relevant departments in order to take over all these activities from
the PCMU.   Aesurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations  (para
7.01(g)).
4.04      Coffee Cooperative Societies.  At field level the societies,  as
representetives of the growers, would be responsible for implementing the factory
development, input supply and improved payment system components. The societies



- 33 -
are mainly responsible for processing and handling coffe . They will play a key
role in the implementation of factory development through the DCWGs who would
identify the needs for coffee processing investments, carry out the initial
feasibility study and forward loan application proposals to the PCMU for approval
before they are passed to the Coop Bank. The DCWGs would also supervise the
tendering, awarding and execution of contracts. Factory staffing, management
and training would be the responsibility of the societies. Cooperative societies
are the principal source of input supply to coffee farmers.  The method of
purchase would be either through credit provided under the Project and operated
by the society, or cash purchases from strategically located cooperative stores.
Under the current arrangements, coffee societies are responsible for handling
large amounts of money flowing in from coffee payments and credit schemes.
Considerable attention is currently being given to improving cooperative
management by the Nordic Group and through an IDA-funded Cooperative Management
Improvement Project under RSD which aims specifically at improving the management
capabilities of the cooperative societies.
4.05      Kenya Planters' Cooperative Union.  KPCU would be responsible for the
implementation of the coffee milling component and provide technical assistance
to small estates.   Details on the coffee mill will depend on the final
recommendations of the feasibility study just completed. KPCU's advisory service
to estates would be expanded to assist small estates with the preparation of
investment proposals to be financed under the Project. Close collaboration with
the PC4U is required to ensure that the lending criteria are being followed.
Periodic supervision by KPCU field staff would be required.
4.06      Coffee Research Foundation.  CRF training and advisory services would
be used primarily to implement the training program envisaged under the Project
(para 4.19). In order to cope with the increased demand, CRF's facilities would
be expanded under the Project. CRF staff in collaboration with the PCMU would
prepare annual budgets, work plans and construction schedules, and handle the
procurement of vehicles, teaching equipment, and other materials.
C. Implementation of Specific Components
4.07      Processing improvements.   The Project would help remove seasonal
congestion in the coffee factories, improve their operating efficiency and the
overall quality of coffee output, and ensure environmental protection from
pollution. This would be achieved by carrying out a total of 340 coffee factory
improvements and construction classified into types 1, 2, 3 and 4 based on the
type of processing constraints, the throughput and the investment required to
remove constraints and provide incremental capacity. Type 1 improvements (85
factories) would involve appropriate investments in low throughput factories to
remove specific bottleaecks mainly at skin drying and final drying. This would
provide incremental processing capacity of about 30 tons per factory per year
giving the rehabilitated factory a nominal throughput capacity of 60 tons of
clean coffee per year. In addition the quality of all coffee throughput would
be significantly improved. Type 2 improvements (115 factories) and type 3
improvements (75 factories) would involve simi.&r appropriate investments for
medium  throughput  and  high  throughput  factories,  respectively.   Type  4



- 34 -
improvementu  (65 factories) would involve new or resited factories.   The
incremental factory output and rshalilitated processlung capacity for each type
is given in Anner. 6, Table 1 together with the phaaing uf the implementation and
the build up of incremental processing capacity.
4.08      Experience under SCIP indicates that closer scrutiny of propoaals for
factory improvement is required to avoid creating localised over-capacity or
investments with a low rate of cost-effectiveness. The updated guidelines are
summarized in Annex 9, together with the factory improvement cycle from loan
preparation to contract completion. Under the Project the DCWGs would, with the
help of PCMU staff, continue to perform their essential role in identifying needs
for coffee processing facilities and preparing investment proposals for
submission to the PCMU. The improved guidelines would be used by the DCWGs to
provide a pre-feasibility procedure which would remove non-viable investments
and make a rational choice on the size and type of factory improvement - i.e.
minor, selective or extensive improvement or a new/resited factory (Annex 9).
Use of the guidelines would be incorporated in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between GOK and the Coop Bank  (para 3.19 and Annex 2).   The subsequent
feasibility study would also be made more rigorous to ensure that bottlenecks
in processing have been correctly identified, correct technical solutions have
been chosen, and individual investments are financially sound (para 5.07).
Agreement was reached during negotiations on the broad guidelines and criteria
for factory investments (para 7.01(h)).
4.09      The Project would ensure that the PCMU would be provided with technical
staff with adequate expertise in processing technology factory and financial
management to review each of the factory investment proposals before approving
or returning to the DCWG for amending. Other existing procedures and guidelines
for execution of factory improvements are satisfactory and would remain unchanged
viz: society budgeting to provide its contribution for the improvement (15% as
opposed to 25% under SCIP); MOCD work plans; tendering; contracting; contract
supervision; contract completion; and payment procedures. The PCMU would carry
out supervision missions three times a year during which a number of individual
factory investments would be reviewed in detail to test Project performance with
regard to project selection and execution of factory improvements.
4.10      Cooperative Coffee Factory Management.  For arabica coffee the standard
of wet processing is one of the main determinants of the final quality and the
price achieved. Thus, the financial and economic returns to investment in coffee
factories under the Project will depend very heavily on the ability of factory
management to ensure correct processing standards and achieve satisfactory
quality at economic costs. At present a considerable number of cooperative
factories have weak management, characterised by poor maintenance of equipment,
poor organizing of processing work routines and a lack of supervision and
reporting systems for day-to-day production work. Unless these constraints are
addressed, there is a danger that the Project would not reach its goals of
improved throughput, efficiency and quality.
4.11      The  Project  would  strengthen  the  existing  services  for coffee
processing by supporting the development of technical management services under
the PCMU to raise the level of day-to-day physical management in coffee



- 35 -
factories. To achieve this the PCMU would work closely with the existing HOA
and MOCD coffee staff in the field and would carry out regular advisory visits
(normally at two week intervals) with emphasis on correct operation of equipment,
labor management and processing techniques and on-the-job training of factory
staff in specific aspects of coffee factory management.  Initially this service
would be developed under the direction of the PCMU, but by the end of the Project
it would be incorporated into one of the existing agencies such as the Coop Bank
or KPCU and would continue as a self supporting service to the coffee industry.
A decision on which institution would take over this responsibility would be made
during the mid-term review.
4.12      Credit for Input Requirements.  The expected increase in yields from
smallholders is linked directly to improving the supply of fertilizers and
agro-chemicals (fungicides, herbicides and insecticides) to these farmers and
their timely application. Recent surveys by tne CRF (1986 and 1987) indicate
that 75% of smallholder coffee growers are using these inputs but the amounts
are well below optimum. In addition the majority (more than 90%) rely entirely
on credit for inputs which are supplied through their cooperative society. The
most important line of credit to cooperative societies ie the CPCS which now
accounts for about 90% of seasonal and short term lending in this subsector.
4.13      The heaviest demand is for the recurrent, eeasonal loans to pre-finance
essential inputs. The Project would aim to make additional finance available
for this type of seasonal lending as the primary vehicle for increasing yields
and output by smallholder growers. The loan financing would be made available
through the Coop Bank in the context of the CPCS with which the farmers are
already familiar. To enable a satisfactory level of uptake some changes in
existJng procedures and conditions (para 2.19) are envisaged: the upper limit
of borrowing would be Increased from 20% to 50% of a grower's average crop
deliveries, except in the case where their total indebtedness would thereby
exceed the value of expected deliveries of cherry. At least 20% of the loan
would be made available in cash, bearing in mind that additional paid labor is
generally required for the higher levels of productivity.  The rate of interest
would be in line with the CPCS and other seasonal agricultural lending rates in
Kenya.  Use of these limits would be incorporated in the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between GOK and the Coop Bank (Annex 2).  It is expected that under
these modified conditions the uptake of seasonal loans for existing coffee would
be 70% by year three of the Project and for the planting of new varieties 100%
uptake from year one of the Project. The loans would be targetted at the whole
spectrum of smallholder growers but in each case the society would make the final
judgement as to the creditworthiness of the individual before approving a loan
application. A basic assumption is that the funds would be channelled through
the Coop Bank to societies and that repayments to the Coop Bank would be credited
to a revolving fund to finance additional similar loans.
4.14      Improved Payment System (Annex 11).  The Cooperative Bank would also
be the main financial institution to implement the improved payment system.
Under this system, payments to farmers would be made by cooperative societies
with'n a Union in the month following delivery of coffee cherry by farmers.
Payments would be by credit to the accounts of farmers at newly established
Savings and Credit Cooperative Organizations (SACCOs), existing Union Banking



- 36 -
Sections (UBSs) or to any other banking institution normally used by Societies'
members (e.g. the local branch of the Coop Bank). Because of bookkeeping system
weaknesses at some Societies and Union-run banking organizations (SACcOe or
UBSe), steps as outlined below would be taken by an MOCD Inspection Committee
to strengthen such systems. The Committee would include staff from the Coop
Bank. Under the Project this Committee would review and improve all bookkeeping
and accounting systems, and finally give approval that Societies within a Union
would be capable of making payments under the improved payments system. IDA's
release of funds to the Coop Bank for onlending to each eligible Union would be
conditional upon this approval for all eligible societies within a Union (para
3.25). Establishment of the Inspection Committee would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness (para 7.02(d)).   In terms of annual requirements of Societies
within an approved Union each UBS or SACCO would produce an Advance Request and
Analysis each year detailing their credit needs. The request would be authorized
by MOCD and passed on as authority to the Coop Bank to lend.
4.15      Small estate improvement.  A feature of the estate sector is the
continuing increase in the number of small estate producers (between 4 and 20
ha) who now account for 728 of the total 1,111 registered coffee estates. Some
of these originate in the sub-division of larger estates but the greater part
are "smallholders" who have grown to a sufficient size (4 ha of coffee and above)
to be registered as individual private growers. Small estates now account for
about 5,000 ha of coffee with an annual production of about 3,500 tons of clean
coffee. The trend of increasing numbers in this subsector is likely to continue
in the foreseable future.
4.16      The majority of these producers are affected by the following serious
constraints: (a) most are non-irrigated which restricts their yield potential
to about 1,000-1,100 kg/ha; (b) with a few exceptions management is weak and
input levels are low - fertilizer, fungicide and mulch applications are well
below optimum - and yields are not much different than for the advanced
smallholders, averaging 600-700 kg/ha clean coffee; (c) the gross margins for
these growers are around Kshs 8,000 per hectare with much lower figures for
non-irrigated farms - which is more or less equivalent to smallholder growers;
and (d) the processing factories vary from adequate to very poor, often being
of an "ad hoc" type of construction with insufficient facilities, particularly
water recirculation and pollution co,ntrol. A number of small estates have no
factory at all and rely on neighboring factories for their processing.
4.17      The Project would deal with the constraints to production and
processing by means of an integrated investment package. A capital investment
package would be made by the estate manager for field equipment, irrigation
equipment and processing facilities according to the farm size. Corresponding
investment would be made to increase the inputs of fertilizers, fungicides, labor
and management in order to raise yields from the current 600-700 kg/ha to as high
as 1,500 kg/ha (irrigated coffee). These have been classified as type 1 - 6
improvements according to farm size and whether or not irrigation would be
introduced. The implementation schedule showing the number of estates by type
is summarized in Table 4. A type 1 improvement (50 small estates) would finance
the provision of a coffee factory and some field equipment for a 4 ha,
non-irrigated farm. Increased inputs over the Project period would raise yields



- 37 -
by about 300 kg/ha giving an incremental production of 60 tons of clean coffee
from 200 ha. Type 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 improvements would involve investment in
4 ha (irrigated), 10 ha (non-irrigated), 10 ha (irrigated), 20 ha (irrigated)
and 30 ha (irrigated) small estates, respectively. Overall this component would
revitalize productivity on 2,400 ha of coffee resulting in incremental output
of about 1,540 tons per year at full development. Details of each investment
type, phasing of implementation, incremental processing capacity and overall
nominal throughput are detailed in Annex 6, Table 2.
Table 4
Cooperative Factory Improvement and Small Estate Rehabilitation
Implementation Schedule
SECTOR                                 IMPROVEMENTS (No. of Units)
AND TYPE              YR 1   YR 2   YR 3   YR 4   YR 5   YR 6   YR 7   TOTAL
COOPERATIVE 1/
TYPE 1            10     10     10      10     15     15      15      85
TYPE 2            10     15     15      15     20     20      20     115
TYPE 3             5      5     10      10     15     15      15      75
TYPE 4             5     10     10      10     10     10      10      65
TOTAL        30      40     45     45      60     60     60      340
SMALL ESTATES 2/
TYPE 1             7      7      7       7      7      7       8      50
TYPE ?             7      7      7       7      7      7       8      50
TYPE 3             5      5      6       6      6      6       6      40
TYPE 4             5      5      6       6      6      6       6      40
TYPE 5             4      4      4       4      4      5       5      30
TYPT 6             2      3      3       3      3      3       3      20
TOTAL        30      31     33     33      33     34     36      230
1/ Type 1, Minor improvement;  Type 2, Selective improvement; Type 3, Extensive
Improvement; Type 4, new or re-sited factory.
2/ Type 1 & 2, 4 Ha Estate; Type 3 & 4, 10 Ha Estate; Type 5, 20 Ha Estate;
Type 6, 30 Ha Estate.
4.18      Small estate management.  The current poor performance of many small
estates in terms of production and financial viability can be partly attributed
to weak management.   In order to  achieve  the benefits  anticipated  from
investment, the Project management would ensure that a satisfactory system of
management and supervision is in place for rehabilitated estates. This would
be supplied either from the PCMU or by expanding one of the existing management
supervision advisory services such as the KPCU field advisory services.



- 38 -
4.19      Training and Coordination. The institutions involved in training of
coffee farmers and personnel in the coffee industry would continue to be
responsible for coffee training programs.   The overall coordination of all
Project training activities at national level would be undertaken by the PCMU.
In liaison with the Steering Committee, the PCMU would determine training needs
in the smallholder and estate sectors, program training, and set general training
guidelines. The PCMU would also be responsible for preparing an annual plan
and budget for this component.  The planning and coordination of training
activities at the district level would be guided by the DCWGs ir. close
collaboration with the District Cooperative Training Committee. The latter,
which includes the Cooperative Union Manager and Cooperative Education and
Publicity Officer, the District Cooperative Training officer, the District
Cooperative Officer, and other functional officers of HOCD, allocates available
opportunities for individual training outside the district and identifies common
training needs of the various cooperatives in the district. The field training
courses and demonstrations for coffee farmers and in-service training programs
for coffee extension staff, factory managers, committee members and society
managers would not replace the present general staff training programs undertaken
by both MOA and MOCD but would supplement them and be Project-oriented. The
proposed training programs for the various staff involved in implementing the
Project  would  be  conducted  jointly  by  MOA,  MOCD  and  CRF.   Specific
Project-oriented in-service training programs would be provided by CRF for coffee
extension staff, and farmersI training would be undertaken through field courses
and demonstrations.
4.20      Coffee Milling and Export Preparation.  The implementation of this
component would be baaed on the appraisal undertaken by CDC. CDC has made an
inspection of the proposed site, and CDC management has cleared the proposal.
Government has indicated its agreement to CDC's lending terms. KPCU would be
responsible for managing the implementation of this component.
4.21      Project Monitoring and Evaluation.  Overall monitoring of Project
activities would be the responsibility of the PCMU, while participating financial
institutions (e.g. Coop Bank) would monitor progress of their own components.
PCMU would prepare semi-annual progress reports, providing data on Project
activities, completion of physical construction targets, procurement of vehicles,
machinery and equipment, the training program, credit uptake, and problems that
are critical to the effective implementation of the Project. Copies of the
monitoring reports would reviewed by the donors and the Steering Committee.
The financial/economic section would also be responsible for preparing annual
plans and budgets and establishing construction completion targets as envisaged
under the implementation program.
4.22      Status of Project Preparation.  Key staff of the PCMU, such as the
General Manager and two managers, are in place and further recruitment of staff
would be completed during the first year. Sample bidding documents would be
prepared before Project effectiveness. Sample investment packages prepared by
the PCMa for coffee factories (minimum of four), including economic analyses,
have been prepared.   Civil works for factory construction would follow the
implementation schedules described in paras 4.08 and 4.17 based on designs
already prepared under SCIP. Project Lmplementation is expected to be completed



- 39 -
by December 31, 1996. The Credit closing date would be June 30, 1997.
D. Kid-Term Review
4.23      GOK's production projections in the preparation report, like those in
the Sessional Paper, were based on potential yields assuming good management
and optimum input supply as well as replacement of existing varieties with new
high yielding coffee varieties like Ruiru 11. The appraisal mission found these
projections optimistic and estimated achievable yield increases under the Project
of 1.8-2.1%. This is more in line with recent past performance and accords
generally with the views in the subsector study of 1987. In order to provide
a better basis for planning beyond the Project period, a comprehensive mid-term
review would be carried out which will include production estimates in relation
to expected changes in the coffee market (quality and new ICA) and the experience
with the introduction of new coffee varieties.
4.24      The PCI4U financial/economic section would carry out an evaluation of
Project implementation by December 31, 1992, and againi at Project completion.
The three year evaluation report would form the basis of a joint donor-GOK
mid-term review. Evaluation would concentrate on (a) district coffee production;
(b) area expansion and improved varieties; (c) yield achieved Lnd projections
of total coffee production; (d) arabica market analysis vis-a-vis price movements
with or without an ICA stocking policy and price subsidies; (e) implementation
of the improved payment system with a view to introducing incentives for high
quality cherry deliveries; and (f) a review of the sales tax structure to ensure
that any disincentive to produce coffee is not present. Assurances on the above
were obtained during negotiations (para 7.01(i)).
V. PRODUCTION AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Coffee Yields and Production Targets
5.01      The current potential productivity for arabica coffee at farm level
is estimated to be about 1,200 - 1,500 kg/ha for non-irrigated coffee and 1,500
- 3,000 kg/ha for irrigated coffee which receives correspondingly higher amounts
of other inputs. These higher yield levels have been recorded by advanced
smallholders and estate producers. The main technical constraint on productivity
for smallholders is the level of inputs - principally fertilizer, fungicides,
irrigation and labor. Other factors which affect output are: pricing and payment
for coffee; the proportion of coffee in different farming systems; the
availability of family and hired labor; and the demands of other competing cash
and food crops.
B. Project Targeted Yields and Production
5.02      Incremental inputs and yields  for  small estates  are described
separately in para 4.17 and Annex 7, Table 4. The Project would make credit



- 40 -
available to smallholders and small estates for incremental farm inputs aimed
at inc=easing coffee yields and output from existing varieties and the
establishment of about 7,000 ha of improved varieties. It is estimated that
the uptake rate of inputs for existing varieties would bG 70% from year 3 on of
the Project and for the improved varieties the uptake rate would be 100% from
year 1. By Project completion, therefore, the incremental inputs would be
applied to approximately 117,100 ha of existing coffee and 7,000 ha of improved
varieties, giving a total incremental output of 19,651 tons (Annex 7, Tables 1 -
4). This represents an increase of about 16%. At the low level of productivity
the incremental inputs would result in yields increasing from 360 kg/ha to 500
kg/ha for 101,200 farmers with an incremental production of about 4,430 tons by
the completion of the Project. This group would also account for an additional
3,080 ha of improved varieties with an incremental production of about 1,190 tons
by Project completion.
5.03      At the medium level of productivity the incremental inputs would raise
yields from 600 kg/ha to 820 kg/ha for 87,400 farmers, creating an incremental
production of about 6,120 tons by Project completion. This group would account
for an additional 2,660 ha of improved varieties with an incremental production
of 1,710 tons by Project completion. At the high level of productivity the
incremental inputs for 41,400 farmers with 21,080 ha of coffee would raise yields
from 940 kg/ha to 1,200 kg/ha, with an incremental production of 3,400 tons at
Project completion. This group would also account for planting about 1,260 ha
of improved varieties giving an incremental production of 1,270 tons by Project
completion.
C. Financial Analysis Outline
5.04     The financial analysis outlined below sets out the financial effects
of the Project on (i) coffee farmers, coffee factories, and the Coop Bank as the
financial intermediary of the IDA-financed cooperative sector components; (ii)
small estates including farming and processing activities; and (iii) Government
including the foreign exchange and cash flow implications. CDC has carried out
a financial analysis on KPCU as owner of the r.ew mill and the final design and
source and costs of financing are being finalized. Similarly, the financial
intermediary on the small estate component has only been preliminarily
identified; CDC is in the process of finalizing arrangements.
Cooperative Sector
5.05        Coffee Farmers'  Incomes.   Smallholder coffee farmers in Kenya's
cooperative sector number about 230,000 families. Even though this excludes
small estates of 4 ha and above, the diversity of farm sizes, crops and farmers,
capabilities is considerable. For Project purposes 9 models were chosen covering
3 farm sizes (0.9 ha, 1.6 ha and 3.0 ha) and 3 without Project yield levels (low
- 360 kg/ha of coffee, medium - 600 kg/ha of coffee and high - 940 kg/ha of
coffee). The analysis assumes the incentive effects of the improved payment
system, and the yield effects of the credit component on incremental farm inputs,
and includes the associated costs of such components.



- 41 -
Table 5
Projected Farmers Annual Cash Incomes and Returns to Family Labour
With and Without Project
Farm Type and Siz-       -------------------- Coffee --------------   ---- Total Farm------
----Cash Income -----  Returns to Family Labour ---Cash Incomes 3/----
Without       With          Without        With          Without       With
Project     Project 1/      Project      Project 1/    Project   Project 1/
(--KSh Constant 2/---) (-KSh conse.ant 2//m hour-) (--XSh Constant 2/----)
1. Low Yield Level Farms
(a) 0.9 ha Farm   2,704      3,601          12.02         12.75         (1,472)         (575)
% Increase               33%                            6%                          6%
(b) 1.6 ha Farm  5,086      6,795          13.97          14.90          3,843        5,552
% Increase               34%                            7%                         44%
(c) 3.0 ha Parm      7,665     9,606           n.a 4/         n.a 4/       11,634       13,575
% Increase               25%                             -                         17%
2. Medium Yield Level Farms
a) 0.9 ha Farm   4,316      5,926          12.53          14.04          2,342         3,952
% Increase               37%                           12%                         69%
a's 1.6 ha Farm  8,170    11,177           14.69          16.43         9,461        12,467
% Increase               37%                           12%                         32%
(c) 3.0 ha Farm 12,447    15,544            n.a 4/         n.a 4/      22,019        25,116
% Increase               25%                                                       14%
3. High Yield Level Farms
(a) 0.9 ha Farm  6,879      8,943          17.03          19.09         17,437       19,502
% Increase               30%                           12%                         12%
(b) 1.6 ha Farm 13,027    17,609           21.25          24.62        26,878        31,461
% Increase               35%                           16%                         17%
(c) 3.0 ha Farm 21,456    29,854            n.a 4/         n.a 4/      45,979        54,377
% Increase               39%                                                       18%
1/ At full development
2/ At 1989 constant costs and prices
1/ After deducting subsistence costs
4/  Not applicable since assumed no family labour used for coffee in the 3.0 ha farms.



- 42 -
5.06      The results in Table 5 show that under the Project cash incomes for
cof fee and the farm, and returns to family labor, all increase under the Project
irrespective of yield levels. However, the 0.9 ha low yield level farm shows
only a reduction in negative farm cash incomes; the assumption is that the
difference in income in made up by off farm income (e.g. as laborers on other
farms by one or more family members).  There is also the likelihood that
subsistence levels for the 0.9 ha farmers would be below t"se of farmers with
cash surpluses. As regards lending for inputs, criteria accaptable to IDA (para
4.13) would be applied. The results of returns to farmers' labor and incomes
provide adequate incentives for the farmers to use the recommended inputs and
seek the credit available under the Project.
Table 6
Projected Rates of Return and Incremental Cash Flows
of Investments in Coffee Factories Under the Project
------Incremental Cash-------
Flows
Rate of   Annual at Project    Cumulative
Factory Investment Type           Return          Year 7          over 25 yrs
()       (------KSh'000 Constart-----
Type 1
- Low Investment, 60 ton
capacity, Existing Factory        43                 158             5,794
Type 2
- Medium Investment, 100 ton
Capacity Existing Factory         34                 251             9,334
Type 3
- High Investment, 150 ton
Capacity, Existing Factory        29                 620            13,671
Type 4
- High Investment, 150 ton
Capacity New Factory              22                 781            14,871
5.07     Coffee Factories' Returns and Incomes. Cooperative Societies, of which
the farmers are members, also own one or more coffee factories to process (wash)
red cherries brought in by the members.  Under the Project four types of
investment in coffee factories are envisaged: (i) low capital investment (KSh
0.49 m)13 in existing 60 tonl4 capacity factories; (ii) medium level capital
investment (KSh 0.89 m) in existing 100 ton capacity factories; (iii) high level
capital investment (KSh 1.46 m) in existing 150 ton capacity factories; and (iv)
construction of new 150 ton capacity factories, costing KSh 2.92 m.  The rates
of return on these investments and the incremental cash flows are set out in
l
13 in 1989 constant costs, including physical contingencies.
14 tons of clean coffee.



- 43 -
Table 6. The lending criteria (para 4.08) would include an economic and
financial rate of return on each investment of at least 12% (the opportunity cost
of capital), and a cash flow analysis indicating cash generation sufficient to
cover processing costs and loan repayments.
5.08     The results show that, in all cases, the rates of return are higher
than the cost of capital and the incremzntal cash flow under the Project is
positive. The lowest returns and improvements in cash flows are in investments
in new coffee factories. However the assumptions of incremental revenues are
conservative and assume an improvement in quality of washed coffee only. In
practice it is likely a higher proportion of mbuni (sun-dried) coffee would be
produced in the "without Project" situation and hence incremental revenues and
rates of return would be higher than shown in the above analysis.
5.09     The Cooperative Bank would be the financial intermediary under the
Project for channelling funds to the cooperative societies.  A background
description of the bank is covered in para 1.21, its financing arrangements in
para 3.19, and its role in implementation in para 4.03. The bank's current
financial situation (based on its audited but unapproved financial statements
to June 30, 1988) indicates a financial position with profit before taxation for
that year amounting to X£1.117 m (1987 - X£0.995 m), and reserves amounting to
K1I.48 m (1987 - X£1.42 m). Net current assets amount to R£34.2 m (1987 - KE26.2
m), business activities are expanding and alL other ratios comply with the
Banking Act. However, detailed analysis shows that investments and the loan
portfolio are not as healthy as indicated. Of the investments at original cost,
R£1.475 m has been under receivership since 1984 and the extent of the final
payout is likely to be minimal. The bank, starting in 1988, is writing off one
quarter of the original cost per annum.
5.10      Of the advances totalling KR61.9 m in 1988 (XSO.6 m in 1987),
approximately 65% are for the Coop Bank's own account, whilst the remainder are
channelled through the bank on an agency basis, and are guaranteed by the
principal lenders. The arrears position for the latter group is good with only
4% approximately categorized as such. However, of the amounts owing on the
bank's own account approximately 35% (Ki14 m) is classified as in arrears. Some
have already been repaid since the end of the fiscal year, and security is held
for the remainder. Against the arrears and expected bad debts a provision for
doubtful debts of K£2 m has been established. This is far below the arrears
but is pr.bably not excessively below what can reasonably be collected, provided
security is called in.
5.11      Under the Project, the Coop Bank's financial situation is likely to
improve, given the proposed interest rate spread of 5% (para 3.19), the
application of strict financial criteria for coffee factories lending (para
5.07), and lending to farmers (para 4.13). The projected financial statements
are set out in Annex 7, Tables 5 - 7.
Estate Sector
5.12      Small Coffee Estates.  The coffee estate sector is described in paras
4.15 and 4.16. Investments under the Project would concentrate on the small



- 44 -
estate sector (4 ha to 30 ha), and for this purpose six small estate models were
chosen. A summary of the rates of return and incremental cash flows for each
model are met out in Table 7 below.
Table 7
Projected Rates of Return and Cash Flows of
Small Coffee Estates Undor the Project
Rates of            Incremental Cash Flows
Return              Year 1       Year 7
(-)  --KSh Constant----
4 ha
ti)    Non irrigated           12                 (7,750)       (12,281)
(ii)   irrigated               57                 43,311         85,463
10 ha
(iii)  Non irrigated           22                (10,750)        22,676
(iv)   Irrigated               56                 88,618        106,434
20 ha
(v)    Irrigated               61                167,736        155,527
30 ha
(vI)   Irrigated               44                209,104       241,622
The analysis shows rates of return well in excess of the 12% opportunity cost
of capital and positive incremental cash flows in all cases except the 4 ha non-
irrigated estates; all estates reflect positive cash flows throughout the Project
period. The relatively low returns in the non-irrigated estates reflect the high
investment costs in coffee factories with lower yield assumptions than in the
other estates. In the irrigated estates the assumption is that coffee factories
already exist and that estate owners wish to introduce irrigation, which is both
relatively less capital intensive and gives considerably higher yields. The same
assurances on onlending criteria as were applied to cooperative sector coffee
factories would be applied, namely an economic and financial rate of return of
at least 12%, and a cash flow analysis indicating cash generation sufficient to
cover processing costs and loan repayments (para 5.07).
5.13      The financial viability of this CDC-financed component has been found
acceptable by CDC as evidenced by its decision to include these investments in
its Loan (due for approval in late August). The expected onlending terms are
set out in para 3.19, as are the lending criteria.



- 45 -
D. Coffee Milling
5.14      KPCU, as the primary coffee miller in Kenya, would own the new 50,000
ton capacity mill. CDC's appraisal of this component indicate. a financiall-
viable inventment and has been included in its Loan to be mad. under the Project.
To repay the Loan, KPCU would introduce a development levy on coffee sales over
a period of up to ten years. The offects of the levy on farmers' coffee incomes
would be less than 1% of their total coffee income.
E. Effects on Foreign Exchange Position and Government Cash Flow
5.15      Effects on Foreign Exchange.  The effects of the Project on Kenya's
foreign exchange position show that over 20 years the net foreign exchange inflow
would total US$1.3 billion, reaching close to US$90 m per annum by the end of
that period. This assumes that quotas under the ICA are not reintroduced. In
comparing this with the "with quota" situation, net foreign exchange inflows
would fall significantly only immediately after cessation of quotas (caused by
a fall in world coffee prices); they are estimated to increase thereafter to
within 10% of the "with quota" price in 1995 and to w-.thin 2.5% by the year
2000.  In the "with quota" situation (Annex 7, Table 8), the effects on the
Project over 20 years would be a net foreign exchange inflow fall of US$1.5
billion, reaching close to US$100 m per annum by the end of that period.
5.16      Effects on Government Cash Flow. Government's cash flow would improve
significantly under the Project with positive cash flows in all years except 1990
(Project year 1) when incremental revenues would be small and Government outlays
under the Project higher. This net outflow would amount to KSh 15 m (US$0.8 m).
Over 20 years net cash inflows would amount to KSh 6.0 billion (USS,295 m), with
annual averages amounting to over KSh 400 m by the end of the Project
implementation period and falling to KSh 250 to 300 m in the later years as the
Coop Bank ceases to make loan repayments for money originally onLent to it by
Government. Details are set out in Annex 7, Table 9.
VI. JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Justification
6.01      Coffee has long been the single most important agricultural commodity
in Kenya's farm based economy.  Its significance as an earner of foreign exchange
is challenged only by tourism. In 1988 the share of coffee in total annual
export earnings was approximately 29%.  Its direct importance to the rural
economy is reflected in the fact that it fs the main source of cash income for
about a quarter of a million farm families.  In the Central and Eastern
Provinces, well over 50% of families are dependent on coffee earnings for cash.
The Project would strengthen the ability of the coffee industry to raise rural
incomes, create employment opportunities, and generate foreign exchange.



- 46 -
B. Benefits
6.02      The Project would generate quantifiable economic benefits from two
sources. The first major benefit would be the incremental production of coffee
arising mainly from the improved payment system, better availability of credit
and associated inputs to smallholders and small estates. The Project would
ultimately inczcjase annual coffee production by around 20,000 tons of clean
coffea, thereby increasing the country's gross foreign exchange earnings by the
end of the economic life of the Project (para 6.05(a)) by about US$51 m annually
at 1989 border prices (Annex 8, Table 3). In addition, this level of extra
production would create in the smallholder and estate sectors about 11,000
manyears of maJnly unskilled field work for both family and hired farm labor
(Annex 8, Table 5). Well over half of this would consist of women.
6.03      The second major source of quantifiable benefits would be from
improvement in coffee quality through factory rehabilitation and construction
in the cooperative sector. These expenditu,es would be supported under the
Project by better appraisal of individual investments, and improved training and
technical and management backup. They would increase processing capacity and
factory efficiency resulting in higher quality of clean coffee, better overall
prices and increased factory incomes.
6.04      The majority of Kenya's 230,000 smallholder coffee farmers would be
the main beneficiaries of the increased output of the Project.  It is not,
envisaged that this number would change substantially under the Project since
its emphasis is to increase yields and improve productivity on existing areas
rather than to bring new areas into production. Financial analysis (para 5.05),
based on different levels of management and yield and on three farm size
categories, indicates that cash incomes for coffee and the farm, and the returns
to family labor, improve across all farm types. Higher returns from improved
coffee quality arising from the factory improvement and which are not
incorporated into these returns would also accrue to about 40 per cent of coffee
smallholders.
C. Economic Analysis
6.05      Main Assumptions
(a)     The economic life of the Project is 25 years with all main
investments taking place during the implementation period (the
first seven years).
(b)     The analysis includes all expenditures for capital investments,
replacement of factory and estate plant and equipment, and
incremental operating and maintenance costs relating to the
Project components. Costs exclude price contingencies, taxes
and duties. Physical contingencies are included.
(c)     All prices are calculated on the basis of mid-1989 constant
prices adjusted for suspension of coffee quotas under the ICA



- 47 -
(para 6.07). The formulation of the base price for Kenyan
arabicas is set out at Annex 8, Tables 1 and 2, and
incorporates all relevant deductions.  Paras 2.13-2.18 on
Coffee Marketing elaborate on the price premia aspect. of Kenya
coffee. The projections of real movements in coffee prices
are  based  on  information  from  the  World  Bank.   Price
projections for inputs are based on the World Bank Commodity
Price Projections.
(d)     The basis of the benefits to the Project arising from
incremental production is explained in paras 5.02 and 5.03.
(e)     Both economic and financial benefits from quality improvements
at the cooperative societies' coffee factories are quantified
by the movements in quality profile and corresponding prices
for ten classes of washed coffee and three classes of mbuni.
Capital investments are based on three levels of rehabilitation
cost and one new factory model.  "Without Project" quality
profiles are derived from a survey of 36 factories carried out
in 1987. "With Project" quality profile improvements for the
rehabilitation models are based on a conservative assessment
of the impact of investments and management support actions
undertaken by the Project. In the "with Project" situation
for new factories where severe congestion is occurring, the
basis of Project benefits is the prevention of the decline in
quality profile projected for the "without Project" scenario.
Ir. all cases, the quality profiles and associated benefit
streams assume sustained and reasonable factory management
levels. Throughput is assumed to be maintained at 80% of
capacity in line with the recommendations of the ZCIP PCR.
(f)     A standard conversion factor of 0.9 has been applied to the
values of all non-tradeables. Taxes and duties have been
excluded from economic costs and revenues.
(g)     All incremental on-farm labor has been priced at market rates
reflecting scarcity values.
Main Results
6.06      The base case for the Project has been estimated on the assumption that
the ICA will continue without quotas. Benef:its and cost streams used in the
economic analysis are presented at Annex 8, Table 3. On the basis of the above
assumptions, the economic rate of return (ERR) of the whole Project is 29%, with
a net prosent value of about US$94 m (at a discount rate of 12%). The ERR of
the coffee factories component is 28%, and for the Project excluding the factory
component it is 30%. The high rates of economic return associated with the base
case for the Project are mainly attributable to the premia attracted by Kenyan
arabicas even under a "without quota" situation.



-48 -
6.07      In order to simulate the  "without quota"  situation,  and using
indicators of price movements provided by the World Bank, Project revenues in
year one of the Project were reduced by 40% compared to "with quotas".
Subsequent movements incorporate an improvement to 85% of "with quota" levels
by year 6 and to 93% by year 11.
D. Sensitivity Analysis
6.08      The main subject of the seneitivity analysis (Annex 8, Table 4) has
been the risk that the ICO may be unable to reintroduce the quota system. Long
term reductions in projected prices of 25% arising from permanent disruptions
in the market structure would lead to a whole Project ERR of 24%. Failure to
achieve projected quality profiles by the coffee factories component resulting
in a similar level of revenue reduction would lead to a component ERR of 25%.
Cost escalations of 25% across all investment and incremental cost items would
reduce the ERRs to 27% for both the factories component and for the whole
Project.
6.09      Switching values have also been estimated.  In order to reduce the net
present value of the Project to zero at a 12% discount rate, either coffee prices
or production volumes would have to be 52% lower than assumed in the base case
analysis. This is unlikely to happen during Project implementation because of
Kenya's strong comparative advantage in producing high quality arabica coffee
and the increasing market demand for this type of coffee.  Historically the
absolute fob differentials between high quality washed arabicas and other coffees
have been wider when world prices are low than when all types of coffee are in
short supply and prices are correspondingly higher. Cost overruns would need
to be in the region of )0% to reduce the net present value to zero at the same
discount rate. The economic worth of the investment is thus robust to price and
cost assumptions.
6.10      It is worth noting that if quotas were introduced, the ERR of the whole
Project is 35%, with a net present value of about US$100 m (at a discount rate
of 12%). The ERR of the coffee factories component is 34%, and for the Project
excluding the factories component it is 37%.
E. Uncertainties and Risks
6.11      The main domestic risk to the Project would be a delay by Government
in ensuring the effective implementation of the improved payment system to
farmers as set out under the Project. It is essential to guarantee this main
inducement to farmers to carry out the yield and productivity improving measures
envisaged under the Project. Adoption of an improved payment system would be
a condition of effectiveness (para 3.08).
6.12      There are few technical risks associated with the Project. Experience
under SCIP has shown that the absence of high caliber management would be a
serious risk in reaching the Project objectives. P ovisions have been made to
minimize this risk by strengthening the PCMU through technical assistance and



- 49 -
through increasing its role by including, inter alia, factory investment
appraisal responsibilities. Flexible investment packages and individual economic
evaluation of each factory investment proposal would help ensure that returns
on investments are satisfactory. Lending guidelines are being strengthened for
this purpose.
6.13      Another major risk is that improvements in processing quality would
not take place to the degree projected. Though quality improvements at factories
have been projected conservatively, their achievement is dependent on the
application of average to good management by the cooperative societies. This
risk has been minimized in the Project design by the attention given to technical
and management support services. Business management support would also be
provided through the Rural Services Design Project.
6.14      The main risk arising from external factors is that the ICO coffee
quota system would fail to be reintroduced resulting in a substantial reduction
in real prices. This situation has been modelled in the sensitivity analysis
and because of the intrinsic price strength of high quality Kenyan arabica coffee
the results indicate robustness of the ERR even in a non-quota situation.
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      The following assurances were obtained during negotiations:
(a)   Immediately after the reimposition of coffee quotas under an ICA,
Government would inform the Association of revised measures for the
better management of its coffee stocks (para 1.16);
(b)   The Government shall continue to progressively reduce the price
differential on coffee sold for domestic consumption, with a view to
finally eliminating such price differential by the time the domestic
market disposals have reached 10% of total disposals (para 1.17);
(c)   By June 30, 1990, CBK's organization structure would be strengthened
to enable it to better respond to the consequences of increased coffee
production (para 1.18);
(d)   The Borrower would (i) by November 1 each year, review and agree with
the Association on the forward budget allocations for the Project; and
(ii) ensure that adequate allocations are included in the approved
budget for each year (para 3.18);
(e)   Onlending and procurement arrangements were agreed (paras 3.19 and
3.20);
(f)   Separate Project accounts would be opened and maintained, such accounts
to be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA within nine
months of the close of the fiscal year (paras 3.27 and 3.28);
(g)   By Project completion, the implementing agencies, including the Coop



- 50 -
Bank, would take over all appraisal activities from the PCMU (para
4.03);
(h)   Guidelines  and  criteria  for  preparing  proposals  for  factory
investments, satisfactory to IDA, were agreed (para 4.08); and
(i)   By December 31, 1992, the PCMU would carry out an evaluation of Project
implementation which would be the basis of a comprehensive mid-term
review (para 4.24).
Conditions of Effectiveness
7.02      The following would be conditions of credit effectivenese:
(a)   Adoption by Government of an improved payment system (para
3.08);
(b)   Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOK and the Coop Bank
which would include as a minimum those terms and conditions set out
in Annex 2 (para 3.19);
(c)   Appointment of a trainer to provide orientation and training to the
PCHU management team (para 4.01); and
(d)   Establishment of an MOCD Inspection CommittF- (para 4.14).
Condition of Disbursement
7.03      No IDA funds would be disbursed to the Coop Bank under the credit
3cheme for coffee cherry deliveries (the improved payment system) until the
Inspection Committee has certified that all primary cooperative societies within
their cooperative union are capable of making such payments (para 3.25).
Recommendation
7.04      With the indicated assurances and conditions, the proposed Project is
suitable for a credit of SDR 36.5 million (US$46.8 million equivalent) to the
Government of Kenya on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.



zoc  issssse ............fc...cz~:2 e
i,- C. i'i'sls.                          ,     .Wz
0b~ ~ ~                   ¢                     S                     I           X
Ii"                               -~~~~I
OX           t- .         z T   n
lI      11Ii 111111,                                         M                                      >
,ils           I                   .  ..,                                                         0
I ID  - 2IS -
02 21, H ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~,  T
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C    I   C C
C                         .... ........
it'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
ccecc..ec ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~......................
T~~~~~~~~~~



KENYA PLANTERS' CO-OPERATIVE UNION LIMITED  -   MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE                 MARCH, 1389
KPCU BOARD
OF DIRECTORS
MANAGING DIRECTOR
* CHIEF EXECUTIVE
r (1)           1 (2)             (3)            j (4)              (5)            (6)               (7)
OPERATIONS|   OPERATIONS         ACCOUNTS/      COMPANY           TECHNICAL,      FIELD             PERSONNEL A
- STORES       - PRODUCTION      FINANCE        SECRETA-          SERVICES        SERVICES|        TRAINING
DEPARTMENT     DEPARENTNT        DEPARTM-       RI DEDEPARTME-1                   DEPART-           DEPARTMENT
ENT                              NT       N       ENT
Operations    Operations         Financial      Company           Technical        Field            Personnelt
Manager -      Manager -         Controller    Secreta-           Manager          Services         Training
Stores         Production                       ry                                Manager           Manager
- Transporta-    - Milling          - Financial   - Legal            - Enginee-    - Field             - Personnel
tion of           Services          Manageme-    Matters             ring a       Agricult-            Management
Coffee                              nt                              Maintenance  ural Advisary            &
- Mainte-         Works         Services             Industrial
- Liquoring,      - Account-       nance of                                           Relations
- Packagings        Quality            ing            Shares                         - Liaison
Control                          Register                         work With
Gradinq                          - Insura-                        Farmers
- Storage of                        - Credit            nce
Coffee                              Control&          Matters                     - Credit
Loans Re-                                      Poesn
- Handling          coveries    - Secretari-                        Processing
of Clean                         at to Board                       PP
Coffee          - Payments       of Directors                   - Field
Before it         to Coffee                                       Extension
is handeA         Growers
to the                                                          -  Education  Publicity
Coffee                         - General
Board of                         Admini-                      NB- NUMBERING DOES NOT REFLECT
Kenya                            stration                         SENIORITY OF POST



53            CHART
ii    Dt:I



KENYA      - 54 -
SECOND COFFEE  iWVtT=  OJECT
34AIe  CUt Data
DRTINAI
..t969!1~~~~. 19~~~q2**. . .......16108
I. R. of Geruany       36,912    32.407      23,074     32.376      26,679     35,360    26,201    21.011
UZ                      *6,639    12,323     17,060     10,09       12,133     21.900    20.223      8.559
UstherLands             3,943     3,326       7,185     15,821      15,430     23.826    19,392      1,212
Uta                     5,391     5.176       5.119      5.607       5,836      6,513      6.549     5.099
Sweden                  4,559     3,148      4.515       5.811       6,023     6*74J       5,219     6.259
Belium                  2.368     3,191       2,627      3.291       3,366      3,163      3,627     6.425
Fintand                 3.651     4,231       3,975      2,59        2,930      2.395      3.100     2,895
Italy                   3.271     2.970      3,019       2,231       2.448      2,401      2.093     2.512
Switzerland             2,231     2,992       2,513      2,644       2.213      2.051      1,200     1,331
Canada                    991       689         639        823         674      1,429      1,079       584
Deinark                    84        45         141        221         229        322        529        66
France                  1,313       914       1,321        a1?         529        425        351       341
Japan                     154       196         128        266         123        367        323       248
Novway                    253       231          1I         57         104        221        250       660
Australia                 169       222         10S        232         116        223        213       211
mmw Zealand**             196       246         209        202         124        100        11I
Spain                       -        59          75         25           -        117        5S        145
Greece                      -                    - -                     -           -        33          -
Ir*tend                    30        45         182         S0          28         43         28        35
Singapore                   -       112          i5         32          8Z         30         15        15
Austria                    59       117         142          42          -         32          5        24
Yugoslavia                280       301           -           -         12
Icsral**                   15        63                 -                -
Hong Kong**                           13                      -          -               --
TOTAL QUOTA kiTS       66,582    18.085      77,441     83.4S1      79,806    110,318    90,118    69,788
AWYA-r=Wl"'-.S$t'1t$tJlU"5$g1-1SS- tSGIa  am .0 Ol.UO'.lJA!4X''=s
AVG y~LFQ/y9g. XE  .- 1..~L8 AL?~.Z.-.....2A6.3. .       A  .LA L ..2La6....2 .!Q.
DNSTTbAT 10
Jordan                  1.8SS      6.170       1,344       1,267      1,2U6        836    1,072         S11
S. Arabia                 183      4.839         618      1,002       4,340      4,521    8,292       2.820
Sudan                       1      3,468       1,657      2,531       2.099      1,810    1,184         488
gypt                      240      1,025         825                    a ss6        -       251
Poland                      -      1.000           -         120        614         751      200
USSR                                                           .
Oman                      158        930          83          29         10         65        68          is
Kast Germany              109        155         461        t16         501        648       510           -
U.A.K.                    430        661         150         535        I1I      1,192       987         239
Albania                   36S        650         200                                  -
DJibouti                   10        531         347         109        276        121       138        266
Tunisia                   250        500           _                  1,000         Z00      200
Korea S.                             436          25          45         30           -
Traq                      120        490         54S        604         652         35
S. Ya en                  666        423         183          41        213          54      291          50
Malaysia                             419                      -.-                              -
Botswana                    *        300         932        260                     - -        -
Lebanon                    4b        164           -          66        462         82       132          49
malta                       -        165          45          15        1          16        34          17
Bulgaria                    -        1SO           -           -          -                  700
Somalia                   237        1S0          24          30         12           -        -
Argentina                   6        143           -           -          -           -
Moroeco                   275        105           -          23        365          60
Gzachoslovakta                       IOS         120           -        440      1.086         -          66
noeaabique                Itl         87         366         120          -           -        -
Rumania                   250         78          t6         102        345        513         -
Bahrain                    20         45          17           7         34          33       32          20
Ku"wit                     10         12          17         102        203         505       87
Others                    234        210         156         259     t1961         31o       719         266
TOTAL  O.               5.695     24,033      86153        1.521     1436       13,698    14,957      4,810
4!C AL   KIJSr.0.. ..9..7.. ...tS^I..  ...1 .9?5 _               ... _   __.IL1ZL...L___              _1Z.A164.__}at_2w!_]g'_161
gQ^Ip  TOtALS:
TOTAL 10WES3           12.211    102.118      35,594     90,978      9,244    124.216  105.615        74,598
AVG VAL FOD M/tOINK   1,279        1,426       1,712       2,094      2,230       3.131    2,259       2.630
FOS KR/TOVW
* October/August Only
* These countries have left the tCO and are now non quote markets



KENY
SeBOCD COEE DVN   EJT
Estimated Prioe O,ntirgenies an Proected Exchae Rates
A. Price aontimrr ies
1988/89   1989/90   1990291   1991/92   1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96
Perceraae Rates of Inflationi/
Foreign Echare
cXnporert         7.3        3.9       1.4        1.8        2.9       2.9        2.9        2.9
mcal Oirren:y      8.0        6.0       5.0        5.0        5.0       5.0        5.0        5.0
I/ Per Calender year
B. ProetEd Lcduze Pates
Tbo te USy 18.752/  18.81y y   19.14A.   19.82_4  20.44s6  20.86a_  21.28A    21.7.'._y
At appraisal
/ At regotiations
/ At mid point of each project year



KENYA
SECOND COFFEE IllPRUWVENT PROJECT
(COFFEE 11)
Financing Plan by Disbursemunt Category
USS(OOOs)
INTERNIL EV   COI¶NONNEALTH DEV                    COOPERATIVE                                       GOYT-HIM. OF       GOVT-NlU OF
ASS0CM            CORPN          COOP BANK        SOCIETIES           KPCU         SMALL ESTATES     ASRICULTIIE      MOm DYLPIUT
Amount    I      Amount    I      bount    T       Amount           Akount    I       Amount           Amount           Amount    I
A. CIVIL WKS - COUP COFF        9284.0   85.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0   1638.4   15.0        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0
B. V,M&E-COOP COFF             13589.7   85.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0   2400.0   15.0        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0
C. INC PR CST-COOP COFF            0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0   1071.5  100.0        0.0    0.0       0.0      '        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0
D. IC FM IMP - COOP FARN        8902.7  100.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0
E. CRED SCH-COOP IMP PAY       12137.1   40.0       0.0    0.0  12137.1   40.0   6068.5   20.0          0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0
F. CIV WKS-EST COFF                0.0    0.0   1280.3   95.0         0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    225.9   15.0         0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0
6. Y,MIE EST-COFF FACTORIES        0.0    0.0   2953.3   95.9         0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    469.5   14.1         0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0
H. INC FM IMP-EST FN INPUTS        0.0    0.0    529.0  100.0         0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0
1. CIY NKS-KPCU COFFEE HILL        0.0    0.0   5037.9  100.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0
J. Y,N&E-KPCU COFFEE HILL          0.0    0.0   8276.3   53.0         0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0   7339.4   47.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0°
K. INC MILL COST-KPCU MILL         0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0   3270.9  100.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0      .O0
L. V, 1 & E - NOCO PCMIU         306.1   29.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0    785.7   72.0
n. iNC SAL + wA-maCP PCnIU       857.6   27.2       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0   2301.0   72.8
N. V,M&E OP COST-MOCD PMW          0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0   1643.5  100.0
0. OTH OP COSTS-IOCD PHlU          0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    603.2  100.0
P. CIV NIS - ALL IMP A6 TRG      490.5   05.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       84.6   15.0       0.0    0.0
D. V,M&E-ALL INP AS TR6          146.2   23.7       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    424.5   60.7        47.2    7.6
R. INC SAL+WAS-ALL IN AS           0.0    41.0      0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0    273.8   70.0    117.3   30.0
S. V,t+E OP CST-ALL IMP TRG        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    592.3   70.0    254.0   30.0
T. 9LDG MTCE-AUL IMP AS TRG        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       19.0  100.0       0.0    0.0
U. TRG COSTS-ALL IMP AS TRG     1113.7  100.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0
V. DTH OP COSTS-ALL IMP TRN        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    196.7  100.0         0.0    0.0
Total Disbursement             46826.5   43.9  17976.8   16.9  12137.1   11.4  11184.3   10.5  10610.1    9.9    694.4    0.7   1593.3    1.5   5751.9    5.4
Values Scaled by 1000.0 7/1711989 16:49
0)4
w _~



- 57 -
Annex 1
Table 4
KENYA
SECOND COFmEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
IDA Credit Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(USS Million)
IDA          Project   Quarter Ending   At the end of    Disbursement
Fiscal year       Year                          Quarter         Cumulative
1990                  March 1990             0.8             0.8
June 1990             0.1             0.9
_             1
September 1990        0.1             1.0
December 1990         0.1             1.1
1991                  March 1991             0.9             2.0
June 1991              1.1            3.1
_             2
September 1991         1.0            4.1
December 1991          1.2            5.3
1992                  March 1992              1.7            7.0
June 1992              1.8            8.8
=             3
September 1992         1.7           10.5
December 1992          1.8           12.3
1993                  March 1993              1.8           14.1
June 1993              1.9           16.0
_             4
September 1993         1.5           17.5
December 1993          1.6           19.1
1994                  March 1994             2.1            21.2
June 1994             2.1            23.3
_             5
September 1994        2.1            25.4
December 1994          2.2           27.5
1995                  March 1995             2.3            29.8
June 1995             2.3            32.1
6
September 1995         2.1           34.2
December 1995         2.1            36.3
1996                  March 1996             2.0            38.3
June 1995             2.0            40.3
7
September 1996        2.0            42.3
December 1996          1.8           44.1
1997                  March 199,              1.4           45.5
June 1997              1.3           46.8
1/ Includes PPF disbursement



- 58 -
Annex 1
Table 5
KENYA
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Allocation of IDA Credit Proceeds
Amount
Allocated            2 of Expenditure
Category                  (US$ Million)           to be Financed
1. Civil works                      8.72              85?
2. Vehicles, machinery             12.18              100? of foreign expenditure
and equipment for                                  and 752 of local expenditure
cooperative sector
coffee factories
3. Vehicles, machinery              0.45              1002 of foreign expenditure
and equipment for                                  and 65? of local expenditures
PCMU and training
4. Credit scheme for               10.90              902 of incremental credit to
coffee cherry                                      new borrowers to December 31,
deliveries                                         1991 decreasing by 15? per
annum thereafter to a minimum
of 15?
5. Incremental farm inputs          8.08              1002
6. Technical support for            0.83              100?
PCMU
7. Training                         0.96              100?
8. Refunding of PPF                 0.75
9. Unallocated                      3.93
TOTAL                           46.80



KENYA
SECkWS COFFEE INPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table 100. COOPERATIVE SECTOR
COFFEE FACTORIES
Detailed Cost Table
KSha (000.)
Quantity                                                Unit Cat
1990   191    1992   1993   14    1995   1996  Total               1990     1*f  1m2-98  1994-66       us
I. DIVESTMT COSTS
A. TYPE 1 IMPROVEHT
CONSTR,SITE VKS,LAB,MATER     10      10      10      10      15      1S      15      a      250.13   250.18   250.13   260.18   2S0.13
MACHINERY A EQUIPMENT         10      10      10      10      15      1S      15      aS      200.20  200.20  200.20  200.20  200.20
B. TYPE 2 IdPROVEYENT
CONSTR,SITE KS,SUA,MATER      10      15      15      15      20      20      20    115       240.12  240.12   240.12  240.12  240.12
MACHDNERY A EqUIPMENT         10      1S      1s      1S      20      20      20    11S       660.05  560.86   U10.56  560.56  560.S6
1 TYPE 3 IMPROVEMENT 
CONSTR,SITE UKS,LA,MATER       5       5      10      10      15      15      15      75      490.24  490.24   480.24   440.24  490.24
MACHINERY AND EqUIPmENT        6       5      10      10      15      15      15      756      20.33   620.3   3120.03  320.U3    20.3
0. NEW COFFEE FACTORIES
CONSTR,SITE VKS,LAB,MATER      6      10      10      10      10      10      10      65     1150.56  1150.58  1150.58  1140.56  1150.58
MACHIERY AND EqUIPMENT         6      10      10      10      10      10      10      e6    1452.20  1452.20  1452.20 1452.20  1452.20
I. RECUIRENT COSTS
A. DNC. PROCESSING COSTS
INC. PROCESSINC COSTS       1726   8so0   6875    850   12000   15000   100   65860            0.26    0.25      0.25     0.25     0.25
nit Coast Scaled by 1000.0 7/20/1989 15:33



SECOND COFFEE DIROEE T PROJECT
Table 100. COWPERATIVE SECTOR
COFFEE FACTORIES
Detailed Cost Table
KShs(O00)
Bae   Costs
1990     1991       19m      199S       1994      1996      1996     Total
I. INVESTMIENT COSTS
A. TYPE 1 IMPROVEINT
CONSTR,SITE WKS,LAB,MATER    2501.8   2601.3   2501.8   2601.8   8751.9   3761.9   8751.9  21260.8
MACHINERY A EqUIPMENT        2002.0   2002.0   2002.0   2002.0   8008.0   8008.0   3008.0  17017.2
-- -- - - -- - -- -- - -- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- -- _- -- -- ----- - -- -- - -- - - - - - - - -     
Sub-Total                     4508.3   4503.8   4503.3   4603.8   6764.9   6764.9   8764.9  38279.0
B. TYPE 2 IMPROVEMENT
CONSTR,SITE WUS,LAB,MATER    2401.2   3601.8   3601.8   3601.8   4802.4   4802.4   4802.4  27614.0
MACHINERY & EqUIPMENT        608.6   8412.8   8412.8   8412.8  11217.0  11217.0  11217.0  64497.s
-- -- - -- -_ - - -- - -- - _ - - - - -_-- - -- - -- _- - -- -- -_ - - -- -- - -- - - -- - - - - -- -- -- -
Sub-Total                     8009.7  12014.6  12014.6  12014.6  16019.4  16019.4  16019.4  92111.8
C. TYPE 8 IWROVEMNT
CONSTR,SITE UKS,LAB,MATER    2401.2   2401.2   4802.4   4e02.4   7203.6   7203.6   7203.6  86018.2
MACHDINERY AND EQUIPMENT     4104.2   4104.2   8208.3   8208.8  12812.5  12Wl2.6   12312.5   16U2.8
-  --  --  _-  --  --  --  --  --  -  __- -- - -- - - _- - - - - --  ----- - _--_ - - - -   
Sub-Total                     6606.4   650.4  18010.7  13010.7  19616.1  19516.1  19516.1  97580.5
D. NEW COFFEE FACTORIES
CONSTR,SITE WKS,IUB,MATER    6762.9  11505.8  1150S.8  11505.8  11506.8  11506.8  11506.8  74787.9
MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT      7261 0   14622.0  14522.0  14522.0  14622.0    *522.0  14522.0  94898.2
_ ~~~-   - - --___- - -- - -_- -- -- - -- __- -- - -- - -- -- - _- -- - -
Sub-Total                    13013.9  26027.9  26027.9  26027.9  26027.9  26027.9  26027.9  169181.0
ta l INVESTMENT COSTS              32032.3  49061.1  55666.5  5556S.   68818.8  68318.3  68818.8  897161.S
I. RECURRENT COSTS
___________                                                                                                                                      ,* g, e
A. INC. PROCESSING COSTS
INC. PROCESSING COSTS         422.7    9S5.7   1562.2   2168.8   2940.7   8676.9   4411.0  16187.1
_________ -- - ---- _    - ________  --------- ---- -_____-----_- - ---------
otal RECURRENT COSTS                 422.7     955.7    1562.2    2168.8    2940.7    3675.9   4411.0  16137.1
=  =====   =   = _
Total                            32466.0   60006.8   67118.7   67726.2   71269.0   71994.2   72729.4  418288.4
- Values scaled by 1000.0 7/20/1999 15:33



SECOND COFFEE IYPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table 100. COOPERATIVE SECTOR
COFFEE FACTORIES
Detailed Cost Table
KSh. (000)
ease Cost In US8(000s)
1990     1991     1992     1993     1994     1995     1996    Total
I. "?WLSTMENT COSTS
A. TYPE A IMPROVEINT
CONSTR,SITE WKS,LAB,MATER    133.0    133.0    133.0    133.0    199.4    199.4    199.4   1130.1
MACHINERY A EQUIPMENT        106.4   106.4   106.4   106.4   159.6    169.6    159.6    904.5
- - --  - - -- - -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- - - - -- -- - -- - - -  -- _- - --- - -  -----
Sub-Total                     239.4    239.4    239.4    239.4    359.1    359.1    359.1   2034.6
B. TYPE 2 IMPROVEUENT
CONSTR,SITE WKS,LAB,MATER    127.6    191.6    191.5    191.6    256.3    255.3    266.3   1487.3
MACHINERY A EQUIPMENT        299.1   447.2   447.2   447.2    596.2   696.2   696.2   3426.3
- - - -- ---- -  _- -- -- --- - - -- - -- - -- - - -- - - -- - -- - -             _
Sub-Total                     425.7   633.6   838.6    686.6   861.6   861.6   851.5   46W.1 
C. TYPE 3 IMPROVEYENT oT
CONSTR,SITE WKS,LAB,MATER    127.6   127.6   266.3   255.3    382.9   382.9   382.9   1914.5
MACHINERY AND EquIPMENT      218.2   216.2    436.3    436.3   854.6    654.6   654.5   3272.3
- -- -- - -- - - - - -- - -- -- - -- - - -- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -- -  -----
Sub-Total                     345.8    346.0   691.6    691.6   1037.4   1037.4   1037.4   6186.6
D. NEW COFFEE FACTORIES
CONSTR,SITE VKS,LAB,MATER    305.8   611.6    611.6    611.6    611.6   611.6   611.6   3976.3
MACHINERY AND EQuIPMENT      386.0    771.9    771.9    771.9    771.9    771.9    771.9  6017.4
_- - - - -- -- _- -    - - -- -_- - -- - - -- - -- - -- -- - -- - ------ --
Sub-Total                     691.7   1383.5   1383.5   1383.    1383.6   1363.6   1383.6  8992.6
- ____________---_-- ---- - -  --- ----- -------  qs--
otal INVESTMENT COSTS              1702.6  2607.3  2963.0  2963.0  a861.4  3631.4  3631.4  21110.1
2. RECURRENT COSTS
A. INC. PROCESSING COSTS
INC. PROCESSDNC COSTS         22.5    60.8    63.0    115.3    156.3   195.4   234.5    857.7
~~~~~-                   - - - - _- - - - - -  __ _
otal RECURRENT COSTS                 22.5     50.8    83.0    115.3   1S6.3   196.4   234.6   857.7
-           -        -        -          _              ca_
Total                            1726.1  2638.1  3036.1  306s  3  3787.7  3882.8  3886.8  21967.9
- Values scaled by 1000.0 7/20/1989 16:34



KENYA
SECOND COFFEE IRlltOVEMENT PROJECT
Table 120. COOPERATIVE SECTOR
FARM INPUTS
Detatled Cost Table
KShm(000a)
Quantity
Unit    1990    1991    1m       1993    1994    1995    1996   Total
I. RECURRENT COSTS
A. EXISTING COFFEE VARIETIES
FERTILIZER - CAN         NO OF TONNES     276     847     820     894     639    657       608    4641
FERTILIZER - 20:20:0    NO OF TONNES      131     328     230     303      230      74      74    1370
FOLIAR FEED              HECTALITRES        0       0      92       0       62       0       0     164
FUNGICIDE - COPPER SULPH NO OF TONNES       0     180       0       0       0        0       0     180
FUNGICIDE, CBD CONTROL  NO OF TONNES        0      e6     137       0      169       0       0     381
INSECTICIDE              HECTALITRES        0      82       0       0       0       31       0     113
B. NEW VARIETIES
FERTILIZER CAN           NO OF TONNES     144     164     190     222     228      244     243    1436
FERTILIZER - 20:20:0    NO OF TONNES       68      71      77      86       89      83      85     667
FOLIAR FEED              HECTALITRES        1       1       4        5       7       4       4      26
INSECTICIOE              NECTALITRES        0       2       3       3        2       4       2      17
TOOLS                    HECTARES         500    1000    1600    2000    2600    3000    3600   1'000
0
4'.9



SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEENT PROJECT
Table 120. COOPERATIVE SECTOR
FARM INPUTS
Dotailed Cost Table
KSho(O00.)
Unit Cost
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1996    1996
I. RECURRENT COSTS
A. EXISTING COFFEE VARIETIES
FERTILIZER - CAN         NO OF TONNES    3.36    3.38    3.3     3.36    3.36    3.36    3.36
FERTILIZER - 20:20:0     NO OF TONNES    4.19   4.19    4.19    4.19    4.19    4.19    4.19
FOLIAR FEED              HECTALITRES     0.00   0.00   28.38    0.00   28.38    0.00    0.00
FUNGICIDE - COPPER SULPk NO OF TONNES    0.00  48.52    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
FUNGICIDE, C8D CONTROL   NO OF TONNES    0.00  203.28  203.28    0.00  203.28    0.00    0.00
INSECTICIDE              HECTALITRES     0.00  132.60   0.00    0.00    0.00  132.50    0.00
8. NEW VARIETIES
FERTILIZER CAN           NO OF TONNES    3.36    3.36    3.36    3.38    3.36    3.36    3.36
FERTILIZER - 20:20:0     NO OF TONNES    4.19    4.19    4.19    4.19    4.19    4.19    4.19
FOLIAR FEED              HECTALITRES    28.38   kR.S   28.38   28.38   28.38   28.38   28.38
INSECTICIDE              HECTALITRES   132.50  132.50  182.60  132.50  132.50  132.50  132.50
TOOLS                    HECTARES        0.49    0.49    0.49    0.49    0.49    0.49    0.49
nit Costs Scaled by 1000.0  7/20/1989  15:34
oo
0
'1.1



SECOND COFFEE IWROVEMENT PROJECT
Table 120. COOPERATIVE SECTOR
FARM DPUTS
Detailed Cost Table
KShs(000.)
Base Costs
1990     1991       1992      1993      1994     1995       1996     Total
I. RECURRENT COSTS
_______________
A. EXISTING COFFEE VARIETIES
FERTILIZER - CAN              928.7   2843.9   275.2   3001.7   2145.6   1870.2   1705.7  16248.8
FERTILIZER - 20:20:0         548.3   1372.8    962.6   1268.2    962.6    309.7    309.7   5734.0
FOLIAR FEED                    0.0       0.0    2610.7        0.0   1769.4        0.0      0.0   4370.1
FUNGICIDE - COPPER SULPH       0.0    s733.3        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0   8783.3
FUNGICIDE, COD CONTROL         0.0   13213.0  27848.8         0.0  32320.9       0.0       0.0  73382.7
INSECTICIDE                    0.0   10865.0       0.0       0.0       0.0   4107.5         0.0  14972.5
_-- -- - -- _- -- -- -- __- -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- - -- - _-- -- -- _- - ----- - -- --__- - -- -----
Sub-Total                     1476.0  37028.0  34175.4   4289.9  37188.6   8287.4   2015.4  122439.5
B. NEW VARIETIES
FERTILIZER CAN               483.6    550.6    837.9    746.4    76e.6         819.3    816.9   4818.2
FERTILIZER - 20:20:0          278.2    297.2    322.3    359.9    372.5    347.4    365.8   2331.3
FOLIAR FEED                    31.2      31.2    124.9    147.8    193.0    105.0    105.0          737.8
INSECTICIDE                   23.9    291.5    331.3    460.6    278.3    589.8    318.0   2263.1
TOOLS                         245.0    490.1    735.1    980.2   1226.2   1470.3   1715.3   6861.4
_-- -- -- - -- -- -- - - -_-- - -- -_- - -- -- -- _-- - -- - _-- -- - -- -_- -- ----- -- _-- -- - -- -----
Sub-Total                     1059.8   1680.6   2151.5   2883.6   2834.5   3311.7    3310.0  17011.7
_-- - -- - -- _-- -- -- -- _- -- -- -- --_- -- -- -- --_- -- -- ---- --__---_- -- -- -- --_- -- -- -- --
otal RECURRENT COSTS                2634.8  38888.6  38326.9   6953.5  40023.0   9599.1   6326.4  139461.2
~~~~~=   =                                    =_   =  
To*..l                            2534.8  38888.6  36328.9   6953.6  40023.0   9599.1    5326.4  189451.2                             .d *
- Values scalod by 1000.0  7/20/1989  15:34                                                                                                  K
04



SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table 120. COOPERATIVE SECTOR
FARM INPUTS
Detailed Cost Tabl-
KShs(OOO)
Base Costs in USS(0008)
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1905   1096  Total
________________________________________________________________
I. RECURRENT COSTS
A. EXISTING COFFEE VARIETIES
FERTILIZER - CAN           49.3  151.2  148.3  159.6  114.0   99.4   90.7  810.4
FERTILIZER - 20:20:0       29.1   73.0   61.2   67.4   51.2   16.5   16.6  304.8
FOLIAR FEED                 0.0    0.0  138.8    0.0   93.5    0.0    0.0  232.3
FUNGICIDE - COPPER SULPH    0.0  484.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  464.2
FUNGICIDE, CBD CONTROL      0.0  702.3  1480.3    0.0  1718.0    0.0    0.0  3900.0
INSECTICIDE                 0.0  577.S    0.0    0.0    0.0  218.3    0.0  795.8
_ -- -   --- - -  - _---- -_- - - - -_- -- - -- -- -- - -- ----- - - -- - -- -- -- -- -
Sub-Total                   78.4 1968.2  1816.6  227.0  1978.7  334.2  107.1  608.1                                       un
B. NEW VARIETIES
FERTILIZER CAN             26.7   29.3   33.9   39.6   40.7   43.6   43.4  256.1
FERTILIZER - 20:20:0       14.7   15.8   17.1   19.1   19.8   18.5   18.9  123.9
FOLIAR FEED                 1.7    1.7    6.6    7.8   10.3    5.6    5.6   39.2
INSECTICIDE                 1.3   15.5   17.6   23.9   14.8   30.3   16.9  120.3
TOOLS                      13.0   26.1   39.1   52.1   65.1   78.2   91.2  364.7
_- -- - -- _- - - -_-- -- -- _- -- - - -_-- - - - -_-- -- -- _- -- ----- ----
Sub-Total                   56.3   88.3  114.4  142.6  160.7  176.0  175.9  904.2
_-- -- -- _- -- - - -_-- -- -- _- -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -_- - - -_-- - ---- ----
otal RECURRENT COSTS             134.7 2056.4  1930.9  369.6  2127.4  610.2  283.1  7412.4
Totel                          134.7 206e.4  1930.9  369.6  2127.4  510.2  283.1  7412.4
- Values scaled by 1000.0 7/20/1989  16:36



KENYA
SECOND COFFEE IPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table 130. COOPERATIVE SECTOR
IMPROVED PAYMENTS SYSTEM
D.t.lled Cost Table
KShs(OOO)
Quantity                                        Unit Cost
1990      1"91      1m 9S92    1        1994      1995      1996     Totsl      1990-96
I. INYESTMENT COSTS
A. IWPROVED PAYMENTS SYSTEM
ESTAB. REVOLVING F1ND       663088    674612    693067    724591    766945    789299    823456   5125048         0.00
'nit Costs Scaled by 1000.0  7/20/1989  15:36
I0 OF
ft x
03 P
D D~



SECOND COFFEE IIPROVEMEIT PROJECT
Tablo 130. COOPERATIVE SECTOR
IMPROVED PAYMENTS SYSTEII
DOtaliod Cost Table
KShe (000.)
Baso Cost
1990     1991      19m      199t      1994     1996      1996    Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
________________
A. IMPROVED PAYMENTS SYSTEM
ESTAS. REVOLVING FUND    66308.8  07461.2  69305.7  72469.1  75694.5  78929.9  82346.8  612604.8
_______ ---___ --------- --------- --------- --------- ~--------- --------- -----
otal INVESTMENT COSTS           88308.8  67461.2  69306.7  72459.1  75894.6  78929.9  82346.6 S62604.8
==_  _ _:w=                 t       =    = == =a          .        ^ .,mB.
Total                         86308.8  67461.2  69306.7  724S9.1  76094.5  78929.9  82346.6  612604.8
- Values scaled by 1000.0 7/20/1989  15:4S
o X 
0



SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table 180. COOPERATIVE SECTOR
IMPROVED PAYMENTS SYSTEM
Detailed Cost Table
KSh.(O000)
so** Cos" In USs(OOO*)
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1996    1996   Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. IMPROVED PAYMENTS SYSTEM
ESTAB. REVOLVING FUND     3624.6  3586.6  3883.9  3961.5  4023.5  4195.4  4377.0  27241.6
otal INVESTMENT COSTS            3624.6  3685.8  3683.9  3051.6  4023.5  4195.4  4377.0  27241.6
Total                          3524.6  3686.8  3683.9  3851.6  4023.6  4195.4  4377.0  27241.6
- Values scaled by 1000.0 7/20/1989 15:36
OQ W
o 
0



SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMTff PROJECT
Table 140. ESTATE SECTOR
COFFEE FACTORIES FOR SMALL ESTATES
Detailed Cost Table
KShst(000.)
Quantity                   Unit Cott                           so" Coat
1990 191 92-94 1996 19906 Total        1990 1991-96       1990    1991  1992-94    191i    1906   Total
I. IIVESTMOfT COSTS
A. 4 HA MON-IRRIGATED
CIVIL WKS,MATER,CNSTR,LAS   7    7    7    7    S   50          60.03  60.03       420.2   420.2   420.2   420.2   400.2  3001.6
MACHINERY AND EqIPUMENT     7    7    7    7    8   60          96.10  96.10       656.7  6O6.7   665.7   OO6.7   760.8  4754.3
Sub-Total                                                                          1086.9  1086.9  1056.9  1065.9  1241.0  77ss.3
B. 4 HA IRRIGATED
CIVIL 1KS,MATER,CNSTR,LAB    7    7    7    7    8   50         45.02  45.02       316.2   815.2   315.2   315.2   360.2  2251.1
MACHINERY AND EqUIPMENT     7    7    7    7    8   s0    126.19  125.19           *76.3   076.3   675.3   876.8  1001.6  6259.5
Sub-Total                                                                          1191.5  1191.5  1191.5  1191.5  1361.7  6510.6
C. 10 HA NON-IRRIGATED
CIVIL 1KS,MATER,CNSTR,LA9    5    5    6    6    6   40         77.04  77.04       335.2   386.2   482.2   482.2   462.2  3091.6
MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT     5    6    6    6    6   40    138.21  138.21           091.0   *91.0   629.3   329.3   329.3  5520.4
- - - - - -- - - -- - -- - -- -- - -- - -- - - - -- - - - - -- -- -- - - -
Sub-Total                                                                          1076.2  1070.2  1291.5  121.5  1291.5   9009.9
D. 1^ HA IRRICATED
CIVIL UKS,MATER,CNSTR,LAB        6           6  e    e   40     70.04   70.04      350.2   850.2   420.2   420.2   420.2  2J01.4
MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT     6    5    a    a    6   40    190.29 190.29            951.4   061.4  1141.7  1141.7  1141.7  7611.6
- - --- -- _-- - -- --_- -- - -- - -- -- - -- -- -- - -- _-- -- -- -
Sub-Total                                                                          1301.6  1801.6  1561.9  1561.9  1561.9  10413.0
E. 20 HA IRRIGATED
CIVIL 1KS,MATER,CNSIR,LAB    4    4    4    6    S   so    132.07  132.07          526.3   52.8   528.8   66.03   660.3  8062.0
MACHINERY AND EqUDJPENT     4    4    4    6    5   30    438.67  438.67          17U4.7  17U4.7  1764.7  2103.8  2190.8  18160.0          ' ' 
Sub-Total                                                                          222.9  2232.9  222.9  2M5J.7   2038.7  17122.0
F. 30 HA IRRIGATED                                                                                                                              O
CIVIL KS,MATER,CNSTR, LAB   2    3    8    8    8   20    853.16  358.13           706.4  1059.5  1069.5  1069.5  1019.5  7060.6           "9
MACHINERY AND EquIPMEMT     2    3    a    3    3   20 6W e.06 693.06             1806.1  2079.2  2079.2  2079.2   071.2  136161.0
Sub-Total                                                                          2002.5  8133.7  813.7  813s.7  318.7  1024.6
ota I INVESTNENT COSTS                                                                   900O.6  10076.9 10652.4  11128.2  11448.5  73886.4
mota}  -0   so         .   12.m  m   m       INN OW
Total                                                                                 90080.6  10076.0  10652.4 11128.2  11443.5  7831186.4



SECON  COfFEE IDPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table 140. ESTATE SECTOt
COFFEE FACTORIES FOR SUALL ESTATES
Date lled Coet Tablo
ESha OOO*)
Base Coats in USI(00 .)
1990   iw9 1992-94   19K6   1906  Total
I. INV3ESTMT COSTS
A. 4 HA NOK-IRRIGATED
CIVIL OKS,MATEB,4STR,LAB    22.3   22.8   22.3   22.J   25.5  169.5
MACHINERY AND EQUDPMENT    36.4   36.4   35.4   36.4   40.4  262.7
Sub-Total                   57.7   57.7   67.7   67.7   66.0  412.8
B. 4 HA IRRICATED
CIVIL 1KS,MATER,CNSTR,U8    16.8   16.0   16.6   16.8   19.1  119.7
MACHINERY AND EWJIPMENT    46.6   48.6   46.8   46.6   58.2  382.7
Sub-Total                   63.8   63.3   6.3   63.3   72.4  452.4
C. 10 HA NON-IRRICATED
CIVIL UMS,N.TBRCNSTR.LA    20.5   20.5   24.6   24.6   24.6  163.6                                                                          °
MACHINERY AND EqUIPMENT    66.7   68.7   44.1   44.1   44.1  2M3.9
Sub-Total                   57.2   67.2   66.6   61.6   68.0  467.7
0. 10 HA IRRIGATED
CIVIL  S,VUATER,CNSR,l.A8   16.6  1U.6   22.8   22.3   22.3  148.9
MACHNERY AND EQUDBMENT     50.6   60.6   60.7   60.7   60.7  404.6
Sub-Total                   69.2   69.2   68.0   83.0   03.0  655.6
E. 20 HA IRRIGATED
CIVL UKS,UATEBt,CNST,LAB   26.1   26.1   28.1   8.1   36.1  210.6
MACHINERY AND EUVIPMEBT    93.8   98.3   93.8  116.6  116.0  699.6
Sub-Total                  121.3  121.8  121.8  151.7  151.7  910.1                                                                          E
F. 80 HA IRRIGATED                                                                                                                            i I 
CIVIL VXS,MATER,CMSMR,AB   37.5   56.3   56.8   56.8   56.8  375.5                                                                          '1w'
MACHINERY AND EQJIPUENT    73.7  110.5  110.5  110.5  110.5  786.8                                                                        a
Sub-Total                  111.2  166.6  166.6  160.6  166.8 1112.2
otal INVESTMENT COSTS            460.0  536.6  560.9  591.2  606.5  3880.1
Total                          460.0  358.6  560.9  591.2  60.6 8806.1
- Values scaled by 1000.0 7/20/10809 15:J



KENYA
SECOND COFFEE IMPROYEMENT PROJECT
Table 150. FSTATE SECTOR
FARM INPUTS FOR SMALL ESTATES
Detailed Cost Table
KShc(OOS)
Quantity                                           Unit Cost
Unit   1990  199  11m   1998  1904  1996  1996 Tote l       1990    lCi   19m       1993    1994 199S-6
I. RECURRENT COSTS
A. ALL ESTATES
FERTILIZER - CAN        NO OF TONNES     2    13   25   38    50   62    70   260          3.36    8.36    3.36    3.38    3.86    3.36
FERTILIZER 20:20:0     NO OF TONNES    6    1S   25   34   45   46    45   216             4.19   4.19    4.19   4.19    4.19    4.19
FUNGICIDES - COPPER SULFNO OF TONNES     0     3    S      3     3     8    3    20       48.62   48.52   48.52   48.52   46.52   48.52
FUNGICIDE - CBD CONTROL NO OF TONNES     1     1    5    3       7    4      4    2S     203.28  203.28  208.28  203.28 203.23  203.26
HERsICIDES/PESTICIDES   NECTALITRES      0     1    0    0       0     0    0      2       0.00  101.59  101.59  101.59  101.59  101.59
nit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 7/20/1989 15:37
i11
0 0



SECOND COFFEE IMPROVELENT PROJECT
Table 150. ESTATE SECTOR
FARM INPUTS FOR SMALL ESTATES
Detailed Cost Table
KSh*(OOOs)
Base Costs
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996  Tot I
1. RECURRENT COSTS
A. ALL ESTATES
FERTILIZER - CAN            6.7   43.6   83.9  127.6  167.9  208.2  235.0  873.0
FERTILIZER 20:20:0         26.1   82.8  104.6  142.3  188.3  192.5  188.3  904.0
FUNGICIDES - COPPER SULF   19.4  146.8  242.6  146.8  146.6  146.6  145.6  989.8
FUNGICIDE - CBD CONTROL   203.3  203.3  1016.4  809.8  1422.9  813.1  813.1  5081.9
HERBICIOES/PESTICIDES       0.0   60.8   30.5   30.6   30.5   30.6   30.6  203.2
Sub-Total                  254.6  506.1  1478.0  1056.8  1956.2  1389.8  1412.5  8051.9
otal RECURRENT COSTS             254.5  506.1  1478.0  1056.8  1955.2  1389.8  1412.5  8051.9
Total                          254.5  S0.1  1478.0  1055.8  1955.2  1389.8  1412.5  8051.9
- Values scaled by 1000.0 7/20/1989  15:37
wRS



SECON  COFFEE IMPRONELENT PROJECT
Tabl- 150. ESTATE SECTOR
FARM INPUTS FOR SMALL ESTATES
Datetlod Coat Tablo
KShs(OOOs)
Base Costs in USS(OOO)
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1996   1996  Total
I. RECURRENT COSTS
A. ALL ESTATES
FERTILIZER - CAN            0.4    2.3    4.5    6.8    8.9   11.1   12.6   46.4
FERTILIZER 20:20:0          1.3    3.3    5.6    7.6   10.0   10.2   10.0   48.1
rONCICIDES - COPPER SULF    1.0    7.7  12.9    7.7    7.7    7.7    7.7  62.6
FUNGICIDE - CBO CONTROL    10.8   10.8   64.0   32.4   75.e  43.2   43.2  270.1
HERBICIDES/PESTICIDES       0.0    2.7    1.8    1.6    1.8    1.6    1.6   10.8
Sub-Total                   13.6   28.9   78.8   68.1  103.9   73.9   75.1  428.0
otal RECURRENT COSTS               13.5  26.9  78.6  56.1  103.9   73.9   76.1  428.0
Total                            13.5  26.9  78.6   56.1  103.9   73.9   76.1  428.0
- Values scaled by 1000.0 7/20/1989 15:37
001



KENA
SECON COFFEE IWROVEENT PROJECT
Table 160. KPCU
COFFEE MILL
Detalled Codt Table
KSh (OOG)
Quantity                                         Unit Cost
Unit     1990    1991    1992    1993 1994-90   Total           1990       1991       1992    199l-96
I. INVESTLENT COSTS
A. MILL
BUILDINGS              LtJW  SUM          0       0        0       0       0       1      78626.60   76528.60   76526.60        0.00
MACHINERY AND EquIPmENTLuW SUM            0        1       0       0       0       1          0.00  263387.62  263373.62        0.00
I. RECURRENT COSTS
A. INC PROCESSING COSTS
INC MILLING COSTS      NO OF TGNNES       0       0    5000   30000    6000   60000           0.00       0.00        1.00       1.00
nit Cost* Scaled by 1000.0 7/20/1989 16:37
Io,4
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~a.



SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table 160. KPCU
COFFEE MILL
Detailed Cost Table
KSho(OO0m)
Ds0e Cota                                             Base Cots la US(000)
1990      199       1         199    1994-96     Total         1090     1991     1990    19   1994-96    TOal
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. MILL
BUILDINGS                 81410.6  31410.6  15706.3          0.0       0.0   78520.6      1669.6  1669.6   834.0         0.0      0.0   4174.0
MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT       0.0  1S2024.9  101349.5        0.0       0.0  263373.8         0.0   8080.7  6537.1        0.0      0.0  18467.6
Sub-Total                  81420.6  183434.9  117054.8        0.0       0.0  331900.3      1669.6  9760.$  6221.9         0.0      0.0  17641.6
otal INVESTMENT COSTS            31410.6  183434.9  117064.8        0.0       0.0  331900.3      1669.6  9750.3   6221.9        0.0      0.0  17641.8
I. RECURRENT COSTS
A. INC PROCESSING COSTS
INC MILLING COSTS             0.0       0.0    6001.7  30010.1    6001.7  S0016.9            0.0      0.0    265.9  1596.2    266.9   2668.6
otal RECURRENT COSTS                 0.0       0.0    S001.7  30010.1    5001.7  50016.9            0.0       0.0    266.9   1696.2   266.9  2656.6
_=e==                            ==                 ==== == == u* _=:==   mi
Total                          31410.8  183434.9  122066.6  30010.1   6001.7  381917.2         1660.6  9760.3  6487.0   1596.2   265.9  20300.4
- Valus scaled by 1000.0 7/20/1989 16:37
0 ~



:Ecme CCFFE IMIOVEIENT PROJECT
Table 170. MDCO
PRoJECT COOI tNATION MANACIOU T UNIT
0eta led Cost Table
quantity
Unlt     1090    19P1    1002    10         1994  190S-96    Total
INVESTMENT COSTS
A. VEH ,MACHLEQU-PCMU (ALL)
PICKUPS                 NUMBER                  7        8        a        0       0        0       18
OFFICE EQUIPMENT        LUMP SUM                1        0        0        0       0        0        1
MOTORCYCLES             NUMBER                 10       1S       1S        5       0        0       4S
B. VEN,MACHAEQUIPT-TMSU
PICKUPS                 NUYBER                   0       10      iS        0        0        0      2S
OFFICE EQUIPMENT        LUP SUM                  1       0        0        0        0        0        1
RECURRENT COSTS
_______________
A. PERSONEL COSTS-PCW (ALL)
TECHNICAL ADVISORS      NO OF STAFF YEARS        1       2        2        2        1        0       8
SALARIES A ALLOWANCES   LUWP SUM                 1       1        1        1        1        1       7
B. PcRSONNEL COSTS-TMSU
SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES LWP SUM                  0       1        1        1        1        0       4
C. VEN OPER COSTS-PCMU (ALL)
FUEL ANlD LUBRICANTS    LITRES               13400   425S0    56075   72400   72000   72900  412125
SPARE PARTS             LWP SUM                  4      13       20       22       22       22     126
0. VEH OPERC COSTS-TMSU
FUEL AND LUBRICANTS     LITRES                   0   17760   62126   60760   88750   bC760  434S76
SPARE PARTS             LUMP SUM                 0       S       le       25       26       25      122
E. OFFICE EXPENSES-PCMU(ALL)                                                                                                                                              "  Ow
OFFICE A ADMIN EXPENSES LUMP SUM                 1       1        1        1        1        1       7
I-,'
OFFICE & AWIN EXPEiSES LUW  SUM                 0        1        1        1        1       0        4                                                               >
/20/1989 15st3



SECOND COFFEE  TrOEMN  EVcT
Tablo 170. MOCo
PRIOJECT COPR DD4TIA MANAGOE  WIT
Deetal d Cot Tablo
Unit Coat
1990    1991    1992    1998    1994 199696
r. DIVESTET COSTS
A. VEN,MAOCNbEQPC3U (ALL)
PICKCPS        a        MR                850.39  360.39  360.39    0.00    0.00    0.00
OFFICE EQUIPMENT       LAW  SUM           200.00  200.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
MOTORCYCLES            MAER                50.00   50.00   60.00   60.00    0.00    0.00
S. VEH,MACHAEQUIPT-TMSU
PICKUPS                NWMER                0.00  860.39  360.39    0.00    0.00    0.00
OFFICE EQUIPMENT       LWP SUM            180.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
'.1
I. RECURRENT COSTS
A. PERSCNEL COSTS-PCMU (ALL)
TEC1INICAL ADVISORS    NO OF STAFF YEARS 2256.33 22u6.33 2256.33 225.33 2256.33    0.00
SALARIES & ALLOWANCES   LAW SUM          3000.00 3000.00 3000.00 3000.00 3000.00 8000.00
S. PERSONNEL COSTS-TMSU
SAARIES All AU NCES LWP SUM                 0.00 8420.00 8420.00 8420.00 8420.00    0.00
C. VEN PER COSTS-PCWU (ALL)
FUEL AND LUCRICANTS    LITE                 0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01
SPARE PARTS            LWP SUM             67.67   67.67   67.67   67.67   67.67   67.67
Rtr
0. YEN WERO COSTS-TMSU
FUEL AND LRICANS       LITRES               0.00    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01
SPARE PARTS            LUP SUM              0.00   67.07   67.67   67.67   67.67   67.07
E. OFFICE EXPENSES-PCWU(ALL)
OFFICE A ADMIN EXPENSES LUP SUM          1100.00 1100.00 1100.00 1100.00 1100.00 1100.00
F. OFFICE EXNES-TMSU



SECeO COFFE IMwtOlEvIIT PROJECT
Table 170. MOMC
PROtECT COORDINATION MANAGEMENT W
Deta led Cost Table
ItSh,(000.)
ease Coat
1o       199      1m        199      1994  196-9O    Tots I
INVESTMENT COSTS
A. VEN.MACMEQU-PCWM (ALL)
PIowS                     2462.7   2S03.1   1051.2       0.0       0.0      0.0   8307.0
OFFICE EWJIPMENT            150.0     60.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0    200.0
MOTORCYCLES                 600.0    760.0    760.0    250.0        0.0      0.0   2260.0
Sub-Total                   302.7   30a3.1   1601.2    250.0         0.0      0.0   8767.0
S. VEH,MACH EQUIPT-ThSU
PICKUPS                       0.0   3603.9   5266.8       0.0       0.0      0.0   8759.7
OFFICE E4UIPMENT            180.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    1I0.0
Sub-Total                    180.0   3603.9   6266.8       0.0       0.0      0.0   6939.7                                                                           0
tal INVESTMENT COSTS            3282.7   7107.0   7057.0    260.0        0.0       0.0  17890.8
RECURRENT COSTS
-- -------------
A. PERSONEL COSTS-PCWU (ALL)
tECHNICAL ADVISORS         2258.3   4612.7   4612.7   4612.7   2256.3        0.0  18600.6
SALARIES A ALLOWANCES      3000.0   3000.0   3000.0   3000.0   3000.0   3000.0  21000.0
Sub-Total                   5258.3   7612.7   7612.7   7612.7   5258.3   3000.0  39060.8
S. PERSONNEL COSTS-TMSU
SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES       0.0   1710.0   3420.0   3420.0   3420.0        0.0  11970.0
C. VEH OPER COSTS-PCW* (ALL)
FUEL AND LUBRICANTS         129.8    412.2    630.3    701.3    708.1    708.1   3092.0
SPARE PARTS                 210.7    879.6   1363.3   1488.8   1488.8   1488.8   8468.2
Sub-Total                    400.6   1291.8   1988.8   2189.9   2194.8   2194.8  12460.2
D. VEH OPERC COSTS-TMSU
FUEL AND LUBRICANTS           0.0    171.9    601.8    869.7    8s9.7    869.7   4212.4                                                               D°  c 
SPARE P#RTS                   0.0    338.3   1184.1   1891.8   1891.8   1891.8   8289.0                                                                       X
Sub-Total                      0.0    610.3   1786.9   2s6k.3   2661.8   2651.3  12601.4                                                                0
E. OFFICE EXPENSES-PCMU(ALL)
OFFICE A ADMIN EXPENSES    1100.0   1100.0   1100.0   1100.0   1100.0   1100.0   7700.0                                                                4-
F. OFFICE EVENSES-TMSU
.1 RECUIRENT COSTS              876.8  1234.7  1622.2  17223.9  14972.4   684.1  65292.2
ini i                                      i -              -
Total                          10089.5  191)1.7  2309.2  17473.9  14972.4   86e4.1 10208.9
Volug  maled by 1000.0 7/20/1989 15:36



S#C   LPI  T,Rlt9 PrioJECT
TObl 170. OMW
P*ECT  IC DltAlTIUN MAKlOW   WlT
Ibea l d Cost Tablo
ash(OWDO)
Beas Coats In US(OOOa)
1990   1991   1m       1993   1994 1996-   Total
IWESThEN. tOSTS
A. VEh,VACNEqq-PCmu (ALL)
PICIKOS                    130.4  149.0   6s.9    0.0    0.0    0.0  385.2
OFFICE EUIPMENT             C.0    2.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   10.8
MOTORCYCLES                 28.8   39.9   39.9   13.3    0.0    0.0  119.8
-- - - -- -- - -- - -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- --- - - -- --
Sub-Total                   164.9  191.6   9s.7   13.3    0.0    0.0  466.5
S. VEH,MACHAEqUIpT-TgSU
PICKUPS                      0.0  186.2  279.4    0.0    0.0    0.0  465.8
OFFICE EqUIPMENT             9.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    9.6 8
---- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- - -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- - --                                                                          14
Sub-Total                     9.8  188.2  279.4    0.0    0.0    0.0  476.2
-- - - -- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- - --
a1 INVESTMENT COSTS             174.5  377.8  375.1   13.3    0.0    0.0  940.7
RECURRENT COSTS
_______________
A. PERSCNEL COSTS-PCIMU (ALL)
TECHNtCAL AOVISORS         119.9  239.9  239.0  239.9  119.9    0.0  9s9.5
SALARIES A ALLOWANCES      169.5  169.S  169.5  169.6  169.5  169.S  1116.2
---- - -- ---- - -- -_- - - - -- ---- - - - _-- - -- - -- -- -- ---
Sub-Total                   279.4  399.3  399.3  899.3  279.4  159.5  2076.7
8. PERSONNEL COSTS-TIMSU
SALARIES AM ALLOWANCES       0.0   90.9  101.   181.8  le1.0    0.0  6uo.3
C. VEN OPER COSTS-PCMU (ALL)
FUEL AC  LUBRICANTS          8.9   21.9   32.5   37.3   37.5   37.5  212.2
SPARE PARTS                 14.4    48.8   71.9   79.1   79.1   79.1  449.8
_-- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- - - - - - - - _     
Sub-Total                    21.3   68.7  106.4  116.4  116.7 111.7  C1.8
D. VEH CPERC COSTS-TMSU
FUEL AND LUBRICANTS          0.0    9.1   32.0   46.7   45.7   46.T  223.9                                                                                   t
SPARE PARtS                  0.0   18.0   82.9   89.9   89.9   89.9  440.0                                                                                      (oX
- - ^- -- -- -- --- ------ ----------------
Sub-Total                     0.0   27.1   94.9  186.8  186.8  135.8  684.5                                                                                   0
E. OFSCE EXPENSE-PCI,ALL)
OFFICE & AOMIN EXPENSS      58.6   56.6   68.6   58.6   68.6   68.5  409.3
F. OFFICE EXPENSES-TUSU
t RENCU1RRT COStS               659.1  850.S  1S6.9  916.5  79S.J  470.2  4SU.6
Total                           6U.0  1036.8  1289.0  92.0  706.8  470.2  6474.1
VOlus acolad by 1000.0  7/20/190  1*3ss



- 80 -
icom  caME I_ WwiNi  PS@ACT                                 Annex 
Table 130. ALL POJICT tIVU      tTI   ACIES                       Tabl* 13
1 1                                            Page 1 of 4
bOl led Co  T  l-
santity
Unit      130      it        im       1son      1304  1l96-30    Total
1. INeSTUDIT COSTS
A. BUILDINCS-C-f  ms FrL4N
HODSTE                                                                 0        0        0         0         1
LeC1*E HALL               NUER                      1        0         0        0        0         0        1
STAFF FLATS              NUMER                      4        0         0        0        0         0        4
B. VENICLES,MAOMINERY&WIPT
MOMO-PICKUP 4D            NUMBER                    2        0        C         0         1        0         a
MOA-STATION WAGON 4WD    NUMBER                    is        O         0        0        0         0        IS
UOA - TRAININC EqUIPMENT LUW  sU                    I        0         0        0        0         0        1
CRF - MINIBUS             NUER                      I        0         0        0        0         0         1
eRF - STATION WAGON 430  NUBEER                     I        0        0         0        0         0         1
CRF - TEACHING AIDS       UP  SUM                            0        0         0        0         0         1
I. RECURRENT COSTS
A. PERSONEL COSTS
MMOCOGC TRAIN  OFFICaO OF STAFF YEARS               2        2         2        2        2         2       14
CRF TRAININ OFFICERS    NO OF STAFF YEARS           a        a         a        3        4         S       26
PART TDlE LECTURERS       NO OF STAFF DAYS         64       84        64       04       42        42      462
S. BUILDIN  MAINTENACE COST
CRF - AITENANCE XPENSELUWSUM                        0        0         1        1         1        1        0
C. TRAININ COSTS
DCO-viS*TOIfls-iEuD COW6                            4        4         4        4        4         2       24
MO-MIN FACT SUPP STAFWER                            4        4        4         4        3         J       25
MDCO - KNFC SEMINARS      NBER                     10       10        10       10        1o       1o       70
MOO-COME COFF FACT MANJWAER                         4        4         4        4        4         4       26
MDCD-TRAIS'COURSES    NPweR                         S                  a        2        2         2       17
M0CD-CIRE COOP URS MAWNMER                          2        1         1        1         1        1        *
MDA - FARMRS FIELD DAYS NUMR1   160                                  160      160      100o      160     1120
eCrD-AMETVIN  Ca9s/M  WInA                         2        1         1        1         S        1        S
COM-WAREOUSING SEMINAR  N"ER                        1        1         1        1         1        1         7
C9K-LI.UORsIN  CuO s     NLAER                      1        0         1        0         1        0        S
CBKCOMSE  FOR FIELD STAFt'MER                       1        0         0        1        0         0        7
CRF-CURSE FOR SACCO STAFUaMBER                      a        2         1        1         2        1       11
CF  - FIEL  sEMINR        tiMER                    10       10        10       10       10        10       70
D. V,lbE OPERATING COSTS
MtCO-FUEL & LUBRICANTS   uTRES                  3U50      7100      7100     7100    10S00    10600    6s6o
MOCO - SPARE PARTS        LLW  SUM                  1        2         2        2         a        S       10
MOA - FUEL A LI.MRICANTS  LITRES               26250    52600    62600    62500    62600    52600   341260
MOA-SPARE PARTS FOR VEHICLAWP SUM                   6       15        1S       IS        IS       1s       97
CRF - FUEL A LUBRICANTS  LITRES                  37S0     7600      7S00     7600     7S00      7600    46760
CRF - SPARE PARTS         LULP SUM                  1        2         2        2         2        2       13
CRF-EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCELUJMP UUM                  1        1         1        1         1        1        7
E. SUPPLIES
CRF-HOSTEL SUPPLIES       LUMP SUM                  0        1         1        1         1        1        6
7/20/1909 16:40



- 81 -
SECON caE zwmNT  rPcr                                Annex I
Tebl. 130. ALL U. CT _   PLVn  TD    ANCK                  MUM
T6Cm. is                                 Page 2 of 4
011i dCw Table
KWA(000s)
unit C"t
low     1"1    1to"    1it"      1114  iou-9s
I. DIJEST1ET COSTS
A. WILDINGS-COFF ItE5 F.WR4
HOSTEL                 6ER               6002.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
LECTUI   HALL          NUMER             100.51    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
STAFF FLATS            NUMER             400.14    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
S. VEHICLES,ACHINERYUIPT
MOCD-PIKUP 4WD         NUMBER             350.39    O.OC    0.00    0.00  350.39    0.00
MOA-STATION .ACON 4W)D   NER              600.34    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
MOA - TRAININC EQUIPMEHT LUA  SUM        1001.11  1001.11    0.00    0.0G    0.00    0.00
CRF - MINIBUS           NOCR             600.66    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
CRF - STATIWO WACON 4W)D NS63            600.34    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
tRF - TEACHING AIDS    LIM  SUM           600.66  500.se    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
I. RECRIRENT COSTS
A. PSISSOEL COSTS
MOt-DtC TRAINING OFFICDNO OF STAFF YEARS  200.00  200.00  200.00  200.00  200.00  200.00
CRF TRAINING OFFICERS   NO oF STAFF YEARS  140.00  140.00  140.00  140.00  140.00  140.00
PART TIME LECtTERS     NO OF STAFF DOYS    0.30    0.30    0.30    0.30    0.30    0.30
S. UILDING MLAIfENCE COST
3f - MAINTEMANCE EXW4SEWSP SW              S0.00   60.00   50.00   50.00   50.00     0.00
C. TRAINING COSTS
MOCO-VISTOURS-FIELD COInBERt              60.00   60.00   60.00   60.00   60.00   60.00
MOCO-SEMIN FACT SU" STAPIR                120.00  120.00  120.00  120.00  120.00  120.00
IOCO - KNFC SEdUIARS    NUMER              24.00   24.00   24.00   24.00   24.00   24.00
NGCO-CW*UE COFF FACT MAl£.RIR              40.00   40.00   40.00   40.00   40.00   40.00
MOCD-TRAINIRS71JRSES   NABER               20.00   20.00   20.00   20.00   20.00   20.00
MIOCD-tEE COP WMVSAMMME                    60.00   60.00   60.00   60.00   60.00   60.00
_- FAMS FIEL DATS NL°                   1.10    1.10    1.10    1.10    1.10    1.10
Cu-MAU(TIN  COUS/SEM NUMB                20.U4  100.84  200.84  200.b14  200.34  200.34
_C-VAREMOUSING SEMNDWt   _mR               10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00
CU-UtPliINO CO3SES  "1411                 S00.84    0.00   00.34    0.00  500.64    0.00
CAK-CSE  FMR FIELO STAMA_R                68.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00
ClF-CURS  FORt SACCO STAFIE              6e.00   6S.00  6e.00   68.00   65.00   63.o0
CRF - FIELD SEMIMARtS   m.Et              20.00   20.00   20.00   20.00   20.00   20.00
0. V*M.E PERtATIN  COSTS
MOCD-PUE. & LUBRICANTS  LITRES             0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01
MOCO - SARE PARtTS     LuW SW             67.67   67.67   67.67   67.67   67.67   67.67
VGA - FUEL A LLURICANTS LTES               0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01
MOA-SPARE PARTS FOR VEHICLIA  SUM         67.67   67.67   67.67   67.67   67.67   67.67
CRF - FUEL A LIARICANTS LITRES             0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01
CRF - SPARE PARTS      LUtP SUM           67.67    7.67   67.67   67.67   67.67   87.67
CRF-EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCELUIP SUM         20.00   20.00   20.D0   20.00   20.00   20.00
E. SUPPLIES
CRF-HDSTEL SUPPLIES    LUMP SUM            0.00  SOO.00  600.00  600.00  600.00  600.00
rnit CStS ScaledYDS by-=0S0l20tt1St29tS:rS40SttttnfY S                        .tttCSnCflflflfl
n;t Cost. Scleld by 1000.0  7/20/1569  15:40



- 82 -
scm. Cuu wUo1n"lT PUOEJCT                             Annex I
Table 10t . ALL RJECT  IWsITeD       AGDzu                 Table 13
TRhDUM                                    Page 3 of 4
Dei ed Coo Table
Soee Coate
160   191        12      i9       1144  195-      Total
I. D 1NESTMIT COMTS
A. SUILDIICS-COFF RES FOUNDN
HOSTEL                    6002.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0  6002.0
LECTURE HALL              1600.S     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0  15006.
STAFF FLATS               1600.5     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0  1000.5
- -- -- - -- - - - -- -   _     _  
Sub-Tota1                  9103.1     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0  9103.1
S. VEHICLES,MACHINERYAEQUIPT
YOCD-PICKUP 400            700.6     0.0      0.0      0.0   350.4      0.0  1051.2
MCA-STATION -ACCN 4WD     7505.1     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0  7505.1
VGA - TRAININC EQUIPMENT    750.0   260.3     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0  1001.1
CRF  MINIOUS               500.6     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   500.6
CRf - STATION WAGON 440    500.3     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   500.3
CRF - TEACNING AIDS        375.4   125.1      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   500.6
Sub-Total                 10335.0   375.4      0.0      0.0   350.4      0.0  11061.0
otel INVESTMENT COSTS        _ 19456.1   375.4       0.0     0.0   350.4      0.0 20161.9
.. RECURoENT COSTS
A. PERSONEL COSTS
YOCD.40FC TRAINING OFFICR    400.0   400.0   400.0   400.0   400.0   400.0  2000.0
CRf TRAINING OFFICERS      420.0   420.0   420.0   420.0   660.0   700.0  5640.0
PART TIME LECT*RERS         26.2    25.2    26.2    26.2    12.6    12.6   138.6
Sub-lotat                   645.2   645.2   645.2   464.2   972.6  1112.6  6670.6
6. SUILDINO  AINTENANC COST
CRF - MADINTEANCE EXPENSE    20.0    20.0    60.0    50.0    60.0    60.0   200.0
C. TRAINING COSTS
MOCD-VISATOURS-FIELD COM    240.0   240.0   240.0   240.0   240.0   120.0  1440.0
MOC-SEMIN FACT SW? STAF   4e0.0   460.0   460.0   460.0   360.0   360.0  3000.0
MOCD - KNFC SEMNARS        240.0   240.0   240.0   240.0   240.0   240.0  16O.0
MOCD-COURSE COFF FACT mAN   160.0   160.0   160.0   160.0    10O.0   160.0  1120.0
MOaO-TRAINERS'COURSES       60.0    60.0    60.0    40.0    40.0    40.0   340.0
MOCOLSE COOP MM  MNA  120.0    60.0    60.0    60.0    60.0    60.0   460.0
WA - FARMERS FIELD DAYS    176.0   176.0   176.0   176.0   176.0   176.0  12J2.0
C    8K-dAKETING CURS/SEM  400.7   200.3   200.3   20O.6   400.7   200.5  160.0
CWK-WAREHOUSID  SEMIN       10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    70.0
CeK-LIQORINe COURSES       5O0.I     0.0   500.0       0.0   500.6      0.0  1602.5
CSK-COUEK  FP0 FIELD STAF    6.0     0.0      0.0    66.0      0.0      0.0   130.0
CRF-CSMSE FOt SACCO STAF   196.0   130.0   e6.0    66.0   180.0   e6.0   715.0
CRr - FIELD SEMINS         200.0   200.0   200.0   200.0   200.0   200.0  1400.0
Sob-Total I107.6  2306.6  2732.2  2276.3  2647.5  lo6.3  17232.6
D. V,MYE OPERATINO COSTS
MOCD-FUEL A LUBRICANTS      34.4      .5    66.6    6e.6   102.7   102.7   640.7
XD- SPARE PARTS             67.7   135.3   135.3   136.3   203.0   203.0  1062.6
A - FUEL A LIJRICANTS      264.3   50.6.   501.6    06.5   50.6 506. 5 o    3305.6
WOA-SPARE PARTS FOR vEHIC   507.5  1015.0  1016.0  1016.0  1016.0  1016.C  6597.4
CRF - FUEL A LUSRICANTS     U8.3    72.6    72.6    72.6    72.6    72.6   472.2
CRF - SPARE PARTS           67.7   135.3   135.3   135.3   135.3   135.3   079.6
CRF-EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0   140.0
-- - - -- - - -- -- --- - -- -- --- - -- -- --- - -- -- --- - -- -- --- - -- -- ---
S.b-Total                   987.0  1955.6  1915.6  1955.6  2057.2  2057.2  13026.1
E. SUPPLIES
CRF-4OSTEL SWPLIES           0.0   500.0   SOO.0   600.0   500.0   500.0  3000.0
------   ----  ----- --------- - - ---------   - -  - - - --  ----- - - - -- -- -
otal RECWRENT COSTS              t050.S  5627.1  6083.0  S427.1  6427.3   6681.1  40i7?.3
Total                         24406.s  6002.6  e.Q3.0  5627.1  6777.7  581.1  60339.1
- Votve scaled by 1000.0  7120/1989  15:40



iCtNca  camu    SwinlT  POJCT                          A
Table 100. ALL FU0MCT DIPtkEMDf    A                        Tale 1
TRADImO                                     Taeble 13
DoUl l1d Co" Table
3... CO"to U 11166(000.)
1060   1001   16I 2    1003   1604 1166-0   Total
S. hNEmSigT COSTS
A. BUILDINGS-COFF HES FUNDN
HosTm                    319.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  310.0
LECTURE HALL              70.S    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   79.6
STAFF FLATS               SS.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   6.1
Sub-Total                 483.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  403.9
B. VEICLES,MACHINERY&EQUIPT
MMc0-PICKUP 400           37.2    0.0    0.0    0.0   18.6    0.0 o    6.0
MOA-STATION WVAGO 4A7    390.s    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  390.9
MCA - TRAINING EQUIPMENT    39.0   13.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   63.2
CRF - MINIBUS             28.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   26.6
CRF - STATION  CAGON 4WD  20.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   26.6
CRF - TEACHINO AIDS       20.0    6.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   26.6
Sub-Total                 549.2   20.0    0.0    0.0   16.6    0.0  u07.0
otal INVESlTMET COSTS          1033.1   20.0    0.0    0.0   16.6    0.0  1071.7
1. RECURRENT COSTS
A. PIRSONNEL COSTS
MOCD4lFC TRAISNIN OFFICR   21.3   21.3   21.3   21.3   21.3   21.3  140.0
CRF TRAINING OFFICERS     22.3   22.3   22.3   22.3   29.8   37.2  103.5
PART TIE LECTUERS          1.3    1.3    1.3    1.3    0.7    0.7    7.4
Sub-Toual                  44.9   44.9   44.9   44.9   51.7  W9.1  340.7
S. BUILDIN_ UAINTENANCE COST
CRF - MAINTENACE EXPENSE    1.1    1.1    2.7    2.7    2.7    2.7   15.4
C. TRAINING COSTS
* CII-VISATU1S1-FIELD COI    12.6   12.6   12.6   12.6   12.6    6.4   76.5
MOCO-SEMIN FACT SUPP STAU   25.5   23.5   26.6   25.6   19.1   19.1  150.5
MOCD - KWC SEMINARS       12.6   12.6   12.6   12.0   12.6   12.6   60.3
MOCD-COUSE COFF FACT MAN    8.5    6.5    9.5    6.6    6.5    0.5   69.5
MD-TRAISERS'CCUMSES        3.2    3.2    3.2    2.1    2.1    2.1   16.1
MOCD-S    COOP pUS MAN    6.4    3.2    3.2    3.2    3.2    3.2   2S.5
MOA - FARS FIELD DAYS      9.4    9.4    9.4    9.4    9.4    9.4   63.;
cUKMSTZM COURS/IUEM       21.6   10.0   10.6   10.0  12.6   10.6   00.6
C      1t-WAREHMII SMIAR   0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.6    0.5 G11.7
CUK-LISMIN  Cou.E5E       26.6    0.0  "2.1    0.0   26.6    0.0   76.0
CN-COISE  Felt FIELD STAY    3.5    0.0    0.0    3.6    0.0    0.0    6.0
CUF.U   FPU SACCO STAY   10.4    6.0    3.5    3.5    6.s    J.5   5.0
CaF - FIELD SEMINARS      10.6   10.6   10.6   10.6   10.0   10.    74.4
Sub-Total                 170.0  122.6  145.2  121.0  151.4  104.3  l0.6
0. V,NME OPERATDIN COSTS
MOCD-FUEL A LsRtICANTS     1.6    3.7    3.7    3.7    6.5    5.5   29.2
MMOC - SPARE PARTS         3.6    7.2    7.2    7.2   10.6   10.6   67.5
MOA - FUE.L & UJsRICANTS  13.5   27.0   27.0   27.0   27.0   27.0  175.7
MOA-SPARE PARTS FOP VENIC   27.0   54.0   54.0   54.0   54.0   54.0  350.7
CRF - FUEL A LuBnICANTS    1.9    3.9    3.9    3.9    3.9    3.9   26.1
CRF - SPARE PARTS          3.6    7.2    7.2    7.2    7.2    7.2   48.6
CdF-EQUIPMENT SAINTEIANCE    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    7.4
_ --- ----- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -_- -- - -- -- - - - -- - -- -- -
Sub-Total                  52.9  103.9  103.0  103.9  100.3  109.3  892.4
E. SUPPLIES
CRF-HOSTEL SUPPLIES        0.0   26.6   28.6   26.6   26.6   26.6  159.6
- - - -- -- -- --- -- ----- -- ----- -- ----- -- -- --- -- ----
otal RECURRENT COSTS            206.5  299.1  323.3  290.1  341.6  302.0 2135.6
Total                        1101.6  319.1  323.3  290.1  380.3  302.0 3207.3
- Valuas scaled by 1000.0 7/20/1909 16:40



- 84 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
KENYA
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOK and Coop Bank
Proposed Terms and Conditions
1. Lending and Onlending Terms
(a) General
(i)    The minimum interest rate spread obtained by the
Cooperative Bank under the Project would be 5%.
(ii)    The rates of interest to final borrowers under the
Project would be positive in real terms through the
period of Project implementation.
(iii)   As loLg as consistent with (ii) above any future
modifications to general interest rates for agricultural
loans arising from review by Government of interest rates
in Kenya and discussions with the Bank Group would be
applied to this Project.
(b) Specific Rates of Interest
(i)    Rates of interest between Government of Kenya and the
Cooperative Bank, and between the Cooperative Bank and
the Final Borrower would be as set out in the Table on
Page 3 of this Annex.
2.   Specific Terms and Conditions
(a) Coffee Factories
(i)    Credit for financing coffee factories would be provided
only after the Cooperative Bank has satisfied itself (i)
as to the credit worthiness of the borrower, and (ii)
that the guidelines and criteria for specific coffee
factory investments outlined in Annex F have been met.
a



- 85 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
(b) Farm Inputs
(i)     Credit for financing farm inputs for coffee production
would be provided only after the Cooperative Bank has
satisfied itself as to the creditworthiness of the
borrower.
(ii)    The borrower in case (i) above would only be a
cooperative society.
(iii)   Arrangements for onlending from a cooperative society to
one of its members would restrict:
a)     the upper limit of borrowing by a member to the
lesser of (i) 50% of that member's average coffee
crop deliveries over the last 3 years, or (ii)
the total indebtedness of that member which must
not exceed the value ot expected deliveries of
coffee cherry for the current season.
b)     the amount of the total loan for farm inputs paid
out in cash to the member which would be at least
20%.
(c) Improved Payment System
M)      Credit for financing the new improved coffee payment
system would only be made (a) to cooperative societies
which are creditworthy, and (b) after MOCD's Inspection
Committee had satisfied itself that within a given Union
all cooperative societies with coffee growing members had
adequate bookkeeping and accounting systems to effect the
necessary payments under the new system.
(ii)    Credit for financing the new, improved coffee payment
system would be in the form of an annual incremental
working capital loan, and not as a standing overdraft
facility.



-86 -                                        Annex 2
Proposed Credit Arransoents                          Page 3 of 3
1.                Introduction.  This project channels considerable amount  of funds through financial
Institutlons, andhnc o_hought has to be given as to the best arrangements and the Institutions Involv^d
to ensure that funds rach the final borrower.
2.                Essentially credit will flow through to Inat!tutlono for the following  om ponents:
(a)   Cooperativo Sector - Coffee Fetories,
~ b~  Cooperativo Sector - Farm Inputs,
Cooperative Sector - Improved ayment System,
d    Estate Sctor - Coffee Factorle  for Soall Etates,
Ebtate Sector - Farm Inputs, and
(f)   KPCU - Coffee Mill.
S.                In considering the approach to take it Is also Important to determine who the financlor Is In
*sch case, and the extent to which funds will be sIf generated from financial Institutions and from formers
th_oelves. Another conolderation Is the tr_m under which Government (In the case of IDA money) and CDC will
onlend to the Institutions Involved. All thes considerations are summaried below:
4.                Taking the components In para. 2 above:
Financing                                       Onlending             Term  to Final
Comonent                  Source                  Lender                   Terms                  Borrower
1. Coffee               IDA through OCK         Coop Bank                COK to onlend to        Coop Bank to
factoris                for 101X of                                      Coop Bank at 11X.       onlend to Coop
foreTgi-costs and                               All other torms          Societies at 156.
65X of local costs                              and conditions the       Total longth -o
excl. taxes and                                   ame as terms to        loan  ma.x imu 10
duties                                          final borrower.          years  Period of
grace 2 years.
2.  Farm inputs         IDA through COK         Coop Bank to Coop        GOK to onlend to        Coop Bank to
for 1I11 of total       Societies               Coop Bank at OX.         onlond to Coop
costs                                           All other torms          Societies at 18X.
and conditions the      Coop Societiscnto
ea_ as termo  to        charge farmers at
final borrower.         lSX. Total length
orloan maximum 2
years. Pe-rio of
grace 1 yoar.
3.  Improved            IDA through O0K         Coop Bank                COK to onlend to        Coop Bank to
payment system          for 41X overall of                               Coop Bank at OX.        onlond to Coop
requTrd financing                               Total length iV          So-ieties at 1S1.
loan maximum is         Coop Socltle sto
years. Po   d-of        enlarge farmers at
Grece 2 years.          1SX.  Total longth
of loan maximum 1
yer.
4.  Coffee              CDC for 161X of         To be deter-             CDC to oslond at        Lender to onlend
factories for           foreign costs and       mined 3/                 tholr prevailing        to estates at 15X.
small estates           $5x of local costs                               rats of 7X.             Total length oT
excluding taxes                                 Repaymnr-to be at        loan maximum l1
and duties                                      CDCC'  normal            yr       e reP-Trlof
commerca*l terMs,       grec  2 years.
6.  Farm Inputs         CDC for 101x of         To be deter-             CDC to onlond at        Lender to onlond
for  N aIl estates      total costs             mined 3J                 their provaillng        to estates at 14X.
rats of 7X.             Total length oT
Repayment to be at      loan maximum 2
CDC's normal            yars.  Priod of
com rTial t ers.        grace 1 year.
6.  KPCU coffee         CDC for 111X of         KPCU, subject to         CDC to onlend at        As for previous
Mill                    total costs              their final             their preveiling        coluon
excluding taxes         agrement                 rate of 7X
and duties                                      Repaymenito be at
CDC's mornal
cormmrcalr terms.
y Lender and lending terms subject to final appraisal by CDC.



- 87 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
WORLD COFFEE MARKETS
1.       Historically coffee production increased at a faster pace than
consumption, resulting in considerable surpluses and periodically
depressed prices. Compared to some other commodities however, coffee
prices bave fluctuated relatively narrowly when trade controls of the
Internarional Coffee Organization (ICO) have been in force. Disruption of
supply, usually in the for' of crop failure in Brazil, have caused periods
of high prices accompanied by extremely volatile market conditions. There
were no quotas in 1986 due to crop failure in Brazil, and with the
reinstatement of quotas in October 1987 relative order returned to the
market. However, the period of free trade (no quotas) has underlined the
fact that the present system of regulating supplies
through the ICO quota is far from satisfactory and creates artificial
shortages of better quality Arabicas, whilst permitting an over supply of
lover quality arabicas and robusta.
2.       To avoid the serious consequences of sharp fluctuations in prices
on the economy of many producing countries, the great majority of
exporting countries (representing close to 100% of exportable production)
and importing countries (representing about 90% of world imports) created
the International Coffee Organization (ICO) and entered into a series of
International Coffee Agreements (ICA) - (1962, 1968, 1976 and 1983). The
1983 ICA is due to expire on September 30, 1989. The organization fixes a
basic quota for all major exporting members at the beginning of each quota
year (October 1 - September 30) based on its asfessment of world
consumption trends, stocks held in consuming countries etc. In the course
of the year price fluctuations may lead to increases or decreases in the
total quota according to a set price formula. Sales to non members (known
as non quota markets) are not subject to any form of restriction but as
specified by the ICO may not be made at prices below those charged for
comparable qualities to member countries. The non quota market is
restricted in scope due to financial constraints in many non member
countries and is estimated to represent only about 10% of world coffee
imports. Asian ron member markets appear to offer good prospects for
growth, but are often in a position to grow coffee and may in future
become exporters rather than importers. (eg. China, Vietnam, Malaysia).
3.       Despite the establishment of the ICO the imbalance between world
production and consumption continues to exist and the ICO's price range
has remained unchanged since 1980, so in real terms coffee prices have
declined. Nevertheless world production continues to increase due to the
relative stable prices provided by successive ICA's and strong growth by
efficient producers. Apart from Kenya and a few smaller countries such as
Malawi and Zimbabwe, production in Africa continues to stagnate.
4.       Quality is a major consideration in the marketability of coffee
and it is generally accepted that Kenya's washed Arabicas are of above
average quality. The country is the world's largest single producer of
fine quality, high grown washed Arabicas and is the market leader. Other



- 88 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
producers of fine quality Arabica are Ethiopia, some smaller East and
Central African countries as well as parts of Central America. World
availability of this type of coffee is limited and has been falling through
neglect and social unrest in some countries, restrictive practices and high
taxation in others and replacement of traditional cultivars with hybrids
such as Caturra which are high yielding but do not produce quality coffee.
In recent years demand for high quality Arabicas has been growing strongly,
leading to high premia for Kenya coffee over medium and Brazilian type
Arabicas. Prior to the suspension of quotas, the price of good medium
quality Kenya Arabica was exacerbated by the restrictive quota controls of
the current ICA and has led to calls for the Agreement's abolition from
coffee importers and roasters in Europe and the United States alike.
Consuier members are also demanding a review of the entire system of
allocating export quotas, claiming that changing consumption trends, which
favor better quality Arabicas at the expense of low quality and robustas,
cannot be accommodated within the present inflexible system which allocates
quotas on the basis of historical production data regardless of quality.
So far it has proved impossible to effect the changes demanded by consumers
because of opposition by major producers such as Brazil and of course the
Robusta sector.
5.        On July 3, 1989, following the breakdown in discussions in
London to agree on the structure of a new Coffee Agreement, quotas were
suspended. The immediate effect was a fall of around 35Z in the price
which is less than the assumptions made in the SAR.  Prices appear to be
holding steady at that level, although the market is both fluid and
uncertain. Premia for Arabicas such as those produced by Kenya are at
present maintaining their historical differentials.



- 89 -                     Annex 4
Page 1 of 1
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMEMT PROJECT
KENYA COFE  MARKET
1.       Kenya's marketing system is unique in that all coffee is sold in
weekly open auctions, held by the country's Coffee Board (CBK) to
licensed private exporters. Exporters are grouped in the Mild Coffee
Trade Association (MCTA) which is recognized by Government as the
representative of trade interests. Most Estate producers are grouped in
the Kenya Coffee Growers Association (KCGA) and smallholders in
individuals cooperative societies. The producer's organization is the
KPCU (para 1.12) to which all growers belong, either directly (estates)
or indirectly through the membership of Cooperative Unions. Virtually
the entire milling capacity of the country is owned and operated by KPCU
which itself is lOOX producer owned. CBK does not trade in coffee but
sells on behalf of growers - the open auction system ensures good
transparency and as a result is very popular with growers. Export
marketing and shipment arrangements are efficient and are probably
amongst the better systems found in the world - Kenya coffee regularly
commands considerable price premia which is in part also due to the
individualized and efficient marketing arrangements which are entirely
managed by private sector companies. In recent years the previous
domination of the coffee export trade by foreign owned companies has been
reduced through the emergence of locally owned concerns.
2.       Until recently local coffee consumption was limited to about
3,000 tonnes (in 1983/84). Since then tonnages have increased sharply to
just over 10,000 tonnes being sold to local roasters in 1987/88. Sales
for local consumption take place at greatly reduced prices with a subsidy
of over 60% based on present average market price. The net cost to the
industry of this subsidy is estimated to be not less than US$ 20 million
in 1987/88. MOA and CBK who are responsible to review this price
annually are aware of the situation and steps are being taken to address
this issue.
3.       Coffee production under the Project is projected to grow at
about 2.0% p.a. and although a new ICA might possibly be more favourable
to the country, larger year end tonnages would accumulate which need to
be stored, financed and marketed. Until now it has been possible to
utilize the periodic lifting of quota controls (as happened in 1985/86)
to dispose of accumulated stocks. However, the implication of larger
crops being produced is that future stock levels will exceed the Board's
storage and financial capacity. Thus, stock management, and market
intelligence development by CBK will be crucial. In order to avoid large
stock build up (above the working stock that is required) which may have
to be partly financed by the growers the industry would have to develop a
much more direct and disciplined approach to marketing of non-quota
coffee which so far has been inconsistent. Despite the hoped for
improvement in Kenya's quota, future quantities to be disposed of to
non-quota markets are likely to be substantial and may pose problems for
the present trade channels whose ability to move and finance ever
increasirtg to=nages cannot be taken for granted. Of course the sale of
large tonnages to non quota markets at low prices would send price
signals to growers, especially those producing excessive amounts of low
quality coffee.



- 90 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 6
KENYA
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1.       ORGANISATION AND MANAGEMENT
1.01     General
(1)    It is a matter of record that the first phase of this
project (SCIP I) was subject to many delays in the early years, and that
this was at least partially due to the lack of an appropriate unit for
ov3rall management and co-ordination.  Having regard to the many
institutions involved, from single factory cooperatives up through
district unions, extension services, district coffee working groups, the
Co-operative Bank of Kenya and the two main ministries, MOA and MOCD, the
need for greater control and direction was eventually recognised by the
formation in 1984 of the Project Management Unit (PMU). Satisfactory
progress was made thereafter and the unit was retained up to appraisal of
the present project.
(2)    At present PMU derives its authority from and is
responsible to MOCD and it has been necessary to give consideration as to
whether this relationship should continue or whether there should be a
different form of unit operating under the aegis of another institution.
The fact that PMU is now a recognised entity within the coffee industry
and also that the MOCD will take the role as the lead ministry in the new
project, support the conclusion that the present relationship should
continue. Nevertheless, account should be taken of the variance of
objectives and priorities in the new project as well as the need to have
concerted and effective management from the beginning. The
recommendations which follow are expected to achieve those aims.
1.02     ProAect Steering Committee (PSC)
(1)    PSC was established in 1984 for the spe,cific purpose of
injecting greater purpose and achievement in the progress of SCIP I. It
was a powerful body, chaired by Permanent Secretary (PS) Development
Co-ordination, Office of the President, with inter alia the Permanent
Secretaries of the Ministry of Finance (MOF), MOCD and MOA as members.
PSC's duties and responsibilities included the review of the overall
progress of the project, making decisions on issues of policy and
reviewing and taking action on Progress Reports and Work Plans submitted
by PMU. To a great extent its objectives were achieved, although limited
by the time-scale of the project, even after extension.
(2)    It cannot be expected that a "fire-fighting" force of
this nature will be established for, and indeed it should not be
necessary, provided that acceptab   institutional and management policies
are followed from the outset, together with satisfactory budgetary



- 91-
Annex 5
Page 2 of o
arrangement to cover the project's annual financial requirement. Since it
has been agreed that for Coffee II there is to be one lead ministry, MOCD,
it would be appropriate to appoint PS MOCD as Chairman. The substantial
agricultural content of the project should be reflected by the appointment
of the PS MOA as alternate chairman. Other members should includet
(a) Representative of MOF;
(b)  MD Co-operative Bank;
(c)  MD of KPCU;
(d)  GM Coffee Board of Kenya;
(e) Representative of CRF;
(f) c-M PCMW4 (as Secretary).
IDA and CDC would continue to be represented as observers and PSC would have
the power to co-opt additional representatives as necessa.v, althougn this
should be for specific topics in order to avoid unwieldiness in numbers.
(3) It is envisaged that the PSC would meet quarterly, with
additional sessions as required by special circumstances. Responsibilities
would extend to both policy and operational matters.
(4) Previous arrangements included the appointment by POC of a
working group drawn from each ministry or agency to discuss and consider
specific issues. There would appear to be no need for such specific
grouping in future.
1.03      Project Coordination and Management Unit (PCMU)
(1)  When the PMU was formed ir T.984, it was clearly accepted that
the credibility and efficiency of the Unit would be reflected by the status
and abilities of the civil servants seconded from the various ministries.
To underline its importance, the relevant directive made specific proposals
as to the rank of the senior officers to hold the post ef manger and the
heads of the four sections of PMU. The manager was to be appointed by PSC
after consultation with IDA and CDC. mhere have been a number of changes in
senior staff appointments since the completion of SCIP I and although the
present is necessarily an interim period, the mission recommends that
reference should be made to the intentions of the original directive when
PCMU is brought up to full complement prior to the inception of Coffee II.
The impression given at present is that the Unit is weak and understaffed
numerically and is unlikely to be capable of carrying out the detailed
preparatory work that will be necessary prior to the inception of a new
project. Having regard to the



- 92 -
Annge 
Page 3 of 6
importance of Coffee II in the financial aud economic sphere generally,
and in particular to the very larger number of coffee smallholders
involved throughout the agricultural areas, the new PCMU should be
considered an elite unit and worthy of the engagement or secondment of
the highest quality staff; even though it is not expected to be
institutionalised and its existence will have only a limited duration.
Once its job is d('ne, the task of continuing improvement and efficiency
in the smallholde: coffee sector should revert to the extension services
and relevant agencies.
(2)    Having regard to the experience gained in SCIP I and the
various changes in the objectives outlined for Coffee II, it is
considered that the original organogram for PMJ will need certain
amendments. A proposed layout is in Appendix 1 and the main features of
which are an improvement in status of the unit head to General Manager
and the formetion of two sections, Finance and Administration and
Technical Department, the head of each of which should be designated
Manager. In addition it is proposed to make available a Tecbnical
Adviser to the unit whose duties and responsibilities are referred to
later. The full complement of senior staff should be:-
1      General Manager
2      Managers
1      Technical Adviser
3      Engineers
2      Agriculturalists
1      Co-operative Officer
1      Agricultural Ecc omist
2      Accounts Assistants
3      Executive Assistants
25      Technical Officers
The duties and responsibilities of the three senior officers are
described in Appendix 2.
(3)    A feature of the unit staffing at present is the extended
number of lower grades including 4 clerical officers, 5 typists, 7
drivers and 5 subsidiary employees. Needs of the unit should be
reassessed and any surplus staff reposted to parent ministries.
Under-employed personnel would be a constraint on efficiency.
(4)    If officers are not hired on contract, supplementary
allowances should be paid to seconded senior staff enumerated in Appendix
1, in compensation for the possible disadvantages that may be seen to
accompany posting to PCMU. Amongst these there may be included a heavier
workload, greater responsibility, absence from the mainstream of the
parent ministry and, because of PCMU limited duration, a shortage of



- 93 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 6
promotional prospects within the unit. Such allowances should be paid from
project funds and it is suggested that they should be designed so as to
raise total pay to the level of sai tries paid to equivalent ranking
personnel in a statutory body, such a* Kenya Tea Development Authority. It
is estimated that the annual cost of such allowances on the basis of
secondment of all senior staff would be of the order of Kenya Pounds 35,000
pa.
1.04      Technical Adviser
(1)       The foregoing measures have baen proposed as a means
of strenigthening PCMU and with the intention of avoiding the delays and
organisational failures during the early years of the first phase of SCIP.
In recognition of the size and complexity of the proposed project, the
mission considers that a further step towards unit efficiency would be for
the donors to make available to PCMU a Technical Adviser during Project
start-up.
(2)       It is proposed that the appointee should be a person
of professional standing with substantial experience in the administration
of smallholder/co-operative agricultural schemes in East Africa and
elsewhere. He may be either an accountant, engineer, agriculturalist or
agricultural economist, but the overriding requirement would be a broad
grounding in all aspects of the management of smallholder development and
the co-ordination of co-operative societies. Suggested terms of reference
are set out in Appendix 3.
1.05      Transport
(1)       It has been proposed that PCMU staff should be more
assiduous in visiting District Coffee Working Groups (DCWG) and other field
units for the better management and co-ordination of the project. To
achieve this purpose, greater mobility will need to be ensured and it is
suggested that a total of 10 vehicles be allocated to the Unit. Of these,
four would be appropriated for the use of the General Manager, the two
Section Managers and the Technical Adviser. The remaining six would be
allocated to the Technical Section (4) and the Finance/Administration
Section (2).
(2)       Consideration will need to be given to the
availability of transport in the field for extensioii and other personnel
engaged in SCIP affairs from time to time. However, it would not be
feasible to confine the use of any allocated transport solely to project
business, with the unfortunate consequence that from time to time essential
visits on project business may be unable to be made due to lack of
mobility.  This problem will of course be less acute since visiting will
also need to be carried out by the technical management services staff who
will have independent transport.



- 94 -
Annex 5
Page 5 of 6
1.06        Extension Service ind Training
(1)   It appears that there is a sufficient supply of qualified engineering
technicians from Jomo Kenyatta and Egerton Colleges entering the MOA extension
services to fulfil the quota of coffee factory technicians and assistant coffee
factory technicians, the former being responsible for providing service to an
average of 10 factories. When the recruits leave college they have a good basic
knowledge of coffee factory design and construction but they lack specific knowledge
of coffee processing and organization. It is essential that they should be
subjected to specific coffee processing crop training at an early date, preferably
in advance of inception of the project in order that they may play a full part in
the assessment of factory rehabilitation needs. Another important part of their
duties will be to advise the factory managers and engineers on budgeting and the
more efficient operation and maintenance of their plants, including the organization
of cherry reception and grading. These duties will require mobility in order that
factories may be visited on a regular basis.              0
(2)   To achieve this, it is proposed that each coffee factory technician
(CFT) in the co fee extension service be issued with a motorcyle. In addition it is
proposed that extension agriculturalists in the coffee sector should also be issued
with motorcycles to allow them to visit smaliholdings and advise farmers on input
needs and the maximization of ptoduction and quality. It is estimated that some 60
motorcycles will oe needed in total.
(3)   Although the Improvement in training and mobility of coffee extension
staff will have a beneficial effect on coffee processing, additional support will be
necessary to improve the level of day to day management in coffee factories. Weak
physical management in coffee factories has been highlighted by the SCIP I project
completion report as a major cause of the under-achievement of many investments with
regard to coffee quality. In order to forestall similar problems with the present
project technical management services would be provided under the direction of the
Manager, Technical Section, PCMU. These services would have a specific objective of
improving the standards of physical management in factories. This would ensure that
the substantial investment in new or rehabilitated processing facilities would
result in corresponding improvement in coffee quality and thus maximize the flow of
benefits.
(4)   The advisory servi-es would be specialized, and would be provided in
close cooperation with the existing extension services for coffee processing along
the lines of the Management Improvement Service operated in recent years by the
Kenya National Federation of Cooperatives (KNFC). The services would be provided by
a Chief Technical Officer, two section heads and 22 visiting technicians each of
whom would be responsible for visiting and reporting for 15-20 factories on a
fortnightly basis - i.e. a maximum of two each working day. The personnel would
preferably be engaged from the open market and would be fully mobile. The cost
would include vehicles, equipment and operating costs.



- 95 -
Annex 5
Page 6 of 6
(5)   The intention would be that once the services had been established they
would continue as a self sustaining servic, unit in the small estate and cooperative
sub-sectors after the completion of the project. This would be achieved oy
introducing service charges initially at the rate of 252 of the cost and increasing
to 100Z of the cost after 4 years. The societies and estates participating ir. the
factorv component would undertake to accept such services on a sliding scale of cost
contributions as a condition of being granted a factory improvement loan. It iY
estimated that the full cost of the service would be covered by a contribution of
Shs. 0.03 per Kg of cherry processed which is about 0.052 of the gross revenue (1989
prices). The societies and KPCU would hence commence by contributing at the rate of
0.75 cents per Kg. of cherry processed increasing to 3 cc.ats per Kg. after four
years.
(6)   Initially the services would be set up and operated under the direction
of the PCMU but in order to ensure the continuation of these functions after project
completion it is intended that technical management services would be taken over and
carried on by an existing institution in the coffee industry such as the KPCU or the
Coffee Board of Kenya. The PCMU would be responsible for equipping, staffing and
setting up the visiting/advisory system describea earlier during the first 3 years
of project implementation. The terms of employment for the technical officers would
be in line with those offered by the institutions cited above. When the advisory
system was fully operational its staff and functions would be absorbed into the
appropriate institutiort. On project completion therefore the technical management
service to project factories would be able to continue as a financially viable and
self sustaining service to the coffee industry.
1.07        Accommodation and equipment
At present the PCMU occupies rented offices which are less than ideal in
layout and situation. Office furniture and equipment available appears to be
inadequate and ageing.  With the proposed increase in staff and heightened
responsibilities, consideration would be given to relocation and re-equipment.



ma
TEaCHNCA
ADVIS
MPM                                                             MNWE
TEXC;L 
AN =DUS N                                                       SOLTIQ4
Eb.'w ics           Acuax ts6,             R,orts,             Project        Trainlng,            Cb-cperatives      TPaJ
Feasibility         Personmel,             Statistics,         Factories,     Field                loans,            (APEW9DIX IB)
Studies             Drawdcwqns,             Project            Farm           Operatiors           DocrumLntation
Buxdgets               Assessmiwnt,        Irputs
cbNputers
PXec Asst             Ag. Eonamist;       Enineer (2)       Engineer,        CQ-qp Cfficer              Ofch. CEficers (25)
Asst (2)         Asst                Agriculturalist Agricalturalist   Asst.                 Adntn. AMft.
10
1/ Technical Management Services. 



- 97 -
ANNEX 5
APPENDIX 1B
TECHNICAL MANAGEMENT
SERVICES UNIT
CHIEF TEC ICAL OFFICER
ADMINISTRATIVE
ASSISTANT
SENIOR TECHNICAL                               SENIOR TECHNICAL
OFFICER                                       OFFICER
I                                           I
TECHNICAL                                      TECHNICAL
OFFICERS (11)                                  OFFICERS (11)



- 98 -                   ANNEX 5
A2yendix 2
Page 1 of 3
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Pro lect Coordination and Manaaement Uni,
Executive Duties and ResDonsibilities
1.        Authorities.  PCMU will continue to be a semi-autonomous entity
with independence of action and will operate outside the relevant
ministries although accountable to PS,MOCD and the Steering Committee
ultimately. GM, PCMU, will continue to hold the delegated authority to
incur expenditure (AIE) from funds allocated to MOCD for project
operations, with personnel costs continuing to be paid by the pareit
ministries of seconded staff.
2.        General Manager.  The GM will be either a seconded, experienced
civil servant of equivalent rank to a Deputy Secretary or a contracted
employee from the private sector under technical assistance under the
project. Appointment by the Steering Committee will be subject to
consultation with IDA and CDC. He will be responsIble for all
operations, planning and reporting in relation to the project and bis
duties will include -
(a) operation of PCNU revolving fund and AIE;
(b) liaison with all ministries and agencies relevant to the
project;
(c) direction of day-to-day operations of PCNU and the project;
(d) supervision and coordination of all project activities;
(e) secretary to PSC
3.        Manager. Technical Section.  The manager will be an experienced
civil servant equivalent in rank to a senior agricultural officer or
senior engineer and may be contracted from the private sector under
technical assistance under the proj(ict. His senior subordinates will
include three engineers with coffee factory experience, a qualified
draughtsman, two experienced coffee agriculturalists and a co-operative
officer and assistant with SCIP experience. He will be responsible to
the GM for the technical and engineering aspects of coffee factory
rehabilitation and develepment farm inputs, the co-ordination of all
training, field and factory supervision and for all co-operative
activities related to the project, including loan operations and
technical management services. His dutic, will include:-
(a) provision of assistance to DCWG in relation to technical
and other aspects of feasibility studies and loan
applications;
(b) upgrading and supervision of tendering and contractual
guidelines for factory development and farm inputs;
(c) supervision of factory contract execution and submission of
completion certificates;



- 99 -
ANNEX 5
Apyendix 2
Page 2 of 3
(d) liaison with MOA, MOCD and CBK on technical and other
matters relating to loan applications by societies for
factory development and farm inputs;
(e) Co-ordination of provincial survey and drawing offices and
supervision of PCMU's own draughting activities;
(f) establishment of programmes in liaison with MOA extension
services for regular training on the T and V principle, and
supervisory visits to factories and farms;
(g) co-ordination and supervision of all factory, farm and
society training activities in conjunction with MOA, Coffee
Research Foundation, MOCD and other agencies;
(h) maximisation of attendance by PCMU representatives at
meetings of DCWG and other relevant bodies;
(i) all cooperative activities related to the project and
lending operations through CBK;
(j) provision of assistance directly or through MOA and MOCD
field staff in preparation of feasibility studies and
applications for factory and faru input loans;
(k) liaison with MOCD on matters involving advice and
arbitration by legal specialists;
(1) provision of assistance and advice to the KPCU on the
design and costs of small estate coffee factories;
(m) setting up and supervising the Technical Management
Services for project factories.
4.        Manager, Finance and Administration.  The manager of this
section will be an experienced accountant either seconded by Government
of Kenya or engaged on contract from the private sector under technical
assistance supported by the project. His subordinate staff will consist
of an Agricultural Economist and assistant with the prime duty of
establishing a sub-section to govern planning and monitoring functions
for PCMU, and an Executive Assistant and two Accounts Assistants. His
duties will include:
(a) responsibility to the GM on all matters related to finance
and administration;
(b) operation of the PCMU revolving fund and the preparation of
withdrawal applications;



- 100 -                  ANNEX 5
ADDendil 2
Page 3 of 3
(c) maintenance of the PCHU accounting system and prompt
preparation of quarterly reports and cash flow projections
for submission to PSC;
(d) monitoring disbursements from IDA/CDC loan finance and the
processing of drawdown applications;
(e) preparation of =nual budgets for PCMU and the proje(t and
the yearly work plan;
(f) monitoring progress of project implementation and
preparation of monthly/quarterly progress reports for
submission to PSC;
(g) financial analysis of feasibility studies for coffee
factory improvement and the overall evaluation of the
impact of the project on coffee production, coffee quality
and returns to coffee growers;
(h) assessment of the results of introducing the proposed
accelerated palments system to growers and the progress of
Savings and Credit Co-operatives (SACCOs);
(i) monitoring the procurement of equipment and farm inputs for
the project and controlling the PCMU stores unit;
(j) responsibility for personnel and general administration of
the unit;
(k) overseeing the introduction of computers into the PCIT.J
administration, approval of software programming and
responsibility to GM for their efficient employment.



-101-                    ~~~~~Annex 5
- 101 -                           Appendix 3
KENYA
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PROJEC'. MANAGEMENT UNIT
TECHNICAL ADVISER
The TA will have no executive duties within PMU but, in association
with GM and senior officers, will carry out the following functions,
interalia:
(a)  introduction of a prompt and effective management report s/stem
including the re-drafting as necessary of pro formas relating to
project progress, budgeting and annual work plans;
(b) training and advising on the format for feasibility studies and
loan applications and subsequent assessment;
(c) collation of essential information relating to the project in
association with the Unit's agricultural economist;
(d) training and advising on the introduction of computers into the
PCMU and in particular on the choice of software programmes and
the extent of utilization, and overseeing the relevant training of
PCHU personnel;
(e) investigation of current and likely delays and obstacles in
project progress and advising managemont on resolution;
(f) visiting DCWG and field staff of MOCD, MOA, CBK and KPCU and
advising on solution of local difficulties;
(g)  maintaining continuous appraisal of the effectiveness of project
operations in relation to the program as originally proposed and
proposing moderation or amendment as necessary;
(h) assessment as to the availability and effectiveness of training
programmes and co-ordination of organization and facilities.



- 102 -
Annex 6
REM
Second Coffee Improvement Pro lect
Cooperative Factor' Improvement
Incremental Factory Output and
Total Rehabilitated Processina CaDacitv under the Project
WITH PROJECT
YR 1   YR 2   YR 3   YR 4   YR 5   YR 6   Y7  7
TYPE
1   No. of Units (Cumul)           10      20     30     40      55     70     85
Incremental Prod. (Tonnes)   300    600    900   1200   1650   2100   2550
Total Output (Tonnes)         480    960   1440   1920   2640   3360   4080
TYPE
2   No. of Units (Cumul)           1       25     40     55      75     95    115
Incremental Prod. (Tonnes)   450   1125   1800   2475   3375   4275   5175
Total Output (Tonnes)         800   2000   3200   4400   6000   7600   9200
TYPE
3   No. of Units (Cumul)            5      10     20     30      45     60     75
Incremental Prod. (Tonnes)   300    600   1200   1800   2700   3600   4500
Total Output (Tonnes)         600   1200   2400   3600   5400   7200   9000
TYPE
4   No. of Units (Cumul)            5      15     25     35      45     55     65
Incremental Prod. (Tonnes)   450   1350   2250   3150   4050   4950   5850
Total Output (Tonnes)         450   1350   2250   3150   4050   4950   5850
Totals
No. of Units (Cumul)           30      70    115    160    220    280    340
Incremental Prod. (Tonnes)  1500   3675   6150   8625  11775  14925  18075
Total Output (Tonnes)        2330   5510   9290  13070  18090  23110  28130



-103 -
.. ............. . .......
JICHUiL nOioCYI
ewutll am                           plu      --------      fil    ---- --------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
ncC1                 noit
lur I   tur I          1es  l    Year I     ler I        Tr 4        yearS I      .u,6       e far      teaS I          alo
1.al--------------------------------------------------------------------------
hit. TiOII  kg/ba)                     £60.0     £06.9       £30.6       61.0        601.0       715.0       70.6        101.6       52.6        02.0
Me btak.                                                       6.4         0.4         0.1         0.7         6.1         0.?         6.?         6.1
lacreatal T1,14                                    6.0       30.6         21.0        30.0        36.0        35.6        35.6        31.6        0.0
Are  (a)                  44,563.0
Aea (3)                         303
lacrental Productioa                              0.0        534.0       445.0       934.6       934.6    1,110.3    1,0.?         1,H00.3         1.6   6,111
W4g  lield (kg/ha)                     940.0    94U.0        915.0     1,010.0     1,035.0    1.000.C      1,120.0     1,160.6     1,2H1.1     1,2U0.
tge Optake                                                     0.4         0.4         0.7         0.7         0.1         1.?         0.t         1.1
Icreeatal field                                    0.0        35.0        35.0        25.0        45.0        40.0        46.0        46.0         0.1
Irea (Ia                  21,080.0
Irea (l) 1t
lureeatal Productiok                               0.0       295.1       295.1       366.9       664.0       590.2       590.2      5SU.2          0.0   3,313
Low Tield (kg/ha)                      360.0    360.0        380.0       400.0       411.0       435.0       455.0       415.6       500.0       106.0
Sge  Uptake                                                    0.4         0.4         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.?         0.1         0.t
lecteu tal lleld                                   0.0        20.0        20.0        15.0        20.0        20.0        20.0        25.0         0.6
rea (R)                   51,529.0
Irea (M                         44
lecruestal Production                              0.0       412.2       412.2       541.1       721.4       121.4       721.4       101.$         0.0  4,431
TOTALS                   111,112.0
1003
IICIIIA, PEODUCTIOI                                0.0     1,241.4     1,152.4     1,844.5     2,320.0     2,402.0     2,402.0     2,512.3         1.6  13,944
tOtA  PIODOCTIOI                              65,067.4    66,308.6    61,461.2    69,305.7   71,625.7    14,027.7    16,429.?    70,012.0    19,112.1



- 104 -
UN t
uCU  clmlI  lultbWI            PUOECST                             Tale 2
IDCEIU?LL ?UoC?1io
1,11MEC?              PSOJC?
Tloet I    Tear       Tear I       Tear 2      Ter 3        Iear 4  T ear 5           Tear A      Tear r       Ter I       ftol
eIa  '1.el  (it/ba)                      $".0       aw.0        ta.#         aN., t       so.$          We.,        M0.01        10.o        o'.1        mt.1
... .............
Itffeetia h  (ll/  PA)                                IO t          .0     1          1.0   0.1        330.1        7611      1,14.6      1,520.      I,Nt.
Area lI)                    2,611.0
Are  (2)                         3us
total trdctioa                                        0.0          0.0          6.O1          .6       3.126        6. 10      1026.6      1,34.1       1,111.0
Iacreatul Produetios                                 10.0           .0         0.0          0.0        342.0        342.0        342.0       342.1        342.0   1T110.0
l1gb Tield (kg/ba)                     1,410.0   1,410.0       1,410.0     1,410.0      1,410.0      1,410.0      1,410.0      1,410.0     1,410.6      1,410.0
tffective Ia (1/? pa)                                              0.0         0.0          0.0        161.0        360.0       540.0        720.0        0o0.0
Area (la)                    1,261.0
Area (1)                          1i
Total Production                                      0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0        253.6        501.6        761.4     1,015.2      1,269.0
Iseremestal Prodoctiot                                0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0        253.J        253.1       253.6        253.8        253.6   1,213.0
Log feld (kg/1a)                         540.0      549.0        540.0       50.0         540.0        540.0        540.0       540.0        540.0        540.0
Effective la (1/7 pa)                                              0.0          0.0         0.0        440,0        880.0     1,320.0      1,760.0      2,201.0
Aiaa (3s)                   3,080.0
Ata"  (2)                  4JI
total Production                                      0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0        237.6        415.2       712.6        950.4      1,106.0
Jacreneatal PtodactioA                                0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0        237.6        237.6       237.6        237.6        237.6   1,160.0
TOTILS                      7,000.0
1001
IlCIt  PlOD0CtI0E                                     0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0        633.4        033.4       633.4        633.4        633.4   4,16t.1
TOtA  PIODiCS101                                      0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0        011.i      1,666.8     2,500.2      3,3J3.6      4,1 I6.
.::::::::::::::  :::::::::::::::::::::::    :::::::::::::  ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::



- 105 -
SUID COltt lOU t tow                                      ble 3
............. ..   ...........
IICIITA  PIOOtIU
UIM Q!-------->           smT      ------------------------------------ I...........................................
MU1O?    -)    iTU                                                                                                           -
year I    Tearl 3      Tar I         Year 2        Tear 3       Tear 4        Year 5       Tear I        Tear 1        least I
MA~~~~~~~~~Lea Imm   leatl   . .er ......................2ba huIlrSbr l 7...................................................................
tOt~~~~~~~~~~~---  ----  -----  -----  --------------------------------.-- .......... ------------------- .....-----.-.-.-------.----..... ----
few  Iritlg Floate  Area                            65,07.4    61,393.3    61,461.2          61,335.1    11,625.?       74,021.1    76,412.1    IS,112,1    7S,llt.0
Ire. hire 11                                              6.1          1.0           0.0          0.0         U33.4      1,t66.3       2,500.2      3,333.6       4,167.0
btal Fraectie                                       65,06A.    6U,30.1         67,461.2    60,305.1    12,451.1          5,5164.5      6,S021.0    62,345.6      U.171.1
lunustal Productioa                                                1,241.4      1,152.4       1,844.5       3,153.4      3,235.        3,235.4      3,415.7         833.4
tal lcrcrme is Preduction                                          1,t41.4      2,313.5       4,238.3      7,391.?    10,627.0    13,662.4    17,210.1           18,111.5
Ig  henue  ovr year 0                                                  1.0           3.1           6.5         11.1          16.3         21.3          26.6         21.1
4t Iereae over Previou  year                                           1.9           1.t          2.1           4.5           4.5          4.3           4.3           1.0



- 106 -
SeCOll  031 1   3           l t JICT                                            Tau  4
........ -.... -------------------
waill Simo
lerul frUdUctlea hhir the project
VItI PWICT
Tlu   I     TM  2          1UI 3       11*14 t      11 5         113t I       T*I          tOtAL
atilt tn                                            - ------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
nu
I            I5lICltD  - tS                            0.0          4.1         14.0         25.2        3J.?          53.2         60.0        1n.?
- aStit  IllS                     1           14            21           28           35           42           50
4       1UItl*    - tOS                                8.4         21.5         39.2         61.6         88.l        112.0        141.1        111.3
- ESTTEI HITS                          1           14           21           28           35           42           50
10      of 11UCm  - TUOS                               0.0          8.3         26.?         49.5         79.3        116.2        160.0        440.0
- EStE IlltS                      5           10            16          22           28           34            40
I     lUICltD  - tOS                                 15.0         38.3         14.?        121.0        111.3        226.1        281.1        933.,
- ESTAit  11S1T                        5           10          I1            22           28           34           40
20     IIJ MT D- TOIS                                 24.0         61.3        112.0        116.0        253.3        333.3        420.0      1,380.0
- IsTit  ilTS                          4            a           12           16           20           25           30
30     IHIGATD - tOES                                 18.0         57.5        112.0        111.5        281.0        416.5        480.0      1,552.5
-  5I1T11  UNItS                       2            5            8           11           14           11           20
TOtAL - IECimtU  PRODUCTIOI
- TOIS                           65.4        191.6        378.5        614.8        925.3      1,251.9      1,540.0      4,913.6
- EStiAT  ONITS                    30           61            94         127           160          194          230



lUl a us NM
i*          jUl        ion          1W        111         26          .:          .'.1        IN          low         is          mI           m         IS          am4    II               15         21          jm            jm             -
lr.411 fe, ala PM. late,. utiau
lo) lawe
Kim nese   Ir hts aid enrdatt.             l.I.0U   2,232.6    $.1,463 2,14,411 3.1124,14   4.226044   4.w4.  '  $,112.M2    1.5.w    1.1".3    ,121 4.                 W      ,0.0   II.4jS,45j  1104"           l .u1110111    A. 111,14420,. 1,6 ,3 4,3,1 I 11111 10,113,214    U .111113  3421,11
441st latast                                  Kil.l2    121.01       141,13   3,3,3   a.m0.a   1.03,3              ,jj. .4S  4,35,M    40,411W  4.5.12   5..23,3              6.0.114j    141,1111   11,01,131  11,1.4111 1.0213   1,113,131  1.123,11  7t t1.11    I.M.11                  6,613.j11
letilt ieas if Itsied stat                                                                   1,1111
but lu jan.                                              1.1016  ,3.1    .01     1,24.1,  1.131.34    6.1163m    ,j.'           .l,4511.1    42,162iw ?    11.3.8114  I2.43.21   14,444,3  16,111.3  111444   38.42.163 22,3461  12,5.1     U.M,131  3,3.434    3.3.114    35.3
IsIttest pitl l ag.I   term lass             31.162      12.111   1.116.511   1,2,4    .3.111   1.1461,0 4        1  2,1.   11411, 21  13,111153   LOX5.    1.13.11    2,162,12    I.13.3             ,,111      4.3.3nco    4,3,14     1.16*461   4,3,141   6,461.5         1.3.346       I,.W2
-.  etat                      .342      62.14 24."    j,j31,j3   2,42,5  1.6113H2   2144,3i  2,111.221   4,,2           4  11.142   4.3.111   4,0111,11   1,121.122   1.311.3   1.113,0112        011 1.21 4,346.0    6.W.3    4.4u3    I'.5,3               1.3.3         1.46.12
bu                            KIMa 21 1.3 344.3416  2121.1       14,4 3  2.A   .      4111.14.   3,3      13 .4144,411   6,0101.       ..1 SA     11.526m  1,21,30  I4l5.3614,13,3   1J.111.12  U21.33.I   12.M1.14662,3,   26.3.2                           14.42,46       4.34.5
Ceanal etnleal  I gulff emu.                  142.1311       .3 TU     4511.113   1,6.013  3.631,5    2,.3.   2,12.1,    2,462,3   4,163425   14,61,3   4,1.113   1,3,13    1,416'o .3   .13.     i.ni114.5                     .1ft   1,3.3H   1,3,1           S.0,35        4.3.5#    1,.N.
leveeatl.GA 621                                        126.123       3.11.   11 5U.=        226.1126    214.        4211        611,12      133          1.411 lu   I   511.0   3,41 1 13.151    3,3               2331 1      241full    3.m          MAN4         55          30.141       5,34
heel ef Numeiit atiossU                        21,631   3,162    24.3    5,522   3,111    Up3                        Ul,m1        ,43   246,11    VIA,   311.3   WA3    22.3   233                                     . 112.1     .3   3.3i  3.3                  KM1          W.N          21.3
beitate ,inerllm                              1     6.341  111       31.43       U5,m       fl1          14.        3.3         22.3        3,30        46.14       "j.1       3,611       3.11        22,44       44.w1      11.         3,36         6.3        4.1           Ulm62         .1,111
lat45 await   ~~~~~~~~~~.31,5,32   2,3121132 1  ,3,424   4,142.3  1.3.226   1,.15M   1,227,3                          .M. 141233513.13  11,45,   U2,14.1  11  .146,3  14,11,61   21.3.23  ii'.m.    i'"'I.ut  v.,.*                       jwj n1 30.m.4 4    VA.3.               D.3,13               0
btIt a lcs      aie                            3,2145      21.6        115.4       5.21 501 1 4. t        11.o        124,3       244.I    1.1.3,63    13,4223  1.11.115           ,41.01   1.14,31      3,3    2.3,2 1.31221 'I.41    2,3,31   810.3,           1,1115        2,.111240     1N.24,
tuessla                                        M.36        11.4.441140               115 es31                    111.11faw            4.4       2.111116     l 62,41  1,41                   11.12 12,5 1 5.  5l,LO            1113.51   2.1111,14    3.111211      5,13.1       11112         34
tntit blur tuatin213,13                         1.214,4    111,634     U5LM4      ,214.0      14.14        131        124.3       214,245    13,41  .    30.41       W,1         1113,22     41.0 1311  1,3,13.11  1,111,141  20.13.11  1,41,131 ,1 3,416           .21,1        1.4,
feasoof is                          22.43b.11              11,3        25151      3,24        34,65       331        31.3        24,41.11    5,411         30 424 1 11.1H        13,11.      122.1    2,3.5    1,11,41          VIA1         2.1,111j  01.31         WIN.4        10,14616
hell: ..i lisa ecteut               222,114ill'u  0111.1 11   15,11    223111    3.114        310.5113  51221     134,211         214,241     5,1411      K.41       3,13        23,1611 3M,83          ,.3.13  .211,31   2.313,23   2.412,31   1.11.14    2.24661               2,21,6*34
.141,2      ,11131     US163      15.113    612.634    111646         642.       WAR1,    2.3.111     w,8,41    4,13,           W.311       1,2 0,1       6,14.1    140.1311  22.3,3   25,3   21.221124 ,5 ,                   4,4,111 3. ,222,30
trei blrdsa efrelae                             11,1142 5.              254,111,4  3           111,13.    234,9  3112     1       236,31   3.10.11        s4.        26UA 3,3 4 4   6,       244,3       363.31.1  .11.6  246,3    246.3   1211141,  1311,31    246,IM 3   14,11011            146,131
Irmafer to eate traifer feed                     25,3                                                                              11,.34
342.3111               114,343                131,131      2,1221,42111,13 "                             144,w        141,3      244,5       144,        145.3       314.3    344.3        244.        26.3        14,           1KW,          2416,3
artlegipe  elasn  Issul 1                         33.3         .21        1.20        4.6        in2         144         6.1       3H."          6.41       11.44      12.         22.3"       14.4        14.116       1.44      15.21      31.111       1.A        24.14         31.11         2511.
Ln'.



un                    t    atJII             am to              lm     ao lo                         tm o      l         urn    u             u I       am k      t         am    am              am          u
eutlit l~~~~~~~....*-- - -- _ *_  ._.......  ._._-_................   ......... .........  *-- *-_ ... ._ .._...... ... ....  ......... .._....
Cii ii jal ttr ttb                   8,3.38,n.m    5, 4,11 a..m.w, U.,m  tU,u  n.m,tu .i.ln.in, seam0sinu,tamen U .    ,1,t 16I ,131841 1,13,11U              n,m37,m 1NIE 01630 1n.tu,   1".10.3 .16,18  lUllel                      11,,0 M     11,1
Myuewe .4 etee  mt,                 ta,eaa,tis  zm,mf,aa al,m.iai  U.W., tJ,m,m  rn.Um.aai oiW,ail so,eu.   us.m,m   u,lte,t n,tm,v. a.tn.m  6,1614 .13.221,t   121,3,  n,ut,nt? A.1t4.ff  .e,a,   U,tU,W   u.m.tm    aa.,rn
b,m  t UAttilIta
Caritn k it ard eit waute t_b           1aa  21nw nUi,l n 1.1.411u 0.413,ts  U . .a  0m 21,,448 t13,21,   UW.a111 S0a,       1 1,1.MOM   11..1604 l1.441.41e n.414.13 u,u3m   U.u,m   n .n8        U   n24.   arnn  e IN.Man ltIIStl,2  Ul.mU.l  IU,m.Mn
t thu'2Jl.                                      'mi a,sn  ItW r       5UIII asum  SInS    eUt,w     clam5    13.15    ri,a        U2,U2   InUl    sem            mu.mJ     m.rn   aU,ma    a.att.m  1  2u33,in.l.U  4i am.asX    8.1m.n 4    a,au
12,14.4                                23.301121.33?   16.31    aa,m            MAu,es        1     UA        M111          I         I         4A    W91            M     W R IM12jWj                     .MW 104              ,Mu     1014        11
NOI&                                   tl.m      In.wS       WM.#      WAS."     Ot,
uetinltt  2ar aecap.f                 1U,41
CraIltcr                                                           J,Ut,US  13,1,  1,3s,11    ,m,1 3te ut,m,    ssu,m,m   n.m,ia  aa,m.nm  pa,Ul,t2   U,aa,aa  aU,eIU,U   11,51.1  85,2t4.38,t  u.nt,u   ae,m,e    alma.   U,mi,Us    u.auwn
cfwiun                                  3~alti   t,585   ua,,c4,03.81  a.Mm.   ,a*I 1.131     11,40,33  1.13,111  1I,33,1  14..a4,5  31.6014  rn,us,m  n.m,1m   14,m.m   u,amaimm   uamz,,                                    eaeaa    a.
asantmuts                      vitae~~2.013s  fincas    uilag36  sua3s11  1,8 4.113041.01   14.443  1. ,3 N1.E11,4         143    14. ,31     141.0.0      1,1 N.E. ..   9 11.   ,3 11.    M 14,, u.    8.H.W  tu.s,    aimN.M1             TM.
.....                                                    ..........                                                            ...                 ..... ........ .. . ...... ............. . .. .......... ... .  . . ....... .......... .  . . ....................... 
bt Ce.fftt AUSU11,6J,.181 1                                a..au.ea ,   ,01,U1 .   tIT.M.   ".13.3176 n28.W,   H.13,              5 1, .1 .   U.M.1,E O.M,n   Os,m,   U,    Outn  U6St48  N,31,12, 11.1 3,13t 618s.16     ?,.I           ,,.M l1                       Weu
ttlmee  31mm                                        un        SU       U,S         su Iu,UIUUUUsU,etU2SIlbku,nn    IU,t  l,ltl.IU,  IU, Itub,I   l,   8l ,""S                                                                            I.U,          .l
Wfft       al ffAt                               U WA        WM UUIII          1,m,1 anm,m aa.M                 U,au      s,,ilo     14.I     s.m.m     1mm         aut     ,WIN   e,i,           t,      t4,1Um    1..1        ",.M       t,3111      115,14
hutca                                  I'MM    61311 1.1t 3,i11   13,1111   IStu l    3.4s    1.1 1   2  ,1,11 14                 1,3 ,14 .4   6 1,45    14.41    11,451     14.4.     14,.43  13,0,       14.31.     3.3.46} 28 .3,6        WAlS   3 .4
am           ~~~~~~~~~~1.1,0la.a   IeSOM   1,1,1410  211,8,1   11,2141.   Mo.1le3  N.M.1614   11.012.112 3,8.143.3   3,10,3 .1 3.Jum 1133 3.641,   "4".37 U.E ,14,3  0,13,16  0.54.86  ILiU,3   6,.111,3   3,4.3                3 1.3    ;.1;1
Sbareti lu                             1M.214  1.04.4    18,8.11    1,3344    1,531,138  a.lla,wr  1,111.1.14 81,13  1..1,13  1,4j1.13          . 1.13 .131 1,1     1,4.M1    1,411   1,1.11  a.SMa   1.6,41   1.1,j3   1a...s    1aM91    1.1i.a
li.ta3... l ...... .11,101 Win        _1,1 _.111 283,     ,.1.,1         ..110,1     1.,.13,1   IMA.  _3,31--111 - 1,131,10  I.1,3       .1- S..,11E   ,3,1  U.U.0E  1_16,E  __wE,6   _,13,8                   .11.__ 8
--- .. .... .ffins ....u.......... .......... ...-u,tn  . .ub  n,sn.m   n,5u,w  n,nt.us   .i n  .s "   .m u ..... ,s ...... . tn,w ., m ., i u,m,w ..     n    t n,mm.t .b ....                                .......
U21,11 4.31S.111  3,6U.M S.M.0    8,331.J16  1 t    lU   4  tMAI t        31 a    t t  W   S t4 .4 St 4m mn   U.111. m    .N.0 1m .0.  14 U.         1 m .     7 W     M m8       0 m1        1   N    .441 n3m    S  11      I
WM                                     11~~~~~~~~~.0.._ U.T...   1.13.111. _ .......... ..... .... . ._. ..._   _ __._.1-............................._ _ .M.124  _il    1.66.1  MM=  3.14.1b.... SA   _ __.0     _ .11..... . . .. .    . _._1  U.X.    _W   _,,   j.. .......
11,11       MM US,NI     1  | em *nmM      n,U.1    *,111slN   1u11.04  *,n,m1S  m S.5643   I.M D0     a.m.m0 SAM            1A     6t,41ti     1,451.i n.m.m0  $lUSn   n1am"    n4.twu    ttol.U            1.0
I .....U .s ..... .4 ....  ... .. .t t .... .tlUt    .. .§ ......  4tlttui"ttS   st4      Si"t                  '4        i'         *"" |"     
....... .... __M=.__ .,1.1...1__1,M.31 ___10  I.... ___ _ 1.2.0..00 3....M.   _ P_AWN   4.......141 G..M.  __ 63,__.__1........11.0_ ..,,,,__   ,,_,,,,,,___  ..........................................m_,,,_, __,,
lumuN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~M U, ,1  Henns,l ,,  , ,42,, s,umUUIt  ,u  Umn  ,n,UU  s ="U  nemummnm.  tbu nMlt""Snn.



231        502        II"5      5103        am          a          13l      ss6        low  ... lon ----  --                       6015       se         g          ismaun               us          im           ar          rno
ht.m  later. tatnse                         4:1.245    32,423  3 .  5AN       2,3141    341.540    1280156   513,415    ,15011    .51 115.24145    5,51,111   1,311,016 ,1311 tws    I..ij5,5       ,1,155443    5,13,5"I3   1,3,3    5,011,4    2,34,01                I.G1.52
lIeu g.t lulling f"Mt of 1.4,
k"utns5                                    40.13      11,15 11 1  M101    501.05      411455     5155       41.31    £11.130    05.113    53,417    53,41         MAPi    *.II   00                tv,sso    is.111   1T.3         MA5N        MAT21       31,54         WIN
St,.5It)IIia.    ale 45 find inubt           50      510.18o)560                      (511111                1,105l   (21.45)    54.315-----..........   ....                                                                                             ....         ....
144.5 Iris qaratlrn              411~.171..   ..... ..... 4,3 51 .28  .63.............    ....   ..1. .12,201........ ,6, ,,      .,41,       .........   15,55......5..                 5,3.0...4....334 1..15.5.......                                      142554
total   5.m "Orario IeTtu115.2                         45.501    5555        356         3,1       515,455M    01,5      511    5,151.05    31.50    to,43          35.012    111,13  I.M.,63   2^114,         511.40    31.63.13401.1          5M.1I3       5.1431?1     34.555
ban truefer fad                                                              55.165         54      4,357      I,3                   5,53
lint                                                   05.53      11.1411     5,11    I,021 5.555   301,  11) ,4.5451  5,23,14015,54,13
5.h5i5a,y emu?s                                                                                   13,113  5,34,562
4.531.405  4,1,10315    MAN,  1.124,615   1,0151,63   6,555,655  55,53,5n   1,3,53   5.1510             6    5,454,114  2,1,5048  I,31,5         3,W13 5,50,   I1.0 ,8 11525.31) 15113135)l 51.118,1135           ,11  1         3,5531  I
£,IieutiS. of teals 
11mtm  LB liau                                                    11.251
SlliSim   pSi                               11.3115                                     111,1110   1211,31              555,13                541.163    540,1      540,5      53,3       540,611    50.13    501,6       33,13      53.63      501,         131.631      53,63
tat "la                                    1011.54    525,50     21.21.1    561,6       3,114    53,63       MA 1,1   1  31,141    31,01    0012,61    53111. 111        1    53,U31          m 13,30 1  06,5   5,13.1.53   5.555,1   5..21    ,3.414    1.311,03    13,53,654
twim  of fin4 "mut                          51.41    234,40    515,31    113,63        W          RUN53  124 .5  ,1,6     11,5    311.311     53,1411    54L,a      510,1    45355        NSA3       5,554      114.115    13,511   I5,34       615311       015.5415     3,554
Srtuutu                                   9.114.555   2,163,10       13                        14.
MiutmIt of d,l4e,ia                                                           5.1311
bai tiuotlr tue                              11.111       in       1,055                 4.351                            5,615
1.5.1.1.w lnt                              11rw.5411
,11M.411  3.11,052,53       53 1,5 15551.31   3,61247   SAM,   1,51,17    5 ,3 164,1   4,314014     461,113  1,13,515   4,560.1,114,425J  1,334,531   ,111,11   5,1411,016  1,453,13    (13,5111  513,63  2.451,13            5,.63.
gluseime Iturtleg coital
lacng. Iiecruml im "mui
2.5 O  lalk the-  t*ab                  Iat 5,145   5,,41) 5151,T5   5,53,1551 511             LIMA4,   ,0560,50   5,155,135  54,5511141  5,5061.31   1M2,2       MAN,    6112,134  3.n0         415181,111,501   5,53,33   1,5315 1,63,5315.43,1   4.13,1 ,.111    1,0.17,5
5.1141,5111    55)154   5,411,21  11.555,13  5,3.611  I,13.0  113,54154   6,1,31.1  6,311.0        .M1 1.455 ,01,5   6.255,43   1,65,431  5,141,11  1,11,01  1.555,3  4,52,40   4,41,1015  4.03,5               4,63.112    1,6.M3
IluKrM) deerim Si IlAblSttSil
Curm,1  dquSt .6 aSSet scent          5l,141.2441 3.511.554 (1,5,555.I51   53,3   540355,1,3   5301    ,5.335,1155  5,5.51(,1.1  51 1,354,451,116) 4,4134.,1)51,1#1814,15,31  (1641,14 1 4.13a.131   45,5.635m
..           .             u:~~~~~~s  et:::::ii ~~~~~~Z=n..?  =::Viii  Z= =i  iu:&:m:: :et                5    I MU::::ii   ::i:=i:t:e    :::    n..4.:ts:                           :.M           eim        ;



son caln lrmm now
COl'e Ioutin  Irchu       nloas   Uilr tk  inject
ICllOI                     IUI    11         toll    119      [its    11u 4    1115    1191      ll       119     Im      0H      281    ml    119         19       215    n         2        2m      2m       Tlml
-----------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, ---   ----    ....     ....    ----     ---,,,   --  ....     ....    ...   ...  ...   ...  ...   ....    ... ... -- ---   --      ---
----------------------- ----------------------------------------          IS'l'    ort---------- -----Wl'   lmj   ............................--------------
toreip kehuge hlo,a
Ioo lacrease  Coffee Sales                   4,111   1,1S  11,6811  31,511  41,1153  13211  61,N14163581   6105  86               1,316 11        1,3I 8  8I1,8    1,1  81,191  11,331  32,31  3136   113   1418.3,m
frog olitt Improvlee                            1    1,834   2,481   4,124   6,618   6,11  13,343  14,164  15,446  15,116,38J   16,31U  16,311  16,388  16,381  11.3U, II,U   16.35    ,.3     16,3UI  24.613
Ilmsclers  loflon                            3,161  11,117  13,033   1,114   6,313   5,341   7,115   3,196                                                                                                               U4,t
TOTU  IOnICI 110113  IULOIIS                   8,1m4  20,124  33,118  45,111  61,175  88,344 182,375 1I2,582 113,556 34,603 101,151 117,750 107,t10 181,150   161,15  10,15t6 101,150 1111  101,11  10,5   i                 m
forhNlP  Ichage OttlonI
Project forelp  ihlaue                         4111   1,117   2,114   2,116   2,365   2,155   1,101   1,531                                                                                                              16,36
Outflon
Foretin   acIne gOtulow                                                                                 6,651   6,801   1,165   4,115  1,313  17,311  11.483  16,111  11.410  17,7114    ,411   8,431   1,41   111,31
After hl Of IreJect
lepaac t to llanclera
- 1H8                                                 It       44      It      ?11     160      2t1     221      233     233      2133   1,312     1,3    11   I,315   1,36     1,383   1,351   1,351   1,3U          1,66
- CDC                                          O     14      s21       3    1,41    2,20t   2,845   2,148   2,643   2,575   2,501   2,352   2,262   1,653   1,615            ft;     31       Ul  1 5I          II    23,01
t0111U 1608111 IiC I  Om=                        413   1,137   3,556   3,03   3,16    4,1 21   4,041  13,388  11,183  11,874  11,363  10,157  210,1     11,926  18,021  11,135  18,46   11,021  16,133  16,051   2311,11
II? 1010 I RC IIU K  FLOSS                     1,611  II,f 1  21,632  41,t11  51,114  15,21  11,421  59,514  81,16   12,61   16,356  61,612  66,642  n1,3    173,128   l,136  55,344  U,123 U          11,613  U8,6  1, . 
J/ CUrret up to leatr 2000. Therkeatef Yur 20111 1flatio  factor ued.



sicon corm  lroniui mnoct
601c Cask flov Deder te Project
DISCRlIUOI               1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    195    1996    1997    19918   1999    200U   2001    2012    2003    2104    2105    20K    201    2010    2I                 tOtLS
--- ---                 --      --       --     --      ....     ---     ---     --    .  --     - -       --     ---     --       --      --       --     --      ....  .  -.-.    ....    ---       ----
l-I Sb million                                                                                                                                                               -I
lorenreu t Cua  IDfIloO
frog Taes ud Oeties                         6.3    54.6    41.9      8.0     9.t    10.1    10.7                                                                                                                   141.3
from Couty Council Cews                     0.8     I.?     3.3      6.0     9.0    12.5    16.8    11.8    11.1  1l.1    20.7    20.?    20.1    20.1    21.1   20.?    21.1    21.1    21.7    21.?              313.3
Froe bport Duties                           9.4    21.3    41.2   14.5   112.3   156.4  209.4  222.9  234.3  246.3  '258.9  258.9  251.1  251.1   258.1   251.9  251.1   250.1   251.3   251.1                  3,116.8
Lou leppaets from                                           1.3    36.?    13.5    so.?   125.0   168.3  180.6   219.6  240.1   231.5  201.6   110.    146.7   111.4 I         6.3    23.1                      2,116.2
Coop awa
IDI lmlous                                43.0   144.5   192.5  150.2   12?1.  130.9  126.3    65.3                                                                                                              N1.1
tOtlL COIlhlIUt CIUs IILOIS                  61.3   222.0   280.2   215.3   342.1  398.1   489.0  412.4   433.1   405.6  519.1   511.1  419.2  460.3   421.3  313.1   341.9  312.1   213.6   219.6    1,U4.5
Goven eat Cash Outfiloa
Project pemdittres
- Coop lua                               42.8   115.3   14.1   129.0   140.2   1419.6   123.1    59.4                                                                                                          IK6.C
- Other Governwet Project                32.t   23.6    29.9    25.8    21.7    21.4    22.4                                                                                                                    113.4
Aseiciu
tepayeint to limnclers
- iD                                      0.1     0.3     0.9      1.6     2.5     3.b     4.5     5.1      5.4     5.5     5.6    33.4    33.3    33.2   33.0    32.0   32.?    32.6    $2.5    32.3           331.3
TIL coniEm  CASE ODIIL0o1                    15.6   139.2   111.9   156.4   110.4   114.5   150.0    64.5       5.1     5.5     5.6    33.4    33.3    33.2    33.0    32.1    32.1   32.6    32.5    32.3         1,42I.3
l   COlo=    CISI I3(Oof)FLOVS              115.2)   82.8  102.3   118.9  1I1.6  224.2   339.0  401.1   428.3   480.1   514.1   471.6   455.1   421.2   395.3  351.1   315.2   210.1   247.1   241.3               6,Ut7.1



:: .      .   .     .                .      .     .   .:: .-                                 -
l, -"=S===   = ,                                                             a- __---° a   ,                       -           -       _-a--_       _ .. .      ...... -- - .-                        ^£-^
C-------                             -        -             ----
,9  a.                                    aae.-u,e;,_  .    ..                                                                         _         _                  _     j... ... ... .       ..
0~~~~~~~~.  -  - C. .   i4g      Sj_j -  -  a,                            °                             -         f      ° _4      S        99 °
i!~~~~~~~~~~ i3                                          0 if O~ 5                                                                     99==^        00009_    _0 -~ *    E-0i-,    .........-._   -a,- .9
~~~~~~~~~=                                                                              : r,                       ...- a io..                 9;           a,- X  *  i              -a9s                                              -
3g 9              lEfl3.9^,j    -^                                j a ,noa                 9           .40j_ a   , a a3 Xn i.                          i :_    a a                     ,ej,,  ^                           _



- 113 -
OCOUI COIIU I lOIU     PIWCIt             TAUI   I
...----------------------                Pag  2 of 3
Coffee Pricial
1969     1991m    1195        2U1
JlICtD IC IC  PRICIS a  fiCTO! UA   - C00ilRA1   SICM  (nab/°t)
Cm  tpesems at 22 of Ahetioa Price (norage)-I/    1,161    1,117    1,176             1,112
xort hty at 16m  of lActios Price (average)                I         I        I           I
Cocuty Council Coms at 15 (averae)                         I         0        1           1
IPCn  fixed 3iliU  Charges                             731      131       131         731
KICO lillig Ageacy fee(average)J/                        369      389       392         3914
Coop   iom CQarges at 1.5t of auction get of             751      751       757         161
above charges (average).
U fACtOR! WTI
-Clus 1                                            64,232   64,232   61,565       64,903
-Class 2                                           63,132   63,132   63,501       63,634
-Clams 3                                           62,632   62,032   62,438       62,766
-Class 4                                           60,363   60,383   60,843       61,163
-Class 5                                            57,633   57,633   56,165      56,492
-Class 6                                            52,134   52,134   52,166      53,149
-Class I to 10                                      19,141   19,141   20,910      21,094
-ibui                                              16,392   16,392   16,312       16,423
Coop Society Charges at 122 (Average)j/                6,666    6,666    6,711       6,152
DILIIIIID fACto   GAtl (aLL CLASSIS)
-Clus 1                                             56,621   56,624   56,914      51,212
-Class 2                                           55,651   55,651   55,971       56,270
-Claus 3                                           54,662   54,682   55,039       55,326
-Class 1                                           53,226   53,226   53,633       63,915
-Class 5                                           50,604   50,604   51,290       51,561
-Class 6                                           45,951   45,951   46,604       46,651
-Class 7 to 10                                      16,613   16,613   16,485      16,595
-Ebui                                              14,450   14,450   16,142       16,210
DILIURID fICTIOI OAT! (ATRUSI GDI).3/                 42,433   42,433   43,197      13,426
COOPIRATIYI SICtOI
J/Averages boasd on class 4.
_2/ the agecy fee is 0.15S of the auction price net of export duty and net of Coumty C
Council Cess.
_/R1nsed on *eighted average actaal deliveries from the smallholder sector 1982-1987.
_/Coop. Dept. nidelimes stipulate a 102 liit. Is practice, te chargtes are oftem
higker. Measures under tke proJect would reduce charges from current levels believed
to averase aroud 151.



- 114 -
SICOID COFFEE IbPNOIE1t PrOJECT          TULI 1
---------------------------------        Page 3 of3
Coffee Pricing
1989     1990     1995        2000
PROJICTlD ICONObIC PRICIS  T FAICOY CATI - ISTIT  SICTOR
CiB  Expenses at 2S of Auction Price    1,167    1,167    1,176        1,182
Export Duty at 102 of Auction Price          0        0        0           0
County Council Cess at 1S (average)          0        0        0           0
IPC0 fixed Killing Charges                731       731      731         731
IPCU Billing Agency fee(average)_2/       389       389      392         394
Coop hion Charges at 1.5S of auctio         0         0        0           0
above charges (average).
El IACTORY GATE
-Class 1                             64,983   64,983   65,321      65,663
-Class 2                             63,883   63,883   64,258      64,595
-Class 3                             62,783   62,783   63,195      63,526
-Class 4                             61,134   61,134   61,600      61,924
-Class 5                             58,384   58,384   58,942      59,252
-Class 6                             52,886   52,886   53,625      53,910
-Class 7 to 10                       19,893   19,893   21,727      21,855
-Ubuni                               17,143   17,143   19,069      19,184
El FACTORY PRICE (NV.GRAD8)3/          48,889   48,889   49,761      50,027
Estate Processing Costs at 10%          5,624    5,624    5,667       5,697
ITO FIACTORY GATE (ALL CLASSIS)
-Class 1                             58,467   58,467   58,771      59,079
-Class 2                             57,477   57,477   57,814      58,117
-Class 3                             56,488   56,488   56,858      57,156
-Class 4                             55,003   55,003   55,423      55,714
-Class 5                             52,530   52,530   53,031      53,311
-Class 6                             47,582   47,582   48,248      48,504
-Class 7 to 10                       17,898   17,898   19,548       19,664
-Ubuni                               15,424   15,424   17,157      17,260
IIt) FACTORY GATE (AV.GRADE)3/         43,986   43,986   44,771       45,010
ESTIAI SECtOR
J/Averues based on class 4.
J/ The agency fee is 0.75S of the auction price net of export duty and ne
J/Based on veight:d average actual deliveries frou the 1982-1987.



- 115 -
-                    FsplofI
.... . .......
ueo Cenu luNWw ?Wm    Wu I
.. __..._ ---- ------.....................  fill lo*1 3
Coffee Nilet
CoSnli   IN3  VIOuAiL FlCtS                              I$        11i       1311        20
IC. leileaot - Otbur                                    S,15O     3,153    3,041        3,061
liii   ltHie. (3,"'If)
Frai  for  nla       IlU d Colfee
-Clas I                                                  2IT       21n       321         3?2
-Clua  2                                                 251       251       333         333
-Close                                                  213        13        233        2in
-Claus 4                                                 2o        2in       251         251
-Cluas  1                                                '51       15        III 2o t
-Clus                                                     It        I        101        1s
-Clue   to 101/                                         -551 11 -       5N             -5n s
-nuiJ                                                   -6In      -         -551        -151
tep  ubad Caloff   -ua  Dock (         oe)
-ClA$  I                                             4,0U1    4,011    4,025         4,40
-Class 2                                              3,133     3,031    3,113        3,f11
-Clas 3                                               3,015    3,15    3,013          3.11?
-Clsa   4                                            3,U10    3,710      3,001       3,320
-Class 5                                              3,623    1,622    3,655         3,013
-Class 6                                              3,300    3,30       2,351       3,3i6
-Class Ito 10                                         1,108    1,410    1,523         1,5)0
-Ibul                                                 1,260    1,260    1,310         1,311
flixed Cbarteu D othatesa                                 (1)       (117)     (11)         (11)
frelgt ad lsseraice (avergetL/                          (200)    (260)    (20i)         (201)
keys  aeste  Coflfo - l0O  loeaeua   (SSIC   3)
-Class 1                                              3,112     3,112    3,111        3,0ll
-class 2                                              3,110    3,110    3,131         3,150
-Class 3                                              3,640    3,64       3,611       3,1690
-Clus 4                                               3,55     3,555    3,501        3,600
-Class 5                                              3,400    3,400    3,431         3,449
-Class 6                                              3,039    3,009    3,131         3,141
-Clua   7to 10                                        1,220    1,220      1,331       1,339
-ntu                                                  1,013    1,013    1,181         1,181
laya Pashed Coffee - 101 loebau (ISk/tou)
-Class 1                                             69,100   61,100   10,156        10,515
-Class 2                                             60,651   60,651   601046        01,400
-Class 3                                             61,503   61,503  6P,036         61,204
-Class 4                                             65,111   65,111   66,210         6,610
-Clue 5                                              62,110   62,110   63,415        03,121
-Class 6                                             51,168   51,160    11,944       S0243
-Class 1 to 10                                       22,711    22,111   24,637       24,113
-Ibua                                                19,e45   19,014    21,162       21,914    -
leterest, KherNis ad luosrauco (aterauel_2             (1,313)  (1,131)  (1,152)    (1,161)
liWd CMusts to VD Io bass                                (lo1)    (1900)    (911) (111)
. ... .. .... .. ...............
LOCtlOI PRICI - 1111011
-Clun  1                                             61,155   61,155   61,502        61,052
-Clau  2                                            u4,u31   66,037   66,421         66,166
-Class 3                                             64,111   64,10   65,340         65,610
-Clais 4                                             63,242   63,242   63,11         64,010
-Class 5                                             60,441   60,441   61,011        61,335
-Class 6                                             54.055   54,050   55,612        55,004
-Class I to 10                                         ,u 11,311    23 ,10?          2, 310
-1hal                                               1t,12#    6,514   10,144         23,N4
1/ issued sold is toe quta sarkets only
JV Average based Os Clus 4



- 116 -
SICO 101111  I   WANTtUI 2
won cami IIm uTM  PROC                   TitLE I
----.......  hg  2 of 3
Coffe Pricing
119    1it"       115N      2t1
1910  COISTAI? PiIICIAL ?IICES AT PICTOIT aTE - Coo TE .TI    (lb/ Ta)
CU lip....  at 22 of Auctiom Price (averege)J/   1,265    1,265    1,274          1,261
Wort hty at 1iS of Auctio Price (mrage)              Bi24     6324     6372        64U5
Couty Coucil Cecc at 12 (average)                     521      529       534        536
MPC  Fixed Hillllg Charge.                            715      715       795        795
IPC0 lilliag Moso, fee(nverge)_2/                     423      423      426         426
Coop Dilon Ckarges at 1.52 of auction tet of         617       617       823        827
above chkres (average).
II fACTOET aTll
-Ca.ls  1                                        57,193   57,193   57,477      57,779
-Clasa 2                                         56,122   56,122   56,442      56,739
-ClaIs  3                                        55,051   55,051   55,407      55,696
-Cla.. 4                                         53,445   53,445   53,654      54,136
-Clua  5                                         50,766   50,768   51,266      51,537
-Clsas 6                                         45,414   45,414   46,089    46,335
-Clia.  I to 10                                  13,289   13,289   15,030      15,124
-h1bul                                           10,612   10,612   12,442      12,523
Coop Society Charges at 12S (averase)3/             6,1413    6,1413    6,462     6,1497
DIEIEID FICTOY GATE (aLL CLASSIS)
-Cla.s 1                                         49,626   49,626   50,074      50,337
-Clam. 2                                         48,8I3   18,693   49,172      #9,431
-Clais 3                                         47,960   47,960   48,270      48,524
-Class 4                                         46,561   46,561   46,917      47,165
-Claur 5                                         44,229   44,229   14,663      14,899
-Claim 6                                         39,564   39,564   40,153      10,367
-Clams I to 10                                   11,577   11,577   13,094      13,176
-USua                                             9,245    9,245   10,639      10,910
DILIVIEID FICTORY GAIT  (AIUGI GRDI)               36,174   36,174   36,671      37,073
aeed on leighted Average Coffee Deliveries
By Claim 1982-1987.
J/Averagea based on clsus 1.
2/The Uagene fee is 0.75S of tke auction price ett of export duty and
county coucil coma.
_3/Coop Dept, guidelinem stipulate a 102 lalt. In practice, the charges are often
higher. haseure  uder the project voeld reduce charge.  mn current level, believed
to nerage aroud 152.



- 117 -
SICOND COV.31 IDPE0oYUNT PEOJICT          TAULI 2
.------.------------------                Page 3 of 3
Coffitee Pricing
1989     1990      1995       2500
1989 COlSTANT fIlIICIaL PIIC11   At FACTOR! GATU   - ESTATE SECTOR
CEl   peuises at 21 of hAction Price    1,265    1,265    1,274         1,281
Ixport Duty at 101 of Auction Price       6324     6324      6372        6105
County Concil Cess at 1S (averaUe)         529       529      534         536
IPCU !ied Billing Charges                 795       795      795         795
IPCU lilling Agency fee(average)J2/        423       423      426         428
Coop Union Charges at 1.5$ of auctio         0         0        0           0
above charges (average).
t 1ACTOI1 GATn
-Class 1                              58,199   58,199   58,489      58,796
-Clams 2                              57,112   57,112   57,438      57,740
-Class 3                              56Wa24   56,024   56,386      56,683
-Claus 4                              54,393   54,393   54,809      55,098
-Clams 5                              51,675   51,675   52,181      52,457
-Class 6                              46,238   46,238   46,925      47,175
-Class 7 to 10                        13,617   13,617   15,386      15,481
-Ibuni                                10,898   10,898   12,757      12,840
El FICTORY PRICI (AVERAGE GRADE)        42,286   42,286   43,104       43,335



- 118 -
.............................. I............ bd
"            uc  n   -  mam ms a
.......... ~ ~           ~           ~          ~           I...
411 ---.....  .                                                                                 .....  Isv 3  4                                                       It                       itv        i1 t          13
0~l24 S1M
Ws!.  4s1j                    11,664 .#                             41,411.1    11,111.1    I11,12.      *4,2134    46:51.23.    61,44.4         ,426 4I441.6           4,4*1.1    226AI.       "14,1.6   21.61611
i.. 2u4                                                2,44.4       44,613.2   64,163.2    CO.444   144,41.4            fit.      I  W 2.601. 111,4. 2126. 22,62 22,4.             212, -14.    212,116.1   S1.1216.1
Ii          tshit SWts                                18,611.       U1,11.1    U.31S.t    6S.tlJ.2    U,ltS.I    11,.            14,111.1
Ls*vi                                                  1,11.?          .1 1,1 1.6  11,24.1    444,445.2    41,4*6.1    14,16.6.    u413.          1 44,41.6      . 84,6.    3.4   144,11.4  .4,613.6          ,.6..
WI1 huut. 2w"w.sstJ                                    6,23.         6,144.6      1,116.6     8,118.6     1,118.6    4161.3        6. 11131.?   6,144.1    1,1611.3    H2,1".       216661.4    ii.11.4    fins..
Fso  r    .           "11.2                                           6I1.8      2,44. 1.2    3      ,26       J 1.111  1. #nIA                 ,A2         2,622.4 *6114.4          4,m61.4    4,642.4      4,841.,
flu
btf   1111.1                                          3t.6          44I,I6.2   29.,86.1    22,416.4       t,U.2.l    1,663.6       11,46.4      l,Ut1.1    21,6.4       2,161.6    t.4t.t1    2,".t1   2,66.4
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
r        _gu        bNit               *,22                          11.          81.1      21,432.3    Il2,U6.l  .l 13.1        4,811.1
T s ws.n    s                                                                           s                            u
tLr.d                                                 311.1 .3       16411.1      1,236.4     4,111.1     51,11.3     4,184.3      4,144.3
.._~~ ~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~ ._.. _ ,..        ......                                                                        
"ILL  464111111                                            21,m6.        245,23.4   3166.311,    144,21.4   341,312.4  342.634.1   434,422.6   JU11213.6            AM       HO2,431.11.2,23 1 L    32,44.6  3174.3.6
r
aSitlbJ                                                             1.lU.U        tsA          41.211 ,11. 4,.62    1,6114   22,112.Ht  2IS4.I 11  6,111.11   2.2.1    1,.11       1.11         l          U  IU411   2,61.U
Nriasli SItsslJi                                                    43,641.61   42.11.66   42,643.34   43,48.61   43,261.16   43,214.01    43,312.518 "111 43.3)2      4,4.64    .41,1.44   41,424.6    .41,2.66
law3                                                                HI,11414  2241.23.11 3,1413.11  144,131.39  411,414.14  6*4,321.8     421,14.1   1151,133.40  116,11.81  3211233.43  61I.2*.41  21,23M.41
l     _Ka.t    lt. -uJ/                                   1,JU         U,Nt        IIA.6       2,1           ,421 3um1,3           13,314       11u11u.2    lu244,    111       1 11442    211.5Ss           32l6,
&"Ad ts
__,,,__,_,,__,,__,_.,_ ............           ......................... ,--_-.._.  
Tau     1231           8 aU ts                         2,.                                              314,112.11  112,18.11  461,614.1)   162,1132.23  84,31411.18  914,113.Nt  1611,424.36  81M.41   19164.4.
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.__ ......... . ._ .... _.. . _.__._.........._._._.........._. ... _.  .   ..
622k.) hssmmtl, Cet"ffts. .21                       21128,0.132    131622(4.1.8   114,314.4121,1614                  111,441.11  321814.6114   U14,161.11  SU1254,1.4  116,343213  MUM66.T  141,M11.2   858,817.65
kute 2trt     ul * lIt.. tM 15                111, l t1   lus                           242  IIt   1644..
Coop.1nf.i. Catf l.t.            Cement
Iniuc  hl2url 4b.  i. hut                        341  6itI                              M2 m  11t1   Ice 64 tut
nO.1  Pnrject                                       2348,11      1. 1411 .111-)I.UJ   224,24.61    2,841.23  143,144.11  31,2.11   462,164.1  1,881.1   121,121.N4 4191.11 111,314.tl  123,226.66
lefavi  Itulw fluof r t.                               2 vi1a                           m    Itt   22O potu
*6t ?"M t film*t 12t1                     2,84,211
J /Uus   22. 46 sf sill l bitj (ru,5 l qU.itY SNNI Ida1 sill bl silai8 It  imun                  tA nUIroject 3tt.
Cot     s  lecd I rera l   eintil    it aU    rad MIs    t .1 glat aid uedLur     to  far va      I .
J/Sul slb     pi Uu     t. tr tr u siuU    tb pnJect.
Jh13411 nii.15  inJcIt 411lnn,  5nftiln I4 21223121 to auid dubs  ntai t of fcton   asftiu.
I2rt 41tj at rmty nilmli tau an SW h.
jIu  mO sle naulitl  of *t l      rlns &M  fIctUI    unpn. pklr     s tablshott bPrt d4t2  rd nuUt cn.til rcu  d.4         4.
jIIwun           sulIu  n l lutis    rsqlnmct (iaw   1. l41r 32 flU  is adjinunt f4t gull suit...
j1rl ocsiuh u         .I   in .of cffee t.rp Isutinut mus.   1.sst ie             sll it Itr o nf  M  2 eftitl
sln.tIt tue    t. iitet a  I *     t  nal 2 cast flat ad oulipst.
J/huleant nab/ It  IS Utr  Mnt of rp28  lUslstUt a  tn HUt ntla to @5 flait adUi pst rMglan  nt.
tium  UU  Ise1.4   i        Us       itlug m n tm .
J/lt H W t  rl nfNf fdtln .4 "WA                           I n,tn  lintit.



- 119 -
t1ab 3
hae I. of2
m                                                  Teat        Tuer        Teat        Tear         Ta          Tear        Tear        fur         Tear       fTer         Ter          Tar
------------........-t11                                         IS          1t           11          11          is          21          21          22          23          24            25
Cattle  ueltertlJ/                       11,535.3    251,1.5    21,135.3    21,322.7       4,41.5        ,4I1.6    4,411.6    11,521.6    16,011.5    11,611.6    115.38.       "U A56.
h, I te                                151S,N3.1   151,355.1 5l1,315.1  151,351.1    51,305.1   151,355.1   11,311.1   1561,35.1 1I51,3n.1   151,355.1   1513S 5.1    151,3U 1.1
- ?ao est list"
tolou-l/                                 14,613.1   14,613.1   54,513.6   145173.1    54,513.5    546173.6    64,613.1   54,013.0   54,5173.6    54513.1   54,113.5            54,013.1
"II lattes tulrevatal                    11,312.1    1,153.1    10,651 3    11i,#1.4    11,565.4    1165.4    11.216.5    11,312.1    11,153.1    15,611.3    11n,5.4           11,655.4
fe   lusts                                1,11.4      6,11.4      R,U I       1,1111.4    1,111.4      5,651.4 l,551.4         5,581.4 I ,6,1.4    51681.4 I,1.4                8,511.4
ui,
Cdlfu IUl /2 2,662.5                                  2,662.5     2,55.5      2,22.6       2,562.5     2,112.6     3,662.5    25,421.     26,255.1     2,662.      2,112.6       2,6H2.1
in
project lae t hSit
l8 "M UCIISuL u Asmigs
M0AL IlCTIL COSts                            215,19161   271,n15.4   215,1965.    215,41.4   261,56t.1   261,516.1   261,695.6   216,115.4   291,123.2   214,136.6   214,691.0    211,121.1
EIm
Iseatal Frduetil
atlitijy/                                I5,861.10   1,118  U8     ,S11    15,611         15,516.1 n   6,610.1S   16,611.10   1,5115.10   11,616.10   15,5  .1C   16,615.11 6   16,51.16
?riee(I  h/toJ                           43,426.06   43,42U.6I  43,428.66   43,426.16   43,426.6611   43,425.     43,428.61   4,426.01  43,426.00   43,425.I5  413426.6     43,426.55
Value                                   61,232.45  811,232.45  111,232.45  611,232.45  611,232.45  1I1,232.45  811,232.45  117,232.45  611,232.45  511,232.45  111,232.45   117,232.45
balltty laroeeut
lenutul lmeua4                             180,585     111,116     151,116     161,224      161,224     161,124     111.224     161,224     181,224     181,224     111,224       161,224
lsduleal "YIJ/                                                                                                                                                                    211,353
TOT  INOlMtA  lI3DltS                   9N,211.05  991,1111  111,451.11  118,456.1   6611,455.5I  11H,456.61  1,456.61  9591,45.61  11,458.51  613,456.6 6191,451.67 1,215,11.3t
UT  c       FLOS
............
litbt Cooperative Colffe Fatories    555,154.05  5611,413.3  516,114.63  561,6l.13  516,166.13 566,066.13  555,131t.5  512,43119  $42,121.0t 560,114.13  561,061.13    6l,lt6.713
kose  latearl bte of letan
kt pre.t Valle at 122
Coeratiee Coffe  Factories Conant
rkSou    lstrul late of Itton
bell Project                            123,111.40 121,563.16 1206,214.1   115,568.25  131,161.95  136,1115.5  736.710.U  E11,141.32  11,7333.52  12,1,201.6  123,460.11   931,451.11
kh e    lateal late of latn
it  eaeat false At 12I



- 120 -
KENYA                        ANNEX 8
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT          Table 4
---------------------------------
Sensitivity Analysis
______________________
WITHOUT ICO AGREEMENT
Without factories
Net cash flow
ERR                                            30.02%
Factories
Net cash flow
ERR                                            27.57%
Total project
Net cash flow
ERR                                            28.61%
25% DECREASE IN REVENUES
Factories
Net cash flow
ERR                                            25.13%
Total project
Net cash flow
ERR                                            23.84%
25% INCREASE IN COSTS
Factories
Net cash flow
ERR                                            26.79%
Total project
Net cash flow
ERR                                            26.10%
SWITCHING VALUES AT 12% DISCOUNT RATE
Revenue Reduction 52%
Total project
Net cash flow
ERR                                            12.17%
Net Present Value                                 (0)
Cost Increase 93%
Total proJect
Net cash flow
ERR                                            12.06%
Net Present Value                                 (0)



- 121 -
c O muIIU            MIT POOCT                    Table I
1CIIITA L US 11IUIIT 101 SELLWU Cmlm
(sM per keetare)
MC TTUI---)                                    1            2           3            4            5           6           7.
kdx. Yield Modl
....... . . . .  . .
kea(ha)                  44,513.1
taeke ta                                     01.4        01.4         0.1          .7          .11          0.l         0.7
Ioertuutal Labour/hal/                        30          65          145          175         210          215          316
iodel Icremettal Labor                   534,036   1,513,102   4,517,055   5,451,6il   6,541,14    1,561,626   9,657,151
Nig Tield lodel
krea(ha)                21,013.00
Uptake lte                                   0.4         0.4          0.1          0l.         0.           0.l          0.17
-CNreoektal Labour/ha                         35          76          101          152         112          232         212
Wodel wereeostal Labour                  205,120     657,696   1,5718,92   2,242,912   2,833,152   3,423,392   4,013,632
Low Yield Model
AI(ha)                  51,521.00
ptake late                                   0.4         0.4          0.7          0.7         0.7          0.7          0.7
lurememtal Labour/ha                         50         100          115          135         165          205         230
Nodel lacrewutal Labour                1,030,580   2,061,160   4,148,085   1,869,491   6,613,066   l,394,412   8,296,169
Total lacreneital Labour (ibm)         1,859,136   4,231,958  10,244,031  12,564,020  16,0148,99  19,364,631  21,966,952
Total lIceruutal Labour (sygars)             930       2,116        5,122       6,262        6,024        9,692      1t,913
Total lacremtotal Labour (ujears)          1,004       2,285        5,532       6,175        8,666       10,168      11,862
lacludiag latatasij/
ll aacial value (000 k S)O2/               1,532      11,139       41,481      50,884       64,995       78,508      I6,966
_J/Ioereueats based oo figres is the Coffee Gross largias ad Labour hdgets is the project borkiag files.
2/hued oo 3.75.k. per hour.
J/Iacludes I pr ceat adjutmeat for estates based or pro rata prodectior.



- 122 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 3
UIXA
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMNTM PROJECT
Guidelines for factory investmet
The guidelines for factory investment covering procedures from
feasibility to contract execution are existing from SCIP 1. These have
been extensively revised and refined so as to place much greater emphasis
on determining the financial viability of each individual investment. A
full set of the revised guidelines is incorporated in the project working
papers which have been made available to the project management. In
siuary the process for factory Investment under the project is as
follows:- Requests for factory improvement originating from a Union or
Society will be subjected to a PRE-FEASIBILITY SELECTION carried out by the
District Coffee Working Group (DCWG) in each district. The DCWG consists
of :- the District Agricultural Officer (DAO) and the District Co-operative
Officer (DCO) - alternate chairman; the district coffee extension officer;
the general manager of the District Cooperative Union; the secretary
manager of a non-affiliated society; the credit co-ordinator (DCO's
office); the crops officer (DAO's office); the water baliff; a
representative of the Co-operative Bank; the district development officer
(DDO) and the district works officer - permanent membership - with
co-option as required of the provincial or district coffee factory engineer
(PCFE or DCFE) and the district coffee factory technician (DCFT). The DCWG
will complete form 2 of the revised guidelines outlining briefly the
processing constraints, a processing capacity checklist and their
preliminary choice (with reasons) between a rehabilitated factory, re-sited
factory or new factory or rejection of the request as the case might be and
forward this to the PCMU.
If the pre-feasibility is positive the PCMU assisted by the DCWG
will carry out a full feasibility as set out in form 3 of the revised
guidelines. This form sets out details of the processing constraints; the
processing capacity requirements; facilities and equipment needed; the
capital and operating costs and the expected benefits from investment. It
will show clearly (1) the financial rate of return and (2) the factory
cash flow after financing. If the investment is financially viable for the
individual factory concerned the PCMU will complete form 1 of the revised
uidelines recommending an investment - i.e. rehabilitation, re-siting or a
new factory.
The society will then make provision in its budget for the proposed
investment and apply to the Commissioner for Co-operative Developrent (CCD)
for authority to incur expenditure (AIE) on the basis of the feasibility
study completed. On receipt of the approval from the CCD the DCWG and the
PCMU will assist the society to prepare a project loan application for
submission to the Co-operative Bank subject to the following review
procedure:- The donors will review together with the PCMU the first 6 loan
applications under the project and determine if the investment guidelines
are appropriate and are being applied in a satisfactory manner. If serious



- 123 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 3
shortcomings are noted in the feasibility procedure (either the guidelines
or their application) the donors will make detailed recommendations and
will review a further 6 applications and so on until the ahortcomings have
been adequately addressed. Subsequently when investment procedures are
operating satisfactorily the loan applications will be submitted to the
Co-operative Bank after final review by the PCMU. The Donors will review a
sample of 3-6 loan applications during the regular project supervison
missions.
The approval of a loan by the Co-operative Bank will be subject to
similar sub-project lending conditions as those which operate! under SCIP 1
- Viz: 10 year loans; interest rates in line with current lending rates for
agriculture (at present 15% p.a.) and a grace period of 2 years before
commencement of capital repayment. When the loan agreement has been signed
between the Co-opezative Bank and the society the DCWG will assist the
society in the preparation of tender invitations (from previously
registered and approved contractors), the evaluation of bids and the
awarding of the contract. The DCWG will subsequently supervise the
contract execution through the MOA district engineering staff (who are
co-opted to the DCWG) and will arrange the forwarding of the completion
certificates and contractors invoices at the Co-operative Bank for
payment. The complete cycle for factory improvement is set out
diagramatically below.



Annex 9
- 124 -                   Page 3 of 3
CO-OPERATIVE COFFEE FACTORY DEVELOPMENT
FACTORY IMPROVEXENT CYCLE
Society/Union
'request for
factory
improvement
.                                                                   I
DCWG
. pre-feaoibalitys                          t
selection
PCXU M DCCG
AppraisaL     a
loan preparatLon                                 agemn
.          '   \            ~~~~~~~IDA
Review sample
v  of feasibilitoes
10 . studies.
_    CMU   ACPK  (XU
i loan submission    i                      | Management &
Supervision
CO-OPERATIVE BANK
Loan approval
DCWVG/PCMU                                  Loan agreement
bid invitation                      ___~Loan facility
bid evaluation                              Payment of
contract award                              Contractors.
tCertificates of 
Completion



- 125 -
Page 1 of 4
SECOND COMFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
FUNGICIDES, PESTICIDES & HERBICIDES USED IN COME
The Kenya Government exercises close control over the use of all
farm chemicals through the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), the Coffee
Research Foundation (CRF) and the Pesticides Board. For coffee, the
policy and practices regarding the use of farm chemieals are contained in
booklets (5 in all) which are published by CRF and updated at regular
intervals. In addition, specific Technical Circulars are directed to all
coffee growers through the extension/liaison services on pests and
diseases of economic importance. The CRF aims to decrease hazards from
application by issuing two separate lists of inescticides - one giving
those recommended for use under smallholder conditions and another,
longer list, giving those recommended for use under estate conditions.
The attached is a list of fungicides, pesticides and herbicides which has
been tested and recommended by the CRF for use in coffee and have been
approved by the Pesticides Board. The CRF recommendations include, in
addition, detailed Instructions on the storing, handling and application
rates for these chemicals as well as instructions on the use of
protective clothing.
In addition Farm chemicals which pose a serious environmental or
health hazard are denied approval by the CRF and are excluded from the
market by a system of import licences. It is noteworthy that pesticides
such as dieldrin, aldrin, and others with high acute toxicity such as
parathion have been excluded from the market. Similarly captafol
fungicide which is a suspected carcinogen has been withdrawn completely
from use in coffee.
Fungus diseases and fimaicide use
Two fungus diseases are economically important In Kenya coffee -
Hemeleia Vastratrix (leaf rust) and Glomerella Cingulata (coffee berry
disease). The recommended control measures are by routine sprays of
mainly cogger-baset formulations as listed.
Pest and pesticide use
Routine sprays of insecticides for pest control are never
recommended by the Research or Extension Services in Kenya. InteQrated
Peat Control is the official recommended approach and the concept and
procedures are clearly described in a circular which is kept up to date
and distributed for use in both the Estate and Smallholder sectors. The
emphasis is on biological control and cultural control of pests and
applications of pesticides are strongly discouraged unless pest
populations have exceeded the "economic injury" level.



- 126 -
hnLUAQ
Page 2 of 4
FUNgCIDES. PESTICIDES ANED IMRBICIDES USED IN COMEE
Bioloajcal contrgl methods have included the introduction of
beneficial insect predators such as the parasitic wasp Anagyrus Kivuensis
which has successfully reduced me*lybug attacks in coffee. Cultural
contrgl methods include regular pruning, hladling and de-suckering which
reduces the level of Antestia bug and mulching which reduces the level of
Thrips. Simple and straightforward counting procedures for coffee peat
populations have been devised by the CRF and Chemical spravs are
recommended only when the populations of the major pests have exceeded
the economic injury level which have been defined as follows:-
Antestia bug                                -    1-2 bugs per tree
Capsid bug                                  -    4 per tree
Giant looper caterpillar                    -    10-30 per tree depending on
cropping cycle
Leaf miner                                  -    35 adult moths per tree
Weeds in coffee and herbielde use
Chemical weed control is used by about 65% of estate growers but
not more than about 13% of smallholder coffee growers. The remainder
carry out mechanical and hand-weeding procedures. Detailed circulars are
prepared and distributed by the Research and Liaison Services on the
correct use of herbicides, the application rates and the precautions to
be taken in their application.



- 127 -
Annex 10
Page 3 of 4
KrA
LIST OF FUNGICIDES. PESTICIDES AND HERBICIDES
APPROVED FOR USE IN COFFEE
DISEASE/IST          gRECOMMENDED CHEMICALS (3)             NITES
CBD                ) Daconil 2787 - W275                    S/H & Estates
Hemeleia           ) Delan                                   "        "
Bacterial blight   ) Dyrene                                  "
50X Coppez ivrmulations
25% Copper formulations
Leaf miner         ) Fenitrothion 50% ML                    S/H & Estates (1)
) Fenthion 50% ML                         "       n
Antestia           ) Decis 2.52 EC                            "       i
) Permethrin 62                           "       "
Capsid bug         ) Cypermethrin 52                                 of
)  Somicombi 62 (pyrethrum)                      of
Giant looper       ) Dursban 482 EC                                  It
) Nurelle D 25/360                               of
)  Sumicidin 10% EC                     Estates only
) Dicrotophos 40Y ML *                    "
3 Sumithion 102 EC                               if
) Disulfoton granules 10  *               I       of
) Decamox granules 5%                     i       "
3 Furadan 5G and lOG                      "       "
Mealybug           )  Inacide (2)                           S/H & Estates (1)
Green scale        ) Duraban (2)                             n
Helmet scale       ) Ethion                                  n
White waxy scale   ) Decis                                           of
Fried eggscale     ) Ometheoate                                      of
Cottony scale      ) Folimat                                         of
) Monocroiophos *                       Estates only
) Gusathion x                                     II
Herbicides         ) Atrazine                               S/I & Estates (1)
) Pluron
) Simazine
) Gandex
) Goal 2E
) Amitrole
) Paraquat *
) Dalapon
) Glyphosate
) Actril
* These chemicals are only suitable for restricted use and unsuitable for
use by small-scale farmers.



- 128 -
Page 4 of 4
LIST OF FUNGICIDES. PESTICIDES AND BERBICIDES
APPROVED FOR USE IN COFFEE
(1)    Some of the insecticides and herbicides listed are considered
hazardous for general use except under specialised supervision as
would be found normally under estate conditions. These materials
are considered unsuitable for use by smallholders. Their purchase
and use by smallholder coffee growers would be discouraged under the
proposed IDA credit by the PCMU.                                                  I
(2)    Used as localized applications only applied by hand (paint brush) to
coffee stems to prevent ant activity.
(3)    Most cooperative societies purchasing chemicals for smallholder
coffee production purchase 65.70% of the inputs required as
Fungicides (Dacomil, Delon and Copper Base) followed by 20-25%
insecticides (mainly fenitrothion, fenthion, permethrin, inacide,
folimat and some sumithion). Only less then 15% of the smallholders
use herbicides (Atrazine, rounnd up and very little grammoxone or
paraquat).



KENYA
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
COOPERATIVE SECTOR
SELECTED PHYSICAL AND FINANCIAL FLOWS IN COFFEE
Related
I.    PRESENS SYSTEM                  Physical Flow                           Documentation                                      Coinent
1.  Flow of Coffee        (a) Farmers
deliver coffee cherries to
(b) Coffee Factories                                                               One or more coffee factories in an area
which process cherries and          (b)  li) Records farmers                 are owned by the local cooperative society.
deliver parchment to                          deliveries                     Delays are caused here by cooperative
Societies holding onto stocks in some cases
for many months before delivering to RPCU
(c) KPCU                                  (c)  (i) Records delivery by
coftee factory and
forwards delivery
advices to CBK.
which mills parchment coffee        (c) (ii) Records completion
and delivers clean coffee to                   of milling and
forwards milling
advice to CBK
(d)  ti) Records deliveries and
sales
Id) CBR
which stores, and then auctions                                                                                                   '0
coffee on the world and local
markets to
(e) Buyers
2.  Flow of Cash          (a) RPCU
prepares and forwards delivery
and milling advices to
(b) CBR
which prepares bulk payment                                                  As CBK sells coffee and obtains revenues for
regulary from its Pool Fund and                                              its Pool Fund it prepares bulk interim
forwards payment to                                                          (3-5) and final payments which are processed
in the same way
(c) KPCU
which divides bulk payment into                                              Deductions made by KPCU for its own agency
amounts owing by cooperative                                                 commission (0.75 of 1%).  Inevitably there are
society, prepares cheques and                                               delays between coffee arriving at KPCU and
notifies                                                                    money received by Coop Bank (See (d) below)
(d) Coop Bank
which credits the accounts of
(e) Cooperative Societies                                                          It is here there are the biggest delays
who may then make payouts to                                                 through Societies passing coffee receipts
their                                                                       back to farmers only after a considerable
passage of time
(f) Members (Farmers)



II.   PROPOSED IDA SYSTEM
1.  R1ow of Coffee        No change
2.  Plow of Cash          No change except
(a) Societies would be required to
make payment to members in month
following delivery of cherry
(see 1.2(e) above)
(b) To finance this, Coop Bank would
advance money to Societies.
IDA would provide part of this
financing requirement
0
o -
_*1



- 131 -
Annex 12
PAYMENTS TO COFFEE GROWERS AS A 2
OF AUCTION PRICE - 1989190
Autction Price                                 100.002
CBK Expenses (wverage) 1/                        2.00Z
Country Council Cess (average) 1/                1.00%
KPCU Fixed Milling Charges (average) 1/           1.50%
KPCU Agency Fee (average)                        0.75%
Payment to Producers of Product                 94.75%
(Co-op Unions and Estates)
Co-op Union Charges ranging from
1-3% of Auction hiet of above
Charges (average) 1/                             1.502
Co-op Society's Charges at
Average of 15% of Net Proceeds 2/                12.00%
51 Sales Tax on Smallholder's                    4.00% 31
Selling Price
Net Payment to Smallholder                      77.25Z
1/ Averages based on Class 4
2/ Includes charges for coffee factory and processing costs.
3/ Equivalent percentage of auction price.



-                           r1                            - ---- * * -------~ --~              -       ..      ~.       ____-BRD    21315
|    S U D A N                     2 16                                                       K E N Y A
SECOND COFFEE
X  0 ___                            IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
K                                         I .                    \                                     
,~                                 /                                 '-'F  .  E    T   H               O P  A
Alil) 13.O
1eqSa  N;(   1g                                                                              v    E  ,     /                 }/IDR                / 
k,OCA'.IA                                                                             .T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4ANDERA 
aS ~ IC                                                                                                  -.  /    /),,,,;
t  R       I      I T                                   M ARsAsT                                             .  ..         (
L   V-
Moobit            I. 
E ASTE R N.VA 
UGANDA
\   °    v                   ''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t-           * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~N    0  H            S5 0  M  A  L I A
At1o ITeoy    SOFI j                        -.gt    /> SA.^V      E  MMU                           >     \ 
E.R N               &    A       t R
010001,                                                                                                          - PS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z  YR
_C<, ~   ~~                       ~~~~~~~~~~ SC    ER AR0    0i00s>        1    KILI|               rN   IVR       ] ; >  ER N \  
H.- B              hI,111.   , )- %'t' -  .1  -.~                                                              W       \
"^"iA~~~~~~~~~ AO           L    L    E         Y                                                   ; 
V'5 OR '0A 'V'/WOV. ..~I0  SO VO~C  4   ,.'.-    0./~1  MILES 
"V ..' A 001*1'l                        :,' /00 V.0.110,. 11.10,  -V.00,000  ,','.",VV0.C,-'1',V,"'  3R  to 400 n  soK.--
PETA ROVINiCES ANDo( DITIT                                                                     >4           > 0                     1Awph
_4-   WRAN;A                                        ;                                  \      .' -             %WMGMIBA5.4 0I.         CdiWz-  A
"'Tv                                            . LL YK                                                  VV-   / i
%tTO                     *      1       2       o            
IA- ~ ~      ~      ~      IOEER                                       \ ( _/'                              w|T
.. .,._1.., .^,.,, P,, ,D,,<  ,,, ,9r,,, s,,e ............... V;,, ,F,, J 0 0 ,0 0  2 \T:A--
......  ,>M,  .>,ow\.|.g6S.N1Om1_04Jo.t>-s_1f>hrS....................................TAIIS A
.R,. ..   IA=    " ..,0 \.1  )PW.  n1.......7 ^... 6T 5 2R5-D I



