Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2062 KE
                (Second Coffee Improvement Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated October 16, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2062 KE
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated October 16, 1989, between  REPUBLIC OF KENYA
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Commonwealth Development Corporation intends to make
a loan to KPCU  (hereinafter  defined)  in an amount approximately
equivalent to $18,000,000 to assist in  financing Parts B and C of
the Project;
     (C)  part of the Project  will  be carried out by Cooperative
Bank of Kenya Limited with  the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of  such  assistance,   the   Borrower   will  make  available  to
Cooperative Bank of Kenya  Limited,  part  of  the proceeds of the
Page  2
Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of  even  date  herewith between the Association
and Cooperative Bank of Kenya Limited;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association and Cooperative  Bank  of  Kenya  Limited of even date
herewith, as the same may be  amended  from time to time, and such
term includes all  schedules  and  agreements  supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
     (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the  Borrower  and  Cooperative Bank of Kenya
Limited pursuant to Section  3.01  (c)  of  this Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time  to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (c)  "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
     (d)  "MOCD"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Cooperative
Development;
     (e)  "CRF" means the Coffee Research Foundation;
     (f)  "CBK" means the Coffee Board of Kenya;
     (g)  "KPCU" means the Kenya Planters' Cooperative Union;
     (h)  "Coop Bank" means the Cooperative Bank of Kenya Limited,
a body corporate established  under  the Cooperative Societies Act
(Cap 490, Laws of Kenya) and the Banking Act;
     (i)  "DCWG" means the  District  Coffee  Working Group within
each district consisting of the persons referred to in paragraph 3
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (j)  "PCMU" means  the  Project  Coordination  and Management
Unit within MOCD;
     (k)  "PSC" means the  Project  Steering Committee referred to
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
     (l)  "Improved Payment System"  means  monetary advances made
to farmers by cooperative societies  upon delivery of their coffee
cherries to coffee factories; and
     (m)  "Project   Preparation   Advance"   means   the  project
preparation advance granted  by  the  Association  to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange  of  letters  dated February 24, 1987, and
March 11, 1987, between the Borrower and the Association.
                            ARTICLE II
Page  3
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in  various  currencies equivalent to thirty-
six million  five  hundred  thousand  Special  Drawing Rights (SDR
36,500,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  Promptly after the Effective Date the Association shall,
on behalf of the  Borrower,  withdraw  from the Credit Account and
pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of
the Project Preparation  Advance  withdrawn  and outstanding as of
such date and to pay  all  unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance  of  the  authorized  amount  of  the  Project Preparation
Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1997, or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal  amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a  rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge  shall  accrue:  (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from  the next date in that year speci-
fied in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate  of  three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on  the  principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  January  15 and July 15
commencing January  15,  2000,  and  ending  July  15,  2029. Each
installment to and including  the  installment payable on July 15,
2009, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under para-
graph (a) above  by  requiring  the  Borrower  to  repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
Page  4
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modifi-
cation.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The  currency  of  United  States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall  carry  out Parts D and E of the
Project through MOCD,  with  due  diligence  and efficiency and in
conformity   with   appropriate   administrative,   financial  and
agricultural practices and shall  provide  promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and  other  resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  Without any limitation  or  restriction  upon any of its
other obligations under this  Agreement,  the Borrower shall cause
Coop Bank to  perform  in  accordance  with  the provisions of the
Project Agreement all  the  obligations  of  Coop Bank therein set
forth, shall take and cause to  be taken all action, including the
provision of  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other resources,
necessary or  appropriate  to  enable  Coop  Bank  to perform such
obligations, and shall not take  or  permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (c)  The Borrower shall  relend  the  proceeds  of the Credit
allocated to Part A of the Project to Coop Bank under a subsidiary
loan agreement to be  entered  into  between the Borrower and Coop
Bank under terms and conditions  which shall have been approved by
the  Association  and  which  shall  include  those  specified  in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (d)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise   its  rights  under  the
Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect the
interests of the Borrower  and  the  Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the  Credit,  and  except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     (e)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set  forth  in  Sections 9.03 through 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use of goods and
Page  5
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively)  in  respect  of Part A of the
Project shall be carried out by Coop Bank pursuant to Section 2.03
of the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.04. In  the  event  of  the  reimposition of export
quotas under  the  International  Coffee  Agreement,  the Borrower
shall, immediately inform the  Association of revised measures for
the better management of its coffee stocks.
     Section 3.05. The  Borrower  shall  continue to progressively
reduce  the  price  differential   on  coffee  sold  for  domestic
consumption,  with  a  view  to  finally  eliminating  such  price
differential  by  the  time  the  domestic  market  disposals have
reached 10% of total disposals.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower shall by June 30, 1990, cause CBK,
to strengthen its organizational structure to enable it to respond
faster and  more  effectively  to  the  consequences  of increased
coffee production.
     Section  3.07.  The  Borrower  shall  by  completion  of  the
Project, transfer  all  appraisal  activities  for  coffee factory
investments from PCMU  to  relevant  agencies  including the  Coop
Bank.
     Section 3.08. The  Borrower  shall:  (a)  by November in each
year, review and agree with  the Association on the forward budget
allocations  for  the  Project;   and  (b)  ensure  that  adequate
allocations are included in the approved budget for each year.
     Section 3.09. The Borrower  shall ensure that, during Project
implementation, the rates  of  interest  for final borrowers under
Coop Bank's Sub-loans, referred to  in  paragraphs  8, 9 and 10 of
Schedule 4 to this agreement shall:  (a) at all times be positive,
in real  terms;  and  (b)  reflect  any  modifications  to general
interest  rates  for   agricultural   loans,  implemented  by  the
Borrower.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of  this  Section including those for
               the Special Account  for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
Page  6
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditures, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain,  until  at   least   one   year  after  the
               Association has received  the  audit for the fiscal
               year in which the  last  withdrawal from the Credit
               Account was made,  all  records (contracts, orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records.
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  Coop Bank shall have failed  to perform any of its obli-
gations under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation shall have arisen
which shall make it  improbable  that  Coop  Bank  will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The Cooperative Societies  Act  and  Banking  Act of the
Borrower shall have  been  amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect  materially and adversely the ability of
Coop Bank to  perform  any  of  its  obligations under the Project
Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of Coop Bank or for the suspension of its operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Asso-
ciation to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (c)  and  (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional  conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed on
Page  7
behalf of the Borrower and Coop Bank;
     (b)  the Borrower  has  adopted  the  Improved Payment System
satisfactory to the Association;
     (c)  the Borrower  has  established  the Inspection Committee
referred to in paragraph 11 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
     (d)  the Borrower has  appointed  the  trainer referred to in
paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by Coop Bank, and  is  legally  binding upon Coop Bank in
accordance with its terms; and
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or  ratified  by  the  Borrower  and  Coop  Bank and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and Coop Bank in accordance with
its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this  Agreement  is   hereby   specified   for   the  purposes  of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section  7.01.  The  Minister  at  the  time  responsible for
finance of the  Borrower  is  designated  as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of  Section  11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box 30007
          Nairobi
          Kenya
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               FINANCE                          22921
               Nairobi                          22203
                                                FOREIGN NAIROBI
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
Page  8
                    REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                    By /s/ D. D. Afande
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works under         6,800,000         85%
     Parts A and E of
     the Project
(2)  Vehicles,                 9,500,000         100% of foreign
     machinery and                               expenditures and
     equipment under                             75% of local
     Part A of the                               expenditures
     Project
(3)  Vehicles,                   350,000         100% of foreign
     machinery and                               expenditures and
     equipment under                             65% of local
     Parts D and E                               expenditures
     of the Project
(4)  Credit Scheme             8,500,000         90% of incre-
     for coffee cherry                           mental credit
     deliveries                                  to new borrowers
                                                 up to Decem-
                                                 ber 31, 1991;
                                                 75% up to Decem-
                                                 ber 31, 1992;
                                                 60% up to Decem-
                                                 ber 31, 1993;
                                                 45% up to Decem-
                                                 ber 31, 1994;
                                                 30% up to Decem-
                                                 ber 31, 1995; and
                                                 15% up to Decem-
                                                 ber 31, 1996
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
Page  9
(5)  Incremental               6,300,000         100%
     farm inputs
(6)  PCMU operating              650,000         100%
     costs
(7)  Training                    750,000         100%
(8)  Refunding of                550,000         Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(9)  Unallocated               3,100,000
                             ___________
          TOTAL               36,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  "PCMU Operating  Costs"  means  the  costs  of technical
support to the PCMU.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect  of: (a) payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) payments made
for expenditures under  Category  (4)  above  until the Inspection
Committee referred  to  in  paragraph  11  of  Schedule  4 to this
Agreement has  certified  that  all  primary cooperative societies
within a cooperative union  are  capable  of making payments under
the Improved Payment System.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are  to: (i) raise the incomes
of coffee farmers in  the  smallholder and small estate subsectors
through   increased   productivity   and   quality   improvements;
(ii) increase the Borrower's  foreign exchange earnings and assist
it to maintain its  position  as  an efficient high quality coffee
producer; and (iii) strengthen  the  institutional capacity of key
agencies participating in the Project.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Cooperative Subsector
1.   Rehabilitation and improvement  of  about 275 existing coffee
factories.
2.   Construction of about 65 new coffee factories.
3.   Provision of credit to  cooperative societies for acquisition
of agricultural inputs.
4.   Implementation  of  the  Improved   Payment  System  and  the
provision of incremental credit for coffee purchases.
5.   Strengthening of  the  Coop  Bank  through  the  provision of
Page  10
technical support, and  the  acquisition  of  office equipment and
vehicles.
Part B:   Estate Subsector
     Improvement of production and  processing  of coffee on about
230  small  estates  through  the  provision  of  credit  for  the
acquisition of irrigation  equipment,  field  equipment and coffee
processing facilities.
Part C:   Milling
     Construction of a new mill at Dandora.
Part D:   Project Coordination and Management
     Reorganization and strengthening of the PCMU.
Part E:   Training and Advisory Services
1.   Training programs for MOA, MOCD and Coop Bank staff.
2.   Strengthening the  technical  advisory  services of organiza-
tions providing coffee extension services.
3.   Intensification and improvement of  training at all levels of
the coffee industry.
4.   Production of handbooks, leaflets  and technical bulletins on
coffee production.
5.   Expansion of  CRF's  training  facilities  and acquisition of
vehicles and training materials for above activities.
                           *   *   *   *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part  B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil  works  and  related  machinery  and  equipment  may be
procured under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in  accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Association.
2.   Fertilizers and chemicals under Category  (5) of the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to  this Agreement may be procured under
the standard commercial practices of the cooperative societies.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more,  the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  11
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower and Coop Bank in carrying out
the Project, the  Borrower  and  Coop  Bank may employ consultants
whose  qualifications,  experience  and  terms  and  conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory  to the Association. Such consul-
tants shall be selected  in  accordance with principles and proce-
dures  satisfactory  to  the  Association  on  the  basis  of  the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Implementation and Management
1.   The Borrower shall for  purposes  of the Project, establish a
Project  Steering  Committee,  which   shall  be  chaired  by  the
Permanent Secretary, MOCD,  with  the  Permanent  Secretary MOA as
alternate and  shall  comprise  the  General  Manager  of PCMU and
representatives from the Ministry of  Finance, the Coop Bank, CBK,
CRF and KPCU. PSC  shall  meet  at  least quarterly to deal, inter
alia, with both policy  and  operational matters affecting Project
execution.
2.   The Borrower  shall  continue  to  maintain  and  upgrade its
Project Coordination and Management  Unit within MOCD, established
under the Smallholder Coffee Improvement (Credit 914-KE). The PCMU
shall be strengthened by  upgrading  and reorganizing the existing
unit and shall be responsible  for the day-to-day execution of the
Project.  PCMU  shall  have  a  General  Manager  and  two Section
Managers. The Technical Section  shall  be responsible for design,
engineering and technical management, while the Financial/Economic
Section  shall  deal   with   feasibility  appraisals,  budgeting,
accounting,  planning  and  monitoring  of  Project  activities. A
technical management  services  capability  shall  be developed to
assist in improving the day-to-day management in coffee factories.
This shall involve  regular  advisory  visits  to coffee factories
with  emphasis  on   efficient   operation  of  equipment,  labour
management  and  processing  techniques,  as  well  as  on-the-job
training of factory staff  in  specific  aspects of coffee factory
management.
3.   In  order  to  ensure   satisfactory   start  up  of  Project
activities, PSC shall appoint a trainer to provide orientation and
training to the PCMU  Management  team.  PCMU  shall work with the
agencies participating in the  Project,  which shall take over its
responsibilities after completion  of  the  Project.  The terms of
reference  of  the  PCMU   and   its   Management  team  shall  be
satisfactory to the Association.
4.   The Coop Bank shall finance  on  behalf of the Borrower three
Project  components  in  the  cooperative  sector,  namely factory
development, credit for  inputs  and  the Improved Payment System.
The Coop Bank  shall,  in  collaboration  with  PCMU appraise each
proposal for cooperative factory investment, prepared by the DCWG.
Page  12
The DCWG shall consist of the following: the District Agricultural
Officer, the  District  Cooperative  Officer,  the District Coffee
Extension Officer,  the  District  Coffee  Inspector,  the General
Manager of the  District  Cooperative Union, the Secretary/Manager
of a non-affiliated  cooperative  society, the Credit Coordinator,
the Water Bailiff,  a  representative  of  Coop Bank, the District
Development Officer and the  District Works Officer. The appraisal
by DCWG shall include  a  detailed  review of technical, organiza-
tional,  managerial  and  financial  aspects.  The  guidelines and
criteria for preparing proposals  for factory investments shall be
satisfactory to the  Association.  The  Borrower  shall submit the
first six such investment  appraisals  to  the Association for its
approval prior to implementation.
5.   At the field level  the  Cooperative Societies as representa-
tives of the growers,  shall  be  responsible for implementing the
factory development, input supply and the Improved Payment System.
Their role shall be through  the  DCWG, which shall identify needs
for coffee processing  investments,  carry out initial feasibility
studies and forward  loan  application  proposals  to the PCMU for
approval, before being passed to the  Coop Bank, all this shall be
in accordance with agreed guidelines and criteria.
6.   CRF's training  and  advisory  facilities  shall  be  used to
implement the training program.  The Borrower shall, through PCMU,
furnish to the Association  an  annual  training  plan for all the
training under the Project.
7.   PCMU shall by December 31,  1992,  carry out an evaluation of
Project Implementation. The evaluation report shall form the basis
of a joint mid-term review to  be carried out by the Borrower, the
Association and CDC.
Credit for Cooperative Sector
8.   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, for the coffee
factories, the Borrower shall onlend  Credit funds to Coop Bank at
an interest  rate  of  10%  per  annum  for  a  term  of 10 years,
including a grace period of  2  years. The Coop Bank shall on-lend
the funds to the  Cooperative  Societies, for coffee factories, at
an interest rate of  15%  per  annum  for  a  maximum period of 10
years, including a grace period of 2 years.
9.   For farm inputs, funds shall  be  on-lent  to Coop Bank at an
interest rate of 8% per annum  for a period of two years including
a grace period of one  year.  The  Coop  Bank shall on-lend to the
Cooperative Societies at an  interest  rate  of 13% per annum, and
the Cooperative Societies shall charge farmers an interest rate of
15% per annum, to  cover  their  administrative costs. The term of
the loan is for a  maximum  period  of two years including a grace
period of one year.
10.  The Borrower shall  on-lend  Credit  funds,  for the Improved
Payment System, to Coop Bank at  an  interest rate of 8% per annum
for a term of 10 years,  including  a grace period of 2 years. The
Coop Bank shall on-lend the  funds to the Cooperative Societies at
an interest rate of 13% per  annum  for a period of one year, with
no grace period.  The  Cooperative  Societies  shall on-lend these
funds to the farmers at an  interest  rate  of 15% per annum for a
period of one year with no grace period.
11.  Under this system, advances to  farmers  shall be made by the
Cooperative Societies within a  Cooperative  Union from the Credit
funds on-lent by the Coop Bank  in the month following delivery of
coffee cherry by farmers. MOCD  shall establish an Inspection Com-
mittee  to  inter  alia,   review  and  improve  the  bookkeeping/
accounting systems of Cooperative  Societies  and Unions. The Com-
mittee shall review such systems and give approval to those Socie-
ties which would be capable  of making payments under the Improved
Payment System.
Page  13
