Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2062 KE
                (Second Coffee Improvement Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                     COOPERATIVE BANK OF KENYA
                      Dated October 16, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2062 KE
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  October  16,  1989,  between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association)  and COOPERATIVE BANK OF
KENYA (Coop Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the  Republic  of  Kenya  (the  Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has  agreed  to make available to the
Borrower an amount in  various currencies equivalent to thirty-six
million   five   hundred    thousand    Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 36,500,000), on the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only  on condition that the Coop
Bank agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and  Coop  Bank,  the  proceeds of the credit
provided for under the  Development  Credit Agreement will be made
available to Coop Bank on  the  terms  and conditions set forth in
said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS Coop  Bank,  in  consideration  of  the Association's
entering into the Development  Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the  obligations  set forth in this Agree-
ment;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) Coop  Bank  declares  its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate  administrative,  financial,  engineering  and banking
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as  the Association and Coop Bank shall
otherwise agree, Coop Bank shall  carry  out Part A of the Project
in  accordance  with  the  Implementation  Program  set  forth  in
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     Section 2.03. Coop Bank  shall  carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections  9.03  through  9.07  of  the General Conditions
(relating to  insurance,  use  of  goods  and  services, plans and
schedules, records and  reports  and maintenance, respectively) in
respect of this Agreement and Part A of the Project.
     Section 2.04. Coop Bank  shall  duly  perform all its obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Loan  Agreement. Except as the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, Coop Bank  shall not take or concur in
any action which would  have  the  effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a)  Coop  Bank  shall,  at  the request of the
Association, exchange views  with  the  Association with regard to
the progress of the  Project,  the  performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  Coop Bank shall promptly  inform  the Association of any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by  Coop  Bank of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
              Management and Operations of Coop Bank
     Section 3.01. Coop  Bank  shall  carry  on its operations and
Page  3
conduct  its  affairs  in  accordance  with  sound administrative,
financial, banking practices  under  the  supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
     Section 3.02. Coop Bank shall  at all times operate and main-
tain its plant, machinery, equipment  and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as  needed,  make all necessary repairs and
renewals  thereof,  all  in  accordance  with  sound  engineering,
financial and banking practices.
     Section 3.03. Coop  Bank  shall  take  out  and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such  risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section  4.01.  (a)  Coop  Bank  shall  maintain  records and
accounts adequate to reflect  in  accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  Coop Bank shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors  acceptable  to   the   Borrower  and  the
               Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end  of  each  such  fiscal  year (A) certified
               copies of its financial statements for such year as
               so audited, and  (B)  the  report  of such audit by
               said auditors, of such scope  and in such detail as
               the Association  shall  have  reasonably requested;
               and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of  Coop  Bank  thereunder  shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 10 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with  its  terms  before  the  date  specified in para-
graph (a) (ii)  of  this  Section,  the Association shall promptly
notify Coop Bank of this event.
Page  4
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For Coop Bank:
          Cooperative Bank of Kenya Limited
          P.O. Box 48231
          Nairobi
          Kenya
                                            Telex:
                                               22938
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Coop Bank  may  be taken or executed by the
Managing Director or such other  person or persons as the Managing
Director shall designate  in  writing,  and  the Managing Director
shall  furnish  to  the  Association  sufficient  evidence  of the
authority and the  authenticated  specimen  signature of each such
person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
Page  5
                    COOPERATIVE BANK OF KENYA LIMITED
                    By /s/ D. D. Afande
                                         Authorized Representative
