Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6069-HU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HUNGARY
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
May 7, 1986
Industry Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oficida duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  -   Forint (Ft)
US$1         Ft 47.0
Ft 1         US$0.0211
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BVK       -  Borsod Chemical Works
CAD       -  Computer-Aided Design
CAM       -  Computer-Aided Manufacturing
CKEA      -  Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
DRC       -  Domestic Resource Cost
EMI       -  Institute for Qaality Control in Building-
ETI       -  Institute for Building Science
GHP       -  Granvisus Hungaria Pemu Mold-Making Enterprise
GTI       -  Technological Institute for the Machirne Industry
HMV       -  Hungaria Plastics Enterprise
IVI       -  Industrial Management Institute
MOI       -  Ministry of Industry
MUKI      - Research Institute for the Plastics Industry
NBH       -  National Bank of Hungary
NPO       -  National Planning Office
OMFB      -  State Office for Technical Development
PEMU      -  Plastics Processing Enterprise of Pest County
PPS      -   Plastics Processing Subsector
RD&E      -  Research, Development and Engineering
RF        -  Restructuring Facility
RPO       -  Restructuring Program Office
SDB       -  State Deve'.opment Bank
SHE       -  Small and Medium-Sized Enterprise
TFP       -  Total Factor Productivity
TVK       - Tiszai Chemical Works
Vegyterv  -  Hungarian Chemical Industries Engineering Center
VSZM      -  Electrical Insulating Materials and Plastics Enterprise



FM OFFICIL USE ONLY
IllEGRl - INDSTR~IAL RSRCUIGPROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PageNo.    -
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMNARY                                            tito.......e.....oo   . -
I. INTVDDUC?ION  ..oo..       ..O                                    1
II. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ......................                      2-
A. Industry in the Iecroeconomic Context          .               2
B. Structure and Performance *&** ...............  ..*esoo        3
C. Constraints for Efficient Restructuring and Growth             6
D. Government Objectives for the Seventh Plan                     8
B. Bank Industrial Assistance Strategy and Rationale for
Bank Involvement OOs..000                                   8
III. INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCSURING STRATEGY .  Os......-..-...-sos.e.       9
A. Overall Strategy ooo...s.      . oo..         .o.              9
B. Industrial Policy Reform Program                               9
C. Specific Restructuring Support and Subsectoral Emphasis .    17
D. Subsector Constraints and Strategy                            19
IV. INSTITUTIONS AND ENTERPRISES INVOLVED IN TBE PROJECT 00          21
V. THE PROJECT ........................................   25
A. Project Objectives and Scope                                  25
I. Industry-wide Restructuring Componet .......26
1. Industrial Policy Reform Program                          26
2. Inno%"tion Finance                                        27
3. Managemeut and Technical Training                          28
4. Support for Banking System 000000500005505550005500500    28
S. Technical Assistance and Related Services                  29
-C. Speclfic Subsector Restructuring Component ..............    29
1. Development of Technological Infrastructure      o        29
2. Restructuring of Selected Enterprises ..s so. ........    31
3. Restructuring of Non-Selected Enterprises ....             32
VI. PROJECT COST, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION                       34
A. Project Cost  ...........        ....oso..    34
B. Project Financing            . .s0s0sos00e. ...... , ,s 36
C. Financial Analysis                                            38
This report was prepared by Rarbaksh S. Sethi, David A. Caplin,
Oscar de Bruyn Kops, Anil Kapur, Anupam Rhanna, ' qko Nishimizu and
Hiran Rerat based on an appraisal mission whicti ale) included the
psrtiepation of Timothy King, V.N. Rajagopalan. Clhrtstine Kessides,
Vincenzo La Via, Shysmadas BanerjI, Zafar Khan ard !el Mante.  Secretarial
assistance was provided by Martha Natheny, Patri.c. Ozeki And Karin Vaelti;
and word processing assistance by Vijaya Sellappan and Antonio Tenorio.
ThIB documnt bush  mtucted distbutin and may be ud by recints only in th pufonnam
oftdboioffWkbdutis Its catents may not otherwi be dikoed without Wodd lank autoluton.



- li -
Page No.
D. Implementation Arrangements .............................    39
1. Program Coordination and Monitoring                       394
2. Onlending Arrangements and Conditions ................    41
3. Procuremene                                               42
3. * Proursements .*... .......... ..... . ..........e........... 42
4. Disbursements ..O0e*e0~0e,*e*ee*.0S                        43
5. Reporting and Auditing *ee*o*eeo..a ee.              .................45
6. Status of Project Preparation   .                          46
VII. BENEFITS OF THE PROJECT                 ....                     46
A. Impact of Industrial Policy Reform Program ..............    46
B. Impact of Specific Subsector Restructuring Component  ...    47
C. Economic Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analysis             48
D. Major Risks                                                   48
VIII. AGREEMENTS                                                       49
ANNEXS
2-1   The Structure of Industry
2-2   Efficiency and Competitive Performance of Industry
3-1  Letter of Industrial Policy Intent
3-2   Industrial Policy Reform Program - Actions Already Taken
3-3   Structure and Performance of the Plastics Processing
Subsector
4-1   NBH Financial Statements
4-2   The Main Plastics Processing Enterprises
4-3 Historical Financial Performance of Main Project Entities
4-4   The Institutes for Plastics Processing Activities
5-1   Terms of Reference for the Management Developmuent Study
5-2   Funds Requirements of Quality Control Institutes
5-3   RD&E Program in Plastics Processing Subsector
5-4   Overview of Restructuting Programs of Selected Enterprises
5-5   Scope of Restructuring Programs of Non-Selected Enterprises
6-1   Detailed Capital Cost Estimate
6-2   Detailed Financing Plan
6-3   Financial and EconomIc Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
6-4   Summary of Enterprises' Projected Financial Statements
6-5  Implementation Schedule
6-6   Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
7     Selected Documents Available in the Project File
MAP
IBRD - 19507R Location of Selected Enterprises -



- ili -
HUNGARY - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT -
o    and Projet Surz
Borrower:        National Bank of Hungary (NBH)
Guarantor:       Hungarian People's Republic
Beneficiaries:   Government  of  Hungary,  National  Bank  of  Hungary,
industrial  enterprises   through   innovation   financing
institutions, enterprises and institutes in the plastics
processing subsector, and other industrial enterprises
Amlountz         US$100 million equivalent
$Tems.6          Fifteen years, including three years of grace at  the
Bank's standard variable interest rate
Onlendina
Terms:         US$33 million equivalent of the Bank loan will remain with
NBH.   The remaining US$67 million equivalent will be
onlent on the following terms:
(a) US$59.5 million equivalent to comercial entities for
a maximum period of 10 years, including a grace
period not exceeding 3 years, at an interest rate
-equal to at least the Bank rate plus a 30% mark-up.
(b)  US$3.0 million equivalent  to innovation  financing
institutions at an interest rate equal to at least
the Bank rate plus a 20% mark-up for a maximum period
of 10 years, including a grace period not exceeding
3 years, which will be made available to subborrowers
at an average return equal to at least the Bank rate
plus a 30% mark-up an4 for a period of maximum
10 years,  Including a grace period not exceeding
*3 years.
(c) US$4.5 million equivalent to the Government for a
period of 15 years, including a grace period of
3 years, at an interest rate equal to at least the
Bank rate plus a 30X mark-up.
NBH will bear the foreign exchange risk.
ProJect
Description:   The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  support  the
restructuring of Hungarian industry to enable it to
achieve international competitiveness and increase the
potential  for  exports.    The  Project  has  two  major
components:
(a)  Industry-wide' Restructuring Component which includes
support for a five-year program of industrial policy
and institutional reforms to provide the necessary
conditions to facilitate and expedite restructuring.
The  reform  program  is  supplemented  by  specific
institution-building   with   particular  regard  to
innovation financing, management development and
banking institutions; and



- iv -
(b)  SPecific   Subsector   Restructuring   Component   to
expedite restructuring in the plastics processing
subsector  (PPS). -  This  includes  support  for
(1)  the  development  of  the  PPS  Infrastructure;
(ii) the restructuring programs Qf five selected
plastics  processing  enterprises,  and  (iii)  the
restructuring of swall and medium-sized enterprises
(SMAs) in the subsector.
Benefits
and Riskst    The  industrial  policy, reform  program  Is  expected  to
provide   the   necessary   conditions   for   efficient
restructuring and growth by encouraging domestic and
international competition, enhancing efficient resource
mobility and improving financial discipline and control.
The support for innovation and mnagement development will
help to upgrade the technological capacity of Hungarian
industry and provide new management skills. The specific
subsector restructuring component of the Project will help
enterprises in the plastics processing subsector to
develop sustsined international competitiveness through
changes in strategies, organizational, management and
physical  restructuring  of  enterprises  combined  with
infrastructural support for the subsector. The main risk
of the industrial policy reform program relates to the
possibility of future adverse macroeconomic developments
in Hungary and pressures which might lead to a slow-down
of  the  momentum  for  reform.    Strong  commitment  by
*Hungarian authorities to implement the program and-
continuous policy dialogue between the Bank and the
Hungarian  authorities  would  contribute  to  ensuring
appropriate macroeconomic policies and sustainabillity of
the  current  reform  effort,  thus  reducing  the  risk.
Emphasis   during  Project   preparation   to  strengthen
Hungarian   institutional   capacity   and   the   active
involvement of Hungarian counterparts in the appraisal
process reduces the riri relating  to the complex and
multi-component nature of the Project involving a large
number  of  diverse  institutions.        Nonetheless,  the
monitoring  of  implementation  will  require  intensive
supervision by the Bank.



-v -
Estimated                                                Local  Foreign  Total
Cost:'I                                                 -ZUS   miioT
Industry-wide Restructuring
Chmaonent-
Incremental Working Capital           12.C   130.0   142.0
Innovation Finance                     9.8     3.0    12.8
Management Development                 0.5      1.0     1.5
Technical Assistance and
Related Services (iuel. Banking
System Support)                      2.1     6.0      8.1
Subtotal                          24.4   14T.0   164.4
Specific Subsector Restructuring
.Component
Technological Infrastructure          20.0    13.9    33.9
Selected Enterprises                  44.9    41.7    86.6
Non-Selected Enterprises              16.4    15.8    32.2
Subtotal                         81.3    71.4   152.7
Total                            105.7   211.4   317.1
Financing
Plan:           IBRD                                     -     100.0   100.0
Government                               8.3      1.9    10.2
NBH, incl. Foreign Co-Financing         46.1   107.3 2/153.4
Project Entities, incl. Paid-In         51.3      2.2    53.5
105.7   211.4   317.1
Estimated                 IBRD FY   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
Disbursement:                      ---     ---- T(US$ million)
Annual             35.6   16.2   22.4   14.7    7.8    3.3
Cumulative         35.6   51.8   74.2   88.9   96.7  100.0
Map:              IBRD-19507R
1/  The cost estimate includes US$30.8 million of taxes and duties.
2t Including US$100.0 million, for which NBH will provide the foreign
exchange for sale to the enterprises against equivalent local
currency.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01          Industrial  restructuring  is  the  centerpiece  of  Hungary's
medium-term structural adjustment program and is accordingly reflected as
one of the primary objectives of the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90). The
Government of Hungary has requested Bank financing to support the
industrial restructuring effort which is based on a medium-term framework
and overall strategy discussed extensively with the Bank in the course of
the preparation of the proposed Project.       -
1.02            The  overall  strategy  combines  the  implementation  of  a
wide-ranging program of industrial policy reforms to create the necessary
economic  conditions  to  induce  rest-ructuring,  and support  for specific
restructuring actions to facilitate and expedite an adequate supply
response to the reforms. In line with this strategy, the proposed Project
supports two mutually reinforcing components: (i) support for industrial
policy reforms and specific institution-building aimed to address critical
constraints to efficient restructuring and growth of the industrial sector
and thus to stimulate industry-wide restructuring (the Industry-wide
Restructuring Component), and (ii) specific restructuring measures for the
plastics   processing   subsector   including   subsector   and   enterprise
restructuring  programs  and  infrastructure  development  (the  Specific
Subsector Restructuring Component).  The Project supports the first phase
of a far-reaching five-year program.   It aims also  to strengthen the
capability of Hungarian institutions to implement, monitor and develop
further the program,
1.03      The proposed Bank loan of US$100 million to the National Bank of
iungary (NBH) supports the foreign exchange needs of the Project, and
includes' US$40' million  in  support  of  the  industry-wide  restructuring
component and US$60 million in support of the specific subsector
restructuring component. The Bank loan for the industry-wide restructuring
component (US$40 million) covers about 24% of the financing requirements of
the component; the remaining financing will be provided by NBH, with
possible assistance through parallel financing from foreign commercial
banks, and by the participating entities.   The financing requirements of
the   specific  subsector   restructuring   component   are  estimated  at
US$152.7 million including US$71.4 million  in foreign  exchange.    The
proposed portion of the Bank loan (US$60 million) would cover about 39% of
these financing requirements and about 84% of the foreign exchange costs.
The balance of US$92.7 million (or about 61% of the total financing
required) will be provided by internally generated funds of the Project
beneficiaries, by Government resources, by NBH, by foreign co-financing,
and by paid-in equity from various sources.--
1.04       The proposed Project was appraised in October/November 1985,
following  extensive  joint  analysis'  of  the  performance  of  Hungary's
industrial sector and intensive discussions with the Hungarian authorities
over the preceding 18 months.  Members of various Divisions of the Industry
Department, the EMENA Programs and IDF Divisions and  IFC,  as well as
consultants participated in the appraisal.



-2-
II.  THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A.  Industry in the Macroeconomic Context 1/
2.01       A series of external events and inadequate policy responses gave-
rise to increasing convertible currency debt in Hungary during the 1970s.
The rising convertible currency debt was the principal motivation for the
country's renewed efforts in economic reforms, begun in 1968, and for the
stabilization program, both initiated in 1979. These initiatives were the
critical factors which enabled Hungary to avert a potential debt crisis in
1982,  and  to  begin  restoring  its  balance  of  payments  position.
Stabilization, however, was not accompanied by structural adjustment -and
growth.  While successful for a while, this strategy has become difficult
to sustain.   The macroeconomic situation has deteriorated in 1985.   GDP
declined by 0.5%, convertible currency exports fell by 6.5%, and the
convertible currency current account turned into a deficit of about
US$0.5 billion. The debt service ratio also increased sharply to 56Z as a
result of higher interest payments due to a larger volume of debt (total
debt having risen to US$13.2 billion in 1985, of which US$11.6 billion is
in convertible currency), lower exports of goods and services, and early
repayments of debt with high spreads (about US$0.4 billion). Hungary faces
a critical need to transform the economy based on a successful transition
from economic stabilization to structural adjustment with growth.
Overcoming the debt constraint by improving the economy' s capacity to earn
net foreign exchange is the fundamental thrust of the Seventh Plan
(1986-1990).   In this context, one of the principal objectives of the
Government  is  structural  adjustment  in  industry,  i.e.,  industrial
restructuring for improving productivity performance and enhancing tre
international competitiveness of the industrial sector.
2.02        Industry is the single largest sector in Hungary, contributing
34% of GDP in 1984. It employs nearly a third of the country's total labor
force and accounts for a third of gross fixed domestic investment. Hungary
is a resource poor and trade dependent country, importing 40% and exporting
38% of GDP today.   Industry accounts  for 90% of the country's total
imports, and 79% of total exports (Annex 2-1). In recent years, Hungary's
resource gap (imports less exports) originating in the industrial sector
was about 5% of GDP as opposed to 1% of GDP for the economy as a whole.
Industry imports about a third of its intermediate inputs and close to half
of its capital goods (equivalent to about 60% of the country's imports of
investment goods). Industry's productivity and competitiveness performance
will play a decisive role in enhancing the efficiency of existing and
future investment and making restructuring with growth feasible within the
existing convertible currency constraint.
1/   The  industrial  sector  is  discussed  extensively  in:    Hungary  -
Investment Issues and -Options, Report No. 5585-HU (October 1985);
Updated Country Economic Memorandum tGreen Cover), Report No. 5951-HU
(December 1985); and Hungary - Irdustrial' Policy, Performance and
Prospects for Adjustment (March 1986).



-3-
Hungary - Sectoral Composition of the Economy, 1984
GDP a/           ftioyment          Investment bI
Bln. Ft     (X)   '000 Persons  (%)   Bin. Ft        (Z}
Agriculture         168.2    (17.2)    1,072.0   (21.7)    22.7        (11.8)
Industry.           330.9    (33.8)    1,544.6   (31.3)    61.9        (32.3)
Construction         70.8     (7.2)       363.2    (7.4)     2.5        (1.3)
Tran8p. & Comm.      73.7     (7.5)       397.0    (8.0)    21.3       (11.1)
Other Services      228.5    (23.4)    1,563.2  -(31.6)    38.1        (19.9)
Housing                -        -            -       -       44.6      (23.3)
Total Economy    978.7c/ (100.0)    4,940.0  (100.0)   191.8d/   (100.0)
a/  In 1984 prices.
Ei  In 1981 prices.
c/  Includes customs duties and valuation.
d/ Includes non-agricultural private sector investment (Ft 0.7 billion).
B.  Structure and Performance
2.03        Growth and Structure.- During the post-war period up to the
mid-1970s, industry grew rapidly. Growth rates of about 72 between 1960-75
were reduced to 4X in 1975-80 and 22 in the 1980s.  Rapid diversification
in the industrial structure was achieved through the mid-1970s; while heavy
industry  was  dominant  in  the   1950s,  more   rapid  expansion  and
diversification  occurred  subsequently over  30 years in the processing
industries (e.g., chemicals and engineering, particularly high technology
activities such as precision instruments, telecommunications and vacuum
technology equipment).   Since 1973-74, the slow-down in growth has been
relatively uniform across industries with little structural change towsrds
export-oriented or emerging growth industries, as compared to a number of
other industrialized and industrializing economies. The current industrial
structure, with processing industries accounting for a dominant share
(about 70%) of industrial production, is shown in Annex 2-1.  While the
post-war diversification of the structure  is potentially  an  important
asset,  a  further  restructuring  towards  export-oriented  industries  is
required to meet the current challenge.
2.04        In preparation for the Seventh Five-Year Plan the Government
undertook, jointly with the Bank, an extensive analysis of the performance
and potential of the industrial sector and of the policy and institutional
framework within which  the sector has operated.   The results of this
extensive effort are discussed in depth in a separate report; the salient
findings are summarized below.
2.05     Productivity Performance.  The growth of the industrial sector has
been characterized by inefficiencies in materials consumption, energy use
and investment expansion. The productivity performance of the industrial
sector  as  a whole  over  1976-1983  is  shown  in  the  following  table.
Improvement in efficiency measured by total factor productivity (TFP)



-4-
growth was negligible (estimated at only 0.2% per year). Almost all (92%)
of the sector's growth was due to growth in inputs, and only a small
fraction (8%) is attributable to efficiency gains.   Within the 1976-83
period, a significant improvement is evident in the- 1980s,-the proportion
of growth attributable to efficiency gains increased from 3% In 1976-81 to
13% in 1981-83.  Nevertheless, this performance falls substantially short
of international norms of efficiency gains accounting for about 30% of the
growth in output. The productivity performance also differs substantially
among industries within the sector.  The extensive pattern of industrial
growth is observed among the energy and basic material, and food processing
industries.  In both, TFP gr-.wth rates are in fact negative.  Processing
industries, on the other hand, show small but positive and increasing
(since 1981) TFP growth, with efficiency gains equivalent to as much as a
third or more of output growth. The productivity performance of processing
industries can be regarded as a normal pattern of growth compared to
international trends.
Hungary - Industrial Growth and Productivity Performance, 1976-83
(Percent per year)
Growth in           Growth in
Gross           Total Factor
Output          Productivity a/
Energy & Basic Material Industries           - 1.2            -0.6
Mining                                      -0.2            -3.7
Electricity                                  5.2             1.0     (19.2)
Ferrous & Non-Ferrous Metals                -0.7            -0Q8
Construction Materials                       2.7             0.8     (29.6)
Petroleum & Gas                              1.7            -0.2
Processing Industries                          3.2             1.1     (34.4)
Machinery                                    3.1             1.1     (35.5)
Other Engineering                            3.0             2.2     (73.3)
Chemical                                     5.5             0.6     (10.9)
Light Manufacturing                          1.7             0.9     (52.9)
Food Processing Tndustries-                    3.4            -0.5     - -
Total Industrial Sector                        2.6             0.2      (7.7)
a/  As percent of output growth in parentheses.,
2.06      The differentiation in productivity performance among industries
is closely related -to differences in material productivity -growth.
Improvements   in  the  processing   industries   reflected  in  material
productivity performance are close to international norms, this is in sharp
contrast to the low, and often negative, growth performance in the energy
and basic materials and food processing industries.   It should be noted
that 1981 pricing reforms were reintroduced -with-a focus on industrial
products and intermediates, resulting in substantial increases in input
prices relative to output prices applicable to processing industries thus



-5~.
inducing  improvements  in material  productivity.    Centrally determined
pricing continued to be predominant for the energy and basic material and
food processing industries.   Capital productivity,  on the other hand,
declined for virtually all of the sixty-two in*ustries, and was the main
reason for the low TFP growth in Hungarian industry.  This indicates the
importance of creating incentives which induce efficient investment as well
as the potential for increasing the efficiency of existing assets.
2.07          International  Competitiveness.   In the transition of the
industrial sector from stabilization to adjustment with efficient growth,
the sector's productivity performance must necessarily be viewed in terms
of  its  impact  on  international  competitiveness.    Annex  2-2 maps  the
productivity performance of Hungarian industries (measured in TFP changes)
in relation to changes in international competitiveness between 1981 and
1983 (measured in DRC changes), as well as the level of international
competitiveness in 1983 (measured in DRC levels). Very few industries show
either very high DRCs or negative value added at world prices. Over three
quarters of the sector shows DRCs below 1.1 broadly indicating near or
actual competitiveness. Processing industries are largely concentrated in
the near competitive category.- Food processing industries fall mostly in
the uncompetitive range accompanied by poor productivity performance.
2.08 -      Processing industries, though not at the highest level on the
competitiveness scale,-have exhibited superior performance. The exports of
these industries account for a third of their output and over half of total
industrial exports. Analysis of these industries, and of selected branches
which are widely regarded as superior performers, indicates some underlying
reasons.-   These  industries  have  been exposed  to pricing  reforms  and
indicate a positive response to them (para 2.06). They have benefited from
the availability of highly qualified and relatively inexpensive technical
staff, an existing technological base and a tradition of innovation, and
most importantly a history of competing in export markets.   A number of
enterprises in these industries have long engaged in international
operations and have accordingly benefited also from exposure to
state-of-the-art management know-how and practices.   Others however, are
only now beginning to realize the importance of exporting competitively and
streamlining their organizations and management to meet this challenge.
2.09        Thus, while the industrial sector overall is in need of rapid
transformation through stronger productivity performance, there are good
grounds  for  believing  that  the  Government's  objective  of  industrial
restructuring to induce stronger and more efficient industrial growth can
be met if a vigorous and integrated program of policy reform is
undertaken. Hungarian industry has the potential to meet the challenge of
international competition which is an essential ingredient for adjustment
and  efficient  growth  of  industry  in  the  future.    Moreover,  over
three-quarters of industrial production is accounted for by industries
which  have - attained,   or  are-  close   to- attaining,   international
competitiveness.    Not  only,  therefore,  is  the  need  for  industrial
restructuring evident but also sustained progress towards the objective is
feasible.  The critical issue is how to induce efficient industrial growth
in a manner consistent with national objectives and the balance of payments
constraint.   In designing the strategy to achieve this objective, it is



6-
necessary -to focus on the constraints, which in the past, have impeded
efficient growth and structural adjustment.
C.  Constraints for Efficient Restructuring an-d Growth
2.10         One of the primary reasons for the weak performance of the
industrial  sector  has  been  the  policy  environment  within  which  the
industrial enterprises have operated. While the economic reforms - which
terminated the physical -planning system and introduced a new system of
economic planning and management linked with markets - and subsequent
intermittent progress in the reform process constituted a major achievement
that enhanced greater economic efficiency in industry, there are important
constraints that remain in the policy environment. This section focusses
on the principal constraints which have been identified as the following:
restricted domestic and - intern3tional competition, limited efficient
resource mobility, the lack of financial discipline and weak autonomy of
enterprises. Linked to these constraints, institutions and infrastructure
which support market mechanisms to induce market responsive activities and
to sustain improved productivity performance remain underdeveloped. These
are elaborated below.
2.11      Competition.  Limited domestic and international competition have
sharply  curtailed  incentives  for  superior  performance  and  improved
productivity resulting in an adverse impact on technological, quality and
cost competitiveness.   The regulatory, financial, and other barriers to
free entry and exit of enterprises have created a highly concentrated
industrial structure and severely limited the degree of domestic
competition and resouree mobility.  Legal forms of enterprises acceptable
to social ownership have been strictly limited, essentially to state
enterprises and cooperatives. Activity profiles with respect to products
as well as sales, marketing, and other non-production functions of
industrial enterprises were also strictly regulated.   Credit allocation
preference was given to large state enterprises, crowding out small and
medium enterprises and creating major financial barriers to their growth.
Liquidation of state enterprises was traditionally considered to be
incompatible with the principle of the indivisibility of social property
and with the guarantee of full employment. Failing enterprises were either
subsidized or merged with other enterprises.   -                             -
2.12          The most  important  instrument  that limited  international
competition, both at home and abroad, has been the state regulation of
international  trade.      Competition  among  the  state  foreign  trade
organizations  has  been- weak  for  the  same  reason  as  for  industrial
enterprises. Regulatory barriers to entry included restrictions on product
categories of the trading - organizations,- and severely - limited trading -
rights  granted  to other enterprises.   "In exports  to  the  convertible
currency area, automatic granting of the free-trade status to exporters has
not been fully achieved in the past, due to constraints in-export financing
and insurance facilities, the duty-drawback system, licensing, and export
rights.   Additionally, the country's anti-inflation objective,  combined
with limited competition and regulated prices, reduced both the willingness
and the scope for effective use of a flexible exchange rate in trade
policy.   Together with deflationery measures for demand management, the
Governmeint used import quotas as part of the recent stabilization program.



-7-
2.13       Resource Mobility.  Structural adjustment in industry in recent
years has been impeded by institutional and policy constraints on the
reallocation of resources -away from uneconomic activities and towards
activities where Hungary has a dynamic  comparative advant- ,e and  the
potential for increased convertible currency exports. The c. pital market
as such had not existed during most of the postwar period, and securities
as instruments for resource mobilization and investment have been
introduced only recently. In banking, where the National- Bank of Hungary
(NBH) served both as the central bank and-a commercial bank, there has been
a severe  lack  of  competition.    These  conditions  have  reinforced  the
financial barriers to entry and growth, hindered liquidation of nonviable
enterprises, and in general limited efficient mobility of capital in the
economy.
2.14         Since 1981, most industrial products -have been placed under
pricing rules 'designed to align them with world market prices, ref lecting
the actual or potential import or export prices of the convertible currency
area.  Although these pricing rules represent a major departure from the
preceding regime, where most prices were set administratively on the basis
of production costs, free market pricing has not been achieved.  However,
pricing rules continue to serve as an instrument for controlling
inflation.   Likewise, wage policy, implemented historically through wage
level guidelines and heavy taxation on wage increases, served as one of the
instruments  for  controlling  inflation.    The  resulting  tendencies  for
less differentiated wages reduced worker incentives for high productivity
and  restricted efficient mobility  of workers.    Con-straints on direct
foreign investment as well as weaknesses in the institutional framework for
management and technological development have impeded the mobility of
technology and know-how.
2.15          Enterprise Discipline and Autonomy.   The above constraints
combined with the framework in which state enterprises were managed,
including no bankruptcy risk, and limited managerial autonomy granted to
state enterprise management, molded enterprise behavior away from attention
to market demand, profits, and cost and quality performance, towards the
state. This is reflected in enterprise bargaining behavior with the state,
their organization, as well as planning, marketing and financial management
capability.   A high tax incidence on profits further reduced the profit
orientation of industrial enterprises.  Subsector-specific tax exemptions,
subsidies   for   loss-making   enterprises,    and   unpredictable   and
non-transparent taxation rules reinforced the weak profit orientation by;
reducing incentives for superior performance.   The resulting environment
has resulted in little premium being attached to profitability, financial
prudence, innovation and productivity improvement.
2.16 ' '       The above  constraints  combined -to  impede  a  spontaneous
restructuring of Hungarian industry as well as a sustained drive towards
enhanced productivity and competitiveness.  The legacy of these constraints
includes an institutional framework which is weak in supporting
market-mechanisms as well as enterprise behavior and motivations that, in-
themselves, are constraints in the short term to efficient restructuring
and growth at the enterprise level.



-8-
D.  Government Objectives for the Seventh Plan
2.17         In light of the dominance of the industrial sector in the
economy, its recent stagnant performance, and the role the sector played in
leading the economy into its recent difficulties, the Government considers
the performance  of  industry  as  decisive  in  attaining  the  adjustment
objectives. Accordingly, the medium-term objective of the Seventh Plan for
industry is a- major restructuring of the sector to increase its efficiency
and international competitiveness.
2.18      The above discussion of past constraints highlights the necessity
of major multi-faceted policy reforms to achieve this objective. In the
medium to long term, competitive market forces strengthened by these
reforms can be expected to induce growth and restructuring in industry by
allocating resources according to changing comparative advantage, and
promoting technological development, innovation, and sustainpd efforts to
increase productivity and reduce cc-st over time. In the Hungarian context,
the policy reforms will need to be reinforced by specific actions and
measures to ensure an accelerated supply response in the short-term, by
developing further the requisite institutions to support market mechanisms
and restructuring of enterprises and subsectors to enable the industrial
sector to become competitive. These measures will necessarily comprise, in
large measure, significant investments in "software" elements such as the
build-up of technological development and management capability, as well as
physical   investments   in  productivity   improvement   and   product-mix
upgrading.   The prevailing  balance of payments  constraint- (para 2.01)
necessitates a premium on quick gestation, high pay-off investments such as
in the restructuring of existing assets to enhance their utilization.
These are the elements underlying the industrial restructuring strategy,
discussed in the following chapter.
S. Bank Industrial Assistance Strategy and Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.19      The Bank's strategy in assisting the industrial sector in Hungary
has been to facilitate development through support to investments aimed at
(i) improving the quality of industrial goods and expanding exports;
(ii)   improving   the   efficiency   of   industrial   operations   through
technological  upgrading,   energy   conservation  and  material   saving;
(iii) changing the structure of production; and (iv) helping the
enterprises  to become more responsive  to market signals.   The Bank's
country  assistance  strategy  for  Hungary  also  emphasizes  industrial
restructuring which is one of the primary objectives of Hungary's Seventh
Five-Year Plan  (1986-90).   The strategy and medium-term framework for
industrial restructuring being pursued by Hungary has been discussed-
extensively with the Bank during the last year and a half.  The strategy
relies on a -comprehensive five-year industrial policy reform program aimed
at  increasing  competition,  enhancing  reliance  on  market  forces  and
increasing enterprise autonomy in an environment of tighter financial
discipline and provides the policy framework for industrial restructuring.
It is supported by parallel actions to restructure specific industries
along the lines of potential competitiveness in order to expedite the
necessary supply response and emphasize related activities, e.g., exports,
technological  development  and  direct  foreign  investment.    The  Bank's



-9-
involvement has contributed to defining this overall strategy leading to
the development of-coordinated policy actions comprising the reform program
as well as playing a major role in the development of a restructuring
program for a jointly selected priority industry, namely the plastics
processing subsector.
2.20       In addition, the Bank is planning to undertake in collaboration
with Hungarian authorities (i) a study of the financial sector, with a view
of analysing and evaluating means of improving the mechanisms for
mobilization and allocation of capital, and (ii) an exports marketing
study, which would aim to identify further measures to expand convertible
currency exports. The planned economic and sector work, the dialogue on
economic management, and potential future operations would provide the
means of monitoring the progress of both the reform and the macro-economic
environment.
2.21      The Project builds on the approach followed in past Bank loans to
Hungary's industrial sector.  The three Bank-financed industrial projects
to date have been multi-component in character:   the Industrial Energy
Diversification and Conservation Project (Loan No. 2317-HU), the Industrial
Export and Restructuring Project (Lqan No. 2397-HU), and the Fine Chemicals
Project (Loan No. 2511-RU).  They supporte.d enterprise-initiated projects
with a potential for improving competition and generating increased
convertible currency exports.  These projects have also helped strengthen
the capacity of Hungarian institutions to implement increasingly complex
industrial operations.
TII. INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING STRATEGY
A. Overall Strategy
3.01       Industrial restructuring in Hungary will involve:  (i) resource
allocation to change the structure of industrial production by emphasizing
innovation and manufacture of products where Hungary has a dynamic
comparative advantage, and to change the structure of exports to increase
the proportion of convertible currency exports; (ii) improvement in the
productivity and competitiveness of existing production facilities through
technological upgrading and managerial improvements; and (iii) changes in
the behavior and- motivation -of economic entities to enhance flexibility,
dynamism, and responsiveness to market developments.  The broad medium-term
strategy for restructuring combines an industrial policy reform program and
a program of specific measures and actions, including investments, both
aimed at restructuring the industrial sector.  The overall strategy is for
the industrial policy reform program to create the necessary economic
conditions that induce restructuring, and for the specific program to
facilitate and- expedite an adequate: supply response to the policy reforms
envisaged.
B.  Industrial Policy Reform Program
3.02        Starting in January 1985, the Government, building on ongoing
economic reforms, has begun to introduce a reform program affecting the
entire economic management system of Hungary. The industry-related aspects



- 10 -
of this program are referred to as the industrial policy reform program.
The   program   directly   addresses   the   three   eomplementary   themes
in the policy environment (paras 2.10-2.16) that need to be addressed to
induce effective and sustainable industrial restructuring. The program is
thus  aimed  to:    (i)  -encourage  stronger  domestic  and  international
competition; (ii) enhance efficient resource mobility; and (iii) increase
the autonomy of enterprises with tighter financial discipline and control.
3.03      Based on these three themes, the industrial policy reform program
for restructuring will -address a number of areas.   The reform program
addresses incentive issues. in the areas of -pricing,- trade, wage
differentiation  and  tax  policies.    In  addition,  the  reform  program
addresses a number of other policy areas related to aspects characteristic
of the current Hungarian economic system that are crucial to the above
three  themes.     Specifically  they  are:    entry  and  liquidation  of
enterprises, worker mobility, development of the capital market and the
banking system, state enterprise management system, direct foreign
investment, and technological development. Policy reforms in these areas,
combined with reforms in pricing, trade, wage differentiation and tax
policies, jointly comprise a whole package that requires a coordinated
program of actions on all '.ronts, taking the maximum advantage of all
mutually reinforcing linkages.
3.04      This program of industrial policy reforms starting in 1985 up t6
the end of the Plan period, 1990, is reflected in the Government's Letter
.of Intent (Annex 3-1).  Components of the program and their schedule are
summarized in the Attachment to the Letter.   The five-year policy reform
program is a dynamic and evolving process, and contains more specific
measures in the earlier years while outlining the framework for main
directions for intended reforms in the later years of the period.   The
content of the programs proposed for the later years will be deepened over
the coming years to reflect experience and evolving priorities.
3.05        The progress and the impact of the industrial policy reform,
however,  will  depend  critically  on  the  judicious  application  of
macroeconomic policies which support the sectoral incentives for adjustment
and growth. The Letter recognizes the importance of a sound macroeconomic
framework. A flexible exchange rate policy (within the framework of sound
monetary and fiscal policies) in the medium term (para 3.11), the
progressive reduction of budgetory subsidies and an appropriate balance
between the country's anti-inflationary objective and an adequate pace of
wage and price reforms are of particular importance with regard to the
success of the reform program and economic performance (para 7.08).
3.06       The thrust-of the reform program across the 11 different policy
areas (para 3.03) is presented on the following page. The program reflects
a major and comprehensive reform of the Hungarian economic system as it
affects the industrial sector.   It includes  policy,  institutional  and
suppotting legislative actions, and built-in actions to monitor and improve
the program continuously.  Major changes in the 11 different policy areas
as foreseen in the reform program are expected to result in an economic



- ii -
HuLg    - tndustrial Policy Refoi Program: Salient Elements
Policy Area          Cowtranora              Ationo Taken to-Date       Reform Program. 1986-1987              By 1990-          |
Eotty of    legislative  regulatory nd  Prtinciples of legislation    NW legislation  and further Much larger role for SMEs
Lnterprlie   fin lacil batrrers to entry; for corporate association    mures   to promote creaton including private e"ter-
ctmsttted stmtuure with  (shre copany, limted            and growth of SWa  nple-    prises; decentralized atate
constraints on etry and      liability oespay. etc.)    mated. Enterprise deen-  enterprise structure.
grtb  of ill and mdim- approved. Noasumes to pro-  traliestion program coa-
entWpriWs ( s).-             w   creation and grooth of pleted.
9SEa and decentralization of
state enterprises faple-
mentedb
Liquidation  14ck of legal fr_rk  foe Principlea-of legislation    Implementation of legisia-   Precedence for liquidation
of           and risk of liquidation of  for liquidation. initiated  tCon fdr and subsequent         and instituttonal capacity
Enterprtses nonviable enterprties.        by credttors or enterprise   liquidation proceedings.    for restructuring in place.
approvd.  Restructuring of Restructuring capacity
viable troubled enterprises  developed.
initiated. Availability of
financial and credtt data
on enterprises institu-
tionaitzed.
Inter-       Insuffticient incentives and  Measures for expert prom-   Further development of        Automatic free trade status
national     capacity for esnorts.  Um- tion incluAing autamtic        export promotion measures.  for exporters.  Rationalized
Trade        ited Import coptition.    free trade status fotr           unty drwback system mase    tariff structure wit, thow
Lack of competition in for- exporeers introduced. Saot- automtic. Tartiffs further avera  rate. Competitive
eign trade.                  nal tariffs reduced to aver- reduced and ratLonalized.   foreign trading  ector
age of 18.12. tjuantitttive  Strengthening of pronotion   achieved.
import restrictions ceroved. of import competition.
"Progra to promote inport
competition devetoped.
Competition in trading
encouraged through abolitien
of restrictions. automtic
granting of export end
Import rights, promotion
of trading houise etc.
Prtitng      State regulation of pricing  Cost-plus prtcing and export Increasing exanptpon froe    eXport Pricing Rule
sytem. discouragtng coups- profitability rules            Export Prtcing Rule.  Ilple- abolished. Coveremant
ttiion.                      abolished. Competitive       menteton of program to eove agencies regulate imperfect
pricing systel amended.      government agencies away     markets, not prcinc.
mbership of Price Club       froe price regulation
incrtased.                   towards regulatLon of imper-
fect markets.
Taxation     High and nonuniform tax 4tr- Structural changes In enter- Removal of all forms of sub- Greater unifority of taxes,
den (reducing profit  ative- prise taxation. All sub-    sectoral tax exempttons.    louer tax burden and
tion) on enterpriees.        sectoral tax exemptions      Reduction. as appropriate,  improved financial environ-
abolished, with the limited  of accumulation tax. Condi- ment for efticient enter-
exception of one sub-branch. tlonal to approval. deveLop- prises.  If approved, inasti-
sent of prograsm  to imple-  tution of personal income
ment Income tax and V.h.T.   tax and V.A.T.
Wage Differ- Vage tncrwnt taxation and  Wage level taxaton ini-    Increase in number of enter- All enterprise,l In capeti-
satiation    relatively unifotn VWe       teated to replace current   prises covered under wap    tive sectors subject to wage
and Worter  levels constrained effitient system.  Incentives for       level taxation. Strnagthen- level taxation; possibte
Nobility    labor mobility and increae  retraining introduced.          ing of worker retraining     replacement by personal
productivity.                                             program.                      Income tax.
Capital      Capital markets, finncial  Bond markets establtshed;    Implementation of program    A deepened capital market
Naukets      instrumnts insufficiently  legal fruork for equities to strengthen primary and    with greeter choice of
deavlopd to  ssist in        developed. secondary trading secondary security (4ebt and financial lotrutnets in
efficient capital mobility   of equity securities Ini-   equity) matkets. and sup-   place.
in the eco_m.                tieted.                      porting institutions.
Banking      Central and caerct l bank-  ankirng sector reform         Seperation of central bank- Two-taer. coetitive end
System      ing functitons combined in   approved. Mme finnciatl    ing end credit functions of diversified banking sector
ORB; lack of cpaetitioc and tnstitution  (banks with      NPH.  Itplemar.tton of free in piece supplemented by
ftr  enterprtse choice:      foreign partictpation,       enterprise choice in bank-  requisite indirect instro-
indirect iatriunents of      Innovation banks, etc.)      ing, variable interest       mants of Wnetary control.
nntnry control  nsvel-   established.  Indirect           rates, untifom  reserve
oped.                        instnrents of monetary t- requirenents and refinancing
trol initiated.              facilities.
Enterprise   Orientation of enterprises  NK  legislation to transfer  Implementation of- new man-  Autonomout stare Industrial
MnAgemnt  to sate instead of mrket. autonomy to enterprise men- agaeent system completed.   enterprise sector.
Lack of enterprise autonomy. agant enacted. Nev system Ilomentation of prograw
implemnted in tw-thirds of for Mnageent developnent
stare enterprises.           and tratning and systematic
provision of finacial
inforetion.
Direct       Unclear frrk, ainis-  Tax incentives improved;            Implementation of mesures   Increased direct foreign
Foreg        tradive 0008traints, limited Joint ventute approval pro- to encourage direct foreign  investment with attendant
Lnveatant   incentives for and la   of  cess streamitned.  Selected  investment; revision of         benefits of flaw of capital,
promtion of direct foreign  activittes promoted with    legal and administrative        technolgy and mrketing/
investment in HIugarian      special incentives.          framanrk.                    managemet knouhov.
induetry.
Technology   Adequate infratruture and  Existing Innovation-            Implementation ot technology Narrowing technological gap
Devloapnt  upport for innovation  nd   fnanceing institutions          developent Infrastructure,  relative to industrialized
technoloy development.       strengthened and  w ones   RDPi programs and messures   countries based on market-
establshed.  technology      to strengthen market orien- orientd RDSE.
policy concept ano  framrk tateon in RD&E. Strength
for 1986-90 completed.       ing and promotion of
innovation-financing, tech-
nology, consulting and
infortetton services.



- 12 -
system that is markedly more reliant on market signals and competition for
efficient resource .llocation' and dynamic growth,~ accompanied by increased
autonomy for enterprises.   The Government has already taken significant
actio.ts across all policy areas to launch this program   as detailed in
Annex 3-2 and summarized on the preceding page. The objectives and salient
elements of the program in the 11 different policy areas are discussed
below, including the priority items that require concrete actions in
1986/87.
3.07       Entry of Enterprises.  Reforms in this area together with those
in liquidation (para 3.09), aim to dismantle existing barriers against the
dynamic 'process of competition and structural change in industry through
the entry, growth and exit of enterprises signaled by profits and losses.
New  forms  of  "corporate  associations,"  which  include  joint  stock
corporations and limited liability corporations, will also enable the
growth of private entrepreneurship and provide a major impetus for
competition with state enterprises. A substantial increase in the share of
small and medium enterprises in industrial activities is envisaged.
3.08        The legal framework for corporate associations, including the
concept of shares, is to be legislated in 1986, terminating the monopoly
of the state in establishing industrial enterprises, and thus removing the
major  regulatory  barrier  to  entry,         A  wide  range  of  measures
(e.g., transitional tax allowance, tax incentives, simplification of
approval procedures) aimed at removing biases against entry and growth of
small (including private) enterprises have been developed and implemented
in 1985 and early 1986, and are to be strengthened continuously. Finally,
in order to promote enterprise competition, a program to break up large
state enterprises to make their performance more transparent and efficient
has been developed and is being implemented in two phases. The first phase
covers state-directed decentralization with a focus on completing the
decentralization of 40 large enterprises in 1985 and early 1986.   Tax
incentives and other measures to induce and support enterprises have been
introduced, to encourage further decentralization in a second phase through
the creation of subsidiaries, spinning off of activities and joint ventures
with small enterprises, at their own initiatives.
3.09       Liquidation of Enterprises.  Reforms in the area of liquidation
and entry are to be implemented jointly, in order to reinforce their
impact on competition, resource mobility, and on efficiency and financial
discipline among industrial enterprises. Starting in 1986, the practice of
liquidation supported by due legal process for settlements in the court
system will be introduced, to enable market selection and phasing out of
inefficient enterprises.
3.10  -      F or -the first time in the modern history of Hungary,  the
principles of a legal framework for liquidation to be legislated in 1986,
have been approved to permit all concerned parties (including the creditors
and the enterprise itself) to initiate bankruptcy proceedings in the
courts.  The law willl be accompanied by the Reflotation Fund which will
assist in restructuring those enterprises deemed economica_ly salvageable.
As a preparatory step to identifying possible cases for liquidation in the



- 13 -
early years of the process, the Government has completed a review of all
state   Industrial.  enterprises   leading  -to   the   identification   of
50 enterprises in a critical financial situation. Financial restructuring..
plans, where deemed feasible, have been implemented for some, and are being
finalized for others.   The judicial system is to be strengthened  to
implement liquidation proceedings and institutional capacity developed to
execute corporate restructuring (financial and otherwise).
3.11 -     International Trade.  Reforms in trade aim to expose Hungarian
industry to external competition both at home and abroad.   The Letter of
Intent states the increasing importance attached to the role of exchange
rate policy in determining the competitiveness of tradable activities.
Exchange  rate  movements  in  the  1980s,  including  the  real  effective
depreciation by about 7% since March 1985, reflect in part the policy of
pegging to a basket where the weight of the dollar is determined by the
relative magnitude of dollar-denominated trade, which exceeds the relative
importance of the US market in Hungary's foreign trade. The IMF Article IV
consultation in October 1985 recommended the adoption of "a more flexible
exchange rate policy' for the medium term, while recognizing that shifting
additional resources to the external sector: in Hungary will also require
tighter financial discipline for enterprises and the maintenance of
competitive market prices.
3.12      The intended focus of trade reform is on export promotion, tariff
reform, import competition, and liberalization of trading activities.
Export   promotion   efforts   implemented   by   early   1986   comprise:
(i) measures to provide a free trade status automatically for exporters,
and   (ii)   incentives   to  restructuring   investments  and   associated
technological development towards (direct and indirect) convertible
currency exports. As a GATT formula country, annual tariff reductions for
Hungary are scheduled until 1987, reducing the mean nominal rate from the
average current level of 182 to 16.1% by 1987. By 1987, most tariff codes
will be below 20%, and only 18 codes out of 3,168 (mostly food, tobacco,
and  beverage  products)  will  remain  above  60%.          Further  tariff
rationalization is planned beyond 1988 to be determined based in part on an
agreed  review  of  the  effective  rates  of  protection.  - Quantitative
restrictions (except on consumer goods) were eliminated in 1985. Measures
to promote greater import competition have been finalized to encourage
competition between domestic production  and  imports  as well as among
imports.  The program will be applied economy-wide with a limited negative
list covering strategic goods.   The program aims to alleviate existing
administrative  constraints  to  effective  import  competition,  including
assistance to enterprises in using international competitive bidding
procedures. Competition among foreign trade companies is -being increased.
As part of the actions taken by early 1986, product/activity restrictions
on existing state forelgn trade-organizations have been removed, harriers
to entry into the foreign trade business dismantled by granting export and
import rights on own products and inputs needed for own production to all
enterprises and incentives provided for establishing general multi-function
trading houses.



- 14 -
3.13       Pricing of Industrial Products. .Further reforms in pricing aim,
to replace existing pricing rules with free market pricing, and
simultaneously  transforming  the  regulatory  role  of  the  state  to  the
regulation of imperfect markets rather than of prices themselves..
3.14         The exemption of manufacturing enterprises from the export
pricing rule (a dominant pricing rule governing industry, which requires
enterprises to liftit the average increase in domestic prices of their
products to, at most, the average price increase realized on exports) is to
be continued in 1986/87. _ Actions taken to date include liberalization of
the export pricing rule itself, and measures resulting in a significant
increase in the percentage of manufacturing output (to 49X) exempted from
pricing rules. Following a further increase in exemptions the rule is to
be abolished altogether  before  1990.    The  legal  framework  concerning
practices arising from imperfect markets has been enacted as the Law of
Unfair Economic Practices in 1985. On the basis of the Law, a program is
to be developed and implemented over the five years to transform the main
functions of the National Materials and Price Board (and other government
agencies responsible for pricing supervision) away from price regulation to
that of regulating imperfect markets.
3.15      Taxation.  The current taxation system places a very heavy burden
on industrial enterprises.   The taxation reforms aim to reduce this tax
burden in order to enhance efficiency and. strengthen their profit
motivation, to increase the degree of tax neutrality, which has  been
particularly lacking among industrial enterprises, and to increase the
transparency of their financial performance. A major reform of the system
is foreseen to have been realized by 1990.
3.16       All differential tax treatments specific to enterprises and/or
subsectors in industry have been removed effective January 1, 1986, with
minor exceptions affecting the textile industry which are to be eliminated
in 1987. Future preferential tax treatment for incentive purposes is to be
applied economy-wide, regardless of enterprises, subsectors, or sectors,
for   priority   activities:       convertible   currency   exports,   energy
conservation,  application  of  material   saving  and  waste  recycling
technologies  and  environmental  conservation.         The  tax  burden  on
enterprises,  particularly  with  respect  to  the  accumulation  tax  on
investment (introduced with the intention of restraining investment) is to
be monitored continuously over the years with a view to its reduction. Two
major programs for tax reform, the introduction of a personal income tax
and a value added tax, are to be prepared in 1986/87, with the technical
assistance of the IMF.   These reforms would make larger pre-tax income
differentiation possible and reduce the tax burden on enterprises.   An
important part of the. development of these. programs is to establish the
administrative infrastructure necessary for their smooth introduction. The
uniformity in tax and other financial incentives among state enterprises
and other forms of enterprises is .to be assessed on an annual basis to
increase the financial discipline under which state enterprises operate.
3.17       Wage Differentiation and Worker Mobility.  The reforms in this
area  aim  to  provide  incentives  for  efficient  mobility  and  greater



- 15 -
productivity   of   workers   in   industry   in   support   of   industrial
restructuring.  Wage level taxation was introduced in 1985 to replace the
highly progressive taxation on wage increases.  A  kajority of enterprises
ate intended to be subjected to wage level taxation by 1990, which, in
turn, would be restructured substantially pending the introduction of the
personal income tax.  The Worker Retraining Program has been strengthened
to meet the social costs of adjustment and will provide partial funding for
retraining  needs  of  workers  to  enterprises,  as  well  as - adjustment
assistance to displaced workers. The program is particularly important in
the light of the expected increase in liquidation and restructuring actions
among industrial enterprises.
3.18      Development of the Capital Market.  Reforms in the capital market
aim to develop a variety of flexible financial instruments (including
shares), corresponding markets, and supporting institutions, to aid the
efficient mobilization, allocation and mobility of capital in support of
the industrial restructuring objective.
3.19          The variety of bonds available in the market (e.g., fixed
tnaturity-flexible rate bonds linked to profit rates, floating rate bonds,
and zero-coupon bonds) is being increased with several ne-w instruments
(e.g., floating rate bonds) already introduced in 1985 and early 1986.
Both-the primary and secondary bond markets are to be strengthened in
1986/87 by developing supporting financial service institutions and market
infrastructure and modifying, as necessary, the existing legal and
regulatory framework. Shares are to be iegally defined and sanctioned in
1986 as part of the corporate associations law (para 3.08).  Primary and
secondary share markets are to be developed further. Secondary trading of
shares  was  initiated  in  late  1985 on a trial basis.    In addition,
securities bridging equity instruments to bonds have been introduced and
are to be developed in the future.   As the capital market develops,
accounting, auditing, and financial reporting practices of enterprises, and
institutions which support and provide these financial services are to be
developed continuously, in order to enhance further development of the
market.
3.20       Banking System.  Banking reforms complement the development of
capital markets and aim to transfer the credit mobilization and allocation
function to the market according to market returns and risks, as the role
of   the   state   in   centrally   allocating   investments   diminishes.
A competitive, two-tier banking system is to be promoted, where the central
bank is vested with the authority and policy iastruments  to exercise
monetary control rather than direct credit allocation. Competitive banking
would  lead  to  forcing  efficient  investment  behavior  and  increasing
financial discipline and accountability.   -
3.21      Following approval of banking sector reforms in 1985, preparation
is under way to separate the commercial banking function of the National
Bank of Hungary institutionally from its central banking function through
the creation of two competing commercial banks effective January 1, 1987.
The separation is to be accompanied by the introduction of key instruments
for monetary control; reserve requirements have been implemented and are to
be unified in 1986.  New financial institutions and banks including a bank



- 16 -
with the participation of a major US bank, innovation banks and a credit
bank have been established in 1985 and early 1986.  Otther banks, including
one with IFC participation, are being promoted.   Current restrictions on
where enterprises place their current accounts are to be lifted in 1986 to
permit a free choice and promote competition among banks.
3.22           Enterprise Management  System.   The benefictial impact on
industrial restructuring of all the policy reforms discussed so far will be
substantially limited, without corresponding reforms to change the behavior
and motivation of the managements of state enterprises.   Reforms in this
area taus aim to implement a new system of management for state enterprises
to enhance competitive behavior through increased management autonomy and
financial discipline.
3.23      All state enterprises in industry (with the exception of a few of
the largest state enterprises and public utilities where the ministries
responsible will continue to supervise the managements of the enterprises)
are to be managed either by an enterprise council (for larger enterprises)
or by an elected enterprise assembly (for smaller enterprises).   This
change has been implemented for two-thirds of all state and council
enterprises in 1985 and will be completed for the remainder in 1986.  The
enterprise councils and asseablies are empowered with full rights and
responsibilities in all aspects of business operations and decisions. The
state retains only the right to establish new state enterprises and the
responsibility to ensure that state enterprises are operating in accordance
with relevant laws.  The operational form of the new system is expected to
evolve over time as experience is gained and as economic and business
conditions change.  The need for changes is to be monitored continuously
and  the system developed over the years.   This process will address,
inter  alia,  use  of  external  advisors  by  enterprise  management,
management-worker relations, further clarification of the financial
relationship between the state and enterprises, and systematic disclosure
of financial and other performance indicators to all parties concerned.
3.24        Direct Foreign Investment.  Reforms in this area address the
inflow of foreign capital as well as the 'supply side" of new
technological, management, and marketing know-how for industry.   Reforms
aim to use direct foreign investment as the vehicle to inject such
know-how, inducing greater efficiency and competitiveness in western
markets. The introduction of the corporate associations law is expected to
complement these reforms. Measures to promote direct foreign investment in
joint ventures and associated technology transfer activities are to be
implemented and modified continuously in the future, removing existing
constraints  to  such  activities  in Hungary.    Measures  implemented by
early 1986 include a decree providing improved uniform and transparent tax
incentives and simpler approval procedures. A simplified accounting system
and a promotional campaign for selected activities are to be introduced
in 1986,
3.25        Technological Development*  While the area of direct foreign
investment addresses technological transfer from the West, this area aims
to accelerate Hungary's own capacity for technological development.



- 17 -
Reforms in this area would contribute to narrowing the technological gap
relative to Industrial economies, particularly as the competitive market
forces strengthen, and -also help Increase the dynamic benefits of
technoLogicaL  transfer  from  abroad.        Measures  aimed  to  correct
imperfections  in  technology  information and strengthen infrastructural
support, remove barriers to financing technological developments, and
induce market-orientation of RD&E activittes, are to be implemented and
continuously  modified  over  -the  years.    - Such  measureu   include:
establishment of regional and sectoral RD&E survice centers with better
links to enterprises, strengthening as well as establishing new innovation
financing institutions, promotion of consulting firms,-and fiifancial and
management autonomy of research institutes.
C. ~Specific Re!tructuriRg Sugpport and Subsectoral Emphasis
3.26        The package of industrial policy reforms described above is
expected to cause a major shift in the climate within which industrial
enterprises must operate. This will result in adjustment costs which, in
view of the current market conditions in Hungary, need to be supported by
specific measures to achieve an expeditious and sustained supply response
in the industrial sector, and to create a demonstration impact on the rest
of the sector.   These measures aim at developing sustained international
competitiveness through physical and "software' investments to promote
exports, build the organizational and management capability of enterprises,
promote technological innovation and development, support activities aimed
at savings of materials and energy, and realize productivity improvement,
product-mix upgrading, elimination of uneconomic product lines and
activities, market development and restructuring of assets.  Institutional
support and incentives for a number of these activities are also built into
the reform program.
3.27      In addition to the reliance on the industrial reform program for
restructuring of enterprises to respond to market mechanisms, the
Seventh Five-Year Plan includes a focus on the restructuring of selected
subsectors,   cross-sectoral   activities   such   as   electronic   and
instrumentation industries and problem enterprises, with the prime
objective of improving economic efficiency, accelerating technical
development and increasing exports.   In anticipation of the envisaged
policy reform and corresponding market response, the strategy for;
restructuring would take on a positive restructuring focus on subsectors
with  potential  or near  potential  international  competitiveness.    In
addition, the restructuring with growth objective and the country's debt
burden indicate a focus on activities with strong growth possibilities for
the future (para 2.09) which would turn around subsectoral productivity
performance and induce dynamic comparative advantage from the supply side.
Prominent among these activities, are those in the processing industries
(including the plastics processing industry and many of the engineering
industries).   The Ministry of Industry (MOI) has carried out specific



- 18 -
techno-economic analyses of about 15 subsectors2/ to identify the
potential, constraints and restructuring requirements of these -subsectors
towards  the  development  and  implementation- of  econoinically - viable
restructuring programs. In other subsectors such as ferrous metallurgy and
construction materials the emphasis is on modernization of existing plants
and the closure of uneconomic facilities primarily to meet domestic demand
efficiently.   Restructuring plans for some problem enterprises have been
developed and the implementation process has already started (para 3.10).
3.28      The restructuring strategy will emphasize, in addition to policy
reforms  at  the  seetor  level,  specific  measures  (with  support  for
investment) at subsector and enterprise level which- complement -and
reinforce the policy reforms and aim at developing sustained international
competitiveness through addressing issues suck as reorientation of
product/market strategy, strengthening of organization and management
capabilities,  upgrading  of  technology  and equipment,  etc.    All  these
aspects are aimed at developing management and enterprise capacity to
respond to the challenge of increasing international competitiveness. Bank
assistance, through specific industry-wide actions supporting the reform
program (technological development and innovation finance, management
development, and technical assistance) and restructuring of selected
subsectors addresses the critical need for "software' investments required
to develop such capacity as well as for physical restructuring investments
to generate a sufficient supply response for restructuring.
3.29      The plastics processing industry (excluding plastics production)
has been selected as a prime candidate for the subsector focus of the
proposed Project.  The economic viability of plastics resin production in
.lungary was established in the context of earlier Bank sector analysis and
provides a sound basis for the development of the plastics products
industry.3/ The PPS has been selected for restructuring for a variety of
reasons:   potential comparative advantage but low rates of productivity
growth since 1981 (Annex 2-2); potential for growth in direct and indirect
exports as well as import substitution; the subsector typifies the problems
of the manufacturing sector and the resolution of its problems may be of
major demonstrative value; its important role as a "background industry'
feeding into other subsectors such as the building and food processing
industries (and potentially, the engi'eering industries) as well as
agriculture; the typically fragmented nature of the industry worldwide
which provides room for small and medium-sized competitors in Huu.gary and
in world markets;  the urgent  need  for  technology  upgrading;  and  the
potential  to  increase  competitiveness  through - the  strengthening  of
marketing and management systems and skills.  In view of its high priority,
the subsector is also the subject of a special  sectoral  research and
development program which has been approved by the Council of Ministers for
implementation during the Seventh Five-Year Plan period (1986-90). - The
subsequent discussion of constraints  in the PPS and the restructuring
2/   These include among others:   plastics processing, agricultural and
food processing machinery,  rubber and vacuum  technology products,
machine tools, road vehicles, etc.
31 Based on the Chemical Sector Review by the Bank. -



- 19 -
strategy to be implemented under the Project illustrates the nature of
current constraints throughout the industrial sector and the range of
specific actions required to remedy them.
Do Subsector Constraints and Strategy (Plastics Processing Subsector)
3.30      Details on the structure and performance of the PPS in Hungary is
provided in Annex 3-3.   Performance of the--subsector has been adversely
affected by a number of constraints which have led to inadequate rates of
productivity growth and a lagging competitiveness of the PPS. Nonetheless,
the subsector still remains potentially- competitive in- economic terms
(Annex 2-2).   In addition  to the  industry-wide  constralats  regarding
enterprise management behavior and motivation (par& 2.15), the main
constraint8  affecting PPS performance are:    (i) an inadequate market
orientation of the subsector; (ii) overconcentrated structure of the
subsector; (iii) aging technology; mad (iv) inadequate infrastructure
support, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises (SKWs).
3.31       The lack of competition, internal and external, has resulted in
little attention being given to the adoption of new product and market
strategies for the development of improved products for both the domestic
and export markets. The PPS has focused instead on capacity expansion of
existing product lines and haphazard diversification to supply a readily
available domestic market and to utilize avallable domestic resin
supplies. Furthermore, enterprise organization and management systems have
not been effective in inducing flexible market-oriented approaches.  The
limited market orientation has also led to an emphasis of the Hungarian PPS
on plastics applications for packaging and building uses.  Coupared to the
industrialized countries, -applications in transport and engineering are
underdeveloped. Product development and market orientation have also been
constrained by other factors outside the enterprises.   There has been a
limited dissemination of information on new products, markets and
technologies outside Hungary, particularly for SHXs.   Also, access to
imported raw materials has been restricted due to limited foreign exchange
availability. Further, the distribution system for plastics products has a
number   of   institutional   obstacles   (concentrated   structure,   low
margins, etc.) which restrict better availability of goods to the market
and requisite feedback to producers.
3.32       The overconcentrated structure of the subsector, in contrast to
the typically fragmented nature of the industry worldwide, has adversely
affected the development of the SMEs and has reinforced the limited
competition in the subsector.   In 1983, the eight largest enterprises
together produced almost three quarters of total subsector output, while
some 123 enterprises accounted for the remainder. In the recent past, the
larger enterprises have dominated the trend to diversification of ptoducts,
including those which smaller enterprises, by virtue of their decentralized
location and lower overheads, could manufacture more economically without
sacrificing scale economies.   The lack of access of SMEs to investment
funds, new  technology  and  required  technical assistance  has been  an
important  factor  that  contributed  to  the  dominance  of  the  large
enterprises.



- 20 -
3.33        The development of the PPS and its competitiveness is further
constrained by its aging technology (Annex 3-3) and lack of access to
updated- equipment   in   view   of  restrictions  on   foreign  exchange
availability.   Updated equipment in industrialized countries has led to
improved quality of products, higher reproducibility, less downtime, lower
maintenance, less scrap and lover material consumption, shorter cycle times
and becter  quality  control.    There  is an urgent need  to update PPS
equipment using the latest technology (largely available only from
convertible currency sources) to reverse the trend to lagging productivity.
3.34        Furthermore, inadequate infrastructure support has constrained
the development of the PPS, particularly of SMEs.  The subsector has been
under a severe handicap due to the lack of timely, availability of
international quality molds and dies at competitive prices.   Currently,
a PPS enterprise has to wait as long as 15 months to receive* a mold from
domestic  sources,  and  often  the  quality  is  unacceptable.          Also,
improvements in quality control facilities are required particularly for
standard setting and testing, and RD&E programs need to be strengthened to
support f'he entire PPS rather than the larger enterprises as is presently
the case.   Other infrastructure needs, such as access to technical and
marketing information, and strengthening of management training, also need
to be upgraded, particularly for SMEs.
3.15          The development strategy for the PPS to remove the above
constraints  was  prepared  jointly  by  the  Hungarian  authorities,  an
international firm of management consultants, and the Bank.   The main
elements  of the strategy are as follows:    (i) current operations of
enterprises should be upgraded and restructured with a view to improving
performance and competitiveness through cost reduction and quality
upgrading with modern equipment, and improved customer service with related
changes in management approaches; (ii) specific support through technical
assistance and special credit facilities should be given to SHME to develop
their restructuring operations, including the adoption of more appropriate
management and marketing methods; the strategy also foresees the spinning
off by larger enterprises of product lines and operations which could more
economically be carried out by the SMEs; (iii) the raw material base of the
subsector should be broadened to allow wider plastics applications; in
particular, the development and application of new raw materials, such as
linear low-density polyethylene, expandable polystyrene, methyl diphenyl
diisocyanate-based  polyurethanes,  as  well  as  compounds,  should  be
supported; competition from imported materials should be improved in order
to maintain quality standards and competitiveness in the supply of these
raw materials for the PPS; and (iv) the PPS infrastructure should be
strengthened to support the development of SMEs.  The implementation of the
above strategy forms the basis for Bank support for PPS restructuring under
the proposed  Project.    With- the  implementation  of  the  restructuring
strategy, the output of the PPS is envisaged to increase to 570,000 tons by
1990, from the 1984 level of 427,000 tons, or at an average annual. rate of
4.9% (Annex 3-3). The investment requirement for the subsector during this
period  to  implement  the  above  strategy  is  estimated   at  about
US$220.0 million for upgrading of present facilities and capacity expansion
into competitive new product lines.



- 21 -
IV.  INSTITUTIONS AND ENTERPRISES INVOLVED IN THE PROJECT
4.01         The Project is multi-component and complex in nature since it
provides support to both the Industrial policy reform program and the
specific restructuring strategy for the plastics processing subsector (PPS)
(para 5.01).   It involves  a large number  of diverse  institutions  and
enterprises  in  the  execution  of  its  different  components.    The  main
institutions and enterprises involved in the Project are shown in the
following table.
Inst.ittims and! RLterrie Involved In tie Project
Project Omvoet 
1. k   vmntal Wxkdng         Inrstrial enterpriser throuh the prisilm of forign
Captal                    exdwh   by NMH
2. mwvastikn Fzowx           rndtistrial entepries hxrwgh siloans aude by 2bSdhwa,
Imofitnee, Investbah), and otIgr imiwatim flncixg
- institutins besed on aoqust appraisal
3. Maneqmut and Techilcal    Industrial Manent Institute (WI), Budpet T Lcal
Traifing                    uhi'dversity,  Research  Irtitute  for  the Plstics
Industry (MLKI) thrugh the Mnistry of Industry (MfI)
4. Tbdxiical Aqst lnon a     N!lh ninal B*k of Rh  swy ; and thwugi the G(ont
Related Servies             Sate ltvDelopet Bank ( 3), Natioil Plamnn Office
(NPO). Nidstry of Finnce, Minitry of brign Trade,
and Ml)Sbsectoral Industrlal arprises.
1. Mvelq|lEnt of (qdW&-     Q'viss   faria  P^em   ((I),  &osd  Quical
logimi      F -structure   Woks  (BO,  lecticl  Imaft    MWtials  id
PElastics &terprlse (VSk, NML, Istitute for Qality
QmLrol in Buildin  (EMI), Instnitue for Bulding
Sciare CET, Tedmolqgial Is titute for the Macbin
Irdusty   (GTIr),  Chha 2mdical   Ixdustrias
ineeriCn   (Vegyterv), ND)I/RestrcriW Proram
Offion (RFO)
2.  sProgLiw of      dK, V1M,   8garla Plastics EterPrise (ItW), Plastics
Selected Enterprises        Processin  bntepise of Pest  uty (Iu)i), TLMAi
Ceia  beks (TV])
3. Restrcturg PMgrm of    Elgible entprises in the plastics prossirg and
anidx-       &ter                     B imkgrxd industries
4.02        The borrower of the loan- will be the National Bank of Hungary
(NBI).  In addition to its functions as the Central Bank of Hungary, it is-
also the main commercial and development bank of Hungary, providing short
and medium-term working capital and investment credits to other banking
institutions, state enterprises and cooperatives.   It is also responsible
for establishing and administering credit policies of the banking system,
which are reviewed annually by NBi and the National Planning Office (NPO)
to  reflect  changes  in  monetary  policies  and  help  facilitate  the
implementation of the five-year plan.   At present the high priority areas



-22-
for  financing  are:       export-oriented  industries,  efficient  import
substitution,   energy   conservation,   material   saving/recycling,   and
technological  innovation.  - NBH's -balance  sheet  and  income  statement
indicate a strong financial position (Annex 4-1).  The overall financial
position of NBH is sound and reflects: (i) its role as the central bank;
(ii) its close review of subborrowers' finances by controlling borrowings
and holding theit accounts; and (iii) its excellent credit recovery record.
4.03        NBH has a total staff of about 6,400 including about 2,800 at
headquarters in Budapest and about 3,600 in its 19 regional offices,
64 local branches and 2 banking subsidiaries in Hungary. It operates six
representative offices and two banking subsidiaries abroad. The President
of the Bank is its chief executive and is assisted by the Board of
Management composed of a First Deputy President and Deputy Presidents,
together appointed by the Council of Ministers; Managing Directors
appointed by the President; and non-executive members, elected at the
General Meeting, where the State, as sole shareholder, is represented by
officials of the Ministry of Finance. All industrial financing operations
(except for the food industry) are grouped under one Deputy President.
Appraisal procedures and supervision of ongoing projects have been
strengthened under  previous Bank-financed projects.   The appraisal of
restructuring programs to be financed under the Project's credit line for
small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) will be carried out jointly by
NBH  and  the  Restructuring  Program  Office  (RPG,  para  6.15).    These
institutions are adequately staffed to fulfil their responsibilities under
the Project.
4.04        Within the framework of the banking reforms (para 3.20), the
Government has decided to separate the cowmercial banking and central
banking functions of NBH, with institutional separation expected to be
completed in 1987. Upon separation, Bank loan proceeds are intended to be
onlent through the new commercial banks with NBH serving as the apex
refinancing institution. Such arrangements would depend on a satisfactory
appraisal by the Bank of the commercial banks' structure, capabilities,
policies and procedures. The transfer of responsibilities from NBH to the
new commercial banks will require a reformulation of past loan agreements
between  the  Bank  and  NBH.   This will be undertaken before  the new
arrangements come into force.
4.05       The Project includes support for selected innovation financing
institutions  which  are  a  significant  feature,  unique among  socialist
economies, of the Hungarian financial system.   More than a dozen such
institutions are now in existence, having been sponsored typically as joint
ventures of one or more banks (NBH or SDB), ministries, cooperative
associations or other state agencies (e.g., State Office for Technical
Development - OMFB).   The institutions are subject to a unified legal
framework and their operations are regulated by the NBH-which also monitors
their financial position on a monthly basis.   Most of the specialized
financial institutions are broadly oriented towards promoting innovation
and technology development in the economy through flexible financial
instruments, inciuding risk and profit-sharing arrangements.   They cater
primarily to the SMEs which traditionally have not enjoyed adequate access
to more  established  sources  of  finance.    Three  such  institutions  -
Innofinance, Investbank, and Technova - which are active in the industry



- 23 -
sector, have been appraised for participation in the proposed Project.  The
appraisal was based on An evaluation of a series of criteria related to che
technical and managerial capacity as well as the- operations of each
institution.   Strengthening of these institutions is provided under the
Project (para 5.04). Creditworthiness of the institutions was assessed as
satisfactory by NBH.    Innofinance,  the  original  innovation  financing
institution in Hungary, was established in 1980 as a non-profit
xs1titution.  The objective of the institution was to assist in financing
on a risk-sharing basis all kinds of innovations up to the stage of
commercialization.    The  institution  has  provided  multiple  financial
services in diversified innovation projects. Its management is dynamic and
aggressive in innovation-promotional activities..  While it has had some
successes in domestic and international markets, overall its financial
results have been poor in earlier years.   Since 1985 it has changed its
approach to become a profit-oriented institutions and is judged to be in a
good position to restructure itself into a viable innovation finance
agency.   Investbank was founded in 1983 jointly by OMFB and SDB as a
specialized agency with the responsibility of managing OMFB's funds on a
commercial  basis  for  financing  technical  developments.    Due  to  the
influence of SDB, the institution in its early years relied primarily on
conventional loans for technological innovation, thereby realizing a good
financial performance. The institution's access to a refinancing facility
under the Project (para 5.04) will enable the management to broaden its
profile.   Technova had its origin within the MOI to provide a better
mechanism for financing innovation activities of SMEs.  It was established
in 1984 with the primary purpose of- financing developments in high
technology areas, new materials and systems.  Its previous operations and
those in the pipeline relate to the manufacture of prototypes, the
introduction of new technologies and t-he commercialization of new
products. While new to the field of innovation finance, the institution
has competent management and staff and its performance is regarded as
satisfactory.   Further details on the activities of the three financial
institutions are proa1ded in the Project File.   Other institutions that
would like to participate in the Project can be accommodated at a later
stage subject to their appraisal by NBH in line with the criteria
established for the three selected institutions and the subsequent approval
by the Bank (para 5.05). This has been agreed at negotiations.
4.06        A number of management training institutions in Hungary offer
specialized courses to industrial managers in the areas of management,
marketing, technology and economics.  In the area of management training,
two institutions --the National Management Development Center (OVK) and the
Industrial Management Institute (IVI) - are primarily responsible for
delivering management training courses to all levels of enterprise
management.   In addition,  there are a number of specialized technical
institutes such as the Marketing Research Institute -(KOPINT) and the
Research Institute for Plastics Industry (MUKI), and universities such as
Budapest Technical University (BME) that conduct training programs in the
fields of economics, technology and marketing.   The Project will provide
overall support for management development and training as well as direct
support through strengthening the capabilities of IVI, MUKI and BME in the
areas of management, marketing and technology training (para 5.06).



- 24 -
4.07      Governmental institutions such as NBH, the State Development Bank
(SDB), National Planning Office (NPO), Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
Foreign Trade, and Ministry of Industry will be involved in the further
development and implementation of the policy reform program.  The Project
includes technical assistance support for these institutions in carrying
out  various  tasks  under  the  industry-wide  restructuring  component
(para 5.08).
4.08       One of the major elements of the infrastructural development in
the  plastics  processing  subsector  (PPS)  i-s  the  expansion  of  three
mold-making enterprises - Borsod Chemical Works (BVK), Granvisus Hungaris
Pemu mold-making enterprise (GHP), and Electrical Insulating Materials and
Plastics Enterprise (VSZM).  A summary of the background and activities of
the three enterprises is provided in Annex 4-2 and key financial data in
Annex 4-3.   Among the three enterprises, GRP would make an important
contribution to the development of technological infrastructure of the
PPS. GHP, a joint association of two large plastics processing enterprises
- Hungaria Plastics Enterprise (HMV) and Plastics Processing Enterprise of
Pest County (PEMU) (para 4.10), specializes in the production of molds for
injection and blow-molded plastics products for the parent enterprises.
For the preparation, effective implementation and successful operation of
its expanded facility (para 5.12) the Bank has encouraged conversion of the
present GHP enterprise into a joint venture stock company with the
participation of foreign mold-making and molding machine manufacturing
companies supported by appropriate technical assistance and training
arrangements.   IFC is actively engaged in the process with a view to
participating in the company.
4.09      Under the Project, funds will be provided to five profit-oriented
institutes for plastics processing activities: the Research Institute for
the Plastics Industry (MUKI), the Institute for Quality Control of Building
(EMI), the Institute for Buildtig Science (ETI), the Technological
Institute for  the Machine  Industry  (GTI),  and the Hungarian Chemical
Industries Engineering Center (Vegyterv) in order to strengthen their
capabilities in providing the technological and infrastructural support
needed for the development of the subsector such as quality control and
testing, RD&E, technical information support, etc.  The programs for other
budget-contributed institutes will be supported by the Hungarian Government
(para 5.15).   MUKI is the major institute supporting the PPS in the
development of plastics technology, processing and application. EMI, ETI
and GTI test plastics products for their application in building and
machinery industries.  Vegyterv is one of the largest engineering centers
-in Hungary and will be involved in the Project through providing assistance
to the Restructuring Program Office (para 6.15) and the operation of the
proposed Information Data Center (para 5.17).  Details on the background,
organization and activities of the five institutes are provided in the
Project File, a summary in Annex 4-4, and key historic financial data in
Annex 4-3.
4.10       The specific subsector restructuring component will finance the
restructuring  programs  of  eligible  enterprises  in  the  PPS  and  its



- 25 -
background  industries  (paras  5.18  and  5.22).    Five  enterprises were
selected for joint appraisal by the Bank, NBH= and- MOI/RPO. The selection
of these enterprises was based on their significant share of the opeiations
of the subsector (their coibined production accounted for about 60% of
subsector output in 1984) and their managements' commitment to the
objectives of the Project. Also, the joint appraisal of the restructuring
programs of these five enterprises provides to other enterprises in the PPS
a model for developing such enterprise restructuring programs within the
objectives of the Project.  The selected enterprises are:  BVK, HMW, PEMU,
VSZM  and  Tiszai  Chemical  Works  (TVK).    Details  on  the  background,
organization, activities and financial situation of the enterprises are
provided in the Pro3ect Pile, highlights for each enterprise in Annex 4-2,
and key historic financial data in Annex 4-3.
4.11       Rach of the five selected enterprises produces plastics products
from specific resins for selective consuming industries, particularly
agriculture, packaging, building, technical, and consumer-related.   The
enterprises face important production-related constraints due to mixed
quality of production equipment with consequent low operating efficiency,
low quality of products and high material consumption.   Furthermore, the
enterprises produce a diversified and fragmented product-mix.   There is
therefore a need for the enterprises to develop focussed product/market
strategies to maintain a strong domestic position and develop sufficient
strength to be internationally competitive in view of the expected changes
in the policy and incentive framework supported by the Project.   Also
improvements in their business systems - management skills, structure and
systems - at the headquarters and plant levels are vital in view of the new
management   reforms,   the  shift   from  a   production-oriented   to  a
market-oriented focus, and the need to decentralize operations and improve
management and information systems.   These issues are addressed by the
Project as part of the restructuring programs of the enterprises
(paras 5.18-5.21).
4.12      Other PPS enterprises can also participate in the Project through
a credit facility to be established at NBH (para 5.22).  These enterpriset
are among some 125 other enterprise in the subsector which together account
for about 40Z of the subsector output (Annex 3-3).   A relatively small
number (less than 20Z) are engaged exclusively in plastics processing,
while in most enterprises plastics processing forms an integral part of the
production  process  (e.g.,  in  cable  manufacture,  or  manufacture  of
components for final products).   Specific eligibility criteria for the
participation of these enterprises in the Project were developed jointly by
NBB and the Bank (pars 5.22).
V.  THE PROJECT
A.  Project Objectives and Scope
5.01       The objective of the Project is to support the restructuring of
Hungarian industry to enable it to achieve international competitiveness
and increase the potential for exports.  The Project is designed to achieve
this objective through two mutually reinforcing components:



- 26 -
(a)  An industry-wide restructuring component which includes support
for a five-year program of industrial policy and- institutional
reforms to provide the necessary conditions to induce and
facilitate restructuring. The reform program is supplemented by
specific   Institution-building   with   regard .. to  innovation
financing, management development and banking institutions. The
Project aims also to strengthen the capability of Hungarian
institutions to implement, monitor and develop further the
five-year program; and
(b)  A  specific  subsector  restructuring  component  to  expedite
restructuring in the plastics processing subsector (PPS).  This
includes  support  for  (i)  the  development  of  the  PPS
infrastructure - mold and die production, quality control and
testing, RD&E, and market and technical information services;
(ii) the restructuring programs of five selected plastics
processing enterprises; and (iii) the restructuring of other
enterprises in the subsector, whicb are mainly small and medium
sized.
B.  Industry-wide Restructuring Component
1, Industrial Policy Reform Program
5.02           The five-ytar program of industrial policy and related
institutional  reform  constitutes  the  core  of  Hungary's  industrial
restructuring effort.   The package of coordinated actions in 11 policy
areas (Chapter III) is designed to result In a wide-ranging reform of the
prevailing economic conditions in Hungary to enhance competition, financial
discipline and the efficient mobility of resources and thus alleviate
existing  constraints  (Chapter  II).    As  reflected  in  the  letter  of
industrial policy intent and the attached matri: (Annex 3-1), the program
includes a number of different types of actions:   further assessment of
constraints, policy, formulation, program development and implementation,
reform regulation and related institution-building.   A number of salient
actions have already been taken (Annex 3-2).  To support future actions,
the    Project    provides    for    technical    assistance,    training,
institution-building and other services required in the - different poli'cy
areas (paras 5.08).
5.03      Under the proposed Project, sale of foreign exchange will be made
for  meeting  incremental  working  capital  requirements  of  eligible
enterprises to (i) promote the expansion of and improvements in the quality
and competitiveness of exports; and (iL) enhance competition in the
domestic market for materials and intermediates to induce supplying
enterprises to upgrade quality to import-competitive levels.   NBH will
ensure that the support will be limited to enterprises which are deemed to
be financially sound on the basis of a creditworthiness assessment carried
out by NBH. Further, enterprise in subsectors which are deemed to require
major subsectoral restructuring associated with appropriate pricing
reforms, etc. (ferrous metallurgy and coal mlning), would be ineligible.
Also, defense-related goods, energy inputs and goods covered by bilateral



- 27 -
agreements would be excluded.   The progress and effectiveness of the
programs in achieving the intended benefits wilL be monitored as part of
the reporting and auditing of the Project (para 6.29).
- .  2.  Innovation Finance
5.04      The support of policy reforms, which are expected to induce, both
directly and indirectly, greater technological  innovation in Hungarian
industry,- will be complemented by the Innovation Finance component of the
proposed Project. The component is of a pilot nature and will strengthen
the role of the participating innovation financing institutions (para 4.05)
in =providing  industrlal  enterprises,  particularly  SM9s,  with  more
accessible and suitable forms of  finance (conventional loans, risk-sharing
contracts, and equity capital) through a refinancing facility (para 6.16).
The facility will refinance subprojects for the design or development of
new products or processes, prototype evaluation, pilot plant activities and
initial application of technologies as well as acquisition and assimilation
of new designs, patents and know-how.   Alleviation of the institutions'
sourcing constraint (as a result of their present reliance on paid-in
capital), coupled with their institutional strengthening, better evaluation
criteria, and new financial instruments, will enhance their effectiveness
in supporting innovation by inducing them to: (i) support a larger number
of higher-return subprojects, particularly of SMEs operating in a
reasonable  spread  of  subsectors,   (ii)  provide  longer  maturities,
(iii) optimize the blend of technology imports and indigenous efforts, and
(iv) reduce intermediation costs through economies of scale.   Based on a
review of the subprojects' pipeline, it is estimated that the total cost of
subprojects would be around US$65 million in 1986-88 with a foreign
exchange demand of about U$15 million.   The proceeds of the Bank loan
(para 6.25) will be available for refinancing convertible currency
requirements for both hardware and software needs of well-defined
Innovation subprojects.    Innovation subprojects  should have a minimum
economic rate of return of 12%, and except in special circumstances,
subloans -for innovation will be limited to under US$200,000.   The Bank
discussed with the three institutions a comprehensive methodology for
evaluating the risk level of innovation subprojects and for relating it to
the use of an appropriate mix of risk and debt/equity structure for an
innovation subproject.   The institutions will undertake appraisal of the
individual subprojects taking account of this methodology.  The innovation
financing institutions will be responsible for the supervision of their
subprojects. The Project will also provide support to the institutions to
strengthen  further  their  operating  policies,   evaluation   criteria,
analytical methodology and procedures which will enhance their capabilities
to identify, prepare and appraise innovation subprojects; develop and
manage  their  portfolios;  and  provide  other  complementary  services
(e.g., marketing) to their clients.  In this respect, the institutions will
be eligible to borrow up to US$50,000 equivalent each for foreign currency
expenditures  for  training  their  own -staff,  consulting  services  and
technical assistance.



- 28 -
5.05        Prior to finalization of the Subsidiary Financing  Agreements
between NBH and the institutions (para 6,18), NBH will carry out a review
for each institution, based on criteria agreed with the Bank, of (i) the
finanail status of the institution, including its creditworthiness
assessment; (ii) an action plan for institutional strengthening aud its
implementation; and (iii) the adoption by the institution of satisfactory
policies and procedure for appraising and supervising innovation
subprojects. Furthermore, the Bank will carry out a prior review of the
first two subprojects of each institution to assess: (i) the criteria used
for evaluating the subproject; and (ii) the financial instrument proposed
in relation to an assessment of the subproject's risk.   Such a review
satisfactory to Bank will be a condition of signing the first subsidiary
finance loan agreements with each innovation financing institution
(para  6.18).    This  understanding  has  been  confirmed  with  NBH  at
negotiations.
3. Management and Technical Training
5.06         The Project will provide support to the overall management
development and training function for the industrial sector and directly
strengthen three management and technical training institutes (para 4.06)
in order to improve their capabilities to train industrial managers in
different functional areas of management.    The proposed Project would
support  the  following  activities:    (i)  Increase  in effectiveness  of
training programs for senior executive management in different management
areas to enhance its - capability in making autonomous business decisions
under the new enterprise management reforms.   A study to determine the
training needs by foreign consultants, directed by a steering committee
(para 6.14), has been initiated.   The scope of the study is provided in
Annex 5-1.   After completion of the study, a program of five training
sessions will be conducted for senior management. (ii) Establishment of a
management development and training program for other levels of managers.
After the completion of the study for senior management, the Government has
agreed to undertake a management development study for other levels of
managers.  The terms of reference for tnis study, to be carried out under
institutional  arrangements  established  already,  have  ben  finalized.
(iii) Improvement of hardware and software for training purposes.   The
specific software and hardware requirements have been reviewed and
finalized.
4. Support for Banking System
5.07       The Project would also finance the design and implementation of
the information system requirements arising from the separation of NBH into
a central bank and two competing commercial banks (para- 4.04) as well as
the strengthening of internal management and analytical functions within-
the central bank headquarters in Budapest.  Funds would be provided to meet
the foreign exchange requirE *nts of computer and communications hardware
and software.   Additionally   :onsulting assistance would be provided for
the development of the organization, operating policies and procedures of
the commercial banks to be established. - The hardware and software
requirements   have  been  reviewed   by   the  Bank;   further   detailed
specifications are being prepared with the assistance of specialized



- 29 -
consultants.    The  framework  of  terms  of  reference  for  the required
consulting services has been discussed and will be agreed in conjunction
with other preparatory steps leading to the establishment of a two-tier
banking system by January 1, 1987.
5. 'Technical Assistance and Related Services
5.08      The major policy and institutional reforms to be implemented rely
on    substantial    policy    formulation,   iprogram   development    and
institution-building efforts in the different areas. The government plans
to integrate relevant international experience and expertise into these
efforts5 to examine different models for, and minimize likely problems in
the implementation of a number-of policy measures, such as the promotion of
SMEs, implementation- of the law of Unfair Economic Practices, the further
development of the Worker Retraining Program, the development of bond and
stock markets and promotion of direct foreign investment.   The overall
objectives and scope of the activities have been defined as part of the
policy reform program. The terms of reference for the underlying specific
studies and their timing have been discussed and agreed with the relevant
government organizations including the National Planning Office, the
Ministry of Finance, NBH, the National Material and Price Board, the
Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Ministry of Industry. Implementation of
some of the studies is underway. The proposed Project would finance the
foreign exchange requirements of these and related efforts through the
provision of funds for international study tours, invitation of consultants
and experts, and training programs including those for Hungarian trainers.
5.09      Based   on   the   successful   experience   of   developing   the
restructuring program for the PPS with the assistance of qualified
international consultants,  the Mlnistry of Industry plans to undertake
similar  efforts  related  to  other  selected  subsectors.    International
consultants will be retained in conjunction with local firms to undertake
the required assessment of international competitiveness, a diagnosis of
industry constraints and the formulation of strategies for restructuring
of selected subsectors.  The Project would finance the foreign exchange
needs of these efforts.
C.  Specific Subsector Restructurin Component
1.  Development of Technological Infrastructure
5.10       The strengthening of technological infrastructure available to
the PPS will be supported under this component of the Project. The primary
focus will be (i) to provide support for facilities to design and produce
molds for the subsector including installation of a computer-aided design
and manufacturing center (CAD/CAM),  (ii) to increase the capacity and
upgrade the facilities of selected key quality control and; testing
institutes, (iii) to strengthen the RD&E program in the subsector, and
(iv) to establish a technical and marketing information center directed
primarily to serve the needs of SMEs.



- 30 -
5.11       Mold and Die Production.  This component includes the expansion
of mold and die manufacturing facilities of three enterprises, namely GRP,
VSZM and BVK (para 4.08).  An internationally reputed mold-making company
in Portugal has provided technical assistance, financed by the Bank, in the
preparation of the feasibility study for such expansion.
5.12       The GHP project, as currently designed, will increase the mold
production of GRP from 150 units/year to 400 units/year at its three sites
(Csepel, Debrecen and Zsambek) (Map IBRD-19507R) to serve the needs of the
PPS (particularly SMEs) including those of the parent enterprises.   The
project is expected to be completed by October 1989 and would provide
employment for 360 persons.  It will include modern machine'tools including
computer-aided numerical control (CNC) machines, machining centers, CNC
electric drawing machines (EDM) and a CAD/CAM design center; renovation of
existing buildings (transferred to GHP by HKV and PEMU); and necessary
infrastructure at three sites. The design center to be located in Ceepel
would be linked to related facilities at BVK and VSZM and made available
for use by these and other future interested enterprises/institutes in the
subsector.   The scope of the GHP project is expected to be reviewed and
finalized with the potential foreign partners and IFC (para 4.08).
5.13       The VSZM project is an expansion of VSZM's existing mold-making
facilities in Budapest and will increase mold-making capacity from
140 molds/year to 200 molds/year on completion by 1989. VSZM will utilize
approximately 60% of the production internally while the remaining capacity
will be sold to other enterprises, particularly SMEs.   Modern machining
equipment (CNC EDM-machines) will be added to VSZM's existing machines.
5.14          The BVK project involves an expansion of BVK's existing
die-making facilities at its Szekszard plant through the purchase of a
number of machine tools.   Implementation will increase BVK's mrld and
die-making capacity to 80 molds/year.   The project would make BVK self
sufficient while 20% of the production would be sold to other enterprises
in the subsector.
5.15       Enhancement of Quality Control and Testing Capabilities.   This
component  of  the  Project  will  strengthen  the  activities  of  four
profit-oriented institutes - MUKI, EMI, ETI and GTI (para 4.09) - engaged
in quality control, standard setting and testing. The Project will provide
these institutes with the necessary up-to-date equipment for application
engineering, substitution of traditional structural materials by plastics,
testing of ongineering plastics, etc., required to meet international
standards.     In  addition,   the  Government  has  agreed  to  provide
budget-contributed institutes with necessary foreign exchange to strengthen
their quality control and testing activities.   This agreement has been
confirmed at negotiations. The funds requirements of the profit-oriented
and budget-contributed institutes are shown in Annex 5-2.
5.16        Support for RD&E Program.  This component will complement the
Government's efforts to promote RD&E programs in the PPS and to improve the
infrastructural support for the subsector (para 3.34). The RD&E program in
the PPS consists of research work in production of plastics resins,
processing of plastics, and application of plastics.  Annex 5-3 provides



- 31 -
details of the program.   The Project would finance the foreign exchange
requirement for ten RD&E programs in the above three areas.  The programs
are sponsored and conducted by PPS enterprises/institutes and supported by
MOI.  During negotiations., assurances were obtained from the Government
that it will ensure the availability of all additional foreign exchange
requirements and all local currency requirements for the overall RDSE
program supported by MOI.
5.17       Information Data Center.  Under the Project, an Information Data
Center for the PPS will be established at, and operated by, Vegyterv using
its existing computer facilities (pa:ra 4.09). The center, staffed with'six
qualified persons, will provide enterprises in the PPS, in particular SMEs.
with  critical  technical  and marketing information such as performance
characteristics of plastics processing machines, new plastics resins and
their applications, new processing technologies, and data on international
trade in plastics products. The Project will provide support to equip the
center with a technical and market data base, magnetic tapes and discs, and
computerized search and retrieval facilities.
2.  Restructuring of Selected Enterprises
5,18        The Project will support the implementation of restructuring
programs  of five selected enterprises in the PPS (para 4.10).   These
programs were developed by the enterprises with-the assistance of qualified
foreign consultants, financed by the Bank, working jointly with a local
consulting firm.   The programs include strategies to be adopted by the
enterprises in the areas of products/markets, structure and organization,
and management skills and systems.   The product and market strategy for
each enterprise was prepared by analyzing the current and potential
competitiveness of major product groups of the enterprise in the domestic
and export markets.  The objectives of the product/market strategies are:
to focus on operations that meet market requirements; to achieve
international competitiveness for selected product 'lines; to phase out
uneconomical products; and divest of or transfer to joint ventures, small
enterprises or cooperatives, products which do not fit in the enterprise
strategy. The implementation of the product/market strategies would enable
the   enterprises   to  specialize   in   competitive   products,   upgrade
technical/quality levels of products, broaden the applications of plastics
-in potential branches in particular transportation and engineering, and
increase the use of superior raw materials. The product/market strategies
of the five enterprises as agreed wit-h the Bank will be adapted in the
future by the enterprises, in consultation with the Bank, in case of
relevant changes in the market environment.
5.19        The efficient development and implementation of product/(market
strategies by the enterprises is dependent on an efficient organization and
management and effective supporting systems.   It was agreed with the
enterprises that as part of their restructuring programs, each enterprise
will implement, with qualified external assistance, an integrated program
addressing critical organizational, management and systems requirements.
Two enterprises (BVK and TVK) will establish independent profit centers for
their plastics processing activities and three enterprises (HMV, PEMU and
VSZM) for their various plastics processing plants with decentralization of



-32-
major management functions to plant levels, supported by requisite
strategic planning and management accounting, information and control
systems. Preparatory work for iDplementation is in progress and includes:
the development of an organizational structure for each enterprlse
indicating the division of responsibilitiea st corporate and plant levels;
the specification of the systems including performance indicators required
to  enhance  the  effectiveness  of  the  organization;  and  management
development and training strategy that supports the staffing of the
proposed organization.    A satisfactory program with an implementation
schedule as part of the overall restructuring program is a condition of
making the first subloan to each enterprise.
5.20        The restructuring program of each enterprise includes specific
physical and software investments to support the implementation of the
selected strategy.   The programs which will be implemented under the
Project have been individually appraised by the Bank (jointly with NBH and
MOI/RPO).       Annex   5-4   provides   details   on   the   product   and
organization/management    system   strategies,   measures    to   achieve
international competitiveness and main elements of the investment program
of each one of the enterprises.
5.21      The restructuring programs will be implemented by the enterprises
during 1986-89. The specific measures under each program have been phased
in accordance with their relative priority to avoid implementation
bottlenecks.  In the implementation of the restructuring programs, special
emphasis will  be given' to environmental  aspects.    The  restructuring
programs include investments to reduce material losses as well as to
recycle waste.    The enterprises  are well  aware  of  the environmental
regulations in Hungary which have been- continuously improved over time and
are now satisfactory. Assurances have been received from the enterprises
that they will comply with these regulations.
3. Restructuring of Non-Selected Enterprises
5.22          Under this component, eligible subprojects of non-selected
enterprises related to the PPS (mainly SMEs) will be provided support for
the financing of their reetructuring programs through a facility to be
established at NBH (para 6.16).  It is estimated that the overall demand
from SMEs in the PPS for foreign exchange to support their restructuring
programs will be around US$20 million over the period 1986-88.   The Bank
loan would meet the facility's initial foreign exchange requirements
(para  6.03).    Under  the  facility,  subprojects  are  eligible  which:
(i)  involve  investments  in plastics processing activities or approved
background activities to the subsector (such as mold production, plastics
processing equipment maintenance and plastics waste collection and
preparation);  (ii)  are  based  on  and  supported  by  restructuring" and
development  programs -for the subprojects'  enterprises,  including sound
strategies for the enterprises' products, markets, organization and
management systems, aimed at achieving international competitiveness for
the enterprises' main product lines; and (iii) have a minimum financial and
economic rate of return of 18Z in real terms to reflect the high payoffs
expected from sound restructuring investmeurs.   The level of the minimum
rate of return will be reviewed annually with NBH in the light of the
demand for funds under this component and future economic and financial



- 33 -
developments affecting the cost of capital in Hungary. Furthermore, only
those enterprises are eligible, wbich:   (i)  are -not one of the five
selected PPS enterprises (para 4.10); (ii) obtain at least 30% of their
sales revenues from processed plastics products or are fully involved in
approved background activities; and (iii) have a satisfactory projected
financial situation permitting them to maintain a current ratio above 1.3;
a debt/equity ratio below 65/35; and a debt service cover.tge above 1.5.
The above eligibility criteria for subprojects and enterprises have been
confirmed with NBi at negotiations.
5.23       The assessment of the restructuring programs, in line with the
approach followed in -the joint appraisal of the restructuring programs of
the  five   selected  enterprises  (para  5.18),  will  focus  on  the
competitiveness assessment of main product lines, the orientation of
product/market strategies, the assessment and proposed improvements to
organization and management systems and the enterprise's managerial and
financial capability to implement the program.   A more detailed scope of
the restructuring programs to be provided by enterprises is given in
Annex 5-5. Many SMEs are unlikely to possess sufficient in-house expertise
to develop such restructuring programs satisfactorily.   It is therefore
intended that qualified local consultants will be used by these enterprises
to provide technical assistance in the preparation of their programs.
During negotiations, NBR has confirmed that it will make available to the
enterprises local currency financing where necessary to cover the cost of
employing such consultants.
5.24       For subprojects considered eligible for support by the Project,
financing could be provided for management/systems assistance, training,
plant and equipment, as well as imports of spares, special saterials, molds
and tools. Except in special circumstances, subloans from the Bank loan
for eligible subprojects under the facility will be limited to under
US$1 million. In addition, a maximum of two subprojects could be approved
per enterprise.
5.25       The Ministry of Industry (MOI) and the National Bank of Hungary
(NBH), jointly with two associations of cooperatives, have launched a
campaign to promote the participation of SME8 in the Project. RPO will be
responsible for the technical appraisal of the restructuring programs of
SMEs  (para  6.13).    It  will  have  the  possibility  of  using  foreign
consultants,  financed under  the  Project,  to  support  the RPO  in  the
evaluation of  these programs.   NBH will carry out the financial and
economic aspects of subproject appraisal as well as supervision of
subprojects, based on policies and procedures set out in an Operational
Manual currently under preparation for the Bank-financed Industrial Export
and Restructuring Project (Loan 2397-HU) which will be supplemented, as
necessary, for the appraisal and supervision of enterprise restructuring
programs.  NBH intends- -xo use the appraisal methodology for restructuring
projects developed under the Project, also for other restructuring projects
in the PPS (not financed by the Bank). The Bank will conduct E - view of
the first three subprojects prior to approval by NBH and an ex-p_.  review
of the remainder. In addition, for all possible subprojects with subloans
over US$1.0 million the Bank will conduct a prior review.   The Project
would further strengthen the RPO through provision of necessary hardware
and financing of foreign study tours.



- 34 -
5.26          In support of PPS restructuring, links between  foreign and
Hungarian.  enterprises   through   joint  ventures  and  other   forms   of
collaboration  are  also  proposed  to  be  fostered.    The  United  Nations
Industrial Development Organization- (UNIDO), following consultations as
part of its cooperative program with the Bank, is preparing to conduct an
investment promotion program in Hungary for that purpose.
VI.  PROJECT COST. FINANCING AND-IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Cost
6.01         The total financing required for the Project is estimated at
US$317.1 million, of which US$211.4 million (67%). is in foreign exchange.
The costs are summarized in the following table and details are shown in
Annex 6-1.
2!1ital Cost ftimate
Millim Fbrints            FUS$ a/breP
For-        % of as%Zof
local  Foreign  Total  1ocAl  Tp tal Total  Total
Indstry-wide Restructuring-  ~
Inraintal Workdzg Capital    565.0 6,110.0 6,675.0  12.0 130.0 142.0  44.8   91.6
Iovation FTinanc             460.0   140.0   600.0   9.8  3.0  12.8   4.0   23.4
tnogemntt Dvelopmet           25.0   45.0    70.0   0.5  1.0   1.5   0.5   66.6
Tehnical Assistance and
Related Serices (incl.
BanLd  System Support)      100.0   280.0  380.0   2.1  6.0   8.1   2.5   74.1
Total &inmxet            1,150.0 6,575.0 7,725.0  24.4 140.0 164.4  51.8   85.2
vPeifc &Su1ectar
1etutrn (knff!Elt
iInfrstructure:
Mold and Die Prouction      589.6   423.9 1,013.5  12.6  9.0  21.6   6.8   41.7
Qlity Comtrol &  Dstig       17.4    89.3   106.7   0.4  1.9   2.3   0.7  .826
RDME Program                326.0   94.0   420.0   6.9  2.0   8.9   2.8   22.5
Information Data Oeter       -       23.5    23.5   -    0.5   0.5   0*2  100.0
Ieclmical Assistance          5.0    23.5   28.5   0.1  0.5   0.6   0.2   83.3
Subtotal                  938.0   654.2 1,592.2  20.0 13.9  33.9  10.7   41.0
Selected Enterprises       2,111.5 1,958.0 4,069.5  44.9 41.7. 86.6  27.3   48.1
N-Selet  Enterprises         770.0   745.0 1,515.0  16.4 15.8  32.2  10.2   49.1
Total Qoxuimit          3,819.5 3,357.2 7J176.7  81.3 71.4 152.7  48.2   46.8
TotalFnancig ReqAred   4*969.5 9,932.2 !4,901.7 - 105.7 211.4 317.1 100.0   66.7
-a/ Cverted at US$1.0 - Ft 47.0.
6.02         The cost of the incremental working capital is estimated to
amount to US$130.0 million in 1986/87 with associated customs duties, of



- 35 -
US$12.0 million equivalent.   The remaining financing required for the
industry-wide  component  is  estimated  at  US$22.4  million,  of  which
US$10.0 million'in foreign currency. 'For'the innovation finance component,
the costs refer to the estimated incremental financing operations of the
innovation financing institutions facilitated by the proposed Bank loan
together with the complementary local currency refinancing provided by NBH,
and are based on a review of the subprojects pipeline of the three
institutions (para 5.04). The financial participation of the institutions
is expected to cover 60-70% of the total cost of subprojects with the
remainder being met by enterprises' own funds.  It is estimated that the
size of this component amounts to about 30%'of the aggregate volume of
opetations  projected  for  the  three  selected  innovation  financing
institutions over the period  1986-88.   For the management development
component, the cost includes the hardware and software requirements for the
selected training institutes, and of management training programs and
studies (para 5.06).   For the technical assistance and related services
component, the costs involve hardware and software for strengthening of the
banking system, and study tours, training and consulting services to
facilitate implementation of the policy reform program supported by the
Project.
6.03      The total financing required for the PPS restructuring component
is estimated at US$152.7 million, of which US$71.4 million (47%) is in
foreign exchange.   Cost estimates for the restructuring programs of the
five selected PPS enterprises (BVK, HMV, PEMU, TVK, and VSZM) and of the
GRP mold-making enterprise are derived from feasibility studies carried out
by each of the enterprises according to agreed criteria and methodology.
Assistance was provided in the preparation of these studies by local and
foreign consultants (para 5.11 and 5.18) and NBH. For the GHP project, the
costs estimates may be revised upon the review of the project scope by the
potential foreign partners and IFC (para 5.12).  The cost estimates were
reviewed by the Bank and modified where necessary. In all cases, costs for
major imported and domestic items are based on quotations. Base costs have
been prepared in early 1986 prices.   Provisions have been added for
physical contingencies at 10% of base costs, and price escalation based on
forecasts of international inflation of 7% in 1986, 7% in 1987, 7.5% in
1988, 7.7% in 1989, 7.6% in 1990 and 4.5% in subsequent years and, a local
price escalation factor based on forecasts of local inflation of 7.0%
annually from 1986 onwards.   Initial working capital costs in current
prices estimated at US$4.6 million and interest during construction
(US$3.7 million) have been included for the financing requirements of the
selected enterprises.  For non-selected euterprises, the costs refer to the
total estimated costs of subprojects financed by the Bank loan, including
contingencies, working capital and interest during construction. Details
of costs of quality control and testing, and RD&E components are given in
Annexes 5-2 and 5-3. Import duties and taxes, including accumulation tax,
estimated at US$18.8 million, have been included in the cost estimates.
6.04         For the Project, foreign services In consultancy, training,
engineering and know-how, and technical assistance are estimated at a total
cost   of  US$10.1  million,   including  (i)   US$3.9  million  (about
240 man-months) for consulting services to provide technical assistance
for:  the development of organization and management systems for the five
selected enterprises (para 5.19); the RPO under the specific subsector



- 36 -
restructuring component; management development and technical assistance
under the industry-wide restructuring component (paras 5.06 and 5.08); and
preparation of additional subsectoral restructuring programs (para 5.09);
(ii) US$3.4 million for training needs of the five selected enterprises,
mold-making enterprises, and for the technical assistance component of the
industry-wide  restructuring  component;  and  (iii)  US$2.8  million  for
engineering,  know-how and technical assistance to be procured under the
enterprise restructuring programs and the GHP mold-making project.
B. Project Financing
6.05      A summary of the Project financing plan is given in the following
table. Further details are pro--ided in Annex 6-2.
- PRi (<.  Pie
MR Eoject 1R1d- O,vt.            Bm.t  lWd   Qwt.
Sib-  iti-  In   nti-       SAhsu  Eti-   in  Q-
lo=  tis       q" bzDlm   t  NDH W N   ti    E*s$y burn 2hC&
zxz,uMtdl Wxidg Crtl  -    2L.0O        - -12.0 3.0 0D    -    -    -         .  142.0
Iwnoati iFuax          9.8  -   -       -    9.8  3.0  -    -    -            3.0    8
M4aIMtSMk,pst               -          0.5  0.5  1.0  -    -           _      1.0   1.5
ytamicl Asdstse &
Re*e Sece (hC
hIkkg FtEm Spxt)      -    1.3 -       0.8  2.1  6.0  -    -    -    -       6.0   8.1
ltal oQupit         9.  133 -        1.3  4.4  410  MXiI -    -    -   140.0  164.4
Mild & eP xkutkI     6.9  L2 4.5    -    26  2.5  4.661         L9  -      9.0  21.6
Q(mnty (ttni & Ustlg  -    0.4 -      -    0.4  L0  -    -    -    0.9   1.9  2.3
MXE Pxzm              -    -   -      6.9  6.9  L0-    -    -    L0   2.0   8.9
irf.ti      ( D taS r    -    -   -   -    -    0.5  -                      0.5   0.5
dhoEl Assstmax        -               0.1  0.1  0.5  -    -           -     0.5   0.6
Skctal              6.9  1.6 4Z    7.0 30.0  5.5  4.6  -    1.9  L9  13.9  33.9
SiFrM Htc t  is Bmm19.2 244  L3    -   44.9  V.0  2.4  0.3  -    -    41.7  8&6
NR69eed ftwprs        K10.2  6.2-       -   16.4 15.5  0.3-    -    -    15.8  3.2
IIAl COpmt        363  3L2  58    7.0 81.3 60.0  7.3  0.3  L9  L9  71.4  1527
Mbal twufr         46.1 45.5 5.8    83 IM7 ILD0 107.3  03  19  1.9  21.  317.1
a  Im1izg disttlixm of itmllaMtl fuinis (puia 6.2) amrg tin vrx EProject oq
HE NAI plllmI et fimI.   I   t f is to th ategrim afhut esivalWt lbal a ury.
t Is eqmp   th Ut ds maut uUl be o-fbz d ty pobatIA fakxe dsehmf   of tsie GEP mid mdig
ds , 1       Hz1



-37 -
6.06      The Bank loan will contribute US$30.0 million to the financing of
incremental  working  capital  (para  5.03).    NBH  will  make  available
US$100.0 million from its own foreign exchange resources, with possible
assistance through parallel cofinancing from foreign commercial banks for
sale to the enterprises against equivalent local currcncy.  The enterprises
will also cover applicable duties in local currency estimated at
US$12.0 milliou. For the other elements of the industry-wide restructuring
component, the proposed portion of the Bank loan of US$10.0 million will
cover 45% of financing requirements amounting to US$22.4 million. Besides
the Bank loan, NB8H is expected to refinance from its own sources
US$9.8 million for subprojects of the innovation-financing institutions.
NBR, institutions   and industrial enterprises involved in the technical
assistance (TA) component will contribute US$1.3; million from their
internal funds.   The Government will contribute US$0.5 million to the
management   institutes  for  the  management   training  component  and
US$0.8 million to the TA-related institutions.
6.07       Concerning the specific subsector restructuring component, the
proposed portion of the-- Bank loan -of -US$60.0- --million will cover about
39% of total estimated financing requirements and 84% of foreign exchange
requirements. NBR will finance through subloans US$2.7 million of foreign
exchange requirements and US$36.3 million equivalent of local currency
subloans for the programs of selected and non-selected enterprises and mold
and die production projects, necessary to complete the programs and
projects. The Government will provide US$0.9 million in foreign exchange
to budget-contributed institutes for quality control and testing equipment
(par& 5.15) and US$1.0 million for the RD&E program (para 5.16).
Furthermore, the enterprises are expected to finance a small portion of
their incremental foreign working capital needs (US$0.3 million) from
internal sources.  It is expected that these enterprises and the quality
control institutes would contribute to local costs from their internal
funds for a total of US$32.2 million. Equity funds of US$1.3 million will
be provided by NBH to one of the selected enterprises (VSZM) to meet part
of the local currency costs of its restructuring program.   In addition,
equity funds of US$6.4 million, of which US$1.9 million in foreign
exchange, will be made available to the GHP mold-making enterprise by
potential  local  and  foreign  shareholders,   including  possibly  IFC
(para 4.08).- It is expected that the foreign loan requirements of the GHP
project estimated at US$4.6 million will be met by potential foreign
shareholders, including IFC. In case such loan financing would not become
available, funds for the GHP project could be secured under the
Project.   Furthermore, MOI will provide the local currency requirement
(US$6.9 million) for the RD&E program (pare 5.16), and contribute
US$0.1 million towards the cost of the RPO (para 6.15).
6.08          For the overall Project,  the Bank loan would  contribute
US$100.0 million, or 32% of total Project cost; NBH funds, subloans and
co-financed foreign loans are expected to amount to US$153.4 million (48%);
internal funds of the Project entities to US$45.8 million (14%); Government
contributions to US$10.2 million (4%); and paid-in equity from various
sources to US$7.7 million (2%). During negotiations, assurances have been



- 38 -
obtained from the Government and NBH that they, as well as all other
Project beneficiaries through respective loan agreements, will promptly
provide their share of financing to complete the Project, including for
cost overruns.  Furthermore, assurances were obtained from the Government
that it will ensure the timely availability of funds to the GHP mold-making
enterprise to complete the GRP project. Finally, assurances were obtained
from the Government to ensure the timely availability of funds to NBH to
complete the Project, including for any cost overruns. This also includes
US$100.0 million in foreign exchange to finance incremental working
capital.
C. Financial Analysis
6.09      Financial rates of return (FRRs) in real terms and an analysis of
sensitivity, including a switching value analysis, for the programs of the
five selected plastics processing enterprises are presented in Annex 6-3.
They vary between 24% (for HMV) and 49% (for BVK).   The rates are quite
high as compared with greenfield-type projects as in almost all cases the
measures under the enterprise programs involve the upgrading of existing
production facilities.   The combined FRR for the projects of the five
selected enterprises is estimated at 38%.  The FRR calculations take into
account the costs related to the organization and management systems
development programs of the various enterprises (para 5.19).   Detailed
assumptions and calculations of FRRs are available in the Project File.
6.10       Financial statements (income statement, fund flow statement and
balance sheet) have been projected for the five selected plastic processing
enterprises to assess their future financial positiQn with the Project.
The projected statements and key financial ratios are summarized in
Annex 6-4.   Full details of the projections  and assumptions used are
available in the Profect File. As part of Project financing, VSZM will be
provided with additional equity funds (para 6.07) to complement its
internal funds and to realize a satisfactory financial structure and debt
servicing  capacity.    The  projections  show  that  the  other  plastics
processing enterprises can satisfactorily meet their share of financing
requirements and debt service obligations from internal funds generated by
their ongoing operations, while maintaining adequate financial ratios. The
projections are based on the present enterprise taxation system in Hungary
and  include  changes  therein  announced  for  1986.    At  negotiations,
assurances have been obtained that the selected plastics processing
enterprises, except BVK, will maintain a current ratio at or above 1.3; and
not incur additional long-term debt if their long-term debt/equity ratio
would rise above 65/35 or their projected debt service coverage would fall
below 1.5. For BVK, a maximum debt/equity ratio of 55/45 and minimum debt
service coverage of 1.3, agreed under the recent Bank-financed Fine
Chemicals Project (Loan No. 2511-HU) would be maintained.
6.11      For the profit-oriented institutes implementing the technological
infrastructure  component  (MUKI,  GTI,  EMI,  ETI,  Vegyterv),  financial
projections were prepared by them and reviewed by the Bank.   The review,
supplemented by INBH's creditworthiness assessment, established that the
projected financial situation of these institutes is satisfactory and that



- 39 -
they are not expected to 'have problems in meeting their existing debt
service obligations as well as those associated with the Project.   The
projected income and fund flow statements prepared by these institutes are
available in the Project File.   At negotiations, assurances have been
obtained that financial covenants similar to those described above for the
selected PPF enterprises should also apply to these profit-oriented
institutes.
D. Implementation Arrangements
1. Program Coordination and Monitoring
6.12       NBH will be responsible for overall coordination of the Project
and for monitoring the use of Project funds.   Appropriate accounts and
facilities will be set up in NBH through which the-activities supported
under the Project will be financed.  An overall implementation schedule by
project components is given in Annex 6-5. Detailed schedules for selected
components are available in the Project File.   For the two main Project
components, the following coordination arrangements have been established.
6.13        Industry-wide Restructuring Component.   The broad approach to
industrial  policy  to  support  the  restructuring  program  has  many
interrelated facets, and to achieve the intended results will require an
institutionalized process of continuous monitoring, evaluation and further
development.    Currently,  a Restructuring Council comprising government
representatives headed by the Deputy Chairman of NPO and supported by the
existing Policy Task Force, is responsible for the development and
monitoring of the industrial policy reform program.   The policy reforms
which are considered necessary as a basis for the Project have already been
implemented (Annex 3-2).   The policy dialogue between the Bank and the
Hungarian authorities will continue as part of the Bank's economic and
policy dialogue as well as Project  supervision.    In particular,  the
macroeconomic developments and management will be reviewed and the
industrial export performance monitored in the context of the ongoing
dialogue  and  review  of  macroeconomic  performance.         Also,  Project
supervision will include the monitoring of the efficiency performance of
62 branches of the industrial sector through productivity indices that were
used in the joint sector work.  In addition, many interrelated facets of
the reform program will be monitored, since, to a large extent, it is the
success of these activities which will determine the basis and direction of
future steps in the policy reform program. The monitoring, in addition to
the review of macroeconomic performance, would address the following four
areas:   (i) analysis of policy reform program (ii) continued analysis of
the competitiveness of industry, (iii) performance of the non-competitive
sectors and problem enterprises, and (iv) performance of the PPS.  Broad
objectives and information needed for the monitoring were finalized at
negotiations.



- 40 -
6.14        For various other elements of this Component, implementation
arrangements are as follows: (i) Innovation Finance. A committee set up
by NBH and including representatives from OMFB and MOI will review the
techno-economic aspects of the portfolio of the institutions eligible to
refinance their activities from the Innovation Facility established under
the Project (para 6.16). The committee will carry out their review twice
per year.   In addition NBH will continue its present practice of monthly
monitoring of financial soundness and creditworthiness of the institutions
(para 4.05) and will supervise the execution of Subsidiary Financing
Agreements and Subsidiary Finance Loans by the institutions on the basis of
policies and procedures set out in an Operatinal Manual currently under
preparation (para 5.25).  (Li) Management Training.  A steering comittee
comprising representatives of MOI, the Industrial Management Training
Center (IVI) and selected general managers of enterprises in the relevant
industrial subsectors, will direct the work of a task force and consultants
in the development, design, and implementation phases of the management
training programs and will later act as advisor to IVI on this topic.
(iii) Support for Banking System.  NBH will be responsible for implementing
this component through an existing committee established for this purpose
in preparation for the establishment of a 2-tier competitive banking system
(para 5.07). (iv) Technical Assistance. For the various activities under
this component (para 5.08), a committee, comprising respresentatives of
different ministries and agencies, headed by the managing director of NBH
will review individual requests for technical assistance, study tours, and
training from within the agreed overall program prior to Bank approval.
6.15            Specific  Subsector  Restructuring Component.    A Steering
Committee, headed by the Secretary of State, OI, and comprising
representatives of MOI, NPO, NBH, and representatives of the respective
subsectors, is responsible for developing the subsectoral restructuring
programs, monitoring their implementation, assessing effectiveness and
formulating recommendations for changes therein.  Its work is coordinated
with the Restructuring Council (para 6.13).   The Steering Committee is
supported by a Restructuring Program Office (RPO), staffed by qualified
full-time   personnel,   which   will   be   responsible   for   day-to-day
implementation tasks and for ensuring that the strategic, technical,
marketing, and managerial aspects of restructuring programs of PPS
enterprises and other infrastructure programs (not appraised by the Bank),
for which financing under the Project will be requested, h-ave been properly
addressed (para 5.22). NBH will be responsible for assessing the economic
and financial aspects of these programs and the creditworthiness of the
enterprises involved, and for making the final credit decision.   The BPO
will also supervise procurement under the specific subsector restructuring
component which will be carried out by the enterprises and assisted, where
necessary, by foreign trade organization..



- 41 -
2. Onlendins ArrsnMements and Conditions
6.16       A Restructuring Facility (RF) with a number of sub-accounts has
been set up in NBH. The intention is that in future years the RF will be
replenished to- provide funds for various aspects of the subsectoral
restructuring programs which are to be undertaken in the coming years. The
various sub-accounts are as follows:  (i) Facility A to provide funds for
refinancing    activities    of    innovation    financing    institutions;
(ii) Facility B to provide support for restructuring and development of
subsectoral infrastructure - the PPS programs and projects for mold and die
production (excluding for GP, para 6.07), quality control and testing,
RD&E  program,  and  information  data   center   under   this   Project;
(iii) Facility C to provide finance for the restructuring programs of
selected enterprises - these will include the programs of the five selected
enterprises under this Project; and (iv) Facility D to finance the
restructuring programs of the non-selected enterprises in the subsector;
these will normally be SMEs.   NBH will also admlnister the funds for
support for incremental working capital needs through a special account
equivalent to a foreign exchange sale facility for eligible industrial
enterprises (para 5.03).
6.17          In subsequent years,  RF will be replenished from various
sources.   Enterprises  in subsectors which have been the subject of a
restructuring project will remain eligible in the future and compete for
funds with enterprises from other subsectors which have become eligible for
support.   Funds will be made available for infrastructural support to a
specific subsector through the Facility on priority basis.
6.i8       The Bank loan will be made to NBH which will carry the foreign
exchange risk. In order to regulate the flow of resources from NBH to the
beneficiaries and to set out the respective obligations of the various
entities, the following agreements will be signed:   (i) Loan Agreement
between the Bank and NBH; (it) Guarantee Agreement between the Bank and the
Hungarian People's Republic; (iii) Subsidiary Loan Agreement between NBH
and the Government; (iv) Subsidiary Financing Agreements between NBH and
the innovation financing institutions; (v) Subloan Agreements between NBH
and the commercial entities; and (vi) Subsidiary Finance Loan Agreements
between the innovation financing institutions and the subborrowers.
Signature of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement under (iii) will be a condition
of effectiveness of the Bank loan.   Further, signature of the Subsidiary
Financing Agreements under (iv) will be- conditions of disbursement for
respective purposes.
-6.19         All proceeds of the Bank loan to the Government and the
commercial entities will be onlent at a rate at least equal to the Bank
standard variable interest rate plus a 30% mark-up (comprising the NBH
processing and administrative costs and a risk-bearing premium to cover the
estimated foreign exchange risk), or at the prevailing commercial - rate
(currently  13%),  whichever  is  higher.        The  innovation  financing



- 42 -
institutions will finance subprojects at an average return of not less than
the prevailing Bank rate plus a 30X mark-up, while NBH's refinancing rate
will be at least equal to the prevailing Bank rate plus 20S, or at the
prevailing refinancing rate (currently 11.5X) whichever is higher, unless
the Bank and NBM were to agree otherwise. NBH's present commercial rate
and refinancing rate are strongly positive in real terms since domestic
Inflation is about 7g per year (para 6.03). The interest rate charged by
NBH on local currency subloans to commercially-oriented entities will be
the prevailing commercial rate.
6.20      A maturity of 15 years (including 3 years' grace) will be applied
to funds onlent to the Government. A maximum period of 10 years (including
maximum 3-years' grace) will be adopted for maturities of subloans to
commercial entities.    Maturities  for  refinancing  loans  to innovation
financing institutions will be for a maximum of 10 years (including maximum
3-years' grace). Subloan repayments surplus over the Bank loan repayment
requirements of NBI would be utilized exclusively by NBH, through a special
account, to finance (i) subprojects of PPS enterprises in accordance with
eligibility criteria established for non-selected enterprises (para 5.22);
(ii) subprojects of PPS quality control and testing institutes which are
creditworthy;   (iii)  innovation  subprojects  in  line  with  criteria
established under the Project (para 5.04); and (iv) restructuring programs
of enterprises in other subsectors with eligibility as may be agreed with
the Bank.
3. Procurement
6.21      Incremental-working capital needs financed by the Bank loan will
be procured through a competitive process according to the procurement
practice of the purchaser including invitation of price quotations from at
least 3 suppliers from countries eligible for Bank financing. The eligible
enterprises, assisted by foreign trade organizations where they so desire,
will be responsible for procurement.
6.22        All services, equipment and supplies to be procured under the
other components of the Bank loan will be procured in accordance with Bank
consultants and procurement guidelines.  International competitive bidding
(ICB) including prequalification of suppliers will be used for equipment
and  materials  packages,  each  with  an  estimated  value  of  more  than
US$1.0 million.   It is estimated that the total costs of such packages
financed by the Bank loan will amount to US$24.2 million.   Hungarian
enterprises competing under ICB will be eligible for a 15% preference on
the CIF value of the bids, or the amount of customs duties and taxes,
whichever is lower. It is however expected that Hungarian suppliers would
not compete for any items to be financed under the loan. Exceptions to ICB
will be made for proprietary equipment, items the supply of which is
limited to selected suppliers, items the supply of which is critical for
efficient project execution, technical licenses and items under contracts
each with estimated value of less than US$1.0 million. The aggregate value
of these items to be procured through limited international bidding (LIB)



- 43 -
and special contracting,  is estimated at US$38.8 million.   Consulting
services  (US$7.0  million)  would  be  procured  in  accordance  with  Bank
guidelines. Local expenditures for works and equipment will be procured
under prevailing local procedures which provide for efficient and economic
procurement.
6.23        All bidding packages for equipment and materials estimated to
cost over US$1 million- equivalent and bidding packages for licenses and
consulting services would be subject to the Bank's prior review of
prequalification and procurement documentation resulting in a coverage of
about 45% of -the total estimated value of contracts.   In addition, the
first five packages under the specific subsector restructuring component,
each-with an estimated cost of less than US$1 million equivalent, will be
subject to the Bank's prior review.   The balance of contracts would be
subject to ex-post review after contract award.
6.24         The procurement arrangements for the Project are summarized
in the table on the next page.
4. risbursements
6.25       Bank Loan Allocation.  The allocation of the proposed Bank loan
of US$1OC million will be as follows:
Allocation of Bank Loan
(Million US$ equivalent)
Category                              Amount    Application
Incremental Working Capital           30.00      100% of foreign expenditures
Innovation Finance (Facility A)        2.85      100% of foreign expenditures
Banking System Support                 2.90      1OOZ of foreign expenditures
Management Development,
Tech. Assistance and Related         3.50      lOQ  of foreign expenditures
Services
Technological Infrastructure           4.75  )  100% of foreign expenditures
(Facility B)                               ) and      100%    of    local
Selected Enterprises (Facility C)    39.00- ) expenditures        (ex-factory
Non-Selected Enterprises              12.00  ) cost) for goods and 100% of
(Facility D)                               ) foreign   expenditures   for
)  consultants'       services,
)  licenses and training
Unallocated                            5.00
Total                           100.00



- 44 -
-  Q-m  Ws a /on
Proaurmmt Method         Total
I-B(J   .1  Other    N*.       Cast
bldsty9tde Esanituli  ( t                     -          -    -              -- 
incrental     g  Capital                        -       -   130.0    12.0b/  142.0
-           (30.0)           (30.0)
Imwoatim lUgnes.                                -       -    12.8      -       12.8-
(3.0)            (3.0)
IMng.emt Developzt                              -       -      1.5     -        1.5
(1.0)            (1.0)
Techdcal ssistance ad Related Services          2.0     -      6.1     -        8.1
(-c. BmnIg System Support)                    (2.0)    4_ .0                 (6.0)
Total ciimit                                 2.0     -   150.4      2O    164.4
(2.0)        (38.0)           (40.0)
SPedfk subector PVs CaSMM-
Tecawlogical  Bifrtructuze                      5.0     3.5  20.0      5.4c/   33.9
(5.5)            (5.5)
ngineerir,n, W-       I_t,    & Softre        -        -    12.2     0.4bl   12.6
(6.9)            (6.9)
Civil Works                                   -        6.0   1.2     -        7.2
Equipient                                     20.2     6.6  18.0    13.6bW   58.4
(20.2)        (11.9)           (32.1)
Wo-ing Capital & Interest lhrlng    cxi       -        -     -       8.4      8.4
Mv-SeletdEterprie  d/                           2.0     6.0  19.4      4.8b/   32.2
(2-0-)2 ___  (13.5)           (15.5)
Total Coqmpwt                               27.2    22.1  70.8    32.6    152.7
(22.2)        (37.8)           (60.0)
Total Project                               29.2    22.1 221.2    W.6    317.1
(24.2)        (75.8)          (100.0)
F igitwes shm In brackSts correspond to Bank finm^icg, incndixg distribtion of
imflocaed funds (pwa 6.25) amng the variu  Ptoject oozmwits.
bf Import dtes and acoulsian tam .
s( lWirdIW capital and interst during oo atrction
dV  Based on a anwey of the wbojects pipline of nurselected  iterprisss (pera 5.22).
6.26       All disbursements for incremental working capital would be on the
basis  of  statement  of  expenditure  (SOB)  which  detail  the  individual
transactions.   The documentation to support  these expenditures would be
retained by the NBH, audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank, and made
available for review by the Bank upon request. Similarly for the remainder
of the loan, applications for withdrawal against contracts valued at less
than  US$200,000  equivalent  would  be  on  the  basis  of  SOE.    However,
applications  for  withdrawal  against  contracts  valued  at  more  than
US$200,000 equivalent will been fully documented.   It is estimated that
US$55.5 million or 55% of total disbursements vould be on the basis of SOB.



-45-
6.27       To facilitate the Borrower's access to the loani funds, NBH Will
establish two revolIng fund accounts.   For the account established for
incremental working capital, the Bank will make an initial deposit of
US$15.0 million, and for the remainder an Initial deposit of US$5.0 million
(equivalent of average 4--months' expenditures).  Since it is anticip'ated
that disbursements f or incremental working capital will be completed well
within 12 months of loan effectiveness, NBH will submit withdrawal
applications for replenishment of amounts not, loes than US$5.0 million.
Applications for replenishment of the second revolving fund will be for
amounts not less than US$1.0 million.
6.28      Disbursement Schedule.  It is anticipated that the Bank Loan will
be completely disbursed by Jun-e 1992 in- accordance with the disbursement
schedule given iLn Annex 6-6. The disbursement schedule for the Bank loan.
has been estimated based on t-he following assumptions: (I) the incremental
working capital component would be disbursed within 12 motnths of- loan
effectiveness; and (ii) for the other loan proceeds, principally the
specific subsector restructuring component, the standard disbursement
profile for EMENA-industry has been used as a basis, but modified to
reflect that the appraisal of restructuring programs of the five selected
enterprises and the two mold and die-making projects' (accounting -for 59% of
disbursements of these other loan proceeds) has already been accomplished,
that the implementation of many of these subcomponents is already initiated
and that the procurement procedures are already in progress.
.5. - Rep2orting and Auditing
6.29      The progress of reform actions will be reported by, and discussed
by Bank staff with, the Restructuring Council at three to six-month
intervals. NBH will report quarterly on the progress of procurement and
disbursements  for  the  incremental  working  capital  component.    The
beneficiaries under the management development and technical assistance
components will submit quarterly reports through NBH, while the innovation
financing institutions will submit semi-annual progress reports.
6.30      The five selected PPS enterprises and the institutes will submit
quarterly procurement status reports to the RPO, which will supplement
these each semester with additional prolgress reports from these enterprises
anid institutes as well as for thte non-selected enterprises component.
NBH will consolidate these reports with the reports on the industry-wide
restructuring component and forward them to the Bank not later than 45 days
after the end of each period. The five selected PPS enterprises, Vegyterv,
the institutes, and the innovation financing institutions will also submit
annual audited  financial  statements.    NIH -will  retain  the  financial
statements of other enterprises for Bank review during supervision
Missions.  The contents of the reports; have been discussed with Project~
~entities and NBH and have been finalized at negotiations.
6.31          All project accounts,, the revolving funds, statements of
expenditure, the special account, and' the financial statements of the
Project entities will be audited at the end of each fiscal year by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. One such auditor, the General
Bank and Trust Compalny in Hungary, has been proposed by the Government and



- 46 -
has been assessed by the Bank as acceptable.   Short form annual audit
reports for the preceding fiscal year will be available to the Bank no
later than by the end of Hay each year (para 6.30).
6.32        Within four months of the closing date of the Bank loan, the
enterprises, the innovation financing institutions, the institutes, and MOI
will provide NBH with the information necessary to prepare and furnish to
the  Bank  a  project  completion  report  dealing  with  the  Project's
implementation, initial operations and the costs and benefits derived and
expected to be derived.
6. Status of Project Preparation
6.33      A Restructuring Council, coordinated by the NPO and supported by
the Policy Task torce has been in existence since June 1985 and is
responsible for the development and monitoring of the industrial policy
reform program (para 6.13).   For other elements under the industry-wide
restructuring component, terms of reference for policy formulation, program
development, institutional development, management training, and subsector
studies have been prepared (paras 5.06-5.09).  For the specific subsector
restructuring component, the steering committee, established in June 1985
and the RPO, established in September 1985 are functioning satisfactorily
(para 6.15). All restructuring programs for the selected PPS enterprises,
and related cost estimates have been appraised by the Bank (para 5.20).
For the GHP mold-making project, a joint stock company is being established
and discussions with potential foreign partners and IFC are in progress
(para 4.08). Financing plans have been prepared (para 6.05), procurement
methods have been defined (para 6.21), and advertising of the general
procurement notice completed,
VII. BENEFITS OF THE PROJECT
A. Impact of Industrial Policy Reform Program
7.01       The principal benefits of the Project arise through the program
of industrial policy reforms.   The current impetus behind the reform
program will improve the economic climate in which business decisions are
taken, and induce restructuring to achieve international competitiveness
and enhance exports.   Competition will be encouraged through the reforms
planned in pricing and trade policy, through new legislation relating to
entry and liquidation of enterprises and the encouregement of direct
foreign investment. The new enterprise management system, changes in tax
policy, the development of capital markets and the banking system, changes
in pricing and trade policies, as well as the reform in the law relating to
enterprise  liquidation,  will  all  contribute  to  improved  financial
discipline and control in the newly autonomous enterprises, as well as
having beneficial effects on resource mobility.   The support for the
incremental working capital is expected to lead to significant improvements
in product quality, cost and competitiveness in domestic and export
markets.   Also the support for technological development and innovation,
and management development will help to avoid widening of the technological
gap between Western countries and Hungary and to provide industrial
managers with state-of-the-art skills.



- 47 -
7.02         The industrial policy reform  program i8 expected to lead' to
impovements in the overall efficiency of investment and changes in its
structure.   The investment/GDP ratio is expected to remain below 26%
throughout the decade, with the productivity of investment increasing as a
result of improved project selection and higher levels of capacity
utilization.   Further, the current program of technological development
supported by strengthenaing of institutions for technological innovation
would  result  in  improvements  in  the use of  capital.    Based  on  the
assumption that the comprehensive set of reform policies will be carried
out during the rest of decade, it is expected that the industrial sector
would achieve an average growth rate of 3% per year during the second half
of the decade with further increases in expotts.
B. Impact of Specific Subsector Restructurin,gComponent
7.03         The subsectoral restructuring program is expected to yield
important benefits to the Hungarian economy.   The Project is expected to
lead to a less concentrated structure of the subsector and thereby increase
competition, through specific measures under the Project to promote SMEs
(para 5.22).   The enterprise restructuring programs and infrastructure
support under the Project would also lead to further new plastics
applications in Hungary (Annex 3-3). The improved competitiveness of the
PPS would lead to a greater market responsiveness of the subsector
supported by lower CostS of production, better utilization of material and
energy, higher labor productivity, and improved product quality and
delivery times. It is estimated that the restructuring measures under the
Project would improve the competitiveness of some 260-290,000 tons of
PPS production in Hungary by 1990 (which represents a value of production
over US$350 million in 1985 prices), or about half of total PPS production
in that year (Annex 3-3)e Due to the restructuring nature of the Project,
significant direct employment creation is not expected from the Project.
7.04      Furthermore, the improved competitiveness would have a beneficial
impact on the country's trade balance, and would directly support the
Government's objective of doubling direct exports of the subsector to
US$50 million per year in 1990, of which more than US$30 million (60%) are
expected  for  conve4Aible  ctrrency  exports.    For  the  five  selected
enterprises and the GHP mold-making enterprise, the combined direct net
earnings  and savings of  convertible  currencies  as  a result  of  their
restructuring programs  (prior to repayment  of  the=' foreign  convertible
currency debt incurred under the Project) are estimated at about
US$38 million per year at Project completion (in 1985 prices).  A greater
impact would be on the further development of indirect exports of plastic
products, particularly in packaging, electrical and electronics products
and transport equipment as well as on the potential for increased exports
in other- subsector, such as in food processing through the use ;;f improved
plastics  packaging.    Overall,  indirect  exports  of  the  subsector  are
estimated to increase from about US$60 million in 1984 to about
US$100 million by 1990.



- 48 -
7.05        Further, the Project will serve as a model for the design and
implementation  of  other  subsector-wide  and  enterprise  restructuring
programs in Hungary.  The Government has already started the preparatory
work for the development of such restructuring programs in a number of
other subsectors that would broaden support to the restructuring of the
Hungarian industrial sector.   The lnstitutional capability in Hungary in
this respect has already been improved significantly through the close
participation of key Hungarian institutions in the preparation and
appraisal of the Project.
C.  Economic Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
7.06       The overall economic rate of return (ERR) for the restructuring
programs of the five selected plastics processing enterprises, which=
together account for 60% of the financing required for the specific
subsector restructuring component (para 6.01), is estimated at 42Z.  The
aggregate net present value, assuming a 12% opportunity cost of capital, is
estimated at about US$88 million (in 1985 prices).   The restructuring
programs have been individually evaluated based on their incremental
benefits and costs which were adjusted to reflect economic efficiency
prices. ERRs and net present values for each of the restructuring programs
of the selected plastics processing enterprises, including both software
and production-related investments, vary between 29% for HMV and 54% for
BVK, and are sulmmarized in Annex 6-3.
7.07     -A series of sensitivity tests on the ERRs, including switching
values, are summarized in Annex 6-3.   The ERRs are quite sensitive to
variations in output prices but remain above 20% for a 10% reduction in
output prices without offsetting reductions in production costs or changes
in product-mix.   The risk of a greater reduction in the economic output
prices for processed plastics products is considered very low.
Do Major Risks
7.08       A major risk in the industrial policy reform program relates to
the impact of future macroeconomic developments in Hungary. The country's
objective regarding inflation and flexibility in exchange rate policy in
the medium term are of particular concern in this respect.    A high
political priority attached to anti-inflation objectives could slow down
the pace of reforms substantially, particularly in the areas of pricing and
wage deregulation, and also deter progress towards a flexible exchange rate
policy. A slow pace of reforms, particularly in pricing, and an overvalued
real effective exchange rate would diminish the positive impact of the
export promotion and import competition programs. Continued monitoring of
macroeconomic management and macroeconomic developments, by the Bank and
the IMF, would curtail the risk of adoption of macroeconomic policies which
contradict and undermine the pace and the effectiveness of industrial
policy reforms.
7.09       The current support for and strong commitment to the industrial
policy reform program could potentially also weaken, depending on political
pressures or economic developments.   The country's need to sustain the



- 49 -
positive net capital inflows for growth in the medium term, and the
associated need to maintain the creditworthiness standing Hungary enjoys
presently in the international financial community counteract these risks.
The Bank's  continued policy  dialogue,  ESW,  close  supervision  of  the
proposed loan and other lending operations will be important in providing
the impetus to sustain the progress in the industrial policy reform
program.
7.10          The relative novelty of the activities of the innovation
financing institutions implies risks concerning the level of demand for
financing and the nature of subprojects.  These risks.are considered small
given the indications of pent up demand and support provided under the
Project to strengthen the institutions.
7.11       The specific restructuring component of the PPS involves a new
concept for most Hungarian enterprises with a focus on strengthening the
strategic orientation, organization structure, management and supporting
systems of the enterprises as a prerequisite for achieving and sustaining
international competitiveness.   The new outlook involves, in many cases,
a change in attitude by the management of the selected enterprises.   The
success of the Project, therefore, depends critically on the continued
commitment of the enterprise managements to adhere to the restructuring
efforts through and beyond the implementation of initial measures under the
Project. The active involvement of the top managements of the appraised
enterprises in Project preparation and appraisal and the support provided
under the Project would minimi-e the risk of such reduced commitment. The
most important element in inducing and sustaining the restructuring effort
of the enterprises, however, will be the impetus towards efficiency
provided by the industrial-policy reform program supported by the Project.
The risks associated with the application of new technologies, and
implementation and operations of the restructuring programs, are considered
limited due to introduction of proven technologies; provision of the
requisite   know-how   and   training   support;   and   strengthening   of
infrastructure in the subsector.   Also, the risk associated with the
application of sophisticated CAD/CAM technology in the GRP mold-making
project is minimized through the participation of a qualified foreign
company, as well as strengthening of GHP's management (para 4.08).
7.12       Another Project risk derives from the multi-component nature of
the Project.   The Project is complex in design, ambitious in scope and
involves   a   larger   number   of   diverse   institutions.         Special
Project  coordination  arrangements  have,  therefore,  been  established
(paras 6.12-6.15). Substantial monitoring and supervision on the part of
Bank staff is considered necessary and is planned for.
VIII.  AGRENENTS
8.01       The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between NBH and the
Government  is proposed  as  a  condition  of  effectiveness  (pars  6.18).
Further, signature of subsidiary financing agreements between NBE and the
innovation  financing  institutions   are  proposed  as  conditions   of
disbursement to them (para 6.18).



- 50 -
8.02          At negotiations the Government has agreed that it will:
(i) ensure the timely availability of -required foreign exchange and local
currency for the budget-contributed institutes (para 5.15), the RD&E
program (para 5.16), RPO for its operations (para 5.25), and management and
training institutions for agreed purposes (para 6.06); (ii)  ensure the
prompt availability of funds to NBH and the GHP mold-making enterprise,
when necessary, to complete the Project (para 6.08); (iii) maintain a
Restructuring Program Office with qualified personnel (para 6.15);
(iv) procure goods and services for the agreed purposes in accordance with
Bank procurement and consultants' guidelines (para 6.22); and (v) follow
reporting requirements as stipulated (para 6.29).
8.03         At negotiations NBH has agreed that it will:   (i) include
additional innovation financing institutions acceptable to the Bank
(para 4.05); (ii) provide foreign exchange for incremental working capital
in accordance with agreed eligibility criteria (para 5.03); (iii) approve
enterprise restructuring subprojects/programs in accordance with the agreed
eligibility criteria (paras 5.22-5.24); (iv) provide local currency
financing to eligible PPS enterprises, where necessary, to cover the cost
of local consultants (para 5.23); (v) contribute US$1.3 million equivalent
of equity funds to VSZM -(para 6.07); (vi) provide local and foreign
currency financing to Project beneficiaries including innovation financing
institutions to complete their subprojects, including for cost overruns
(para 6.08); (vii) ensure that the innovation financing institutions
finance subprojects at terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
(paras 6.19 and 6.20); (viii) contract subsidiary loans and subloans, at
terms and conditions agreed with the Bank (para 6.19 and 6.20); (ix) use
subloan repayments surplus over the Bank loan repayments of NBH to finance
subprojects in industrial enterprises (para 6.20); (x) procure goods and
services for the banking system component in accordance with Bank
procurement and consultants guidelines (para 6.22); and (xi) follow
reporting and auditing requirements as stipulated (para 6.29).
8.04      NBH has also confirmed the following:
(a)  Conditions of making respective subloans:  (i) approval by the
Bank of the first two subproject packages and adoption of
institutional-strengthening programs by the innovation financing
institutions (paras 5.04 and 5.05); and (ii) preparation by the
five  selected  enterprises  of  satisfactory  programs  with
implementation schedule on organization, management and systems
(para 5.19).
(b)  Assurances in the subsidiary/subloan agreements with regard to:
(i) adoption by the five selected and other non-selected
* -    enterprises of the restructuring programs including-organization
and management systems (paras 5.19 and 5.23); (ii) design and
operation  of  all  Project  facilities  in  accordance  with
environment, health and safety regulations aatisfactory to the
Bank (para 5.21); (iii) timely provision by the Project
beneficiaries of their share of financing for various components
(para 6.08); (iv) compliance by beneficiaries with certain



- 51 -
finandcial covenants (paras 5.22 and 6.'iO) and reporting and
auditing requirement  (par& 6.29), and (v) procurement of goods
and services by relevant beneficiaries In accordance with Dak
procurement and consultants guidelines (para 6.21).
8.05        On the basis of the Governuent'   letter of industrial policy
intent, staff appraisal, and the above agreenents, the Project is
considered suitable for a Bank loan of US$100 dillion at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate, for 15 years including 3 years of grace.
The establishment of two revolving funds of US$15 million and US$5 *illion
respectively is recommended under the proposed losn (para 6.27). Tbis loan
will be made to the National Bank of Hungary and wit; be guaranteed by the
Covernment.
Industry Department
May 1986



- 52 -
ARM 2-1
UW - I          A         RUT     W
De Structue of IrAstry. 1984
GQ     Pun               gr
Rliaim  z%Of    Z of   IflUon   Z of   W.iIim x    of
Pt   lty           Xt E: Pt              Pt
Ener & Badc lbterlal Tndwtqy      375.9   31.3    15.3    49*7    12.4    96.6    26.0
Midniig                          60.0     5.0     2.4      2.8     0.7    44.2    11.9
aeqtriity                        63.9     5.3      2.6     0.4     0.1     8.1     2.1
Ferrous & N-Ferus Metals        -101.2    8.5     4.1    29.7      7.4    25.6    6.9
Qmstructim Materials             26.7     2.2      1.1     0.9     0.2     4.0     1.1
Petrolem & Gas                  124.1    10.3     5.1    15.9      4*0    14.7     4.0
PoEsgft  Industry: &Wgierfrg      290.9    24.2    11.9   116.8    29.0   107.0    28.8
Ma1hmry, IM-eectical             68.6     5.7      2.8    22.8     5.6    43.5    11.7
Trasportaticn &pipAea            80.6     6.7     3.3    44.3    11.0    28.2      7.6
Maddry, Mectrical                39.3     3.3      1.6    10.7     2.7     7.1     1.9
TUleoa   Vwau Tech. &qpmnt    47.7        4.0     2.0    21.7      5.4     7.9     2.1
Precision mustiments             25.5     2.1      1.0    12.5     3.1    12.4    3.4
Mea Fabricatim                   28.3     2.4      1.2     4.8     1.2     7.9     2.1
Indstry: Qwutczl        131.3    10.9     5.3    43.1    10.7    61.0    16.5
Basic Cuicals                    31.2     2.6      1.3    8.1      2.0    24.3    6.6
Fertilizer, etc.                 29.1     2.4      1.2     7.3     1.8    10.4    2.8
Plastics & Plastic Progesi       25.8     2.2      1.0     4.6     1.2    12.2    3.3
Phibber                          10.0    0.8      0.4      4.0     1.0     4.9     1.3
Fine ChOneal                     35.2     2.9      1.4    19.1     4.7     9.2     2.5
Pzr,ms,gm Thdustry: Li0ht         183*2    15.3     7.4    39.7      9.9    43.9    11.8
Gss & Clay Prodtucts             13.6     1.1     0.6      2.8     0.7     2.6     0.7
Wood Products                    20.9     1.7     0.8      2.3     0.6     6.0     1.6
Paper & Pr1ntizg                 28.6     2.4     1.2      1.8     0.4     9.9     2.7
Txtil a                          52.3    4.4    -2.1    12.9       3.2    16.5     4.4
Leatber, Fur &  oe               26.5     2.2      1*1     84      2.1     3.3     0.9
Clotbftg                         18.9    1.6      0.7      7.8     2.0     3.2    0*9
Hawdicrafta & Miro1lazys         22.4     1.9     0.9      3.7     0.9     2.4     0.6
Food ProcasM Ind!ustry            219.9    18.3   -89    57.9    14.4    19.7        5.3
TItal ihdutry              1,201*2   100.0    48.8   3Q7.2    7u44   328*2    88.4
1btlt                                         100 . 2,460.3  100.0   402.0   100.0   371,1   100.0
TAtryDpt
May 1986



- fnL -                                                                                      :e
UUdza, ad.i u  sfn   d 
ouuums ~~~~~~~~~ -                         -vxe                                        WmI @3 WLW   
. ~  ~    ~    gn              m
. ~     ~~~~                                                 ~ _  .)  (.9D5s9.1)                 -m  .   .              _      , 
_ _             I__.D Dnt o1 1_a _                                                                                    D _
1W~~~~~~E                                 Th1a~~~~%M b
. U>t                                                         aWA.              -         . _om* .Wk
WthA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bI' .                  =                                                                                 '               .
P :.~.                                                                                                                                            ___i___
a 3V >tu Vl .              .                                                    I        .     W       0  .t au
O > at                               r                                    b b.  
D                                       _ddf id i_
. COM     . .tNh
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lto                              a                                  in    "ttnm   r  uw h:s .no r
T   ~ is                                                      .= a   JA
P IS -J}"P   PD&A                                            mw   tsy   _ momdoat F
*  >                                                         urn, . *R & It.
St             .       oiL    b          Xdft maf       nap                       k@att 11 Pt 
PeUA  dito ELLt8w    6 au         am                                P_ Fav to  spd                                                            6 swldl a
P~                  ____K_____                                                                                                              _r_______
v   :        ,                                                Wi. :~n          lbs. ~...  .        ......    .  a
o bn  bshtfti fnm Gttt1* tommlaq I                                                         lAti ?l  amp-
t l J   '                  ..                                                                                                                                       ..
n*m                        ,      ' U                                                                                             . Pw                        .             .
*dr v
m y   -                                       _ __ _ _ __ _   



_54                         ANNEX 3-1
Page 1
HUNGARY - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCrURING PROJECT
latter of Industrial Policy Intent
Dear Mr. Clausen:                                                May 6, 1986
Re: Letter of Intent on the Development of Economic Conditions
Concerning Industrial Restructuring in Hungary
I am writing this letter in reference to the proposed first
industrial restructuring loan.  The Government of the Hungarian People's
Republic began to implement, within the framework of the planned economic
system, a series of economic reforms iln 1968. Hungarian economic policy
has sought to achieve its objectives by increasingly linking national
economic planning with the active role of markets mainly through-the use of
indirect economic regulators.  The fundamental thrust of the reforms has
been the greater use of market signals and competition for efficient
resource allocation and dynamic growth, accompanied by increasing autonomy
for enterprises. The Hungarian economy has considerably improved Its capa-
bility to adjust, and has become more closely interlinked with world
markets.
Since the events of 1973-74, flexible adjustment to changing
external and internal conditions has become even more important. In 1979,
the Government renewed the pace and vigor of the reforms in parallel with
Its program of itabilization and structural adjustment, following Increas-
ing strains on the balance of payments. The economic policy pursued since
1979, which aimed at improving the external balance, necessitates further
continuous and significant steps toward enlarging the role of market
forces, improving entrepreneurial attitudes in enterprises, and expanding
the role of market based instruments for macroeconomic management.  The
success of the stabilization program, aided by the reform process, has
provided us the opportunity to begin concentrating our efforts on the
medium-term structural adjustment of the economy.  Important progress in
the reform process achieved since 1979 helped us avert a potential debt
crisis in 1982, and contributed to laying the foundation for stronger
economic growth. Speeding up the development of this economic management
system is an integral component in the consolidation of the results of the
efficiency and equilibrium-oriented economic policy, and, therefore, a
priority of Hungarian policy. But, the success of this policy depends as
much on a relatively stable external financial environment and lessening
protectionism In international trade, as the structural measures that will
improve the responsiveness of the Hungarian economy to changes in that
environment.
Restructuring of the industrial sector is the centerpiece of our
structural adjustment program, and Is one of the princlpal objectives of
the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-1990).   The industrial sector is of
central importance in this respect, since it accounts for approximately
one-half of convertible currency exports, where its wmpetitiveness  in
price and quality has been deteriorating, and for as much as two-thirds of
convertible currency imports. Starting in January 1985, therefore, we have
begun to ltroduce a refora program affecting the entire economic manage-
ment system which will significantly improve the economic conditions for



-5 -                            ANNX 3-1
Page 2
the restructuring and development of the Hungarian industry.  (Hereafter,
we refer to the industry-related aspects of this reform program simply as
the industrial  policy reform  program).   This industrial policy reform
program, as outlined in the Attachment to this letter, aims to induce and
enhance the structural adjustment in industry with a central focus on the
autonomy and discipline of enterprise decision-making in an environment
where market signals and economic regulators will assume increasing
importance in influencing enterprise motivation and behavior. This letter
describes the main objectives and thrusts of the reform program, and in
particular discusses important linkages among its various components that
make the program a unified and coordinated package of industrial policy
reforms.
The industrial policy reform program constitutes the core of the
industrial restructuring program, which we hope will be supported by the
World Bank through a series of industrial restructuring loans over the five
year period starting in 1986. As in the past, we will continue to consider
the reforms as an ongoing process because the specific steps and targets
needed  to achieve structural adjustment  in the industrial sector will
change and evolve over time, depending on economic trends at home and
abroad, and on the results of the reform measures previously undertaken.
We understand, therefore, that the World Bank's consideration of each of
these loans will be based upon satisfactory progress being achieved in the
execution of the industrial policy reform program.   We propose, in the
course of the preparation and appraisal of each loan, to review: progress
in each area; the further elaboration of the measures already indicated in
the Attachment for succeeding years; and additional measures to be imple-
mented in the future.   It is our conviction that both the financial and
non-financial support that may be provided by the World Bank for our five-
year program of industrial restructuring will make important contributions
towards achieving our stated objective and assuring the sustained progress
of the restructuring process.
Macroeconomic Conditions and Macro Policies
We recognize that the success of our efforts towards industrial
restructuring will depend critically on the evolution of the external and
domestic economic conditions as well as the policy environment at the macro
level. It is important, therefore, to recognize here this interdependence
and to consider macroeconomic conditions and policies which we believe are
particularly relevant for industry.
In the late 1970s, various factors including major deterioration
in the terms of trade, the world recession, and import-intensive growth,
unaccompanied by adequate developments of export capacity, led to increas-
ing strains on Hungary's balance of payments condition.   The convertible
trade deficit in 1978 reached 782 million dollars (BOP) (4.7% of GDP), and
the total convertible currency debt rose to' 7.6 billion dollars.   The
maturity structure of the debt, heavily weighted towards the short-term,
made the external position even more vulnerable. This was further exacer-
bated by the world recession following the second round of oil price
increases in 1979, the international debt crisis in the early 1980s, and by
increasing protectionism among Hungary's major. trading partners in the
West.



-    - 56 -                      ANNEX 3-1
Page 3 '
The Government's stabilization policies and increasingly flexible
economic management system under the reforms helped improve the balance of
payments condition considerably in 1983 and 1984. The convertible currency
trade deficit switched to a surplus of 1.2 billion dollars (BOP) in 1984,
and reserves rose from about 400 million dollars in March 1982 to 2.2
billion dollars (about 7 months of import requ-irerents) by the end of
1984. While the stabilization measures focusing on investment and import
expenditures were effective, it has been difficult to introduce simulta-
neously concerted and growth oriented measures for structural adjustment.
The improvement in convertible currency exports in real terms since 1980,
particularly in industrial exports, has therefore not been satisfactory.
In 1985, lower than anticipated export performance, combined with factors
such as pent-up demand for imports revealed as some of the stabilization
measures were lifted, and an unusually harsh winter causing high energy
imports, has led us to a less favourable convertible currency trade
balance.   In early 1986, the Government initiated additional measures to
promote exports.
Looking forward, we consider 1986-1987 to be the crucial years
during which to complete .   stabilization effort and to embark on the task
of medium-term  structural  adjustment.    We do  not,  therefore,  expect
substantial recovery in GDP growth during these two years. - Beyond 1987,
prospects for economic growth will depend to a large extent on the supply
response of the industrial sector to the measures contained in the indus-
trial policy reform program. It is our conviction, in particular, that the
success of the industrial policy reforms during the next five years will be
crucial in determining the economic growth of Hungary till the end of this
century.
In the years to come, the objectives of the Hungarian economic
policy will undergo major changes compared to the past years.   The main
objective will focus on developing the economy towards rapidly adapting to
the changes in the world economy, accelerating technological development,
improving and enlarging the scope of export capabilities, strengthening
structural changes and--based on all this-stepping up economic efficiency
on the one hand, and achieving gradual progress in modernization of the
economy  on  the  other.    The  acceleration  of  industrial  restructuring
has a decisive role to play in this process. At the same time, we consider
it an important task in improving and stabilizing the domestic and external
balances of the economy.   Within this context, we intend to maintain a
continuous trade surplus in order to gradually reduce the country's
indebtedness.   We will also continue to strengthen the domestic market
equilibrium, and support this by ensuring appropriate monetary conditions.
We think that if the above objectives are successfully met, economic growth
can take on a further impetus, which in turn may facilitate the growth in
domestic absorption, at a rate gradually approaching the rate of GDP
growth.   We attach great significance to the reallocation of available
resources; the most important element of this being our intention to raise
the share of investments to benefit the manufacturing industry as well as
investment in selected production infrastructure activities.
In addition to the above, economic policy objectives of Hungary
attach emphasis on maintaining full employment and simultaneously increas-
ing the efficiency of employment, as well as on moderating the Increase in
consumer price levels.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 4
Economic policy reckons with the application of instruments which
are in line with the above objectives.   In the interest of structural
changes, technological development, and the acceleration of improvement in
efficiency, we began to develop the economic management system In 1985, and
will continue -to develop the system in the years to -come. Changes in the
system focus on enhancing the possibilities and improving the conditions of
autonomous management for enterprises, and on inducing the enterprises to
be increasingly interested in developing their activities in line with the
above objectives.   In order to promote restructuring, the State is using
market instruments which encourage enterprises to develop exportable
production, to conserve energy and materials, and to realize effective
technological progress. It is primarily with such instruments that we
intend to achieve the proper equilibrium of the foreign trade balance.
These aims are supported by government sponsored programs.
We intend to augment the scope and role of monetary policy instru-
ments to implement the above objectives. The equilibrium of the economy at
the macro level can be maintained by increasingly relying on the flexible
use of indirect instruments of fiscal and monetary policy, including
interest rate. When created, the competitive institutions and markets of
the competitive monetary system will promote the process of industrial
restructuring as well. Furthermore, in achieving the saving and investment
balances, we intend to use methods which facilitate widening of the invest-
ment possibilities among profitable enterprises and forcing inefficient
enterprises to restructure their activities.
Together with the instruments applied to increase exports effi-
ciently, a flexible exchange rate policy will also serve the purpose of
achieving the balance of payments equilibrium.   Hungary's exchange rate
policy will continue to be based on the principles that the exchange rate
is to reflect the opportunity (or the production) cost of foreign exchange,
and to help achieve the objectives related to the external balances, in the
context of a reasonable anti-inflationary policy. The exchange rate policy
and the instruments supplementing it will invariably be applied flexibly so
that they reflect the competitiveness of tradable activities, and ensure
appropriate relative profitability between export-oriented production and
production for the domestic markets,
Finally, it is our intention to implement anti-inflationary policy
on sound economic grounds. This policy will not lead to a loss of price
flexibility since, within the overall moderation of the increase in the
price level, relative prices must change as the result of economic forces.
Accordingly, we wish to support the moderation of price increases by step-
ping up the efficiency of production, meeting the balance objectives and
developing market conditions in the economy. Furthermore, in controlling
inflation, an important role will be attached to monetary policy as well as
the decisions to curb increases in budget expenditures.
As earlier indicated, while the appropriate macroeconomic policy
framework is not fully and explicitly considered in the industrial policy
reform program, we recognize that the existence of such a framework is
crucial to providing an environment in which market mechanisms-and incen-
tive policies can operate effectively for the success of the industrial
restructuring program.



ANNEX 3-1
'Page 5
Industrial Policies for Restructuring
Industrial  restructuring  in Hungary requires:  (1) substantial
changes in the overall structure of industrial production, by emphasizing
activities with a dynamic comparative advantage and eliminating those that
are uneconomic; (2) major and sustained improvements in the efficiency and
competitiveness of production facilities; and (3) changes in the behaviour
and motivation of economic entities to enhance flexibility, dynamism and
market orientation.
The primary reason which led to these requirements for industrial
restructuring in Hungary is the policy environment within which enterprises
have operated in the past, exacerbated by constrained investment in recent
years as part of the stabilization program. In light of the restructuring
requirements discussed above, we have identified the following three
complementary themes in the policy environment that need to be addressed
to induce industrial restructuring: (1) improving efficient resource
mobility; (2) encouraging increased market competition, and (3) increasing
the autonomy of enterprises in the framework of stronger financial
discipline and control.
Based on these three themes, the industrial policy reform program
for restructuring will address a number of areas.   The reform program
addresses incentive issues in the areas of pricing, trade, and tax poli-
cies.    In addition, the reform program addresses a number of other
policy areas related to aspects of the current Hungarian economic system
that are crucial to the above three themes. Specifically they are: entry
and liquidation of enterprises, wage differentiation and worker mobility,
development of the capital market and the banking system, state enterprise
management system, direct foreign investment, and technological develop-
ment.   Policy reforms in these areas, combined with reforms in pricing,
trade, and tax policies, jointly comprise a whole package that requires a
coordinated program of actions on all fronts, taking the maximum advantage
of all mutually reinforcing linkages.
As discussed earlier, the industrial resructuring program, and
hence the program of policy reforms to support it, must be a process which
evolves over time as internal and external economic conditions change, and
as experience of the policy measures undertaken is accumulated.   Accord-
ingly, the present programs in most of the policy areas contain more speci-
fic measures for the earlier years than the later years of the 1986-1990
Plan period. The salient elements of the industrial policy reform program
are highlighted below; the framework of the measures to be implemented in
each of the areas and their expected time schedules are represented in the
Attachment to this letter.
* * *
Entry of Enterprises
The structure of industry in Hungary is highly concentrated, and
has contributed to limiting the degree of domestie competition and the
efficient  mobility  of  resources.       The- size  of  our  economy,  the



59 -ANNEX 3-1
Page 6
regulatory, financial and other barriers to entry of enterprises, the
virtually assured survival of state enterprises, among other historical
factors, have resulted in such an industrial structure.   The intended
reforms in the area of entry of enterprises, together with the reforms in
enterprise liquidation discussed below, address directly the issue of
industrial structure, domestic competition, and resource mobility,   The
objective of the policy- reforms in this area are:   (1) to lower the
existing regulatory and financial barriers to the entry of new enterprises;
(2) to promote actively formation of all forms of enterprises, with an
emphasis on associations; and (3) to promote growth of small and medium
enterprises in particular.
Important progress has already been made in this policy area. The
state monopoly in establishing industrial enterprises has long been
abolished.   Today, enterprises are free to found subsidiaries and joint
ventures.  Restrictions on the profile of enterprise activities have been
almost entirely abolished.   In the recent years, a substantial number of
Trusts and large state enterprises have been decentralized and a large
number  of  factory  establishments  have  been  made  into  independent
enterprises.   Since 1982, private business associations and partnerships
have been given legal protection with virtually no restrictions on their
activity profiles.
There are three major tasks we intend to achieve by the end
of1986. First, based on principles approved in 1985, we intend to complete
the development of a modern legal framework for corporate associations, and
to have it legislated during 1986. Application of the oid legal framework
has been cumbersome and has not provided adequate stability to encourage
entry of new enterprises including joint ventures with foreign companies.We
believe that the new legal framework will in itself remove a major barrier
to the entry of corporate associations (share companies and limited
liability companies among others) and will promote creation and growth of
these forms of enterprise in Hungary, thereby introducing a greater degree
of flexibility in the dynamic process of entry, growth, and competition of
enterprises.   Following the enactment of the legislation, we intend to
develop promotional measures for creation and growth of associations in
Hungary.
Second, active participation of small and medium enterprises is
very much needed in manufacturing and service sectors. We are fully aware
that dismantling regulatory and financial barriers will not result in the
immediate and automatic entry and growth of these enterprises.   We have
introduced in 1985 several measures to promote the creation and growth of
small and medium enterprises. In 1986, we intend to develop further such
measures including: ensuring equal access to credit; modifications in
labour regulations, insurance and tax schemes; and improving access to
infrastructure and technical assistance.
Third,  we  have  completed  the  development  of  a  program  to
decentralize a substantial number of large state enterprises in order to
increase their efficiency and to enhance competition and the transparency
of enterprise performance. We intend to complete the implementation of the
state-initiated component of the program by the end of 1986, while



- 60 -                            ANNEX 3-1
Page 7
developing measures to provide incentives and support for enterprises to
pursue further decentralization at their own initiative.  The implementa-
tion of the program will be coordinated closely with the introduction of
the new enterprise management system, to be discussed below, which is
designed to give full management autonomy to state enterprises.
The freedom of entry of enterprises is closely tied to the
development of the banking system and the capital market.   Concomitant
developments toward competitive banking system and a -capital market which
can offer flexible financial instruments is necessary to foster entry as
well as growth of enterprises.   It is envisagad that the legislation for
corporate association will include the legal framework for equity-type
financial instruments and other related securities, as discussed below.
Liquidation of Enter pises
One important policy of the Government concerning low efficiency
enterprises and those in critical financial situation is to create such
economic environment that will induce and allow economically viable
enterprises to restructure themselves in order to create and maintain
efficient activities and sound financial management. In parallel with the
above general objective, reforms for enterprise liquidation are to be
implemented in order to address the issues of industrial structure,
domestic competition, and the mobility of productive resources, as well as
of efficiency and financial discipline among industrial enterprises.
We have had a framework for the State to liquidate state
enterprises administratively. In practice, failing enterprises were almost
always merged with other enterprises rather than being dissolved.   We
have, however, made important progress in 1984, and have successfully
liquidateda few industrial enterprises. Our experience to date has shown
that not just the State but any party directly concerned with the business
affairs of an enterprise should have the possibility to initiate the
process of liquidation, so as to reflect better the conditions and
mechanisms of the market, with the due legal process for settlements in the
court system.
~- -   The  objectives  of  the  policy  reforms  over  the  five -years,
1986-1990, are therefore to establish firmly the stability and the
permanence of the liquidation process, as well as to establish the legal
precedence for liquidation.
We intend to accomplish two major tasks in the area of-liquidation
by the end of 1986. First, based on principles approved in 1985, we intend
to  legislate  a  new  legal  framework  for  liquidation  in  1986.    The
legislation is intended to permit all concerned parties,  including the
creditors, and the enterprise itself, to initiate bankruptcy proceedings in
the courts,  and will not give priority in settlements  to any party,
including  the State,  with the singular exception of wages  and other
payments owed to workers. The legal framework will be accompanied by the
Refloating  Fund  in  the Ministry  of  Finance  which  will  be  used  to
restructure those enterprises deemed economically salvageable and thus
prevent recourse to full liquidation proceedings.



61                  ~~~~~~~ANMJX 3-1
Page 8
Second, as an adjunct to the liquidation process, we have con-
ducted a review of all industrial enterprises which resulted in the identi-
fication of 26 medium and large-sized enterprises in a critical financial
situation.  The review provides a basis to determine possible actions for
liquidation, or for restructuring.   Subsequently, restructuring plans have
been developed for a number of these enterprises and implementation is
under way. For other enterprises, restructuring plans are being developed
with a view to finalization in 1986. We also consider this review to be a
necessary part of our efforts to establish the legal procedure for
liquidation in the early years of implementing the new legal framework. It
is anticipated that some liquidation proceedings will be initiated in 1986,
thereby providing a sound basis on which to continue building the needed
legal procedure and solidifying the liquidation framework in 1987 and
beyond.
An important part of our program is to build,  as quickly as
possible, the institutional capacity to implement liquidation proceedings
through our judicial system.   We also need to build the institutional
capacity and appropriate funding to execute the financial and other aspects
of corporate restructuring associated with the Refloating Fund at the
Ministry of Finance.   We have already begun preparatory work for such
institution building.   Training programs for judges and financial and
accounting experts in the central as well as the district court system was
started in 1985 with external technical assistance.   Ia all the above
areas, we aim to establish firmly the required institutional capabilities
-by the end of 1986.
Finally, we must note here that, as in the area of entry of enter-
prises, the area of liquidation is also closely tied to the concomitant
development of a capital market which can offer greater flexibility through
the provision of alternative financial instruments.
International Trade
Hungary is a small and trade dependent economy reliant on export
performance.  Furthermore, given the limitation of the size of the donestic
market, external counetition through exports and imports is the key ingre-
dient in bringing about higher standards of quality, greater efficiency,
- and dynamism in cur industrial sector. The objective of the policy reforms
in the area of international trade is, therefore, to promote exports and
strengthen import competition.   In achieving this objective, a flexible
exchange rate policy is clearly one of the important instruments as we have
discussed earlier in this letter.,
We have made a significant progress in instituting measures to
increase competition and efficiency in foreign trading activities.  First,
we deregulated all import and export profile restrictions on foreign trade
organizations, except for strategic goods on the negative list.  Second, we
have instituted that all enterprises can apply for and receive automatic-
ally the right to export their products and the right to Import inputs
required for their production (except for strategic goods). Third, we have
introduced incentive measures to encourage the establishment of multi-
function trading houses.



- 62 -                            ANNEX 3-1
Page 9
Industrial trade with the convertible currency area has some
potentially serious  structural  problems.    We  have  observed  that  the
competitive advantage of our industrial exports has visibly declined in
recent years, and recognize the need for modernizing the technological
basis and the structure of proiuction to achieve increased exports.
Accordingly, we have developed in 1985 and subsequently implemented
starting in 1986 an export promotion program to encourage investment and
technological development for export activities supported by tax and other
incentives. The program is based on a process of bidding among enterprises
and subsequent agreement between the enterprise and competent authorities
on the terms to be fulfilled. We will regularly review the result achieved
under the export promotion program as from 1987 and afterwards, on the
basis of which we can determine and make the eventually needed adjustments
in the program.
We have also launched in 1985 and developed a series of measures
to be introduced starting in 1986 to promote exporting activities, and to
ensure an even more favorable trade regime for the exporters.   Measures
include, inter alia, the modification of the duty drawback system to create
its automaticity, an increase in the indirect tax rebate for convertible
currency exports and the strengthening of export marketing, advisory and
promotion institutions and activities.
Hungary joined GATT in 1973.  As per agreements reached through
the Tokyo round of tariff negotiations, we have continued to lower the
tariff rates across the board, so that by 1985 the mean nominal rate of
tariff is dcwn to 18 percent (about 10 percent when trade-weighted). We
will continue the reduction in tariffs scheduled for 1986 and 1987, with
the target of reducing the mean nominal rate to about 16 percent in 1987.
We intend, after 1988 supported by a review of the effective rates of
protection, to rationalize the tariff structure in conjunction with our
obligations under the GATT agreement, and with special regard to tariff
negotiations to be held in the framework of the new multilateral trade
negotiations.
As part of the short-term stabilization measures following the
balance of payments difficulties we had to impose a series of import quotas
and surcharges in September 1982. As the external balance situation eased,
we were able to lift these restrictions, the last of which was lifted on
January 1, 1985.   In the area of consumer goods, however, we feel it
necessary to maintain the existing quota on convertible imports, which had
been in place previously. With the sole exception of the consumer goods
quota, we intend to maintain the import regime free of quantitative
restrictions in the future in accordance with the GATT rules, and to rely
increasingly on overall macroeconomic policy and flexible use of market
based instruments for managing the balance of payments.
A part of convertible currency imports into the industrial sector
to date can be characterized as complementary and not competing imports.
We have developed a program which in line with the balance of payments
equilibrium objective will promote efficient import competition, and serve
a two-fold objective-enhance domestic competitiveness through import
competition as well as-improve the efficiency of import purchases.  The



ANNEX 3-1
Page 10
program is intended to be launched in 1986 and -subsequently Implemented
gradually in several steps. This will encourage the use of international
competitive bidding procedures to promote competition between domestic
production and imports as well as among imports, with limited exeptions, in
the case of those purchases where the tender invitation practice is
internationally applied, offer appropriate economic benefits, and the
financing is assured.  We intend to review the results of the program in
1987, and implement the eventually necessary adjustments thereafter.
Pricing of Industrial Products
As a small and trade-dependent economy with Its industrial sector
increasingly integrated into the international community through trade,
Hungarian pricing policies of industrial products should be and are based
on the economic principle of reflecting the relative world prices.
One of the most important accomplishments of the reforms is in the
area of pricing policy.   Since 1980, most industrial products have been
aligned with what we refer to as simulated world market prices, which
reflect the actual or potential import or export prices, or dominant world
market prices prevailing in the convertible currency area. These pricing
rules represent a major departure from the preceding pricing regime, where
most prices were set administratively on the basis of production costs; our
experience with the new pricing rules has been positive.  In considering
further reforms in pricing, we are aware that no pricing rule would be able
to replace prices determined by competitive market forces.   At the same
time, however, we have a highly concentrated industrial sector with yet
limited domestic and international  competition.   The objective of the
policy reforms in the area of pricing industrial products must hence be
two-fold: First, on the basis of market development, to move increasingly
from the State regulation of prices towards the market determination if
prices; and second, to limit the role of the State in the regulatioa of
industrial prices to the regulation of imperfect markets, while fostering
greater competition through other aspects of the reforms.
In light of these objectives, we intend to focus on two principal
areas in 1985 and thereafter. The first area concerns the exemption in the
domestic market of manufacturing enterprises from the export pricing rule,
which requires enterprises to limit the average increase in prices of their
products sold on the domestic market to, at most, the average price
increase realized on exports. In 1985, we have taken significant steps to
amend and liberalize the rule and its application.   As a result, the
percentage of industrial output exempted from this rule has increased
significantly. We have also completed a series of procedures related to
entry Into the 'Price Club," which is the main means by which enterprises
gain exemption from this rule, and have implemented modifications to ensure
greater transparency, objectivity, and predictability for enterFrises.
Starting in 1986, we intend to- review market conditions annually and
implement further exemptions with the objective of abolishing the export
pricing rule entirely by 1990.
The second area has to do with the regulation of imperfect
markets.   The legal framework, within -which to determine the practices
associated with imperfect markets, hag been set out in -the Law of Unfair



- 64 -                            ANNEX 3-1
Page 11
Economic Practices enacted in 1985. In this context, we have also prepared
a program to change the main functions - of the governmental agencies
currently responsible for market supervision to that of regulating
imperfect markets. We intedd to implement the program starting in 1986,
but we realize that substantial institution building efforts will be
required.
Taxation
The main source of government revenue -in Hungary has been the
income generated by the enterprises, and approximately three-quarters of
the Government revenue currently originates in enterprises. The high tax
burden on enterprises contributed to reducing the profit orientation of
enterprises.
In the past, the use of subsector and enterprise specific
exemptions and subsidies were built into the taxation system. The frequent
changes in the taxation rules made predictability difficult for enter
prises.  These features also reduced the cost discipline among industrial
enterprises, and did not provide an adequate incentive to perform better
than average.  As we make further progress in the reforms, the principal
function of the taxation system should be in regulating the economic
activities indirectly.   For the taxation system to serve this function
well, we believe it should enable the smooth functioning of market
mechanisms, and enhance the efficiency and profit orientation of
enterprises. Therefore, the objective of the policy reforms in the area of
taxation are: (1) to improve the financial position of more efficient
enterprises; (2) to create greater uniformity of existing taxes,
particularly among industrial enterprises; and (3) to create greater
uniformity of financial environment for different forms of enterprises.
We have recently begun to make some important progress in this
policy area.   We began to reduce the subsector and enterprise specific
subsidies and taxes.  We restructured and simplified the taxation system
and rates so that the focus of taxation would be more on factor costs of
production rather than on profit. The tax restructuring and simplification
plan was implemented in 1985, and included the introduction of wage tax,
property tax, and accumulation tax, to replace a series of previous taxes
and  tax-like withdrawals.    These  changes have enhanced the financial
prospects of efficient enterprises while curtailing availability of
resources to those that are relatively inefficient.
In implementing the tax restructuring and simplification plan, we
were not able to achieve a complete uniformity in the tax treatment of all
industrial enterprises with respect to wage tax and property tax.    We
intend to remove all subsector and enterprise specific tax exemptions in
the manufacturing industries effective January 1, 1986, with the exception
of some specific exemptions for the textile industry which will be-sharply
reduced in 1986 and eliminated in 1987.  With respect to the accumulation
tax  introduced  in  1985,  we  were  able  to  achieve  uniformity  across
subsectors.   The rate of accumulation tax at 18%, however, may have been
too high and possibly dampened the investment demand excessively. We will



- 65 -                   ~~~~~ANNEX 3-1
Page 12
lower the tax to 15% in tid-1986 gad intend to monitor continuously Its
impact on the economy, and assess the feasibility of reducing the tax rate
further  in  1987,  and thereafter.   We have also  further reduced  the
accumulation tax rate for priority activities such as exports and energy
and material conservation.
Starting in 1986, we intend to work on two major programs for tax
reform.  First, as part of the objective to improve the financial position
of efficient enterprises, we must begin to consider ways in which the tax
burden  on enterprises  can be  reduced.   We have already  begun,  with
technical assistance from the IMF, to develop a new system of personal
income tax which will include the incomes of all working persons (not just
the self-employed persons as is currently the case) in the tax base, as
other forms of wage taxation are gradually transformed. Following approval
of the basic principles, we intend, in 1986, to develop a proposal for the
introduction of personal income tax.   We intend to develop in 1987 the
detailed program for introducing the personal income tax for implementation
starting possibly in 1988.   We also intend to develop a proposal for
introducing other changes in the tax system, including the possibility of
introducing the value added tax.  We intend to develop, also in 1986, a
program for the introduction of these changes, and develop a detailed
program in 1987 with the view to implementation possibly in 1988.   An
important part of the development of these programs is to establish the
financial and administrative infrastructure necessary for the smooth
introduction of the new taxation system. We intend to begin our work for
developing this infrastructure starting in 1986.
Second, as activities of various sizes and forms of enterprises
other than the state enterprises increase their importance in industry, the
issue of uniformity in tax and other financial incentives among them would
become increasingly important. We intend therefore to begin to assess the
financial environment of different forms of enterprises starting in 1986 in
order to develop on a continuous basis concrete proposals for action which
we intend to implement, also starting 1986.
Wage Differentiation and Worker Mobility
Industrial wages-in Hungary have been relatively uniform across
different activities and occupations, and have not fully reflected
performance diffferences.  It has become increasingly clear that this has
restricted efficient mobility of workers and created undue shortages and
surpluses in different occupations at different times in different parts of
the country. Our objective in this area of policy reform is therefore to
provide incentives for mobility toward efficient activities and greater
productivity of workers in industry, and thus directly address the issue of
efficient resource mobility for industrial restructuring in the context of
the labor market.
We have made major progress towards realizing this. objective this
year.   Effective January 1, 1985, we introduced wage level taxation (as
opposed to wage increase taxation) in the system of wage regulation for
industrial enterprises. We have already observed the favorable impact of
this new system in terms of productivity and orderly mobility of workers in



-66-                              ANNEX 3-1
Page 13
enterprises which elected to take advantage of it. We intend, therefore,
to continue to encourage an increase in the number of enterprises using
wage level taxation in 1986 and thereafter, with a view to having all
enterprises in the competitive sphere subject to this system of taxation by
1990. We hope that introduction of the system of personal income tax will
be beneficial in enhancing the development of an efficient market mechanism
in the labor market.
As worker mobility has increased in recent years, we have
introduced measures to modify the existing Worker Retraining Program to
meet increased- demand.   In 1986, we intend to strengthen the program
further and establish an appropriate level of funding to better meet the
needs for adjustment assistance to displaced workers, such as those
emerging from liquidation related actions.
Development of the Capital Market
Along with the development of an efficient labor market, the
development of a capital market, which can mobilize and allocate capital
more efficiently, is an integral part of the further progress of the
reforms, and directly addresses the issue of efficient mobility of
productive  resources  for  industrial  restructuring.    Furthermore,  the
development of the capital market, supported by intended changes in the
banking system discussed below, is closely linked to the successful
implementation of intended tasks in other areas of policy reform, such as
the entry and liquidation of enterprises. Our objective here is to develop
a variety of flexible financial instruments and institutions which would
enhance the flow of capital in our economy.
The major accomplishment to date in the area of the capital market
is the introduction of bonds sold to enterprises and households among the
financial instruments available for raising capital, and the associated
establishment of the primary and secondary bodd markets.   Our experience
with bonds has been favorable, and we are committed to ensure further
development  of -the bond markets.    As we  continue  to accumulate  our
experience with bonds, and as the bond markets become increasingly active,
we intend to review and modify the existing legal and regulatory framework
for bonds, if necessary.   We intend to conduct such a review in 1986.
Furthermore, as bond markets deepen, we perceive the need for new types of
institutions and infrastructure supporting  the markets.   We intend to
develop measures to promote further development of bond markets through
meeting some of these perceived needs in 1986, and begin implementing the
measures starting in 1987. A fixed maturity flexible rate bond where the
rates are linked to the profit performance of the issuing enterprises was
introduced in 1985. We intend to promote introduction of other forms, such
as fully floating rate bonds and zero-coupon bonds, in 1986.
As part of the work to modernize the legal framework for corporate
associations which we noted under the area of entry of enterprises, we have
established the principles for the issue and secondary trading of equity
instruments and other securities, available to enterprises, in 1985.  We
intend to work towards strengthening the primary and secondary markets for
equity instruments and other securities in 1987, following the development



-67-ANNEX 3-1
Page 14
of the sppropriate legal framework in 1986.  Given the existence of-limited
public companies in Hungary today, we have started the development of a
secondary share market under the existing legal framework, parallel with
the above developments, and initiated secondary trading of existing shares.
As the capital market develops, there will be a need to strengthen
accounting, auditing, and financial reporting practices of enterprises and
institutions which support and provide these financial services. We intend
to study such needs in 1986 with a view to implementing necessary measures
starting in 1987.
Banking System
The banking system plays an important role in supporting orderly
and sound development of the capital market. We have been working towards
modernizing the Hungarian banking system for some time and have recently
taken significant steps in this area. The accomplishments to date include
the decision to separate the central banking function of the National Bank
of Hungary from its commercial credit functions, the introduction of
various indirect monetary control instruments including a flexible interest
rate policy, and the establishment of new financial institutions and
banks. These achievements all contribute towards our objective to create
a two-tier and competitive banking system in which the role and effi-
ciency of credit will be enhanced by giving banks autonomy in deciding
whether to grant credits, and by initiating measures to ensure profit
orientation and responsibility for the consequences of credit decisions.
We have been reviewing, with the assistance of the 1WF, the recent
experiences of the first stage of the banking system reform, and have
developed proposals for further institutional changes and modifications of
the system of monetary control this year. Starting in 1985, we have also
been actively promoting the establishment of banks with foreign participa-
tion in Hungary; preparations towards establishing banks among others one
with IFC participation are underway. We have also began to implement a
flexible interest rate policy.   In 1986, we intend to take measures to
enhance the autonomy of the credit sections of the National Bank of
Hungary, with the objective of completing their full institutional separa-
tion from the central bank by the beginning of 1987, for which preparations
are at an advanced stage. We intend, at the same time, to encourage the
creation and growth of other financial institutions.   Starting in 1987,
free choice in banking will be possible for enterprises by lifting existing
restrictions regarding their choice of where to place their current
accounts. These measures, together with others we intend to undertake will
contribute towards enhancing competition in the banking system.   At the
same time, the role of the central Bank will be enhanced by enabling it to
use flexibly and effectively the new indirect instruments of credit and
monetary policy.
Enterprise Management Svstem
The beneficial impact on industrial restructuring of all the
policy reforms discussed so far will be substantially limited, if the
management of state enterprises in the industrial sector cannot act with



- 68 -                            ANMX 3-1
Page 15
full autonomy  in making  their business decisions.   We have recently
developed a new system of management for state enterprises, which we
consider will meet our objective of enhancing competitive behavior of state
enterprises through greater autonomy and increased accountability of their
performance. With exception of a few of the largest state enterprises and
public utilities where responsible ministries will continue to supervise
directly the managements of the enterprises, all other state enterprises
will be managed either by an enterprise council (for larger enterprises) or
by an elected enterprise assembly (for smaller enterprises).  The enter-
prise councils and assemblies are empowered with full rights and responsi-
bilities in all aspects of business operations and decisions related to.
structural and organizational changes. The State retains only the right to
establish new state enterprises and to ensure that state enterprises are
operating in accordance with relevant laws.
Starting in January 1985, we began to implement the new management
system in selected state enterprises. We have completed implementation in
about two-thirds of the relevant state enterprises by the end of 1985.
Earlier in the discussion of reforms in the area of entry of enterprises,
we noted the need to coordinate the implementation of the new management
system with that of the state enterprise decentralization program.   The
coordirated implementation of the new management system is expected to take
place in 1986, with respect to the remaining one-third of the relevant
state enterprises.
The principles underlying the new management system are fixed.
The detailed operational form of the new system should naturally evolve
over time as we gain experience and as economic and business conditions
change.   We will therefore continue to assess the need for changes.  As
part of this exercise, we intend to develop and implement proposals for
encouraging greater use of external advisors by enterprise councils.  In
1986, we intend to study and develop proposals for systematic provision of
financial and other performance indicators to the management of the
enterprises, the state, and other enterprises.  We also intend to review
and assess observed impediments in the supply of management expert
advisors. Furthermore, in 1987, we intend to assess the effectiveness of
the new system and formulate recommendations for strengthening it.   An
important part of this study is to assess the- effectiveness of the system
in maintaining productive relations between the management and the workers.
Direct Foreign Investment
We intend to pursue the promotion of direct foreign investment and
associated transfer of technological, management and marketing know-how
towards  the' objective  of  increasing  efficiency- of  resource  use  and
developing the technological capacity and competitiveness of Hungarian
industry.
Despite various improvements in the framework for direct foreign
investment in recent years, we have not been satisfied with the level of
direct foreign investment activities so far realized. Therefore, based on
an assessment of the factors which may have hindered direct foreign



-69-                            ANNEX 3-I
Page 16
investments into Hungary, we have developed for implementation in 1986 a
program of measures to promote direct foreign investment and associated
technology  transfer  activities.       These  measures  include  improved,
transparent, and more favorable tax and other incentives (rather than case
by-case determination as-at present), Increased efficiency of licensing and
approval, and a simplified accounting system.   We also intend to make
special efforts to attract direct foreign investments into selected
priority  industrial  subsectors  supported  by  additional  incentives.
In parallel we intend to launch a promotional campaign and implement
other supporting measures. We intend to assess the effectiveness of the
proposed measures in attracting direct foreign investment based on
experience gained through the end of 1987; we intend to implement further
modifications, if necessary, based on this assessment.
Technological Development
Technological change is ultimately the driving force for dynamic
industrial growth. As we make progress on reforms and continue to increase
the reliance on market signals for efficient resource allocation in the
environment of stronger market competition, we must place even greater
emphasis on technological change.
Our primary objective here is to accelerate technological develop-
ment in Hungarian industry, in order to narrow the technological gap rela-
tive to other industrialized economies. We have elaborated the actions to
be emphasized in pursuit of this objective for the Seventh Five Year Plan
period.   Specifically, we intend to focus on: the modernization of the
infrastructure of technological development; the implementation of national
programs in selected priority areas such as electronization, bio-techno-
logy, and material and energy conservation technologies; the promotion of
innovation activities through specific measures including the establishment
and strengthening of innovation-financing institutions and innovation
parks; the strengthening of services available in the areas of consulting
and engineering, etc.; and the development and implementation of measures
to enhance the importance of intellectual property and related rights.
* * *
We have taken significant actions and measures in 1985 to abolish=
the supervisory role of the Government with respect to enterprises (other
than those remaining under the state supervision).  Furtheraore, in line
with reforms outlined above, the role and functions of the concerned
governmental agencies will naturally have to evolve and change.  In this
context, we intend to assess continuously these required changes, and
implement them as necessary.
Institutional Arrangements
Industrial restructuring is a medium-term process          one that
requires continuing coordination and direction among all concerned
governmental agencies, and at both the policy and operating levels.  The
broad approach to industrial policy to support the restructuring program as
discussed in this letter has many interrelated facets, and to achieve the



_ 70 _                          ANNEX 3-1
Page 17
intended results will require continuing supervision and evaluation process
that  is  institutionalized.    Therefore,  the  industrial  restructuring
program, and accordingly the proposed World Bank assistance to support
it, will be supported by the following institutional arrangements:
A Restructuring Council coordinated by the National Planning Office has
been established, and is responsible for the development and monitoring of
the industrial policy reform program. A Steering Committee, organized by
the Ministry of Industry and supported by a Program Office, is responsible
for developing the restructuring program, monitoring its implementa-
tion, assessing effectiveness and formulating recommendations for changes
therein.  Arrangements for ensuring coordination bet*een the Restructuring
Council and the Steering Committee have been made to ensure the effective-
ness of the program as a whole package.
* * * * * * *
The discussion in this letter of the package of industrial policy
reforms to support the industrial restructuring program demonstrates the
broad scope of the structural adjustment process necessary in Hungarian
industry. We believe that the letter also conveys the reality that this is
a medium-term and continuing effort to which the Government is totally
committed. On behalf of the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic,
I declare the Government's committment to the execution of this program,
and hereby request the World Bank to assist in this effort by extending the
first Industrial Restructuring Loan to Hungary at the earliest possible
date.
With best regards,
Yours sincerely,
Joszef Marjai
Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the
Hungarian People's Republic



-  71  -                                                  3-l
sam      of  uTd     aal4   f  P  tagr1n. 1985-1990
Actaz Are*  Tk*                      1986                     1987                   1961990
L EMlR CF IRM_I
mectivest
o lower tWx=y no   Pad        rfple of amdern         qlelalae ftewtk fSor        Dlwlop ad _       nt              l effectsa
finwuEA baram  to         15g  frmzk fow            crporate amodtatiau.        meinzs to priumt          of timawa  ad
etry.                      awperate tooatla                                      aeatin ad gmrth of         elenat wd1ca-
(dar  awquy, limted                                  assecatiou. larn           tim. If ana ,y.
o Pesate forma&i  of all     LiabiLty ciay, o                                      effectives. of tte
fom of  ner4e With    odrs) apwped.                                              _mwas ad lpd     i
sa,.
 PtOmte gw,h of Mau
ad ain erpram
a to alkv-    Ine1op ad  h_1t             A    effectm   of
a= qysw  Introduced      furt)w masuea   tD pm-      tiem insw   adA iqple-
to fsxilitate traisitimn    a    creation ad grNt      t mrdieetai   e-
of sai enepriss          of sall ad -Ha   ar-   sary.
into  loperttFea.        pl8w (e.g., atdaiebr-
Approvl ptooa. s4ir- ent of firAd  irUttur
fi1L  Thx lnumtivs       d}s to Ale eqial
prvided for selected      eos  to crsdt, i1p1ead
activities (eg., an      a       to lnfratrucu
vices,  exo, ate -   ad tedutea assistan
reacUclrg, etc.).        aervlCAs, moditficatlms In
,Ir        t,  so8al
1mm, and imlvidil
tam adwass).
First p*lm  of  a0e.-    Oi1t Imotatimn of   hRviw ad cotim
tralmagtion progran      the first Owe of tm         nlmin atin of tbi  &-
dvelopd for selected    idzatrslz rto  p  au.    citraLization progmi.
stp   alterPatL
for tte objective of
1rAzad  efilclenr-
tuuga de     tra
raru    of porfoeam
ad oauet1Uax.
D teliation a
plet  for dat 42D
-APIW fidldim 
restructurIzS of thas
-a s  (from Ja.
1981 to Jan. 1986).
TAM incativen ad other   DMItp ad 1n1inxt
meass Jqlami to    furthi  umaw to
e -                      Support atur  m
dtiaIz        .          dmrNttia-



AM 3-1
72-
Actias Al.asy *Mi9                                                        ,96         19-iggO
II.  'AMA( ci
o WAtLbE*ih de lfs1 pzfw-   Rib  of fiasnoal
fs for liqpuddati.          axitim  of Ifndstrial
enterpris  baeud on
o EstabhUsh ft  stabilit      criteriA of profitabl-
ard penunn of thw           ity, lUqidity ad
Uiddation prowm.            soqeAW   ated,
resultii in ftb idakti-
ficton of 26
enterprises in a
critical fUm dal
sjiitatin  peflcatatien   C2rqlea  reflotaaim plan
(reavicturIM) plans        nplamtaion for attar
dveiopd for               designate  enterrise,
aterpise  and             ta1dg awDmi of tUeir
iupaistation l            198S perfoomes.
Principle of tbe leal    lAislate frawrk for          Liqudatl  prowdieg   8       tiam  to Itd]d
frak  for liqda-          liquidati.                  apleted for df first       Ispl pecsent for
tiot, Aidh my be                                      gmp   of aitexprises.      Liqudatin by e
intiated by m    e-                                                                 tieg furt
prise or its cr'ditox,                                                                       proceed-
apprvd-v
a3ed m n  d for liquid-   Ravi  exPerien with          kylent re_ida-
ation procsstwa asA         lqwdAntin.                tin   st      t
Initiate proe   for the                               ft liquidati
first fes enepris.                                     fr_mxk,  if zumo-
Sax.
Est*bUsh institutimn
capeMlity to failtate
apUCato  of liqidation
framework.
Pricple  to insYtit-      EstabdiS  1natitutiaul      kviw aperieu with          qlimt r        _nda-
timtLiz  Baflo.tation     capability to -nW           Nefloatatin Fwi.      a      wa to str.Wt1hi
IRn apRed.                Refloatation Fwi bsed on                              tIt  operatin  and
elaborated fmrk.                                       effentiveue of ft
&latati  1ui, if
Syut to  mka finfal
data on enterprises 
p*LIc Intduced sA
9ysto  of aess to
Infoution On rdeit
-umnne of etr
esrabldsd.



-  13                                                               -
~e3
Actiom Alrady Taken                   1986                    1987                  19388I99Q
IIL.    WImUTWL    A
Oblecctw.|
o Przwt eqio.                Acom to forele  trde
right  siqlf I for
o StroUtlmort aapetl-   a1 erterius, for all
tics.                      pro&lctp  ad  Ls of
the estsrpris, esc%Ak-
1W  tim "   Rat1w lst.'
Mvesa*  and tntiated  .Vlaat &pwt Pcauuties   Cxtiam Rqurr Pram                 ORimbu  iqiaara-
%aplmitadai of liort   P nrogram                                                tun of Export Pow-
fEation  Ro :                                   -e ftflgBm
Preltlrmy rwei* of   k tvia Inetial emrIeno
(a) Iams to mxKow-    iitial aperiese Ath            Of Ripot praswtian
qip Inst  diretmd ipparpntim pnru..                        * Ajwt, if
at e        lmla tl.                                  aesy, in de IJit
curenc apart. (bWc4r-  !MdiInatu  Of duity           of caperau.
41% prwty amItI          dra*adt sjst to em
ad empties frau aer   automtidLy.
siatien toi) drwlapd
(b) Aboliio ofl aE prt
if3*  ntrictinw for
1oreign Ttfal (kg  kza-
tim,e admliq tXm
'Wativa list."
(c) lq1Andar of
-e u   emuap
(d) 8trEtgdz  of
eqmrt  -ietv advi-
wry atd   ma      sti-
vitias.
Ibd-I tariffs zresba     adm  g1ml tariffs to    ISdUM UdMl tarfs O                AlnS et  ftuz
to am vr of 18.2L    an weap of 17.12. IL            anavrof 162.               possibilities for
foatbur rmtionalza-
tin of tle tariff
str~~ure, apporta!
by a study an tim
effectiv ret, of
protectio, ad with
aspaal agard to
taiff tmotit
to i  ld In te
frsmmt of tm nr
-lilateral trade



_  74                                                    A n   3-i
ZttsdMt
Actium  Already Takom               1986                   1987198-1990
QmntTatv  qiot Hd-  Nbntatn the tqiort rgii  free of quantttative mestrtctios in aondame with
trictias rzwed          tie GATT rules, and rely increasIgly on overall m rxoemnc polty art
(exet for the global    fle)dble me of drkat base iuttn:s, edc as dt  eEe  ate, for goP
qw*t of aossr            l      .
slads. Wairt wrdintge
-ed In 1984). I.e.,
retAmm  to tb hwort
luSi*  praoti
followAd btf&
S 198Z.
FbralleSfonts, trade
II*"sed to
riots -1- toe
"in    list."
saboatiso tf t  prin-   Iqlvt dt  fist pite        Pavlw tn edfecd ass       Mtlum  ft impot
dplm af a prnp= pn-   of dt  pmtt Ox tetn    of tin Ipm  OMatttm    *Metitimn Frepa
-*M *"t -vd-   Ptm                                       A bIMMIt
tim qUI   e.mtl                                   ajtnusauts if neaary.
bid"      -e                                       BiadM aEs  of psogv.
Inchdh tbm possibi-
lity n pait    at tee
Bv. Mcw n_Muui
fbiectiws:
o Inmbvy                                      le tn p g nl
sta  sreAstiom of pdtm  abolidmd
tosea  _e_rt date_w-
tim of pdrm, bad co       it  PdniW Uadis          blaw urket a      st1tia   nlw  eaka  aditlo        Abolth FKqPrt
-1- desmJa1t.             ltbwWala.               of saluctors ad ser-       of sbctors ard enter-  fticing Hla by 1990,
prim  to gra furtlur      prism  tp     Urtin      folJoad% furtler
o Faster peste  0atim    spot gwofitabity           a_im  (i=Iulfg at    maittnm  (inclduUg at    amtitoa In 1988
Ad ll  t      le sof tle  rule adeL         e      t  Intiatve of NW)        tin bitiativse of Nw)     and 1989.
stat In tne uegIaUi of                            from thne bpt PrIcrq       fm timort rcing
pris to tim n             &patim  Oxti1ve Pr icn   his thim       both a     %hds thiot both a
of Imperfect m*ate.       *utm S   _     ad aWdAntio  In ft amp of    reca tin ft  sO of
eterprus =wlAd tD    It x           ad inczmad   it  mNerp ard
gcpt _tot  froM         umbtsl_p in tie Prtim     Incresal =merda   In
tM WPiCing AIle to     Club.                     ft Prim ClAb.
aba 49t of tufactux-
couqtpt by bo.
musin  the axtiaion Of
dt sgap cf aser of
th  l ad by iresa-
-    i i _ncuhp in ti
ertives     -
vpwdw govn
opti  of  tauc
aqy lnw Prin GLub.



W    ,    Fi~ ~ fl' IiIt660 I          GIt|l, [iSiIl1F 
14~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F3  EFX 
F[ L t 3FIP
nob~~~i I. Ii I43                                               1



-76 -                                                3Ek
Qrd1t1aiu  o 4qWul,   omdtona1 to ppro
dw.1p plup  fa tIw    val, bIe  to lapln
lttoiXue   of p9smI.    mm dt I qrt 
I.e. tct.             Intiudu thu de
tat.
Of gttiteg toar*    Owlop PWeOM  fa  lth
de Intmiueli of VAL.  cdg  In tiw ntat
system. lathd1a de
_t4I  of VA ad
8|out fat aapiwa.
DOVmaP piP  fat hbtob   OIUmuG.D 0    MA,   QdtI*3 0t   W
Us)dtg flzaI  Ad       duwiop de      aX I I   ", bn th lapin-
uItxMaftw  sIztw.      de IMMOaducdm of       ust tin Imu
Uttu~    iq fts  d  ts in tapb
It del~tn tatte      ae
sytatk
g        _n o earn de   Gmtiam 0 Owes       .    tita  de pzo.
flarAl atir4        he    fiha1 audrumit int
dtifa    fate of.       dtfifa  far  f
;a'ktm; d p ad    m_wWtI; drnlop ad
IW-     t paPaM  to     l.ap t P.POel.                           .
CEO" udIatuty earn    tCMO  elfatuty      s
diffevont fta  of       difiut  fe. of
aMPCSG.                   - .wlm
'VL Mm onvai
o ftintu Incnv  fa       laftl el teatlat  : ti t amew                 OtIn  to               AUl eteiam tn
- fficma mWUtv ad    d lq,Iane  a put of    laxe  i tIn tieV    of   Intem In thi Iuno of  aKltI  ints
gnawer psednatvTy of    WV. =~AIatioo vyate    e*.ulun       wru  WAW~  aum an1  counted l   afteo to No level
_eakara.sNl9  tmtII                                                   W  loud t_ tlsu        touia.
fled to Inumm  du     ct1aa to    . ' die   fbtlia 0*          tin
--Z   of *atapie      ad  of af esit m in    aa    of atrpris in
dla<   arn" l.av    tih eoatitw te nc         de estie 'mtor
tatatlm ad U&Idil an psmitmd to  bddi - paitted to
ft sm, rermtted fn                  y me. udw Mougiy  mn mAd eatly
dwes *|diw lm-  w i.lel WVp rap)-   adolistend wmp npe.-
amt   -               tIM.                    tiae
HWUtooioetaraduamd   ftrsgd    ie mi
In _azdnstr 1t of     ratwnlAg pq
W   to l                        -
dePMl  for d.rso       itAb  anWm,da
bitazxy awott.       tm D of dn    to
Ptofit taK ate  for  lstrVa c,mfIt rn
tetalis qIMM&           is    ratred&



ti~~ II    ha :                 1iii Il
L    , .         III          11 i1t'tli  A 
N        FI    ,               i,i1  liili          IIIt
tt : i! ]i  il l tS
1tA



'   ;ff i    '1X9!    592 ii         jii }    ff  Iht p          '111
991l       i i 9i             III 9  9 1 9 Jii i    i  i W1  if   f I ! fl l 9 )
IN
~ ~~~ji~~~~~~~~~~I~~~~~~~  14~~~~~~~~A
GoI            l
!g u l



79 -                                                         3-
EbO2e~ ~ ~~~~pl 9
Actlo  Already Tak                   1986                     19i7                 1988W1990
IL E_NJSE IWIAW
loaw -of saitprl*e      imit system lqaslsted.
ftO  amw ema 
ad   c        a..tabL
lky.                   tN  eiawprls  miqea       Outlet. 1npImstatlim  of
-wt systan tsUlownted    the aitrjze =mqimt
Inab= Z13of all          .yat  In th rOMlIzS
stat ad .1l etter-   WtatAe 8d acl Ouewr-
pri  s*dect to tim       prime, to ecxainatxi
caw system.              with tie dhwmtmlixation
I
-th   l  aiy to     -    Omib  de evolu-
tie dfetivsus of tie    tim of ut  ster-
-          w t                 sMeamet
q  al    ifo strewtolm-
9datIil o~Wtraint aM    AMsss mistIz  GUtuiw  of
eestor use   of  ert     insttutlznu  dswLyl
adviserb's1r ste          _ Crpise  elpert
to ovprt thdlr _ap       ai
met  8u   aid min
asutraIt idrtified
to be am the sply
IomAlata I     :  to       Begin Ila cmtatl of         r tis,  lqamsta-
sipartd eetomu             Ur d 3.
_t tva   arA
elir IwtiEd,        a
_met    _       ericails     abU
-Aai  wittn sener-
,velop gpopss for  T-opsme    ptoposa
syatmaic proIsia of
flix.1al Ino tiAm to
bdy, te  s     adott
aonierd eterpiis.
Aso, dwelop pmpml to
asrrect for odlimts at
ti ua of e     dteziel flnmi-
clal servic Iutittiotl.



-0                                                  MM 3-1
- 80                                                       - 
Xe 10
ACOu AIY                           19"    1'987                                1988-1990
X. D.    .                                    .R
(bdective:
o Priwte ditec fortgm      St* ak astrant  to  _&ffRint uas  to              bgin t_ Sam effec-      (blte th _e
irwvesu1t ad ~aoc1Atad    direc toansog Umast-   amms Alcoa flxdu          tt' nmof do ftmeor    ma; iy1AOM~ modi-
tedwUgicl UAfer          a   aw)at1; a            awetmt ad _ugoa          and s4UtW m_zw;    ficatos, as 'm-
activities, for grea8r   I               am      gedmics trs f e-    entItrqamt rfIcattu,           my.
effieimy WA d_w1aet   "mom to aAMW               vWta;  ad  op             -    Iy.
of tedlogical cujma1ty.   4iec forip Swawt-    fiad   ad Iamdi a ^-
-ot and =Uodm tedit-    mdmulA -MW   P=9
-d   ttafau.            to "ttact direct fmarel
lwdfor to a  adp p
hwlind Us Iq ad
fot direct fomip
witbthe Usiqalatial of
hitinty whotara         Tq6wmat 131UW  far
darn Adiect fosmilp     eiacm pifotiy .6b-
hmw itw  Is to baimto
-  . selected Ad
a. r  _- wI"
-t _     e               Mrb   tqW
somod_tk tog*
pi"vwS ~qaUuiu          MWO&WOR 67mpuf 
poem almufJof _t b X                     f-
IL   Tgmqom  o dL _ f
xb1ci. ,mir  utii
o Aceleatiq tecbIl         Usboatam of tedlnoL-    sct           Cie                                 Oxdait d-tam
dewelopan zmtldiz In   X    pLity mmpa ad         mtAU  ,athUL ad                                   5WIm of th
iUpMd mt1tj.ss           fmI to tim             smctarn ED pW m                                             (19).
ad r.rrgh   Us ted-      9aeIh Five-Yewr Pl
tqy gap in alcwr         amyleted.
atm In ts lo  un.
o Hx de__zati  of ts                              b3m  mum   m              Tzwtte t                       U hqt of
infrstruca  of tedb-                             to e    I _ tut             Ad ve o _  sdt qtut   s       .Jzv.y
actWatim in MM          qadeatIi of lMma_i,-  Mno&.d; imto&x
tWe poeporty ad per   d_ n ad aMi-
-m  of its  hat-    darn m m  if
azm U a       mar              y.



iiti    11111g 
j)  iit X                 Ii
t.~~~~ ~                            1111a.          {j



ANNEX 3-2
- 82 -                       Page 1
HUNGARY - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Industrial Policy Reform Program
Actions Alreadi  Taken
The following-background Information for each area of the policy
reform provides further details on actions already taken. The information
also details the discussion in Chapter III of the report.-
A.  Entry of Enterprises
A.1.      The State Planning Commission approved the fundamental principles
of the legal framework for corporate associations, and authorized the
drafting of the legislation by the Ministry of Justice.   The principles
approved include:
-    Recognition of joint stock corporation.
-    Recognition of limited liability corporation.
-    Recognition of shares, with the provision that the issue of
individual participation in shares be considered separately at a
later date.
A.2.      Decreed transitional tax deferral code for transformation of
small (or private) enterprises into cooperatives, permitting deferral of
tax liability on transfer of capital until the dissolution of cooperatives.
A.3.      Implemented a simplified foundation and registration -approval
procedure uniformly applied to both small (or private) enterprises and
cooperatives.
A.4.      Established additional (see E.3. below) p-lority activities for
small (or private) enterprises, eligible for preferential tax treatments of
up to Pt 100,000:
-    employment of disabled persons,
-    social service activities (child care, etc.), and
-    provision of regionally scarce services.
A.5.      Simplified income tax reporting for small enterprises, providing
an option to elect lump-sum taxation of 38% of gross revenue.
A.6.      Decentralization   Program   Phase   One:           completed   the
decentralization review of 200 state enterprises.
A.7.      Implemented the Decentralization Program and established 420 new
state enterprises (January, 1981 - December, 1985).
A.8.      Introduced preferential tax treatment and financial incentives
for enterprise-initiated decentralization:



ARMt 3-2
-83-                           hiNK  2
-    Property tax exemptio  (C1002 first year, 502 econd year).
-    2 year grace period on loans and liablitties resulting from
decentralizatiou.
- - - State  budgetary -assistance  of  madimum  Ft  5  *illio   per
enterprise.
-    Property tax exemption (100I   first two years) on subsidiaries
formed from larger enterprises, if equity is less than
Ft I billion.
B. Liquidation of Enterprises
B.1.      Completed  all  preparatory  steps  for  tb#i  enactment  of  the
Liquidation Law:
-    The State Planning Codmission approved the fund_mntal princlples
of the legal framework for liquidation, and asethorized the
drafting of the legislation by the Ministry of Flnance and the
Ministry of Justice.
-    The Ministry of Finance and tbe Ministry of Justiei completed the
working draft of the Liquidation Law and saubitted it to the
State Planning co0missionI
-    The State Planning Comission completed deliberation on the
working draft of the Liquidation Law.
-    The Council of Ministers cleared the draft Liquidation Law, and
authorized its submission to the Parliamentary Co- ittee.
B.2       The principal components of the draft Liquidation Law:
-    Sets insolvency criteria.
-    Preliminary obligatory reconciliation to be organized by the
Chamber of Commerce.
-    Grants the liquidation jurisdiction to the courts, and specifies
legal proceedings.
-    The Ministry of Finance is granted jurisdiction over execution of
refloatationJrestructuring.
-    Permits the initiation of the liquidation proceedligs by the
enterprise itself or by the creditors, not by the state.
-    Financial  settlement  priority  given  only  to  wages  and
liquidation wosts, and other costs not associated with main
economic and financial activities of the enterprise.
B.3.      Completed industrial enterprise financial review (profitability,
liquidity, and solvency criteria).   26 enterprises ldentified to be in
critical financial condition.  Completed financial restructuriag plan, and
began implementation.
B.4.      Enterprise   financial   disclosure   system   oopleted   and
institutionalized:
-    Enterprise registry, including financal statements, publUbed.



AMNEX 3-2
84                            Page 3
-    Credit-worthiness,  including  repayment  performance,  of  all
enterprises made public.
C.  International Trade
C.1.      Devalued forint against the transferable ruble in  commercial
transactions, effective September 1, 1985.
C.2.      Raised turnover tax rebate to 7% from 2%, applied uniformly to
all convertible currency exports.
C.3.      Implemented automatic procedure under which all enterprises will
be granted upon request foreign trade rights on own products and own
production (except strategic goods on negative list), within 45 days of the
submission of unilateral declaration to the Ministry of Foreign Trade that
they meet all criteria for the conduct of own trade.
C.4.      Began preparation to implement automaticity in the duty drawback
system:
-    Simplified one-step application for duty refund.
-    Transparent and non-discretionary criteria for refund.
C*5.      Improved terms for government export credits:
-    Extended maturity from 15 to 18 years.
-    Extended grace period from 1 to 5 years.
C.6.      Improved terms for buyers' export credits:
-    Extended maximum maturity from 10 to 15 years.
-    Extended grace period to 4 years.
C.7.      Liberalized export portfolio of all foreign trade organizations,
with the negative list on bulk products (of strategic importance).
(minerals, cereals, sugar, energy etc.) to be retained by a specialized
foreign trade organization.   (On specific approval by the Ministry of
Foreign Trade, other entities can also trade them.)
C.8.      Introduced financial incentives for the foundation of trading
houses:
Profit tax exemption (5% for the first year) or 50% of equity
contribution, whichever is lower, to the share holder, provided
that external capital participation is at least 50% of total
-equity and no single shareholder own more than 50% of total
equity.
Profit tax reductions for the first three years to the trading
house.
Zero property tax on the trading hbnoe In the first year.



AMNE 3-2
-5                           Page 4
C.9.       Licensed four trading houses (Hungrotek, Konsumex, Trauselektro,
Skala-Coop) with no restrictions on their commercial, financial, or
production activities.
C.10.     The Ministry of Foreign Trade requested increased FY86 budget
ailocation for Trade Promotion Fund to Ft 2.0 billion from Ft 1.2 billion,
as part of the program to strengthen the Fund's promotional activities.
C.}l.     Established   Export   Marketing   Advisory  Agency,  with   the
participation of KOPINT (market research institute), Chamber of Commerce,
Ministry of Foreign Trade, and Ministry of Industry.
C.12.     Developed  and  announced  an  incentive  package  applicable  to
investment projects which are oriented towards:
-    convertible currency exports, both direct and indirect;
-    short gestation period;
-    improving efficiency of existing facility; and
-    technological development for exports.
The incentive package to be granted automatically consists of:
-    accumulation tax reduction to 7% from 15% (preference ratio to
be maintained while this tax remains statutory) regardless of
sources of funds, on new and current projects (retroactively);
and
-    profit tax exemption of 332 of interest payment on commercial
bank loans.
The incentive package granted on individual case basis consists of:
-    Price Club membership; and
-    the State Technological Development Fund grants.
C.13.     Announced and published 1986 and 1987 tariff reductions, the
final 2 steps of the 8 step formula tariff reduction implemented annually
since 1980 under agreement with GATT.  The 1987 nominal tariff structure
will be as follows:



ANNEX 3-2
86                            Page 5
Number of Tariff Codes:    3168 Codes
Minimum:                     0.0O
Maximum:                   150.0%
Arithmetic Mean:            16.12
Number   Percent
Tariff Range  of Codes  of Total
0.0%       265      8.4
0.1-10.0X     1,229      38.8
10.1-20.0%-    10036     32.7
20.1-30.0%       238       7.5
30,1-40.0%       223       7.0
40.1-50.0%       144       4.5
50.1-60.0%        15      0.5
60.1-70.0X         4       0.1
70.1-80.0%        10       0.3
90.0%         2      0.0% (Cigarettes;Other tobacco
products)
120.0%         1      0.0% (Denatured ethyl alcohol)
150.0%         1      0.0% (Undenatured ethyl alcohol)
C.14.     Signed the International Convention on the Harmonized Commodity
Description and Coding System.   Began preparatory work for tariff code
conversion.
C.15.     Ministry of Foreign Trade agreed to undertake an effective rates
of protection study in 1987, to support tariff rationalization, planned in
the context of the forthcoming MTN Tariff negotiations, for 1988.
(Requested the transfer of SINTIA, software package for nominal tariff and
ERP analyses developed by the Industry Department).
C.16.     Reinstated the quasi-automatic import licensing system, with the
elimination of:
-    discretionary individual approval of import licenses;
-    enterprise specific import reference limits; and
-    quotas on raw materials.
C.17.     Introduced parallel import rights, overlapping import portfolio
among foreign trade organizations, to induce competition among them.
C.18.     Developed and announced an import competition program applicable
to all imports, economy-wide, with the negative list on:
-    products of strategic importance;
-    imports arising from inter-governmental agreements; and
The instrument for the program is the international competitive bidding,
resulting in:
-    import  competition, when both domestic and foreign suppliers
participate; or
-    efficient importsw when only foreign suppliers participate.



- 87 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 
Began preparatory work to establish institutional support for a wide-spread
use of the program:
-    engineering and consulting companies, assisting Hungarian firms'
participation in the international competitive bidding; and
-    official supervisory board, to ensure sound bidding practice.
D. Pricing of Industrial Products
D.1.      Decreed and abolished cost-plus pricing rule entirely.
D.2.      Amended the 1984 Competitive Output Pricing Decree, to abolish
two bias against convertible currency export, so that:
-    the profitability of total domestic sales may now exceed that of
convertible currency exports; and
-    the index of domestic prices needs not be lowered following a
decline in the index of export prices.
D.3.      Amended the 1984 Competitive Output Pricing Decree,  to begin
reducing (or at the most freeze) the coverage of enterprises subject to the
Export Pricing Rule:
enterprises designated as price followers (exports less than 5%
of total sales) are no longer subject to the Export Pricing Rule
when the 5% minimum is exceeded, accounting for 20X of total
manufacturing output.
D.4.      Increased membership of the Price Club by 40 enterprises in 1985
to the total of 95, accounting for 29% of total manufacturing output.
D.5.      The Ministry of Industry and National Board of Materials and
Prices initiated the annual review of subsectors and enterprises to
identify candidates for Price Club membership without application. Granted
small industrial cooperatives as a group the option of the Price Club
membership without application, or remaining under the Export Pricing Rule.
D.6.      Actions D.3. to D.5. resulted in unadministered market pricing
prevailing in 56% of total manufacturing output.
D.7.      Reviewed Price Club administration procedures on applicatio.n and
supervision   to   increase   their   objectivity,    transparency,   and
predictability.
D.8.      Legislated the Law of Unfair Economic Practices, providing the
legal foundation and framework for all anti-trust legislative actions other
than the creation or -dissolution of monopolies, or significant market
power.
D.9.      Completed  preparation  of  the  principles  of  a  program  to
systematically transform the functions and the capacity of government



ANNEX 3-2
-88-                            Page 7
agencies (including National Board of Materials and Prices) away from the
traditional price regulations towards the regulation of imperfect markets,
as specified In the Law of Unfair Economic Practices.
E. Taxation
E.1.      Introduced major structural changes in enterprise taxation, to
tax factors of production more relative to profits, including:
-    The depreciation funds to remain entirely with the enterprise in
its Interest Fund.
-    A new wage and earnings tax (statutory 10%).
-    A new assets tax (statutory 3%).
-    A new accumulation tax (statutory 18%).
E.2.      Decision taken to eliminate all forms of subsector specific tax
preferences as of January 1, 1986.   Property tax preference in textile
subsectors will be reduced by 60%, and abolished as of January 1, 1987.
E.3.   - Decision taken that new tax preferences will be only for national
priority activities to be promoted as follows.
(a)  Profit tax deduction as a share of intereat paid on commercial
loans to finance investments for:
-    convertible currency export (33%),
-    convertible currency export, working capital (25%),
-    energy conservation (33%),
-    material and waste saving technological application (25%),
water saving and quality protection (33%), and
-    waste and raw material recycling (25%).
(b}  Accumulation tax preferences for:
-   -convertible currency export investment (8Z),
-    other priority activities listed above, and
-    procurement of equipment for R&D for technological modernization
(0%).
(c)  Other tax preferences:
-    public services (profit tax preference),
-- traditional handicraft and folklore activities (profit tax
preference),
-    R&D activities (profit and property tax-preferences),
-    retraining of workers in shortage skills (profit tax rebate),
-    training of skilled workers (accumulation, property, and wage
tax exemptions), and-
-    training/rehabilitation of invalid or handicapped workers (wage,
earnings and profit tax exemptions).
E.4.      Streamlined and standardized turnover tax schedule, a major step
towards the introductiou of a VAT:



ANNEX 3-2
-89-
- 89 -                 ~~~~Pagei 8
-    Zero turnover tax (foods, children's clothing, etc.).
-    Standard rate, 11% (majority of goods).
-    Less preferencial rate, 22%.
-    Differencial' rate (luxury goods, cigarettes, tobacco, alcohol,
gasolene.).
E.5.      Decision taken to reduce the statutory rate of accumulation tax
from 18% to 15S, 8X on leasing, and exemption on second-hand machinery and
equipment, effective July 1, 1986.
E16.      Began preparatory work for VAT introduction.  (A conceptual model
of VAT prepared and sent to the State Planning Commision.)  Requested IMF
technical assistance, starting in 1985.
E.7.      8egan preparatory work for Personal Income Tax introduction.
Requested IMF technical assistance, to begin in 1986.
F. Wage Differenciation and Worker Mobility
F*1.      Introduced earnings (wages and profit shares) level regulation,
providing greater scope for wage differenciation according to productivity
and reducing the incentive for labour hoading. 617 industrial enterprises
(50%   of   non-food   processing   industry)   participate,   comprising
581,000 (46.4%) workers.
P.2.      Modified  the  eligibility  regulation  on  the  earnings  level
regulation, to increase the number of enterprises subject to the tax:
-    Enterprises initially assigned to the earnings level tax, but
chose otherwise, can opt for the tax at any time.
-    Enterprises  initially  assigned  to  remain under the earnings
increment tax, but chose the earnings level tax, cannot opt out.
-    Enterprises initially assigned to remain under the direct state
wage control can be assigned to the earnings level tax.
-   -Newly subsidiaries and joint ventures are subject to the tax,
January 1, 1986.
F.3.      Modified the state support for the Worker Retraining Program, in
anticipation of greater demand;
-    Abolished the eligibility restriction on the minimum size of
enterprise retraining demand (was 50 workers or 20X of total
workers, whichever is smaller).
-    Expanded the eligibility criteria to include workers entering
labour force beyond the commuting distance from home and needing
training in shortage skills.
-    Expanded the scope of financial support to include a profit tax
rebate on the general cost of retraining in shortage skills,
-    Expanded the scope of financial support to include retraining
program for worker redeployment within the enterprise.



ANNEX 3-2
90 _r. Page 9
F*4.      Developed a five-year program for training in electronics-related
fields, as part of the Seventh Economic Plan.
G. Cavital Market
0l.       The Council of Ministers decreed that enterprises pay a minimum
6S dividend plus additional percentage of profits to be negotiated, on the
state equity allocation.
G.2.      Introduced bonds as a means of raising long term capital (bearer
bonds except for telephone bonds), and began developing the primary and the
secondary bond markets:
- - Authorized the government (the central budget), municipalities,
f inancial institutions, state enterprises, joint ventures, and
cooperatives, to issue bonds.
-    Authorized bonds issued to the households, in addition to bonds
isswud to enterprises.
-    Authorized all financial institutions to act as underwiters, and
as broker-dealers In trading outstanding bonds.
G.3.      The Ministry of Finance authorized the issue of a partially
floating rate bond, variable between minimum coupon at 9% and maximum at
132, tied-to profit rates.
G.4.      The  State  Planning  Commission  approved  the  legal principles
governing freely negotiable comon and preferred shares (see A.1.).
G.5.      The State Development Bank, as a broker-dealer, initiated the
over-the-counter market for shares by purchasing and reselling existing
negotiable shares.   The structure of existing limited liability share
companies are:
-    20 state enterprises (shares held by the state via the National
Bank of Hungary).
-    5 private corporations (shares with transfer restrictions).
-    4  corporations  (freely  negotiable  shares,  total  estimated
capitalization $24 million equivalent).
R. The Banking Sstem
H.1.      Legislated the new Banking Law, with the stated objective to:
-- increase the - role- of money and monetary policy instruments.
In the economy, -and
-    create -a competitive two-tier banking system, with autonomous
financial institutions and the Central Bank.
1.2.      Completed the banking system reform program:



-91                    ~~~~~AINNEX 3-2
-91-                           P age lo
-    The National Bank of Hungary completed the banking system reform
proposal, "Structural Changes in the Banking System,' and
submitted it for discussion by the State Planning Commission.
-    The  State  Planning  Commission  completed deliberation on  the
proposal,  and  authorized  the  National  Bank  to  prepare  the
Implementation work program.
-    The Council of Ministers approved banking system reform program.
The approved implementation schedule is as follows:
-    January - June, 1986; the experimentation period for the reform
program.
-    June  -  December,  1986;  modify,  fine-tune,  and  improve  new
measures of the reform program based on the experiments.
-    January 1, 1987; All measures of the reform program, as amended
if necessary, will become fully effective.
8.3.      Decision taken to separate the central banking function and the
commercial banking function of the National Bank of Hungary, according to
the following principles:
-    New commercial banks formed will not be exclusively linked to a
sector or to a geographical territory.
-    New commercial banks will atart with similar initial financial
conditions (liabilities, len4nng rates, refinancing requirements,
etc.) 
-    The separation should be such to ensure that the central banking
functions can be conducted effectively.
8.4.      Initiated implementation of the National Bank separation (H.3.):
-    Formed the Credit Bank of Budapest  (Budapesti Hitelbank)  as
an independent commercial bank from the former Budapest Institute
of the National Bank.
-    Formed   the   General   Finance   Institution   for   Innovation
(Innofinance) from the former Innovation Department of the
National Bank.
-    Formed the  General  Bank  of Venture  Financing,  Ltd.,  as  an
independent limited liability company, from the former Venture
Capital Division of the National Bank.
-    Decision taken to establish 2 additional commercial banks from
the National Bank.
8.5.      Decision taken to develop the commercial activities of other
financial institutions suct! as:
-    State Development Bank
-    National Savings Bank
-    Insurance Enterprise of the State.



-92-                         ANNEX 3-2
Page 11
-    Central Corporation of Bauking Companies.
- - General Banking and Trust Co., Ltd.
R.6.      Authorized the Hungarian Foreign Trade Bank, Ltd., to transact
commercial lending activities in Forints.
H.7.      Deregulated the geographical and other scope of business - for
savings cooperatives, resulting in rapid growth of the national network of
savings cooperatives.
H.8.      Approved the operation of a foreign bank (The Citibank, Now York)
in Rhungary.   Initiated preliminary organizational meetings with other
foreign banks interested in operating in Hungary:
-    An offer extended to the Central European International Bank
(currencly an offshore bank).
-    Preparation underway to establish a bank with IFC participation.
R.9.      Approved the establishment of the following specialized financial
institutions:
-    Credit  Institution  for  Foreign  Trade  and  Development  Ltd.
(INTERINVEST)
-    Bank for Technical Development, Ltd. (INVESTBANK)
-    Bank for the Development of Industrial Cooperatives.-
-    Bank for Innovation in Building Industry, Ltd.
-    Association for Agricultural Innovation (AGRIT)
-    Industrial Innovation Fund (TECHNOVA)
-    General Finance Institution for Innovation (INNOFINANCE)
-    General Bank of Venture Financing, Ltd.
R1.10.    Implemented a variable interest rate policy on deposits and loans
to enterprises, starting January 1, 1986:
-    The National Bank sets the interest rate for its refinanciag and
discounting.
-    All commercial banks set interest rates on deposits and on loans
to enterprises independently.
-    The National Bank retains temporarily the authority to introduce
a soft ceiling on the commercial bank rates, at no more than 1.52
above its refinancing rate (The practice scheduled to be
abolished by .1987).
-    Interbank deposit rate8 set freely by banks.
H.11.     Introduced reserve requirements for all commercial banks and
specialized financial institutions:
-    52 or 20X (no interest) reserve requirements.
-    32 of paid-in capital deposited at the National Bank (interest
free, and temporary measure during 1986).
-    10% of paid-in capital deposited at the National Bank (earns
interest, and temporary measure during 1986).



ANNEX 3-2
~ 93            ~             page 12
H.12.     Decision taken to introduce uniform reserve requirements, uniform
within a few segments of financial Institutions.
.   ntprise MnntStem,
1.1.      Legislated the new state enterprise management system.
1.2.      Completed    classification    of    all    state    enterprises
(1,654 enterprises), other than those pending decentralization decisions,
into the new state enterprise management system, on the basis of agreement
reached between each enterprise and the supervising founding agencies
(ministries, other ministerial agencies, and county councils):
-    Council Management:          766 enterprises  (46Z).
-    Assembly Management:         447 enterprises  (27%).
-    State Management:            401 enterprises  (24%).
[Of which, utilities:       240 enterprises  (15%)J.
-    Pending Decentralization;    40 enterprises   (2%).
Total                      1,654 enterprises (100%).
T.3.      Implemented the council management and assembly management forms
in more than two-thirds of 1,213 enterprises classified for these forms.
I4.      The Ministry of Industry and the OMPB initiated the study on
existing constraints on greater use of expert advisers by enterprises to
support their management.
J. Direct Foreign,Investment
J.1.      The Ministry of Finance, in consultation with the Chamber of
Commerce, completed a study on the constraints to attracting direct foreign
investments into Hungary; and elaborated a program of measures to be
implemented in 1985-1986.
J.2.      Simplified  Joint  venture  approval  process' from a  three-step
licensing procedure to a one-step procedure, after a public invitation to
form a joint venture,
J.3.,     Implemented  transparent and uniform tax incentives for joint
ventures with equity in excess of Ft 25 million, with at least 30% foreign
participation:
-    Profit tax reduction to 20% for 5 years and 30% thereafter.
-    50% profit tax refund if at least 50% of profit (and at least
Ft 5 million) is reinvested; 75Z profit -tax refund if '100  of
profit (and at least Ft 10 million) is reinvested.
J.4.      Defined priority fields for direct foreign investment, including:
-    tourism,
-    microelectronics,



_    -4 _                       ANNEX 3-2
94                            Page 13
-    bio-technology, and
-    food processing and selected background industries;
and offered 5-year tax holiday, profit tax reduction to 20Z thereafter if
equity exceeds Ft 25 million with greater than 30X foreign participation.
J.5.      Simplified accounting and reporting system for joint ventures.
J.6.      Stepped up the promotion campaign, and strengthened promotion and
information brokerage role of the Chamber of Commerce.
K. Technology Development
K.1.      Completed  elaboration  of  9  national  and  sectoral  programs,
including bio-technology, electronization, energy conservation, material
and waste saving technology.
K.2.      Completed the plastic processing industry technology study.
K.3.      Completed  the study on  the  consolidated  development  of  the
infrastructure for technology development, and recommendations approved.
Initiated infrastructure development, including:
-    computer-aided technology information network,
-    regional and sectoral RD&E service centers,
-    metrology and instrumentation in RD&E facilities,
-    high-technology laboratories and service facilities,
-    computer-aided design applications,
-    technical standardization framework, and
-    definition of intellectual property and related rights.
K.4.      Established new innovation finance institutions.   Strengthened
existing innovation finance institutions to enable them to function as
commercial banks.
Industry Department
May 1986



-95-                             ANNEX 3-3
Page 1
HUNGARY - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Structure and Performance of the Plastics Processin  Subsector
1.             Plastics  processing  in  Hungary  is  carried out  by  some
131 enterprises, of which 71 enterprises under the regulations of the
Ministry of Industry (MOI), 11 enterprises supervised by local councils,
and 49 cooperatives.   A relatively small number (24 enterprises)  are
engaged exclusively in plastics processing, while' others form part of
chemical complexes, or in addition to plastics processing, also process
iron, wood, glass, etc.   In some plants, plastics processing forms an
integral part of the production process (e.g., in cable manufacture, while
in others, component parts for the enterprise's final products are
manufactured, e.g., in the manufacture of TV and radio sets, bus bodies).
The following table shows the breakdown of enterprises by output size.
Hungary - Structure of PPS Enterprises. 1984
Annual       Supervised by      Supervised by
Production         MOI            Local Councils      Cooperatives      Total
(000 tons)
>50               2                                      -               2
20-50               4                                      -               4
10-20                1                   1                 -               2
5-10                3                  -                  -               3
1-5 a/           14                   6                  6              26
-1 a/           47                   4                 43              94
Total            71                  11                 49             131
a/  Virtually all these small enterprises are multiproduct  operations;
plastics processing is just one of a number of activities carried out
by them and may be integrated into other operations, e.g., with
woodworking in the production of household fixtures.
Source:  MUKI.
2.           The plastics processing subsector (PPS) is dominated by a
relatively small number of large enterprises.  In 1983, the eight largest
enterprises together accounted for 73% of the total subsector output, while
the other 123 enterprises accounted for only 27% of the output.  All the
domestically produced thermoplastic resins are made in two enterprises -
TVK and BVK - which not only supply the other PPS enterprises with raw
materials, but also process themselves 29% of the output of the PPS.
3.      =A1  the standard thermoplastic polymers - Low Density Polyethylene
(LDPE), High Density Polyethylene (HDPE), Polypropylene (PP), Polyvinyl
Chloride (PVC) and Polystyrene (PS) are utilized by the Hungarian PPS. Of
these, LDPE, PP and PVC are produced in Hungary, the first two by TVK,
while BVK manufactures PVC. A plant to manufacture LLDPE and HDPE is under
construction at TVK and is expected to be completed in late 1986.



-96-                             ANNEX 3-3
Page 2 -
4.           Output of the PPS production increased from 342,000 tons to
427,000 tons during 1980-84, or an average growth of 5.7% per year
(Attacbment 1).   Thermoplastics (particularly films, pipes, profiles and
filaments)   increasingly  dominate   PPS   production   as   compared   to
thermosetting resins.  Within thermoplastics, films grew from 18% of the
PPS output in 1970, to 26% by 1983 - an indication of the growing
importance of packaging and agricultural applications.   Pipes, profiles
and filaments and pipes also exhibited high growth rates as plastics have
been increasingly substituted for metals and other traditional materials.
Thermosetting resins, which accounted in 1970 for 15X of total polymers
used, had declined in importance by 1983 when they represented 11% of the
total. These trends can be observed in tte following table.
Hungary - Output Trerds of the Plastics ProcessinL
Subsector, 1970-83
Average
Annual
1970    1983   Growth Rate
(2 of total)        (%)
Thermoplastics
Films                             17.5    26.3        13.5
Molded Products                   13.6    12.2         9.0
Pipes                              5.8      9.3       14.0
Floorings                         10.7      7.9        7.5
Profiles and Filaments             1.9      6.0       19.8
Wires, Cable Sheeting             14.6      6.2        3.0
Other                             21.4    21.0         9.8
Total Thermoplastics         85.5    88.9        10.3
Thermosets                           14.5    11.1        7.6
Total Processed
Plastics Products                100.0   100.0         9.9
5.        Since processed plastics products manufactured in a large number
of enterprises do not enter the market directly (para 1), the total annual
output value, value added, employment and investment of the subsector is
not known with certainty.   Total value of output of the subsector is
estimated to have exceeded Ft 27 billion (US$560 million) in 1984.
6.            Between 1981-84 direct exports of PPS products  (excluding
artificial  leather)  increased  from US$11.8 million to US$26.8 million
(Attachment 2).  The growth was mainly accounted for by the increase of
exports  to  Western  countries  which  rose  from  US$3.4  million  to
US$15.7 million over the period.  In the meantime, imports decreased from
US$63.3 million to US$49.7 million during 1981-84.   Imports from Western
countries declined from US$53.9 million to US$37.8 million, while imports
from CMEA countries remained stable at US$9-12 million per year. Indirect
exports have been estimated at 56,000 tons in 1984.  Together direct and
indirect exports were estimated to account for 15-202 of PPS production in
1984.



97                              ANNEX 3-3
Page 3
7.         The equipment of the Hungarian PPS consists almost entirely of
injection molding machines and extruders.   The following table gives a
summary of the age of this equipment in 1980.
Hungary - Age of PPS Equipment, 1980
Injection
Molding Machines       Extruders
Age of Equipment         Number   Percent    Number  Percent
More than 10 years           541      38         311      55
Less than 10 years           890      62        255       45
Total                    1',431    100        566      10
Source: MUKI.
8.         Significant proportions of both injection molding machines and
extruders are more than 10 years old. In addition there is a preponderance
of  small  machines.    In  recent  years,  new  design  of  equipment  in
industrialized countries has led to increased quality of products, higher
reproductability, less down-time, lower maintenance, less scrap and low
material consumption. Also, larger machines have shorter cycle times and
enable better control of product quality.   Due to lack of these modern
machines, the competitiveness of the Hungarian PPS has deteriorated. This
poor situation is largely due to foreign exchange constraints which have
discouraged restructuring activities in the p.st. There is an urgent need
to update this equipment using the latest"technology (obtainable only from
convertible currency sources) if the trend to lower productivity in the
industry is to be reversed,
9.       Prices for processed plastics products in the domestic market are
set  by  enterprises but are governed by one of  three pricing rules,
depending on the type of product, each of which is designed to &;timulate a
competitive price system.   (a) For over half the products sold in the
domestic market, the price is essentially negotiated between suppliers and
customers but is covered by a general pricing rule which governs against
excessive profits and unfair pricing.   (b) for products where an import
price can be identified, the domestic price must not exceed the import
price (tariff-inclusive) including transportation costs to the Hungarian
border. Such import price following products account for 40-50X of the PPS
domestic market. (c) For enterprises which export a significant proportion
of their products directly, the weighted average index of the firm's
domestic price increases is not permitted to exceed the weighted average
index of its export prices.   This rule is not often used for processed
plastics products as direct exports from PPS enterprises were not
significant.   In most cases, the National Board for Materials and Prices
should be notified by the enterprises of price increases. The Board could
suspend price increases if they are deemed unjustified, but such suspension
has occurred rarely. For new products, notification is not necessary.
10. -      In practice, the pricing system allows the enterprises to set
their prices more or less freely below the import prices (tariff-inclusive)
of similar products.   Although customs tariffs on the processed plastics



-98-
ANNEX 3-3
Page 4
products range from 15-30% of CIF value, actual selling prices appear
closer to CIF prices due to the bargaining process between producers and
customers, as well as -the time lag in implementing -price changes -as a
result of- the need to establish "lasting" price changes of comparative
products and of the notification process of price increases. A detailed
analysis carried out for the five selected PPS enterprises indicated that
actual selling prices are about 5-20% above equivalent CIF prices. Import
liberalization would tend to lower domestic prices only if import tariffs
were to be reduced.
11.         Attachment 3 shows the estimated increase in production and
consumption (ircluding imports and exports) of the major polymers utilized
by the PPS from 1980 to 1990.   Production of LDPE will remain steady at
55,000 tpy throughout the decade. Consumption of LDPE, which is currently
rtnning at almost twice domestic production is expected to decline between
1984-90, as indigenous production of LLDPE develops with LLDPE replacing
LDPE for many uses because of its superior qualities. The consumption of
HDPE, which has been constrained because all of this material has had to be
imported, will also rise in the second half of the 1980s as indigenous
production capacity comes on stream.   Domestic PP consumption, which has
almost  doubled  since  1980,  will  continue  to  rise.    As  PP  becomes
increasingly available in Western Europe, convertible currency exports will
decline  and  be  transferred  first  to  CMEA  countries.-   Domestic  PVC
consumption, which has increased by one third since 1980, is planned to
continue to expand, reaching 145,000 tpy by 1990. The full utilization of
the PVC capacity will help to maintain CMEA and convertible currency
exports at their present levels.   PS production is -not planned to be
undertaken before 1990, and increasing requirements in the domestic market
will continue to be supplied by imports fromi both CMEA and non-CMEA
markets. Usage of other polymers will remain roughly at current levels,
although indigenous production is expected to increase (mainly of MDI based
polyurethanes and expanded polystyrene).   As Attachment  2 shows, total
consumption of polymers by the PPS rose from 360,000 tons in 1980 to
450,000 tons in 1984 (an average annual growth rate of 5.7%), and is
planned to increase at 4.6% per year to 590,000 tons in 1990. The increase
between 1984 and 1990 in the share of total polymer usage accounted for by
HDPE, LLDPE and PP, with a decline in LDPE, reflects in part the changing
product strategy of the subsector.
12.           With the implementation of the PPS restructuring strategy
described in Chapter III, the performance of the subsector would be further
improved.   Over the next five years, output of the PPS is envisaged to
increase to 570,000 tons by 1990, from the 1984 level of 427,000 tons, or
at an average annual rate of 4.9% (Attachment 1). - While the traditional
plastics  applications  in  the  building  and  electrical  industries will
continue to expand, albeit at much lower growth rates than hitherto, the
rate of expansion of agricultural applications is expected to increase over
that previously observed, mainly due to the availability of LLDPE-based
products.   Packaging will also exhibit a healthy growth rate of about
7% per year.    Transport  applications will  become  the  leading growth
application with a growth rate of over 122 per year up to 1990.
Industry Department
May 1986



- 99 -
ANNEX 3-3
Attaehbent I
HUNGARY - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURINC PROJECT
-    Plastics Processing Subsector:: Processed Plastics Consumption
by User Branches. 1980-1990
Average Annual
Growth Rate
User Branch      1980           1984           1990         1980-84  1984-90
'000 tons A   '000 tons  X   '000 tons  Z         2       S
Packaging        85    25      122    29       182    32       9.5      6.9
Building         51    15       85    20       114    20      13.6      5.0
Electrical       29     8       51    12        68    12      15.2      4.9
Agriculture      20     6       24     5        34     6       4.7      6.0
Transport        16     5       23     5        46     8       9.5     12.2
Other           141    41      122    29       126    22      (3.5)     0.5
Total      342   100      427   1O0      570   100        5.7      4.9
Source:  MUKI.
Industry Department
eay 1986



- 100 -                      ANN)EX 3-3
Attacbment- 2
HUNGARY -INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Direct Exports end Imports of Processed Plastics Products. 1981-1984 a/.
1981      1982      1983       1984
A. Million Forints
Exports
Western Countries,               115       135        415       756
CMEk Countries                   289       242        336       531
Total                         404        377       7 T      1,287
Imports
Western Countries              1,848     1,788      1,818     1,815
CMEA Countries                   323       361        456       571
Total                        2,171     2,149     2,274      2,386
B. US$ Million b/
Exports
Western Countries                3.4       3.7        9.7      15.7
CMEA Countries                   8.4       6.6        7.9      11- 1
Total                         11.8                17.T
Imgorts
Western Markets                 53.9      48.8       42.6      37.8
CMEA Markets                     9.4       9.9       10.7      11.9
Total                         63.3      58.7      53.3       49.7
a/  excluding artificial leather.
h/  converted from value in Forints at average yearly exchange rates.
Source: Ministry of Foreign Trade.
Industry Department
May 1986



UAR - UaMU               SUnCnJnM PzW0t
Plastics Processing Subsectort  Polser MaterLal IaLanc, 1980-1990
(00tons)
1980 (ctual)                                         1984 (Actual)                                      1990 (Projected)
Iuort           ~                         ~                          Riprwt                               imort    ,        ii= rt
Pro-         Convert.        Comert.    Con-         Pro-         Convert.         Convert.    Can-       Pro-         Convert.         Cnvert.    Con-
duction QCMA  Crreny           a     E        )Ao   ductiaon  CHU  Cur         a      u&  a     s      Ctie n duceion  Ql2      Q IE    Currency, sumpt1on
Lam       53     34        2       -       -         89        54      43       5       -        -       102,    55         10       -       -       -         65
NDOE       -      7       13       -       -         20         -       20     15       -        -        35        60      10      10       -        -        so
LLDPSF   -                                                                                                          so      -        -      10      20         50
PP        43      -        1       -       16        28        93        -      I       -        45       49        95       -       -      25        5        65
PVC      173       1      10      21      78         85       172        5      8      26       49       110       190       5      15      20      45        145
PS         -     15       15       -       -         30         -      23      12       -        -        35         -     40       20       -        -        60
Others    54      11      51       3        5       tOB        66       24     46       4        13      119        90      25      30       5       15       125
TOTAL    323     68       92      24      99        360       385      115     87      30       t07      450       570      90      75      60       85       590
Source: NPO.
Industry Departunt
May 19K                                                                                                                                                                      4



-- 102 -                            ANNEX 4-1
Table 1
HUNGARY - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
National Bank of Hunsary - Income Statements, 1980-84
(Billion Forints)
1980     1981     1982      1983     1984
Income
Interest Earned                41.5      45.3     51.9      54.2     61.1
Comimissions Charged            4.6       5.2      5.2       6.3      6.9
Fees, Charges and Others        0.5       0.3      0.2       0.4      0.7
Total Income                 46.6      50.8     57.3     60.9      68.7
Expenditures
Expenditures on Money
Circulation                    0.6       0.7      1.0      0.9       2.1
Interest                       35.0      37.9     47.3     45.4      49.4
Commissions                     0.2       0.5      0.4      0.5       0.9
Administrative Cost and
Other costs                    0.9       1.2      1.1       1.1      1.2
Total Expenditures           36.7     40.3      49.8     47.9      53.6
Profit                        9.9      10.5      7.5      13.0     15.1
Industry Department
May 1986



-103-                               ANNEX 4-1
Table 2
HUNGARY - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
National Bank of Mungary - Balance Sheets, 1980-84
(Billion Forints)
1980     1981      1982     1983      1984
Assets
Gold, Currency, Foreign
Exchange Holdings and
Sight Accounts                 78.4     65.1      38.9      78.5    116,6
Advances, Loans and Credits
Medium and Longterm:      -
Banks                        152.6    16242   170.6    170.5    188.9
Enterprises                  188.7    189.5    185.7    186.7    185.4
State Budget                  23.7     26.7      31.7      32.4     25.7
Subtotal                 365.0    378.4    388.0    389.6    400.0
Short-term Credits:
Banks                         19.2     24.8      37.4      33.7     44.6
Enterprises                   92.0    103.8    114.3    120.4    137.8
State Budget                   0.6      0.3       0.9       1.0      0.8
Subtotal                 1T1.8    128.9    152.6    155.1    183.2
Other Assets                    26.4      27.3     68.1      84.7     89.5
Total Assets             581.6    599.7    647.6    707.9    789.3
Liabilities and Equity
Term Deposits:
Banks                        219.8    225.2    297.8    291.7    342.5
Enterprises                   88.5     90.9      46.1      41.1     37.3
State Budget                   1.3      1.8       1.9       7.o     12.7
Subtotal                 3Q.6    317.9    345.8    339.8    392.5
Sight Deposits and Other:
Banks                         8X.8     84.7      68.2      82.1     56.2
Enterprises                   67.4     70.0      79.6      78.5     66.2
State Budget                  12.6      6.0       8.7       9.6     22.2
Other                         10.6     10.5      10.9      10.8     12.3
Subtotal                 173.4    171.2    167.4    181.0    156.9
Notes and Coins                 72.8     81.3      87.3      97.8    108.8
IMY Deposits                     -        -        12.2      46.8     '2.2
Other Liabilities                7.7      9.3      17.0      19.0     26.9
Equity:
Authorized Capital             6.0      6.0       6.0       6.0     10.0
Reserves                       2.3      3.5       4.4       4.5      6.9
Profits                        9.8     10.5       7.5      13.0     15.1
Subtotal           -      18.1    .20.0       17.      23.5      32.0
Total Liabilities and
Equity                     581.6    599.7    647.6    707.9    789.3
Source: National Bank of Hungary.
Industry Department
May 1986



_104-
ANNEX 4-2
Page 1
HUNGARY - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
The Main Plastics' Pocessing Enterprises
Borsod Chemical Works (BVK)
1.         BVK, the second largest petrochemical enterprise in Hungary has
its headquarters and major production facility at Kazinebarcika and
operates  two  additional  plastics  processing  plants  at  Miskolc  and
Szekszard.  Plastics processing, including blends and granules, represents
the enterprise's largest single activity accounting for about 301 of its
total operations; others are PVC, fertilizers, plasticizers and various
chemical intermediates.   Its major processed plastics prcducts are rigid
and flexible PVC sheets and films (15Z), rigid and special grade PVC pipes
and profiles (40%), injection-molded and vacuum-formed products (30%), and
others (15%). Among these products, rigid PVC profiles and special pipes
possess good prospects based on the market demand, technical parameters of
the  products  and  the  technological  capabilities  of  BVK.    The  other
products, on the other hand,   face strong competition in domestic and
export markets.   BVK is presently diversifying its plastics raw material
base through the implementation of a MDI plant under a recently approved
Bank-financed project.l/
2.        BVK is currently organized functionally into five divisions, each
headed by a Deputy Manager reporting to the General Manager.  The plastics
processing activity is carried out in three plants under a separate
technical manager. The three plants are each a profit center with major
functions centralized at headquarters.   Management systems needs to be
improved to provide integrated strategic planning and functional systems.
Improvements are also required in marketing management, plant maintenance,
budgeting control and training.
3.        BVK's profitability declined in 1982-83 due to a decline in world
market prices in both fertilizers and PVC plastics and higher energy,
prices. Profitability was restored to a satisfactory level in 1984 due to
effects of energy saving measures, -closure of unprofitable- product lines,
efforts  to  develop  downstream  products  and  more  favorable  price
developments.
Hungaria PlasLics Enterprise (HMV)
4.        HMV is the largest plastics processing enterprise in Hungary with
four  manufacturing  plants  located  at  Budapest  (headquarters  of  the
enterprise), Ceepel, Debrecen and Szombathely.  Its production in 1984 was
about 60,000 tons with a wide assortment of plastics products for building,
agriculture and packaging industries as well as for housshold consumption.
Lt has license and know-how agreements with reputed foreign firms including
a joint-venture with C. Itoh of Japan. With PEMU, another large plastics
processing enterprise (para 7), it operates a joint association for mold
1/   Fine Chemicals Project, February 1985 (Loan No. 2511-HU).



- 105 -                            ANNEX 4-2
Page 2
production  (GRP).    HMM  also  provides  technical  assistance  to  many
cooperatives.    Its ma_or  products  are  PVC  floor  coverings  (30%  of
production), PVC pipes and fittings (30X>, PVC flexible films and sheets
(152),  and PVC/PP molded products  (25Z).   The products have attained
domestic market shares of 40-80%.   The enterprise has attained a good
comparative advantage in pipes and pipe fittings and possesses a strong
potential for comparative advantage in floor coverings and other selected
product lines.
5.            HIMVs organization has a divlisional structure by plants.
Decision-making is highly centralized with 20 functions reporting directly
to the General Manager.  The four plants are regarded as profit centers.
Improvements are needed, in decentralization of management functions,
integration of strategic and operational plans, material management,
quality assurance system, cost control system and production planning.
6.           The enterprise's overall profitability level remained stable
during 1982-84, but recently its liquidity position was somewhat strained
by slow payment performance of some of its customers and the need to pay
resin  suppliers  in  a  short  period.    HMV  expects  to  overcome  these
constraints through diversification of its client base and further
profitability improvements are expected as a result of the restructuring
program.
Plastics Processing Enterprise of Pest County (PEMU)
7.          PEOW was established in 1959 as a small enterprise by the Pest
county.   Since the mid-1960s it has had a dynamic development with a
present  production of  about  20,000  tpy  of plastics  products.    PEKU
headquarters is located at Solymar and it operates 6 plants at Solymar
(3 plants), Zsambek, Cegled and Budapest. The enterprise has a diversified
product-mix with major product groups consisting of shoes and shoe
components (55% of its operations), PVC pipes and pumps (25%), diversified
engineering and technical plastics (10%), and others  (10%).   PEMU has
established joint ventures with two foreign companies and other local
enterprises.  The enterprise's products can be regarded as internationally
competitive.   PEMU possesses a strong potential to develop new compounds
and engineering plastics.
8.         PEMU reports to the executive council of the Pest county.  The
organizational structure of the enterprise is based on divisions with five
of  the  six  plants  functioning  as  independent  profit  centers.    The
management has decentralized management functions to the plants' level but
there remains some duplication of functions, especially-in marketing.  -
9.        The enterprise's financial situation is satisfactory and its high
profitability levels have allowed the enterprise to finance most of its
investments that account for its rapid expansion from internally generated
funds.



- 106 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 3
Tiezai Chemical Works (TVK)
10.       TVK, located at Leninvaros, is the main petrochemical enterprise
in Hungary with plants for production of paint, ethylene, PE (LDPE),
PP and processed plastics products.   Currently under construction is a
HDPE/LLVPE plant which is expected to start up in 1987 to provide new
domestic raw materials  for plastics products  in Hungary.    Its major
processed plastics products include PE and PP films for agricultural and
packaging industry, PE and PP sacks and bags, and PE containers for the
packaging Industry. Most of its products are internationally competitive
in cost anc quality.  With the planned introduction of HDPE/LLDPE resins as
well as planned installation of improved facilities, TVK is in a good
position to be strongly competitive. Major efforts are presently underway
to '-stablish technologies and applications for the new resins.
11.          TVK's organization is built on the principle of centralized
control with major management functions centralized under functional
directorates. The plastics processing activity is treated as a cost center
with all major management functions including marketing centralized at the
corporate level. The enterprise is in a healthy financial situation with
satisfactory profitability and liquidity position.
Electrical Insulating Materials and Plastics Enterprise (VSZM)
12.        VSZM is one of the oldest manufacturing enterprises in Hungary
(founded in 1883) and was the first enterprise to process plastics starting
with the use of thermoset resins for electrical connectors in 1929.  Its
headquarters and one of its plants is in Budapest, the other plants are in
Kiskunfelgyhaza and Kisvarda.   Its major products are electrical plastic
components,   thermoshrink  products,  friction  components  and  battery
casings. VSZM is one of the leading enterprises in the production of most
of these products in Hungary. VSZM is the only enterprise in the subsector
which has  installed  modern machine  tools  for sold  production.    The
enterprise has licensing and cooperation agreements with many fitms from
CMEA  and  non-CMEA  countries.    It  has  developed  strong  innovation
capabilities but its production constraints - obsolete equipment, and
inefficient production -organization to manufacture these products at
international standards - have restrained the financial results of the
enterprise.
13.          The enterprise has already established an enterprise council
under the new management reform system.   It has appointed a West German
consulting firm to organize its headquarters and plants -into profit centers
and to establish an integrated planning system with a selective reporting
mechanism for various levels of management.
14.       The enterprise's profitability in 1984 was adversely affected by
lagging sales, its aging production technology with related quality
deterioration and higher material consumption, and lagging product
development.   Also the enterprise's  liquidity was  constrained by slow
payment of some customers.. The measures under the Project are expected to
Laprove VSZM's profitability to a satisfactory level.



1 107 -
ANNEX 4-2
-Page 4
GHP - Mold-making Enterprise-
15.           GHP is a joint venture association of two major plastics
processing enterprises (HMV and PEMU) with its headquarters in Csepel
(Budapest)  and  two  plants  at  Debrecen and  Zsambek.    The  enterprise
specializes in the production of molds for injection and blow molded
products  for  the  parent  enterprices.    The  present  capacity  of  the
enterprise (150 molds/year) can not meet the demand of HMV and PEMU.
Further, the assortment of molds produced at GHP is restricted by the
technical standard and dimensional range of the installed machine -tools,
thereby adversely affecting the quality of molds and consequently the
quality and material consumption of plastics products.   GHP intends to
expand the facilities to produce molds not only for its parent enterprises
but also to meet the current shortage in mold-making capacity in Hungary
and thereby serve the small and medium-sized enterprises in the subsector
through supply of quality and precision molds.
16.           GHP's council of directors  is comprised of the two chief
executives from HMV and PEMU and GHP's general manager.   The council is
responsible for directing the policy and operations of the enterprise.
GHP's  management  for  Its  current  operations  can  be  regarded  as
satisfactory, but for the preparation, implementation and successful
operation of the expanded enterprise under the Project, strengthening of
the management in technical and financial areas is needed. The managements
of the parent enterprises would initiate steps to reinforce the
enterprises' organization and management.
Industry Department
may 1986



- 108 -
id 4-3
-- m                              w
.:wn m -_ 
of Historal Flnimcl fbrfammce of 1Wn Pio ect httles
Img-
UV4-  tWM
Pwfit               team    Dbt
Profit  Prfit  om   Wes                 Dsbt/ Svice
Total    ?wt       Wmfor  AEtwr   Wim   Aftw  Owrst lWty  Ce-
Hatitem         Amts  Ravem,es 1c            'UO    To    Fto   Ratio    affe
- -                   (__ rnn: fa i-                     -   (t mes)             (=
TVKZ     1982  14,005.8  16,455.7  1,606.1   822.8   9.8   5.0       3.2   24/76   2.6
1983 12,956.1  17,281.6  1,453.3   823.3   8.4   4.8       2.7   24/76   1.0
1984  12,672.8  19,561.5 2,471.5  1,550.3  12.6   7.9      3.6   23/77   2.6
BVIL     1982  13,497.1  9,163.2   279.6   166.3   3.1   1.8         1.7   48/52    1.2
1983  12,809.8  10,305.6   419.8   180.1   4.1   1.8       1.6   46/54   1.1
1984 12,283.7  11,309.9  1,071.6   607.8   9.5   5.4       1.9   42/58   1.2
EW:      1982  2,393.4  2,934.8   334.3   152.5  11.4   5.2          2.6   22/78   1.1
1983  2,547.7  3,110.3   350.1   174.0  11.3   5.6         2.3   20/80   1.2
1984  2,828.7   3,476.4   383.7   175.9  11.0   5.1        2.5   2Z/78   1.5
VSM.*    1982  1,423.1  1,761.9   199.4    94.0  11.3   5.3    10.6    1/99  18.8
1983   1,471.6  1,947.0  2a9.3    98.0  10.8   5.0         4.4    1/99  187
1984   1,499.5  2,044.6   151.2    36.8   7.4   1.8        3.3    2/98  10.0
FIi:     1982  1,176.0  1,962.1   245.4   105.5  12.5   5.4          5.7    1/99   2.6
1983   1,251.6  2,217.8   287.3   132.2  13.0   6.0        3.2    2/98   4.0
1984  1,472.6  2,940.4   380.0   174.6  12.9   5.9         2.1    2/98  12.3
{J9P:    1982      56.5      23.0     9.6      4.5  41.7  19.6       5.5   0/100   -
1983     69.1      51.4    18.1      8.4  35.2  16.3       5.9   0/100   -
1984     59.8      43.5    15.4      7.0  35.4  16.1    27.6    6/94   -
HIM.-   1982    253.4    137.5    25.6    18.0  18.6  13.1    37.7   0/100   -
19B3    253.4    152.6    24.9    17.7  16.3  11.6         87   O/1O    -
1984    282.4    167.7    25.7    18.7  1..3  11.2         4.l   0/10    -
GIL:     1982    565.9    216.5    20.1        89   9.3   4.1   113.4   0/100   -
1983    549.7    299.1    25.9    11.2   8.7   3.7         2.4   0/100   -
1984    563.9    292.2    28.6    24.3   9.8   8.3         2.7    5/95   -
BE:      1982    257.7    126.7    26.9    11.5  21.2   9.1          6.3   0/10D   -
1983    247.1    132.8    32.7    2D.7  24.6  15.6         6.5  O/1O    -
1984    278.2    146.4    34.1    26.3  23.3  18.0                0/100   -
Eit:     1982    401.0    241.2    27.9    23.7  11.6   9.8          7.6  O0/1O    -
1983    380.0    280.7   236    24.3  10.2   87            4.9    /100   -
1984    357.9    258.9    17.9    15.2   6.9   5.9         6.1   0/O1O    -
Vbegterv: 1982    418.8    487.1   117.9    36.9  24.5   7.7    56.2   O/10D   -
1983    476.5    591.2   124.9    55.9  21.5   9.6    23.4   O/10    -
1984    493.9    553.7   126.2    66.7  22.8  12.0    76.9   0/100   -
-Ay   Darb
may 1986



- 109 -                         ANNEX 4-4
Page 1
HUNGARY - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
The Institutes for Plastics Processin, Activities
Research Institute for the Plastics Industry (MUKI)
I.           MUKI is the major profit-oriented institute supporting the
plastics processing subsector (PPS) and has contributed substantially
towards the development of the subsector in the areas of plastics
technology, polymer physics, plastics processing, plastics application,
machinery and technology development and other basic and applied research
and  developmental  work.    The  plastics  standardization  center  of the
institute develops sectoral standards in collaboration with the National
Bureau of Standards.   MUKI undertakes the quality control and testing
activities,  primarily for the SMEs,  in the subsector.   The institute
participates in many Government initiated programs and cooperates with many
other institutes in the subsector.   The Director of the institute is
supported by two Deputy Directors.   The Scientific Deputy Director is
responsible for the professional work of the institute.  Its professional
staff of 110 is very competent and has provided many contributions in the
research and development activities of the subsector.
Institute for Quality Control in Building (EMI)
2.         EMI operates under the supervision of the Ministry of Building
and Urban Development  to undertake  the quality  control of materials,
structures and products applied by the building industry.   On processed
plastics products, the profit-oriented institute tests all products such as
plastics window frames, plastics pipes, etc., including those imported from
abroad, before issuing a certification of their applicability in the
Hungarian building industry.   The institute has quality control stations
throughout the country and testing laboratories at headquarters in
Budapest.   It has a total staff of 500 and maintains close coordination
with related international bodies to adapt test and standardization methods
on an international level.
Institute for Building Science (ETI)
3.         ETI is the profit-oriented institute for building research and
development exploring the possibilities of application of plastics
products, among others, in the building industry.   With its competent
staff, the institute specializes primarily in structural and civil
engineering sciences and maintains pilot plants to assess the suitability
of  different  basic materials,  including plastics products,in building
applications.
Technological Institute for the Machine Industry (GTI)
4.        Originally established to assist the Ministry for Metallurgy and
Machine  Industry  in  the  preparation of  proposals  for  development  of
industry in Hungary, GTI has now become a profit-oriented industrial



'- 110 -                          ANNEX 4-4
Page 2
research and development institute for machine manufacturinv, technology.
Among the different technologies included in its activities, GTI has
carried out research and development -in the plastics industry on the
manufacture of precision plastics parts in machine tool and transportation
industry.  The scientific section of the institute includes the research
departments for different technologies in which about 350 professionals
cont'ribute towards the development of new technologies, processes and
methods.
Hungarian Chemical Industries Engineering Center (Vegyterv)
5.           Vegyterv is one of the largest profit-oriented engineering
centers in Hungary which undertakes feasibility and engineering studies,
detailed engineering and project management of chemical and plastics
processing plants not only in Hungary but also in many CMEA and non-CMEA
countries.    It has  a staff of  1,200  persons  of whom over  50%  are
professionals who undertake the multiple activities of the institute. The
center will be involved in the Project by providing assistance to the
Restructuring Program Office, and the establishment and operation of the
proposed Information Data Center, both to be established at Vegyterv.
Industry Department
May 1986



- 111 -AXE5-
ANNEX 5-1
Page 1
HUNGARY - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT                -
Management Development and Training Progra8mStudy
Terms of Reference
Scope and Objectives of Study
1.            The Government of Hungary is interested in addressing the
training needs of senior managers for which it intends to undertake the
proposed study.   On completion of this study, the Government plans to
undertake also a management development study for other managers. Based on
the results it will revise and strengthen, where appropriate, existing
training programs. The objectives of the proposed study are to:
(a) identify the skills and knowledge requirements of senior managers
in the industrial sector for the next 3-5 years;
(b) recommend revisions and/or additions to the current training
objectives, and outline of the course curriculum that are being
conducted within and outside Hungary; and
(c)  develop terms of reference for the Government of Hungary to
circulate to a short list of consultants who would design the
specific outline of the courses, the teaching materials and notes
associated with each session and the delivery of seminars.
Proposed Approach and Methodology
2.             The study to be carried out by international management
consultants should commence by undertaking a comprehensive needs assessment
of senior managers covering at least the following major areas:
(a) the skills and knowledge requirements of senior managers for the
next 3-5 years and how these skills will be different from
today's skills? e.g.,
(i)  what will be the functional responsibilities and decision
making  processes  between  the  Ministry  of  Industry,
enterprise council, general managers, and where appropriate
managers of strategic business unit or of equivalent level?
How have these furctions changed as a result of the creation
of enterprise councils? Given the newly emerged functional
and decision making processes for the general manager, what
will be the types of new  skills needed  to effectively
execute these functions?
(ii) what programs (including training) are currently being
planned by enterprises to provide the appropriate skills and
knowledge to the senior managers in the next 3-5 years?



_112 -ANNEX 5-1
Page 2
(=ii)  what  are  the  5-10 key management issues  facing today's
senior managers that are expected to be around for the next
3-5  years,  e.g.,  grenter   strategic  diversification;
increased  emphasis  on  foreign  operation  in  westetn
countries; financial management; working with members of the
enterprise council; organization planning and development;
and managing productivity improvements through technology
and people? Are these key management issues different by
type of industry, by size of industrial operations, etc.
(iv) what is the profile of today's general managers and how will
this profile change in the next 3-5 years?
(b)  an evaluation of existing training programs,  both within and
outside industrial enterprises, in relation to emerginF skills
and knowledge requirements, e.g.,
(i) during the last five years, what resources in terms of
manhours and Forint value, have enterprises spent on
training senior managers? What percent of this training has
been conducted within the enterprise, at local training
institutions, or foreign conferences/seminar/institutions?
(ii) what types of training courses have been attended by senior
managers? What are the reasons for selecting certain types
of courses and at certain locations?   How relevant were
these training courses in providing the necessary practical
knowledge that-could lumediately be transferred to the work
environment or helped in enchancing the knowledge?
(iii)  which of the existing training courses being offered at the
local institutions need to be eliminated and/or upgraded to
meet new emerging skills and knowledge requirements or need
to be newly introduced into the curriculum for senior
jmanagers?
(iv) during the last five years, what has been the training
budget    expenditure    of    enterprises    and    training
institutions?   In case of enterprises, what is the cost
allocation of training expenses between internal versus
external and between domestic versus foreign sources?  In
the case of institutions, what is the cost allocation of
training  between  hardware,  purchase  of  off-the-shelf
materials, custom designed materials, seminar/conferences,
staff salaries and what percent of the total budget is in
foreign currency for external lecturers, materials, etc?
(c) The objectives, outline and duration requirements of new training
courses to be undertaken both within and outside Hungary.  Based
on the skills and knowledge requirements and an evaluation of the
existing training programs, the consultants should develop
objectives, outline and duration requirements for each new
training session to be undertaken.



- 113 -                          ANNEX 5-1
Page- 3
3.         During the study it is critical for the consultants to take into
account the perceptions of the steering committee and managements proposed
concepts to the changing environment.   The consultants must therefore be
able to:
(a) provide the detailed analysis and, above all, the conceptual
framework for the new directions; and
(b) develop communications with the managements and the steering
committee to facilitate the necessary changes and adjustments in
perception.
4.          At the end of the needs assessment phase, the consultants will
prepare a report on their findings and recommendations for discussions with
the  Hungarian  steering  committee.    On  completion  of  the report  and
acceptance of the findings, the consultants will be required to prepare
detailed terms of reference for consultants to design the specific outline
of the courses,  the teaching materials and notes associated with each
session.
Industry Department
May 1986



- 114 -
ANNEX 5-2
HUNGARY - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
PLASTICS PROCESSING SUBSECTOR
Funds Requirements of Quality Control Institutes
Foreign Exchange
Requirement 'a1
(US$'000 equivalent)
Profit-oriented Institutes
Research Institute.for the Plastics Industry (MUKI)             650
Institute for Quality Control in Building (EMI)                 200
Institute for Building Science (ETI)                             50
Technological Institute for the Machine Industry (GTI)           60
Subtotal                                                   N60
Budget-contributed Institutes
Technical University of Budapest (Plastics Processing)           75
Technical University of Budapest (Machine Design)                95
Central Food Research Institute (KEKI)                          350
Institute of Trade for Domestic Certification (KERMI)            80
Hungarian Electrical & Electronics Institute (MEEI)             130
Hungarian Institute for Food & Nutrition (OETI)                 150
Subtotal                                                   880
Total                                                    1,840
a/ Including physical and price contingencies.
Industry Department
May 1986



-115-
- 115 -                  ~~~~~ANNEX 5-3
Page 1
HUNGARY -INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
RD&E Program in Plastics Processing Subsector
1.          Research, development and engineering (RDSE) in the plastics
processing subsector (PPS) is almed at increasing the competitiveness of
the enterprises in the subsector by introducing improvements leading to the
more efficient use of polymers, lower processing costs, higher product
quality or by developing new uses for plastics products, or expansion of
the market.
2.         RD&E in plastics processing is carried out by the R&D groups of
the larger PPS enterprises as well as various R&D institutes.  Prominent
among the latter are the Research Institute for the Plastics Industry
(NmUKI), the Central Research Institute of Chemistry, Hungarian Academy of
Science (KKKI), the Institute for Rubber and Plastics, Technical University
of Budapest (BME), the Institute of Building Sclence (ETI), the Institute
of Engineering Technology (GTI) and the Central Food Research Institute
(KEKI).    Sponsoring  organizations  include  not  only  the  five  large
PPS enterprises but some small and medium-sized enterprises.   Overall
support for the program is given by the Ministry of Industry (HOI) and the
State Office for Technical Development (OMFB).
3.         RD&E expenditure in PPS has risen from Ft 155 million in 1981 to
Ft 320 million in 1985 (current prices), an average growth rate of 201 per
year. RD&E expenditure is planned to increase to Ft 750 million (current
prices) in 1990, an average growth rate of 19% per year in the period
1985-90. Currently RD&E expenditure lies between 1-2Z of plastics products
sales revenues.
4.          The subsectoral RD&E plan 1986-90 prepared by  OI consists of
three subprograms;  (a) production of plastics resins; (b) processing of
plastics; and (c) application of plastics. A major part of these programs
is for the benefit of the small and medium-sized enterprises who need to
increase their competitiveness by using new materials, increasing product
quality and finding new outlets for plastics products.   Some details of
these three areas are given below:
(a)  Production of Plastics and Resins.  The PPS recognizes that it is
important to modernize continuously the types and range of
plastics resins available to the PPS enterprises. About 401 of
the next 5-year RD&E budget is intended for this subprogram. A
major focus of the subprogram will be on the establishment of
processing  parameters  for  the  use  of  LLDPE  and  NDI-based
polyurethanes  (both  of  which  are  soon  to  be  produced
domestically) as well as the development of polymer mixtures and
compounds to produce high value products with special properties.
(b) Processing of Plastics. Major RD&E efforts (accounting for about
451 of the 5-year RD1E budget) will be made In this subprogram.
It is intended to increase performance standards for plastics



- 116 -                            ANNEX 5-3
Page 2
processing, as well as developing continuous operations for,
e.g., LLDPE in film production and injection molding. Production
and processing of fiberglass polyester Intermediates in the form
-of sheet molding compound will be developed for the electrical,
vehicle and machine industries. On-the-spot foaming machines and
technologies for polyearbonates and polyurethanes will be
developed, and straight-line polypropylene binding straps will be
produced.
(c)  Application of Plastics.   About 15% of the 5-year RD&E budget
will be spent on a subprogram to Identify and develop new
application areas for plastics, e.g., in the building industry
(roofing, water and heat Insulation, external cladding systems,
etc.),  engineering  plastics  (adhesive  techniques,  plastics
machine parts) and improving quality standards, notably in the
food packaging industry.
5.        The proposed Project would finance a part of the foreign exchange
requirements for the investment component of the RD&E program supported by
M0I; foreign exchange amounting to US$1.0 million would be provided for ten
RD&E programs carried out by profit-oriented enterprises and institutes.
The total investment cost of these selected projects is Ft 248.5 million
(US$5.3 million).   The total investment cost of the full RD&E program
supported by M1I is Ft 420.0 million (US$8.9 million) of which the foreign
exchange requirement is about US$2 million.
6.            The attachment summarizes the projects which would receive
Project support.
Industry Department
May 1986



- 117 -
ANNEX 5-3
Attachment
HUNGARY - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
MQI-suwported RD&E Program in Plastics Processing Subsector:
RD&E Investments~ 1986-90
Foreign
Exchange
Total Cost      Costs
(Million Forints) (US$'QO00)
A. Bank-supported Programs
Plastics Resins
Improving Rheological Properties of LLDPE            2.0             40
Pilot Production of Cross-linked CPE                 6.0            115
Introduction of Polymer Blends & Compounds           9.5            180
Filled/Reinforced Thermoplastic Blends              12.0             50
Plastics Processing
Glass Fiber Reinforced Polyester                   121.5             50
Straight Line Polypropylene Binding Straps           2.5             50
R&D Programs for Cooperatives                       62.5             65
Plastics Application
Engineering Plastics                                 7.0            150
Application Standards                                7.5            200
Application of Laminated Films                      15.0            100
Subtotal                                         248.5a/        1,000
B. Other RD&E Programs                                  171.5            952
Total                                            420.0b/        1,952
a/  About US$5.3 million.
1/ About US$8.9 million.
Industry Department
May 1986



-tl8-                                                 - 54
- - mww:- 
GvaYim of ~UtEMft           of blase  Rmi -ampattm  F1wdtnaia DBOami   mctr
Utw-~~~,< 4k, ,1wA *                                         .        ......... . - 
,Fo*lct St_Zw                1wt  Suatw             Jitmtiinl gt1w                 -m   U        of _ _h
UK   Fratiw Li bie dlinic   p A lLsh _,iAmt gFt                 S_ I uat mq p ibd-   eidmi  C PlM  OIaw si'
tbo"  fm NC        1,DUS,IS Lor    CtOW) Lw plwi pm-   Sus   (ttl    1            dw ugid elad ul11dz   to UWs y-
P-M   -omf  **tMct.   Sq actiVU7MAy        t   Fo&mL      3 ft1w). 1WILiS  Og*        &MILM.
turn e_rn  (KSiudka,        foemp _ae   mst   to
ftobxtim  L tub Ul&m, km    II*olc, masi) with ibm- Pt inbit m*  oawiE.               t_iqE aof I        pi"
W ima Si  fiz    pm  foe  tnUsatien of buj4     _nt                                   e9dt to IPM&= p1wtiw
NYC for tudSqg rwuuln        a.tuUmu at wdta.' lawl.     ?quwm qa uty af twis ad      tile imita.
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~tzol   a equaI linoljot                              vo~w& totl WOisatisi.
CM&M ldt*dl fQ WC            da a      a yat    fLW plmur    Tqm s m11 yil
dc* "1fie"blm fiq                     actvity.                      .o                                  q plas.
1Wi mw =torl& bm  (US,
ftabUsh acs"titlm pwtA                                    WI to im     wqAstivitq di Ux1. 3 pne&lu Ur"
for PVC d&ld Si stmt& f 11w                              platte        6 S .              -.  plmo.
pri  tD -*   birnwa.
imum   Odot     Plds.       ?I=tml1 alidA  q ooya fow
BwAbUsb,*A~at vt*b  Sti  fort*
Eatabiids joint '~ae Oz                                                               e.f a
m U wi"-hw X
- ~       ~          ~          a  -
NW   Fon M& vlzbm wtpt t   eatablii pcoft&  mter(s) war  lqiua  tMtd     Sid estati        tWa  optraq*bWq of
plaatbo wac&actA Iii hdJ4iv  alPt for plaat1mw jmusiq    yield duruby inorsiq praku-.  a mistird  hm.
and p qq laliey trm V    activity as a dful SW  for fat  tiwley ai flow  daq pmbvk-
iutetials iwoiwsi PwuIMKy In  units at aiapue, ospal.    tim                          ltaU gitxmimi U1m for paro-
lisuay wAi 1v1q b4* tadb- Igwier d Si *aftly with                                     damim of PP p4r.
wmk' ejha flmaw wdap,  dsrwtralizati ojor rr-   Rlaw old fuilitla. Sr Am
pipin ad fiteSqo, pe*qiq%    gwnsa fistiors at imAtBl    St PIP ftttk4P to miinatin          We Sjt'im moMlirs
omataizwzadS aRztaizu  for    letul.                     iaerme oaqPsaeizmm.          in*ddm for jgaabjcU= of pipe
qzlo4uctst    lt&                                                                     fittine.
truorr a zMnMN  i_fdxw   &ilA ujct  oo0 Of oztA-
Vl*ur fern plmei  pucAs   tim sypem                     an mnvlqg bhi teduinhi.    mapl eqidjet a1 too]
--.Shlov~~                                                                   ~~~ sotin
Wm  of adadea.       hi  elwranfoai him aor
peadweiw Li juqSq a  far
proxu  aE p duigaeir
M.
but.U blat  A   Sq*dpt
to  -   tdm b vhm caaeaf
an.
PlM   Imwho1in*a mod alcs otmV&xi   Me its apnitaLe mm hirA-  Pn&dm iw ~atpVs.              ImeWAl Coatptiq cod
a broe&md    merl  1um for  pAin  in stliddq g l                                      (EP/I!S).
plstic praoukg infacto.   profit  sm    ith deomtral-   1W. t         edv=l. pirnes mm
atlas of miw mwams 6tem-    atItiw an pnlm a wdAr   bmm phctim at blm-
Pdatfu duiiqiE at cadut-    tt=4 from tbm iMapate.           Eof WO&Ms.               MIdadf .
ad plastim productim
inwolvSq tgb tedoohW for    EKtbUsh am iteged =-  _xrt lt 04pftd                -    toplam old faclitim for PM-
tm S,A t=rapmtalm           -m isfoutima syset           city foc me pip Symm.         A of i teciadml phI.
1orint motb    p .          Tmal equdm= fo        at
_"&mat Sid xOdCtim of                                                                 Of tilwfs/am       u.
syam  In p1p  Si fitttla
fao r , twt. UTRj m                                                                   J a       ilEy so-i t  t-
api<catim                                                                               of pipm.
ostee Iolah vwaitza for or                                                            sci-  -00
"Isr-off -v&t vith Woosa
tocmutsticOa
0 let VtB!tOl 1 



Ii    i|S: i   t    U           It
! }i,i,tti  it}"tls~~~If
j;if'iI        'Hi  "uh{ lif
:       i,til,4i*t1i 1
.4  t     UK                                                 1



- 120 -                            ANNX 5-5
Page 1
HUNGARY -INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
PLASTICS PROCESSING-SUBSECTOR
Scope of Restructuring Programs of Non-Selected Enterprises
Enterprises which intend to participate in the Project under the
facility for non-selected enterprises are expected to prepare an enterprise
restructuring program.   The objective of  the enterprise  res-tructuring
program should be to increase enterprise international competitiveness and
efficiency and to develop its potential for direct and indirect exports.
Such enterprise restructuring programs should include the following
aspects:
1.    Past and Current Activities of Enterprise.   Description and
analysis of product groups, markets, main raw materials and sources,
technology, structure of distribution and sales network, and major
constraints affecting growth of the enterprise.   The analysis should be
supported by documentation on recent performance (production, sales, etc.)
and financial history.
2.    Product and Mlarket Strategy.   This includes (i) analysis of
current and potential competitiveness of major product groups in the
domestic and export markets; (ii) recommendation for product groups/markets
that should form the enterprise's focus to ensure its economic and
financial viability, and (iii) identification and recommendation of
marketing and distribution arrangements and practices.   The product and
market strategy should be based on an analysis of enterprise main product
groups, including market share as compared to domestic and foreign
competitors, cost, price and quality competitiveness, etc.
3.    Technol2gy.  Evaluation of product technology of existing and
proposed product-mix with focus on:   assessment of present production
facilities with respect to production technology, tooling, etc., indicating
areas for upgrading, replacement and improvement; available material inputs
providing  recommendations   for  materials   substitution  and  savings;
examination  of  existing  licensing  and  know-how  arrangements  with
recommendation for necessary know-how acquisition; evaluation of quality
control and testing facilities and need for its strengthening; and overview
of RD&E program of the enterprise.
4.   Organization.  Analysis of enterprise organization under the new
economic reforms and the effect of the latter on the existing organization
structure; examination of the organization plan of the enterprise, and
recommendations  for providing an  environment  of  efficient  independent
operations for the main business units of the enterprise.
5.   Management and System Deveiopment.  Analysis and recommendations
to strengthen management strategic planning, management reporting system
and management functions - marketing (e.g., market development, market
promotion, sales distribution, pricing); technical (e.g., production



-121_
Page 2
planning ald control, maintenance systems,  industrial organization and
engineering); financial (e.g., financial and cost accounting, financial
planning, budgeting). Specific recommendations for short-term improvements
in management reporting of operational activities and long-term development
of management Information systems.
6.     Project Analysis.    A detailed analysis should be made of
proposed  investments to support. strategies  in  the above areas.   The
projects (soft and hardware) should be proposed for their strategic fit,
and an- assessment of each project and its viability included in the
program.     Only  investment  which  improve  enterprise  technological
capability, and efficiency and competitiveness at international level
should  be considered.    The analysis  should include market assessment
(domestic and export in CMEA and non-CMEA markets); technical aspects
(nature and prices of major equipment and sources of origin); estimation of
capital costs; competitiveness analysis of main product groups (before and
after the implementation of the project) including estimation of new
production cost compared with international levels; and incremental
financial and economic viability of the project (with and without the
proposed investment).   The analysis  should also  include  the proposed
financing plan for the project and financial forecasts of the enterprise
with the project.
Industry Department
May 1986



- 122-                                     AN= 6-1
HARY - D)SA  PFaw C
Detsail  2VAptal o~6 stilt
US$ mlUicA a/        Foreig
_ilcF t  - For-   Zof a Zof
'av ibTotal  -loAl e1bTDl TOtal  Total
A.                                           ..du....de  - 
uental Wokig  Catl                  565.0 6,110.0  6,675.0 12.0 130.0 142.0  44.8  91.6
L1Vatim FiPaue                      460.0  140.0   600.0  9.8   3.0  12.8  4.0   23.4
_anagewnt Nv pelt                    25.0   45.0    70.0  0.5   1.0  1.5  0.5   66.6
Tocbnical Assistenme and Relate
Services:
Str      5 tuning of alkig Systm    48.0   140.0   188.0  1.0  3.0   4.0   1.2  75.0
O(ir Assistane & 61iig              38.0   93.0   131.0Q  0.8   2.0   2.8   0.9  71.4
Subsectw Ret            Prog        14.0   47.0    61.0  0.3   1.0   1.3  0.4   76.9
Total QmCamet                1,150.o '6,575.0  7,725.0 2   140.4 T 164.4  3 i   8 5.2
B. &2Sfic Subsector
blkd & Die Producttm               589.6  423.9  1,013.5 12.6  9.0  21.6   6.8   41.7
Q3ilty Omtroil & betintg            17.4   89.3   106.7  0.4   1.9   2.3   0.7   82.6
WD&E Ptogran                       326.0   94.0   420.0  6.9   2.0   8.9   2.8  22.5
Informatixon Dttau Cter              -      23.5    23.5  -      0.5   0.5   0.2  100.0
T1ediical Asesistnae                 5.0   23.5    28.5  0.1   0.5   0.6   0.2  83.3
- Sobtotal                      938.0  654.2  1,592.2 20.0  13.9  33.9  10.7  41.0
Selected &Hterpriees:
Civil WIorks                       314.0     -      314.0  6.7   -     6.7
Fquiprnrt b/                       363.9 1,334.1  1,698.0  7.7  28.4  36.1
TiAes & Tam c/                     641.9     -      641.9 13.7   -    13.7
Softuzre,          TAng/xeorig, TAd/  239.3  312.4   551.7  5.1   6.6  11.7
Base Cbst                      1,559.1 1,646.5  3,205.6 33.2  35.0  68.2
Ptgrvical    1wr ib 14coMfes        97.9   144.9   242.8  2.1   3.1   5.2
Price        es                     93.2   135.4   228.6  2.0   2.9   4.9
Installepd Cbst                1,750.2 1,926.8  3,677.0 37.3  41.0  78.3
Incr. Wa1idg Cadpital              185.6   31.2   216.8  3.9   0.7  4.6
Interest DIirg Ccstrluctaim        175.7     -      175.7  3.7   -     3.7
Total Selected Enterprises    2,111.5 1,958.0  4,069.5 44.9  41.7  86.6  27.3  48.1
Of vcdh:
BVK                              658.4   346.3  1,004.7 14.0  7.4  21.4  6.8   34.5
EW                               585.3  391.9   977.2 12.4  8.4  20.8  6.6   40.4
PEW                              337.1  471.3   808.4  7.2  10.0  17.2  5.4  58.1
1WY                              262.5  339.1   601.6  5.6   7.2  12.8  4.0   56.2
vS7i4                            268.2  409.4   677.6  5.7   8.7  14.4  4.5   60.4
Nb-Sdelectat Enterprises            770.0   745.0  1,515.0 16.4  15.8  32.2  10.2  49.1
Total upoinwmt                3,819.5 3,357.2  7.176.7 81.3   7   152.7  W.2  46.8
Total Finacing Required       4,969.5 9,932.2 14,901.7 105.7 211.4 317.1 100.0  66.7
a/ C0uerte1 at US$1.0 - Ft 47.0.
j!Q Ias:hdk  frlet   ard aetm
_Vc  Tnulog co Am tnIs.
- nxlog *S, project              L and start-  wosts.
M?y 1986



80*   i   QNd-3*9                            t    of lhmc-  -                                                                  qat
Pmaft   k                              awat d               nd-2 -0- Md0. SM 60*    an&                             ga aft bpa UM
A.
"now  49"              4"o          mm    -                        9%~~~~41100  4,5.   n9.6                9  3.   U.  U    -    -           3.   A"2.
Deftupea-                 -   5.0      5.0    45.0 -            -                 45.0      w4   -    -    -      0.5    0.5   LO-     -        -             LO   LS
*own 91m-                4L.                    .     4. -  - AU                 -      14060    kW.   -    LO0   -      -       1.0   3.0 -    -      -      -      3.0  4.0
ard1.4m&bufn ATmu    -                  -    3.0      3.0    "A.                                "A  -.    M~.0  -    -    -      OA     0.6  2.0 -    -       -      -       &O   Lo    ,
--     34.-    --           14.0 -7.0           -     --               47.0    68.07-    0a.)-         z-    Al31.-4          -                     .    I 
TOW A1  W              460.0  62.0   -    63.  1.150.0 1,6250 4,3.0   -    -          -      .75.  7,75.0  9.  13.             us   26.4  40.0 15.   -       -           1400 INA.
noi & Me0 Rakcdm          3.4   54.2  210.   -        MA    137.5  214.W   -    0.               4239  1013.   4.9  3.2  4.              26 254~ -I-LS.  2866
Qmt mkIi &k intu       -      17.4    -    -       17.4   47.0   -                    W   2   5.5   104.1  -    0.4        -         Q 0.   L.0-            -     0.9    8.9  2.3
RU P a                     -      -      -   M.O    m.        47.0   -    -             47.0     91.    4.O-    -    -            kg9   4.9  14-            -         1.0    2.06L9
a" ater      -      -      -    -        -      23.5.  -                            LS .   5.   -      -        -               0.5-      -      -     -5            0.5
cdu4wiIa1mw          -         1   -            mm05.    5.    -L    I     -       -         2 .5      0.5-    -6    -      04     0.   0.- OA           -             0.5 0.
U Aft oau*AM             -  15.  -  -M7                                                -    -                -L  3.7 - - 3.7 --- -                               -3.
no*iaow Owaqglm           460.0  25.0                  MO 7.    75.    345 a              -       MA.  Imu5.  1Nu   4.2   -              16.4  15.5  0.)  -                  1.  5.2
60ia PWJWo            2,166.7 2,1.8  220.  34.  4.94M.5 4~4. 5.35.6  123  90.0    33   9.25.2 14,9M.? 44.1  45.5  U.    LS    MY.  30. 3W.3  0.    3.9   3.9  218.  57.1
Ot oneiIh dIuIbtImhtI CE .m11O fin  (m 6.25) am% dt  mItio  ?majo  G'al*.
bl - odU  ~h  t I nuip adm, In miorso  to deit.    U       ,e       uSI  **O1w3   IaLnuinq
It 10  I~.  tim  WSa1 0pt .41 t* Ort4iWA  bY a ptWin;Ad 6ft  *AMbfif Elb Wt Or d =**f             , f1CEiq 16



-124-                         M= 6-3
,UQhJ - IUSTRXNL                  PRO,CT
PLA&mCS  PROCING gSUSECZOR
Selected 1nterie: Financial and Economic Rates of Return
and Sensitivity ,alyis
All
Enter-
TYK      NVK a/   VW      vSm   / PW    ing
Financil Rate of Return A/
Base Case (Z)                  39.4    48.8    23.8   26.6    46.0    37.7
Net Present value at 122
(US$  iLllion) cI             14.1    36.3       8.6    8*6    24.7    92.3
Sensitivity Analysis (2):
Suitching Value (2) _q         82.0    79.0      85.0   80.0    78.0    80.0
Capacity Utilization: -10O      34.1    41.9    19.9   22.0    38.3    32.0
Selling Prices: -102           25.1    32.6    16.2   19.5    31.2    25.3
Material Cost: +10%             31.0    40.2    20.4   24.4    39.6    31.8
Capital Costs: +1ox            36.0    45.1       21.3   23.9    42.4    34.5
EwonUmic Rate of Return
Base Case                      47.8    54.2    28.8   33.4    39.6    41.6
Net Present Value at 122
(US$ miUlon) s                 14.4    37.6      10.2   10.2    15.7    88.1
Sensitivity Analysis (X):                   -                 -
Switching Value (d)d/          81.0    80.0    81.0   76.0    85.0    79.0
Capacity Utilizationt -102     41.5    46.6    24.5   28.1    24.0    35.3
Selling Prices: -10%           30.1     35.7    20.4   25.0    22.2    27.7
Material Costs +102             37.3    44.5      25.3   30.7    31.2    34.7
Cpital Cost: +102              42.6    49.4    25.5   29.4    35.7    38.2
L    UIn  i    0 Ald and 41e project.
/ Before profit tsax
f In constant 1985 prices.
l Percent of base case selling prices at which rate of return falls to 122.
Industry Department
may 1986



- 125 -
AND  6-4
Page I
HlUNGAlY - DUSM9A RsIcWG PwECr
PATICS PROCeING SULSCrOR
Selected Raterprnses: SEmuar of Projected Financial statemets
(Forints MiUon) a/
1985     1986      1987      1988      1989      1990      1991    L192
(Estimate)               --- -        (Projected) -
TYK
Revnumes                              20,266.1  20,610.4  22,528.6  25,025.5  25,993.9  26,985.4  27,335.7  27,637.2
Profit Before Tax                      2,771.9   2,846.8   3,124.7  3,535.4  3,678.0   3,846.0  3,874.0  3,818.6
Profit After Tax bl                    1.269.0   1,158.1  1,269.9   1,442.7  1,655.1   1,730.7   1,743.3   1,718.4
Intermal Cash Generation               2,548.1   1,939.5   2,185.9  2,130.3  2,180.9  2,081.8. 2,111.4  2,072.7
Debt Servie
- PrIn'cipsl                             559.7    535.0    816.0    927.6    628.4    589.3    618.4    648.4
- Interest                               281.2    203.4    652.4    537.7    457.3    365.4    279.3    188.9
COnent MAsts                           5,112.1  5,321.3   5,853.9   6,543.8  6,938.3  7,359.3   7,569.7  7,749.8
CurrnEt tlabilIties                    1,445.3   1,823.8  2,070.6   1,934.1  2,033.2  2,128.6  2,275.1   2,346.3
Outstanding Long-Tern Debt             3,745.8   3,546.3   3,748.1  3,260.8   2,671.5   2,053.0  1,404.6    716.2
EquIty                                 9,641.3  10,228.5  10,946.2  11,939.2  13,079.5  14,114.5  15,084.3  16,071.3
Curent Ratio                               3.5       2.9       2.8       3.4       3.4      3.5       3.3       3.3
ngg-fte Debt/Equity Ratio                28/72     26/74    26/74    21/79    17/83        13187     9/91      4/96
Longs-Te   Debt Service Coverage Ratio     3.4       2.9       1.9       1.8       2.4       2.6      2.7       2.7
RvK
Revenue                               11,823.9  13,178.3  14,461.9  16,724.6  19,771.3  23,215.5  23,550.0  23,550.0
Profit Before Ta                       1,592.7   1,769.9  2,082.7   2,629.4  3,515.6   4,469.1   4,542.7  4,484.9
Profit After Taxw                        394.8    507.1    588.8    699.3   1,098.1   1,652.6   2,040.3   2,014.3
Internl Cash Geration                  1,302.1   1,408.2   1,501.7   1,558.1  1,468.6  1,429.2   1,518.8  1,580.4
Debt Service
- Principal                              962.5    765.9    851.5  1,049.2  1,1103.9    983.4    416.8    458.2
- interest                               632.2    526.1    432.6    376.2    475.7    505.1    415.5    353.9
Current Assets                         3,924.0   3,903.8   4,274.9  4,961.4  5,849.0   6,879.2  6,976.8  6,976.8
Current Liabilities                    2,208.8  2,613.3  3,074.9  3,455.2  3,689.1  3,507.7   3,596.1  3,736.4
Outstandig Log Term Debt               3,470.1   3,777.7  4,169.7  3,996.6  3,013.2   2,596.4  2,138.1   1,539.6
wuity                                  6,237.8  6,804.0  7,118.4  7,790.2  8,950.2  10,480.9  12,258.1  13,741.0
Curret Ratio                               1.8       1.5       1.4       1.4      1.6       2.0       1.9       1.9
Lon-=m Debt/Equity Ratio                 36/64     36/64    37/63      34/66     25/75    20/80     15/85    10/90
Long-tm Debt Service Coverage Ratio        1.3       1.6       1.5       1.4       1.6      2.0       3.8       3.5
Revens                                 4,033.4  5,000.0  5,321.0  5,748.4  6,224.8  6,574.7   6,574.7  6,574.7
Profit Before TeX                        324.1    540.9    595.3    666.5    712.9    773.6    802.4    827.3
Profit After Tax ,                       161.4    242.8    267.3    299.3    320.2    347.5    360.5    371.7
Internal Cash Geeation.                  278.9    282.9    289.9    246.5    229.4    254.6    280.4    305.3
Debt Service
- Principal                              119.0    121.0    117.0    150.2    223.6    192.3    193.3    201.3
- Interest                                97.0      93.0      86.0    129.4    146.5    121.3        95.5      70.6
Current Assets                         1,310.0   1,626.6   1,731.0  1,862.8   2,012.8   2,125.0  2,125.0   2,125.0
Currnmt Liabilities                      588.0    665.1    724.7   8286    - 833.2    - 862.0    870.0    868.0
Outstanding LcoZ Term Debt               590.5    636.9    921.1   1,003.9    830.4    637.1    435.8    236.5
Equity                                 1,914.1  2,014.6  2,041.6  2,167.8  2,370.1  2,586.6  2,816.8  3,058.7
Carnmt Ratio                               2.2       2.4       2.4       2.2       2.4      2.5       2.4       2.4
Long-Tern Debt/Equity Ratio              24/76     24/76     31/69    32/68    26/74      20/80     13/87      7/93
tong-Term Debt Service Coverage Ratio      2.4       2.1       2,6       2.0       1.7      2.0   -  2.1        2.1



-  126                                                          4
Page 2
1985      1986      1987      1988      1989      1990       1991      1992
(Estimate)                             (Proj ecte-   -  ---
vsZm
Revenues                                2,069.9   2,364.8   2,605.9   2,978.2   3,424.4   3,922.0   3,922.0   3,922.0
Profit Before Tax                          134.9     209.6    266.0      305.3     370.U     548.9     563.7      578.6
Profit After Tax b/                        67.4       94.3     119.7     137.4     166.5     247.0      253.7     260.4
Internal Cash Generation                  116.8      74.7       95.9     151.4     195.9     219.6     292.4     297.0
Debt Service
- Principal                                 16.0      14.0      13.0      24.5      90.8     112.9    1110.9      109.9
- Interest                                  2.0       14.0      16.0      53.7      89.4      83.4       68.6      53.7
Current Assts                             731.0      707.6     774.0     874.1    998.9   1,136.0   1,136.0   1,136.0
Current Liabilities                       209.6      253.7     309.8     431.4     519.5     591.8      590.8     590.8
OutstandIng Long Term Debt                 106.5     107.1     362.9     592.1     557.3    446.4      336.6      226.7
Equity                                   1,253.7   1 228.7   1,207.5   1,196.7   1,214.3   1,257.2   1,367.5   1,488.3
Current Ratio                               3.5        2.8       2.5       2.0       1.9       1.9        1.9       1.9
Long-Term Debt/Equity Ratio                8/92       8/92     23'77     33/67     31/69     26/74      20180     13/87
Loang-bTe   Debt Service Cuverage Ratio     6.6        3.2       3.9       2.6       1.6       1.5       2.0        2.1
POW
2,996.0   3,395.9   3,981.8   4,747.6   5,835.9   6,426.2   6,542.3   6,542.3
ProfiLt Before Tax                        426.4     415.5      599.6     764.2   1,136.4   1,320.6   1,391.4   1,398.3
Profit After Tax/                         213.2      187.0     269.8     343.9     511.4     594.3     626.1    629.2
lnternal Cash Generation                  370.0     374.1      374.8    333.1      324.9     332.8    341.3      349.8
Debt Service
- PrSnipal                                 33.7       18.1       9.0      30.8      63.6      65.6      65.6       65.6
- interest                                  5.9        1.8       1.1      42.8      51.0      43.1      34.6       26.1
COrrent Assets                            823.0     954.2   1,121.7   1,340.5   1,648.4   1,815.9   1,850.0   1,850.0
Currnmt LIabllities                       447.0      622.3     635.5     698.4     831.9     882.9     754.8      754.8
Outstanding Long Tenn Debt                  9.0        5.8     256.0     356.3     299.0     233.4     167.9      102.3
Equity                                  1,211.8   1,261.8   1,394.4   1,614.2   1,908.0   2,416.9   3,012.3   3,498.7
Cawent Ratio                                 1.8       1.5       1.8       1.9       2.0       2.1       2.5       2.5
Iong-Taru Debt/Equity Ratio                 1/99      1/"9     16/84     18/82     14/86      9/91      5/95       3/97
Long-Term Debt Service CAverage Ratio       6.3       11.0      18.8       4.7       3.8       5.4       6.5       7.4
!  In current prices during 1984-90; constant 1990 prices thereafter.                                               -
b/ Before SDB loan repaymnt, wage tax, property tax and earnings tax.
Indstry D rt
May 1986



- 127 -
-AN    6-5
.LWAa - . NIjsM  P.                             ..
1986            1987            1988           1989
q-arter  i  n  m   Iv  I  nm   Iv  I  1111   IV  I   U I rIv
,= rdStal iI        .                                                              ..
Irmuatlcn Finance-
Nwma   It Dveopzwt-
TIbdmical Assistanice
Related Services (Ild.
eie staSort)                              . -     _        _
Iedwkcgical Infrastructer           -      
S-lected hterpris:
iroau._nt                  - -                               _ -
-    -uti
Nay 1986      smm-



- 128 -
ANNEX 6-6
HUNGARY - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
Estimated Schedule a/
Calendar               Fiscal                          Cumulative
Year & Semester       Year & Semester         Amount   Amount   Percent
u s-(US$ million)-
1986  II             FY87   1               16.5     16.5       16.5
1987   1             FY87  II               19.1     35.6      35.6
II             FY88   I               6.0      41.6      41.6
1988   I             FY88  II               10.2     51.8      51.8
II             FY89   I              13.7      65.5      65.5
1989   I             FY89  II                8.7     74.2       74.2
II             FY90   I               7.7      81.9      81.9
1990   I             FY90  II                7.0     88.9      88.9
it             FY91   I               5.3      94.2      94.2
1991   I             FY91  II                2.5     96.7      96.7
II             FY92   I               2.0      98.7      98.7
1992   I             FY92  II                1.3    100.0      100.0
I The incremental working capital component of US$30 million is expected
to be disbursed within 12 months of loan effectiveness.
Industry Department
May 1986



- 129 -
ANNEX 7
HUNGARY - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Industrial Sector and Subsector
A-i: Macro-level Study of Development in Industrial Technology, prepared
by State Office for Technical Development, May 1985.
A-2: Macro-level Efficiency Calculations of the Industrial Restructuring
Program, prepared by National Planning Office, November 1985.
A-3: Country   Strategies   for   Industrial   Restructuring,   Industry
Department, World Bank, August 1985.
A-4: Hungarian Plastics Processing Industry, Research Institute for the
Plastics Industry, July 1984.
A-5: Hungarian    Plastics    Processing    Subsector,    prepared    by
Arthur D. Little, UK, August 1985.
A-6: Market for Plastics Products in Hungary, prepared by Industrial Aids
Ltd., UK, July 1985.
A-7: Series of documents on the plastics processing subsector and its
infrastructure, prepared by the Ministry of Industry.
A-8: Series of documents on the Industrial Policy Reform Program,
prepared by the National Planning Office.
A-9: Improving the Supply Chain Organization of Plastics Goods, prepared
by Arthur D. Little, UK, August 1985.
A-1O: Hungary - Sector Report on Structural Adjustment in Industry,
Industry Department, World Bank, February 1986.
B. Selected Reports and Studies on the Restructuring Programs
B-l: Restructuring Programs of Selected Plastics Processing Enterprises,
prepared by Arthur D. Little, UK, August 1985.
B-2: Mold-making Facilities in Hungary, prepared by Plastrade Company,
Portugal, August 1985.
B-3: Feasibility Studies on the Restructuring Programs Subcomponents,
prepared by the telected Plastics Processing Enterprises.
B-4: Restructuring of the Selected Plastics Processing Enterprises,
prepared by Peter Afif, consultant.
C. Selected Working Pipers
C-1: Historic and Projected Financial Statements of Plastics Processing
Enterprises, Institutes and Innovation Financing Institutions.
C-2: Capital  Cost  Estimates,  Financial  and  Economic  Analysis  of
Restructuring  Programs  of  the  Selected  Plastics  Processing
Enterprises.
C-3: Implementation Schedule of Restructuring Programs Subcomponents of
the Selected Plastics Processing Enterprises.
C-4: Documents on the Innovation Finance Component.
C-5: Notes on the Background, Organization and Performance of the
Selected Plastics Processing Enterprises, Institutes and Innovation
Financing Institutions.
C-6: Completed Questionnaires on Technical, Management and Financial
Areas of the Selected Plastics Processing Enterprises.
Industry Department
May 1986



HUNGARY                                                                       o2                                                           CZECHOSLOVAKIA,IR   157
INDVSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT                                                                                                                                     nt.J*s
SPECIFIC SUBSECTOR RESTRUCTURING  COMPONENT                                                                                                                                     td,#.,           ~t,                   US  .R
PLASTIC PROCESSING SUEISECTOR                                                                                                                                                                               u55R
LOCATION OF SELECTED ENTERPRISES
*    Plant locations                                                                                                                                                                             A
Motorway                                                         or-                        . 
Main roads                                                                                                                                         inks
*                  )  ~~~~~~~~""~~~~~"~~~ ~Rivers                                                                alglog6
Meya(countyJboandari.               '           ~                                           "        f     >~    ~E~                        ~        nsns.         Nt0yi~ 
-'   nternational boundaries         ot-
-N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
Szn0e  thely                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BITenI  oksfbro
V6cot                                                              EMU  'CsI  olit                                                                                              st        Maioi.k.l.E
ersoeg                                                                             ecsketiiet                                                      5)              IiiV      indopini~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S--r
Nne,n,id    n/                                                      Soog~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kc en4       SPoyn
* cnioaccco'~~~~~~~~~.yn                 j~~~~.~~~~cAE  c  A~~S
ThiS,c,cn~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DL -idp -
'p.                                                                                                                                                                              APRIL 1988~~~~~~~~~~~~C.  ~  . 3



