Documenl of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13732
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
FIRST AND SECOND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECTS
(LOANS 2700-HU AND 2834-HU)
NOVEMBER 29, 1994
Country Operations Division
Country Department II
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
US Dollar Equivalents
(Forints per US$)
Average Annual
1985        50.1
1986        45.8
1987        47.0
1988        50.4
1989        59.1
1990        63.2
1992        80.0
1993        89.5
ABBREVIATIONS
CC           -      Convertible Currency
CMEA         -      Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
DRC          -      Domestic Resource Cost
EFSAL        -      Enterprise Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GDP          -      Gross Domestic Product
IMF          -      International Monetary Fund
ISAL         -      Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan
MIT          -      Ministry of Industry and Trade
MOF          -      Ministry of Finance
NBH          -      National Bank of Hungary
NPO          -      National Planning Office
OMFB         -      Orszagos Muszaki Fejlesztesi Bizottsag
PCR          -      Project Completion Report
PPS          -      Plastics Processing Subsector
RD&E         -      Research, Development and Engineering
SAE          -      State Administered Enterprises
SAL          -      Structural Adjustment Loan
SDR          -      Special Drawing Rights
SME          -      Self-Managed Enterprises
SOE          -      State-owned Enterprise
SPA          -      State Property Agency
TFP          -      Total Factor Productivity



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
November 29, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:          Project Completion Report on Hungary
Fir.st and Second Industrial Restructuring Projects
(Loans 2700-HU and 2834-HU)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Hungary - First and Second Industrial Restructuring
Projects (Loans 2700-HU and 2834-HU) prepared by the Europe and Central Asia Regional Office, with
Part H contributed by the Borrower.
The objective of the two projects was to accelerate the restructuring of the Hungarian industry,
with emphasis on specific subsectors: plastic processing, rubber and agriculture/food processing machinery.
The projects were designed to achieve this objective through (i) an industry-wide component to finance
imports of goods; (ii) a project financing component to support the efficient and competitive development
of the selected subsectors and their technological infrastructure; and (iii) a technical assistance component
for training and institution building in several policy areas. For the first time in Bank lending to Eastern
Europe, these industry sector investment projects included an economy-wide policy reform component.
The policy program, which included measures to increase financial discipline of enterprises and
foster a more competitive environment, was only partly implemented. Disbursement performance of the
investment component was good during the first years of project implementation, but then slowed down,
due in part to the collapse of the CMEA market. Rates of return on subprojects are uneven.
In spite of mixed results in both policy and subproject areas, the Bank loans helped Hungarian
industry to reorient some of its production towards the convertible currency markets ahead of other Eastern
Europe countries. Enterprises in the plastic processing and rubber subsectors were able to compete in the
western markets and to increase their exports.
The outcomes of the two projects are rated as marginally satisfactory, their sustainability as
uncertain, and their institutional development impact as modest.
The PCR provides a frank account of project outcomes, especially on the overall policy framework
and the subprojects under the sector investment component. The PCR includes only limited information
on the sustainability of beneficiary enterprises, the performnance of the financial intermediaries, and the
impact of technical assistance.
An audit is planned.              (11
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and rnay be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their official duties, Its contenta
nay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
FIRST AND SECOND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECTS
(Loans 2700-HU and 2834-HU)
Table of Contents
PREFACE  .......................................................   i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ............................................  ii
PART I: LOAN REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   .......................  1
A.      Project Identity  ..........................................   1
B.      Background .............................................  1
C.      Project Objectives and Description  .............................    3
D.      Project Design and Organization ...............................    4
E.      Project Implementation .....................................    5
F.      Project Results ..........................................    7
G. Project Sustainability .11
H.  Bank Performance and Lessons Learned .12
I.  Borrower Performance .14
J.  Project Relationship .14
K.  Project Documentation and Data .14
PART II: LOAN REVIEW  FROM  THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ..............  15
PART III: BASIC DATA SHEET ......................................... 31
This document has a rstricted distibutlon and may be used by rdpiet only in the p  _rzance of tdir
oiMci  dues. Its contents may not otherwis be disclosed without World Bank authorzl



I



HUNGARY
FIRST AND SECOND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECTS
(Loans 2700-HU and 2834-HU)
PREFACE
1.    This is the combined Project Completion Report (PCR) for the First and Second Industrial
Restructuring Projects (2700-HU and 2834-HU) in the amounts of US$100 million and US$150 million
which were approved on May 27, 1986, and June 11, 1987, respectively. US$88.2 million was disbursed
out of Loan 2700-HU and the Loan closed as of June 30, 1993. US$95.4 million was disbursed under
Loan 2834-HU and the Loan closed as of September 30, 1993. Unutilized balances of US$11.8 million
under Loan 2700-HU and US$54.6 million under Loan 2834-HU were cancelled. Since both projects
covered the same Borrower and their implementation periods overlapped with each other to some extent,
the combined PCR consists of a synthesis of the overall experience under the two projects. The main
objectives of the projects were to support the restructuring of Hungarian industry to enable it to achieve
international competitiveness and increase convertible currency exports.
2.    This PCR is based on, inter alia, the Staff Appraisal and President's Reports, the Loan and
Guarantee Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and
various internal Bank memoranda. Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Country Operations
Division, Central Europe Department. Part II of the PCR was prepared by the National Bank of Hungary
(NBH) and the Ministry of Industry and Trade (MIT)






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
FIRST AND SECOND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECTS
(Loans 2700-HU, 2834-HU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
i.     The objectives of both projects (see para 9) were to support the restructuring of the Hungarian
industry to enable it to achieve international competitiveness and increase the potential for exports. The
projects were designed to achieve this objective through mutually reinforcing components:
(a)    An industry-wide restructuring component, to finance imports of goods needed as a result
of industry-wide enterprise restructuring;
(b)    A  subsector restructuring component, to support the efficient and competitive
development of selected industrial subsectors, including support for technological
infrastructure; and
(c)    Technical assistance, training, institution-building and other services in several policy
areas.
Project Design and Organization
ii.    Since lending to Hungary began in 1983, the Bank's strategy of assistance has focussed on
supporting Hungary's program of structural adjustment in the economy to make it more efficient, flexible,
market responsive and competitive in external markets. At the beginning, this strategy was reflected in
lending operations focussed on selected sectors, i.e., agriculture, industry, energy and transport. The
selection of the subsectors for which restructuring programs were developed was based on analysis of
their potential comparative advantage (see para 12). In the industrial sector work, carried out jointly by
the Bank and the Hungarian authorities, some 60 manufacturing subsectors were analyzed with respect
to their potential competitiveness and productivity performance. In addition, the Ministry of Industry and
Trade (MIT) carried out specific techno-economic analysis of about 15 subsectors in order to identify
their potential, constraints and restructuring requirements.
iii.    The Bank and the authorities, based on analysis carried out, believed that the Hungarian industry
had the potential to meet the challenges of international competition which was an essential ingredient for
adjustment and efficient growth of industry (see para 13). Under the first industrial restructuring project,
the plastic processing subsector was selected as a model for the measures that could be taken to improve
the efficiency of the enterprises. The second industrial restructuring project followed this approach, a
year later, by including three additional subsectors -- rubber processing, agriculture machinery and food
processing machinery.



iii
iv.    The projects were placed into an evolving industrial policy reform environment. There was no
explicit policy conditionality under the loans, but there was general agreement on an overall program of
industrial policy and related institutional reforms (parts in place and parts developed through technical
assistance under the projects), which constituted the core of Hungary's industrial restructuring efforts at
the time (see para 5 for the package of coordinated actions in eleven policy areas). While not formally
designated as policy-based operations, the loans included some quick-disbursing funds, for sale to
enterprises who were responding to the new policy and institutional environment.
Implementation Experience
v.     Economic Environment and Policy Reform. With regard to the quick-disbursing component, these
two projects were innovative in their approach to tackling transition issues in what was then primarily
a command economy. They attempted to build on the successful sectoral approach and to begin to look
more deeply at systemic reform needs. Implementation experience was evolving on both sides and a
number of policy/institutional weaknesses were identified. These were subsequently analyzed and
addressed through the Bank's first policy-based loan, the ISAL (1988). These actions included measures
to improve financial discipline of the enterprises through a more stringent fiscal environment and stricter
application of bankruptcy procedures, as well as creation of a more competitive environment by
accelerating the liberalization of imports. However, some of these measures (e.g., adequate bankruptcy
procedures), although in place, were never enforced, due to the absence of an appropriate framework to
absorb the social cost of adjustment. At the time of the design of the ISAL, although the social costs of
the program were anticipated, no provision was made in the loan to mitigate the adverse impacts of
bankruptcy and closures on the population. This may have contributed to the reluctance by the
authorities, at the time, to accelerate the bankruptcy proceedings. Issues concerning the social cost of
adjustment and other inter-related fiscal matters were subsequently addressed under the SALs which
followed.
vi.    Following the multi-party elections of 1990, the first held after more than 40 years of communist
rule, economic reforms accelerated, and a debate on fundamental systemic issues such as enterprise
governance, privatization, and the inter-related financial issues between the enterprise and the banking
sectors started. The Bank supported this acceleration of reforms with two structural adjustment loans and
an enterprise restructuring loan. The reform program adopted by the new Government differed radically
from earlier efforts in its clear vision of a Hungarian market economy fully integrated into Western
Europe. Foreign trade was liberalized (the only goods still requiring licenses are those subject to
international agreements), prices were freed, subsidies to consumers and producers were drastically
reduced and legal restrictions on hiring or firing of workers were removed. Progress was also achieved
in reforming the enterprise and financial sectors, including creation of a large number of new domestic
private banks and sale of State-owned enterprises to domestic and foreign investors, raising the private
sector contribution to GDP to more than 50%.
vii.   Implementation of these reforms was accompanied by a sharp contraction of industrial output and
real GDP--by 30% and 19% respectively since 1989. The number of resulting lay-offs was also
dramatic, leading to an increase in the rate of unemployment from negligible levels to around 12% in late
1993. The contraction of activity was accompanied by a pronounced decline in aggregate fixed
investment (to levels below 20% of GDP), despite large inflows of foreign investment. The sharp
recession from 1990 to 1993 was partly due to external shocks including the collapse of the CMEA,
responsible in large part for the sharp fall in 1991 (see para 31); major droughts in 1991 and 1992, which
affected agricultural output; and the UN sanctions on former Yugoslavia.



iv
viii.   The pace of structural reforms decreased, significantly affecting the performance of key economic
sectors. In industry, after the wave of enterprise reorganizations and liquidations that swept the country
in 1992, restructuring and downsizing slowed down. The major banks faced major liquidity and solvency
problems. As a result of large losses by SOEs and a persistent large fiscal deficit, bank lending to the
most dynamic sectors in the economy became severely limited. The extent and impact of the above
problems could not have been anticipated at time when the two projects were prepared.
ix.    Hungary, in mid-1994, is at a watershed. Parliamentary elections have just been completed and
the new Government will have to address, urgently, the current macroeconomic and remaining structural
problems in the enterprise and banking sectors.
x.    Restructuring Subprojects. Disbursement performance of the investment components was good
through the end of 1990, but slowed down considerably thereafter. As mentioned above, the main reason
for this slowdown was the reduced investment demand in Hungary due to a number of factors, including
(i) the virtual collapse of the CMEA market which was not foreseen at appraisal of these projects (see
para 29); (ii) the contraction of the domestic market due to tight credit policies, inflation and high interest
rates; and (iii) the inability of enterprises to rapidly reorient their production to convertible currency
markets, which led to many enterprises operating at low capacity utilization-- at times below break-even.
xi.    There were additional factors leading to slow utilization of Bank funds. Chief among them was
the relatively limited interest shown by the participating banks in promoting long-term lending after 1990.
Until the establishment of the two-tier banking system, NBH had been responsible for assessing the
economic and financial aspects of these programs and the creditworthiness of the enterprises involved,
as well as for making the credit decisions.
xii.   Several infrastructure institutions-- mold-making facilities, and information centers were set up
for the plastic and rubber processing subsectors. The Restructuring Programs Office (RPO), set up to
assist implementation of these and the investment components, was subsequently privatized and now
operates as a private consulting company. This company was instrumental in preparing the company
specific data for this report. The design and implementation of information systems requirements (arising
from the separation of the NBH into a central bank and three competing commercial banks), as well as
the strengthening of internal management and analytical functions within the central bank headquarters,
were accomplished.
Results
xiii.   The results were mixed.  The policy program  was introduced as planned, but follow-up
implementation of the policies was not consistent. The lines of credit were drawn quickly at first, but
after 1990 slowed considerably, and subsequently, of the total amount of US$250 million provided by
the two loans, US$66 million was cancelled. Because of adverse conditions affecting both the plastic and
rubber industries, the demand for subsector infrastructure services declined, and as a result some of these
institutions were forced to close operations.
xiv.   The results of the Bank-financed restructuring subprojects are best discussed in the context of the
policy environment in which they were implemented. Though far ahead in efforts and revolutionary
compared to neighboring countries in the 1980's, the Hungarian reforms were limited in scope and were
not implemented consistently. The gradualist approach to the transformation, which resulted from an
understandable desire to ensure social stability during the transition, did not prove successful in avoiding



v
a sharp decline in real incomes and led to unsustainable levels of social expenditures. Therefore, at the
end of the 1980's, the State continued to intervene in the economy, through subsidy and transfer
mechanisms, a number of prices were still controlled, and informal barriers to the private sector activity
remained. Given this environment, the restructuring programs could have only limited and mixed impact
across subsectors and enterprises.
xv.    The Bank had hoped to generate a demonstration effect with the pre-appraised subprojects. Direct
Bank-financed support to the restructuring programs reached only a small proportion of the overall
industrial sector enterprises (only 2-3% of all SOEs benefitted from Bank financing under the program).
However, within the selected subsectors (especially plastic and rubber processing), because the output
of the pre-appraised enterprises represented a significant percentage of the total subsector output, the
impact was far greater, and the demonstration effect was achieved (see para 27).
xvi.   There has been a dramatic change in the business environment since 1985/86 when the projects
were conceived. However, the Bank, as well as most of the enterprises that participated in restructuring
exercises under these projects, believe that although the rates of return on individual sub-projects may
be low in many cases (see para 31), the impact of restructuring and modernization programs undertaken
by the enterprises has been positive and has placed enterprises in a good position to negotiate with
potential foreign partners.  The changes in organizational structures and management systems
strengthened the capabilities of enterprise managements and facilitated a better response to the present
difficult and challenging economic environment.
xvii.  IRP I (Plastic Processing) The output of this subsector increased from 374 kilo tons (kt) in 1985
to a high of 420 kt by 1988. As in most other subsectors in Hungary, however, output fell to 260 kt by
1992 due to a variety of reasons (import liberalization, decline in domestic and CMEA markets, etc.).
Exports to convertible currency markets, however, grew from 1.3 billion ft. in 1985 to about 5.2 billion
ft (in 1985 prices) in 1992. Another important impact of the program was the spin-offs and the joint
ventures that were created as a result of the subprojects, in order to reach export markets and obtain
advanced technology and know-how. Subsector infrastructure components (mold making, quality control
and testing institutes, etc.) were implemented and some are in operation.
xviii.  IRP II (Rubber, Agriculture/Food Processing) The rubber processing subsector is dominated
by the Taurus enterprise and accounts for about 70% of the output of the sector. The output of the
rubber processing subsector, which peaked in real terms in 1988, declined dramatically in the 1990's due
to declines in the domestic and CMEA markets, especially in the transport sector. However, as in the
plastic processing subsector, the rubber processing subsector also showed real increases in exports. Only
a very few programs were implemented in the agriculture/food processing machinery subsector, where
there was a significantly abrupt decline in worldwide demand.
Sustainability
xix.   Based on the policy matrix (Industrial Policy Reform Program) that the Government agreed with
the Bank for these two Industrial Restructuring Projects, the Government started to pursue programs to
transform the Hungarian industrial sector to a market-oriented sector. However, it became clear that
these could not be effectively pursued and sustained without also addressing systemic issues such as
governance, privatization and the financial/enterprise sector nexus. While many of these measures were
necessary, they were not sufficient by themselves for sustainability of industrial restructuring. The
effectiveness of the technical assistance components, although significant in the early stages, declined with



vi
the downturn in the respective subsectors. Most of these institutions have, in the current economic
environment, found it difficult to survive as commercial entities without any form of Government
subsidies.
xx.   The true contribution of Bank assistance through these projects was the support of fundamental
systemic changes, which fostered the transformation of the overall Hungarian industrial sector. An
unanticipated but positive outcome of Bank supported programs was the robust growth of the small and
medium enterprises, and a corresponding decline in the production of large SOEs. The other indirect
benefit of the projects was the formation of a very high number of joint ventures with foreign investors,
due to increased international confidence in the prospects of the Hungarian economy, which provided
discipline, new management skills, and advanced technology vital for Hungary's successful integration
into the world economy.
xxi.   However, although Hungary has made substantial progress in transforming its economy, some
serious structural problems remain. Huge losses (about 13 % of GDP in 1992) are still generated by large
numbers of enterprises, including privatized enterprises. These losses continue to be financed through
defaults on bank loans, inter-enterprise arrears, and arrears to the State budget and social security, thus
weakening the banks' portfolio, contaminating other enterprises, and contributing to the fiscal deficit.
Most Hungarian banks remain in State hands, and have suffered from severe portfolio problems as a
result of past lending to State enterprises.
xxii.  Recognizing the major problems faced by the banks and their negative impact on a sustainable
recovery, the Government initiated a program of enterprise and banking reform in the second half of
1993. This program involved an up-front recapitalization of the banks, designed to restore solvency and
ensure their liquidity. The recapitalization was accompanied by measures to enhance the banks' capacity
to work out problem loans and improve the quality of new lending. The new Government should
significantly advance these reforms, accelerate the improvement of bank governance, accelerate
privatization of banks and enterprises, and strengthen the bank supervision and regulatory framework.
xxiii. This comprehensive reform is necessary if the policy measures implemented under the IRP I and
IRP II are to be sustainable.  The Government will, however, continue to face difficulties both in
stabilizing the economy further and in implementing its reform program, since its expected benefits are
less visible than the costs of the program and the burden to be borne by the population. Uncertainties
also remain with regard to the pace at which the needed supply response can be expected, because this
will require changes in attitudes and behavior as well as the reallocation of resources to more profitable
activities. The Bank would be prepared to support the Government with an Enterprise Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (EFSAL), if it decides to implement a comprehensive and in-depth program to resolve
the remaining enterprise and banking sector problems.
Findigs and Lessons
xxiv.  The weaknesses of the overall reform program as it refers to the industry/enterprise sector have
been identified and discussed in an OED report and in the audit of the ISAL (see para 39). Some
important lessons that have emerged from that experience and emphasized under these projects, which
could be of relevance in other countries currently undergoing similar experiences, are as follows:
(i)    At the macro-level, the Hungarian policy of gradual reforms during the 1980's, although
yielding many benefits, did not fully succeed in transforming and dynamizing its
economy. System-wide lessons learned in the process of restructuring in a reforming



vii
economy like Hungary (applicable to these two projects) can be highlighted by some
basic elements of effective industrial restructuring which emerged from the Hungarian
experience, namely: (a) the need to change the incentive regime to compel industries and
enterprises to restructure (e.g., greater exposure to world and domestic competition); (b)
access to the necessary information, finance, skills and technology that enterprises need
to restructure and cannot generate on their own; (c) effective governance to be exercised
over both privatized and state-owned industrial enterprises, and commercial banks; and
(d) the need for financial discipline of enterprises and banks, i.e., a tight budget
constraint.
(ii)    Two of the above-mentioned elements affecting enterprise restructuring deserve special
mention with respect to the experience faced under these projects:
(a)    State Ownership and Management of Enterprises. The failure of the state to
establish clearly its proprietary interest in state owned enterprises and banks and
the general absence of competitive pressures in the economy blurred management
incentives and as a result there was little management accountability for declining
profitability or efficiency. Unless clear ownership reforms including autonomy
and the establishment of proper organizational structures are in place, the success
of enterprise reforms would be limited.
(b)    Financial Discipline at the Enterprise Level.  Due to the lack of accountability
by management, the existence of subsidies during this period, and the absence
of enforcement discipline by the banks, there was a lack of financial discipline
at the level of the enterprises, which did not always act with sufficient financial
prudence in investment choices. The continued access to state resources by
financially weak enterprises during this period, and the lack of properly
functioning bankruptcy procedures exacerbated this position.   Adequate
bankruptcy laws, the cancellation of subsidies and stricter credit requirements by
banks are crucial to instill financial discipline on enterprises.
xxv.  Some of these weakness were subsequently addressed in design of the SALs and the ERL. These
included measures to improve financial discipline of enterprises through a more stringent fiscal
environment and stricter application of bankruptcy procedures, as well as the creation of a more
competitive environment by accelerating the liberalization of imports. In addition to promoting measures
to privatize and strengthen the governance of SOEs, the ERL also helped to establish the 'Hungarian
Development Foundation (HUDEFO)". HUDEFO provides analytical support for the restructuring of
SOEs and private enterprises, primarily through a service of low cost, focused enterprise-specific strategic
reviews (quick scans), that provide impetus and guidelines for the restructuring process within the
individual enterprises (see para 40). The response from enterprises so far has been positive, and
demonstrates that the quick scan approach could be one of the innovative ways to assist enterprise
restructuring in Hungary.
xxvi.  An important lesson that emerged from the design of these projects is the difficulty in designing
conditionalities to monitor progress of the multi-faceted policy matrix. These projects were hybrid in
nature, encompassing a quick-disbursing component and an investment component. The quick-disbursing
component was linked to the policy matrix without any conditionalities for its release. All legal covenants
pertained to the investment component which were met faithfully by the authorities. Although the
Government adhered to the policy matrix spelled out in its letter of industrial policy intent, the policies



viii
were not implemented consistently. Furthermore, the quick-disbursing component was disbursed
relatively early in the life of the project, the Bank therefore did not retain the leverage necessary to help
advance progress in implementation of the measures introduced under the policy matrix for these projects
(for example, bankruptcy procedures were introduced but were not adequately applied-see para 17).
xxvii. With respect to other experiences gained from the design of these projects, some of the following
issues should be considered for future Bank projects: (i) allocating funds to selected sectors, i.e., plastics,
rubber, etc., should be avoided, establishing in its place a universal line of credit that would cover viable
projects from any sector; (ii) introducing more flexibility in Bank procedures relating to credit limits,
preparation of restructuring programs, sub-loan applications, procurement procedures, etc., assuming that
the participating banks' own procedures are acceptable; and (iii) with respect to lines of credit, ensuring
that the banking system has the accountability, capabilities and the proper incentives to administer lines
of credit, without which the banks, in a market economy, would be reluctant to on-lend funds.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
FIRST AND SECOND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECTS
(Loans 2700-HU and 2834-HU)
PART I: LOAN REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
NOTE
1.    The Hungarian Authorities commissioned Econoconsult, a Hungarian Consulting company to
obtain from the individual companies the necessary data for the calculation of the economic and financial
rates of return which appear in Part III of this report. Part I highlights the issues on the aims of the
project from the Bank's point of view and analyzes the extent to which these aims have been achieved
in the light of the radically changed political and economic circumstances now existing.
A.    Project Identity
2.           Project Name:               First Industrial Restructuring Project
Loan Number:               2700-HU
RVP Unit:                  ECA
Country:                   Hungary
Borrower:                  National Bank of Hungary
Sector:                    Industry
Date of Effectiveness:     August 6, 1986
Loan Amount:               US$100 million
Loan Amount Cancelled:     US$11.8 million
Project Name:              Second Industrial Restructuring Project
Loan Number:               2834-HU
RVP Unit:                  ECA
Country:                   Hungary
Borrower:                  National Bank of Hungary
Sector:                    Industry
Date of Effectiveness:     November 25, 1987
Loan Amount:               US$150 million
Loan Amount Cancelled:     US$54.6 million
B.    Background
3.    Following an economic crisis in the late 1970's and early 1980's, Hungary had stabilized its
economy by the end of 1984 with the help of two IMF Standby Arrangements which enabled the country
to avert a liquidity crisis. The current account was in surplus, as was the Central Government budget.
The stabilization was mainly through tight demand management, including administrative restrictions on
imports, which created pent up demand, rather than through improving exports. Reforms to further the



2
goals of decentralization and reliance on "indirect regulators", or market-based signals, to guide economic
actions were instituted.
4.    Industry, the largest sector in the economy, was dominated by state enterprises. Heavy industry
(mining, electric energy, metallurgy, engineering and building materials) accounted for two-thirds of
production but absorbed an even larger share of investment resources. Lack of both domestic and
international competition meant that there was little pressure for resources to be reallocated and as a result
the industrial structure remained static during the 1980's. The structure of external trade had been
complementary: by and large, primary/intermediate goods were imported from CMEA areas, and capital
goods from the convertible currency (CC) area. While capital goods were exported to the CMEA area,
intermediate goods were exported to CC areas.
5.     One of the primary reasons for the poor performance of industry had been the policy environment
within which the sector operated. The economic reform program replaced the physical planning system
with a new system of economic planning and management linked to markets. While this important
achievement enhanced economic efficiency in industry, some strategic issues remained. These were: (a)
limited domestic and international competition; (b) limited resource mobility; and (c) lack of financial
discipline and weak autonomy of enterprises. Within the overall economic stabilization and structural
reform program, these three issues were formulated into comprehensive industrial policy reforms by
addressing them through both the factor and product markets in which industrial enterprises operated.
This approach was supplemented by strengthening the basic building blocks of competitive and efficient
markets--liberal entry, free exit, and freedom of production and exchange by autonomous economic
entities. The industrial policy reform consisted of the following eleven components which were central
to the reform of the Hungarian economic system: entry of enterprises; liquidation; international trade;
pricing; taxation; wage differentiation and worker mobility; capital market development; the banking
system; enterprise management system; direct foreign investment; and technology development.
6.     The Bank's strategy in assisting the industrial sector in Hungary was to facilitate development
through support to investments aimed at: (i) improving the quality of industrial goods and expanding
exports; (ii) improving the efficiency of industrial operations through technological upgrading, energy
conservation and material saving; (iii) changing the structure of production; and (iv) helping the
enterprises to become more responsive to market signals.
7.     The Bank's country assistance strategy for Hungary also emphasized industrial restructuring which
was one of the primary objectives of Hungary's Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90). The strategy and
medium-term framework for industrial restructuring pursued by Hungary was discussed extensively with
the Bank. In line with this strategy, the two projects were conceived to achieve the following: (i)
resource allocation to change the structure of industrial production and exports to increase the proportion
of convertible currency exports by emphasizing manufacture of products where Hungary had a dynamic
comparative advantage; (ii) improving the productivity and competitiveness of existing production
facilities through technological upgrading, production rationalization, and organizational and managerial
improvements; and (iii) changing the behavior and motivation of economic entities to enhance flexibility,
dynamism, and responsiveness to market developments.
8.    The Bank's involvement contributed to defining this overall strategy, leading to the development
of coordinated policy actions comprising the reform program. It also played a major role in the
development of a restructuring program for jointly selected priority industries, namely the plastics



3
processing subsector under Loan 2700-HU, and rubber processing, agriculture machinery and food
processing machinery under Loan 2834-HU.
C.    Project Objectives and Description
9.     The objective of both projects was to support the restructuring of Hungarian industry to enable
it to achieve international competitiveness and increase the potential for exports. The Projects were
designed to achieve this objective through mutually reinforcing components:
Loan 2700-HU:
(a)    An industry-wide restructuring component which included support for a five-year program
of industrial policy and institutional reforms to provide the necessary conditions to induce
and facilitate restructuring.  The reform  program  was supplemented by specific
institution-building with regard to innovation financing, management development and
banking institutions.  The Project's aim was also to strengthen the capability of
Hungarian institutions to implement, monitor and develop further the five-year program;
and
(b)    A specific subsector restructuring component to expedite restructuring in the plastics
processing subsector (PPS). This included support for: (i) the development of the PPS
infrastructure--mold and die production, quality control and testing, RD&E, and market
and technical information services; (ii) the restructuring programs of five selected plastics
processing enterprises; and (iii) the restructuring of other enterprises in the subsector,
which were mainly small and medium sized.
Loan 2834-HU:
(c)    An industry-wide restructuring component, to finance imports of goods needed as a result
of industry-wide enterprise restructuring, a pilot program for the development of feeder
industries which produce parts, components, and subassemblies for industry, and specific
technical assistance with regard to the reform program, the banking system, and studies;
and
(d)    A  subsector restructuring component, to support the efficient and competitive
development of rubber processing, agricultural machinery, food processing machinery
and plastics processing subsectors, including support for technological infrastructure,
preparation, appraisal, and coordination of subsector and enterprise restructuring
programs.
10.   The projects were placed into an evolving industrial policy reform environment. There was no
explicit policy conditionality under the loans; there was general agreement on an overall program of
industrial policy and related institutional reform (parts in place and parts developed through technical
assistance under the projects), which constituted the core of Hungary's industrial restructuring efforts at
that time (see para 5 for the package of coordinated actions in eleven policy areas). While not formally
designated as policy-based operations, the loans included some quick-disbursing funds, for sale to
enterprises who were responding to the new policy and institutional environment.



4
D.     Project Design and Organization
11.    Since lending to Hungary began in 1983, the Bank's strategy of assistance has focussed on
supporting Hungary's program of structural adjustment in the economy to make it more efficient, flexible,
market responsive and competitive in external markets. Until 1985, this strategy was reflected in lending
operations focussed on selected sectors, i.e., agriculture, industry, energy and transport. Extensive
economic and sector work in the agriculture, energy and industry, financial and transportation sectors
provided the analytical basis for the Bank's policy dialogue with the Government. Apart from such sector
specific reviews, a review of public investment (Report No. 5585-HU) and the 1984/86 Country
Economic Reports and Memoranda had focussed on economic policy issues. These studies were the basis
for the gradual deepening of the Bank's dialogue on management of the economy and the design of the
economic and industrial policy reforms. A study of the policies, performance and constraints in the
industrial sector, carried out jointly with the Government (Hungary - Industrial Policy, Performance and
Prospects for Adjustment, Report No. 6124-HU), was particularly instrumental in this respect. The 1985-
90 industrial policy reforms, which formed the cornerstone of the Bank's lending to Hungary, were
designed in close collaboration with the Bank.
12.    The selection of the subsectors for which restructuring programs were developed under the
projects was based on analysis of their potential comparative advantage'. In the industrial sector work
carried out jointly by the Bank and the Hungarian authorities, some 60 manufacturing subsectors were
analyzed with respect to their potential competitiveness and productivity performance. Further, the
Ministry of Industry and Trade (MIT) carried out specific techno-economic analyses of about 15
subsectors2 to identify the potential, constraints and restructuring requirements of these subsectors.
13.    Processing industries, though not at the highest level on the competitiveness scale, had exhibited
superior performance. The exports of these industries accounted for a third of total output and over half
of total industrial exports. Thus, while the industrial sector overall was in need of rapid transformation
through stronger productivity performance, there were good grounds for believing that the Government's
objective of industrial restructuring to induce stronger and more efficient industrial growth could be met
if a vigorous integrated program of policy reform was undertaken. The Bank and the authorities, based
on analysis carried out, believed that Hungarian industry had the potential to meet the challenges of
international competition which is an essential ingredient for the adjustment and efficient growth of
industry. In designing the strategy to achieve this objective, it was necessary to focus on the constraints,
which in the past had impeded efficient growth and structural adjustment.
14.    Under the first industrial restructuring project, the plastic processing subsector was selected as
a model for the measures that could be taken to improve the efficiency of the enterprises. The second
industrial restructuring project followed this approach, a year later, by including three additional
subsectors - rubber processing, agriculture machinery and food processing machinery. The Projects built
A study of the productive performance of Hungarian industries (measured in TFP changes) in relation to
changes in international competitiveness between 1981 and 1983 (measured in DRC changes), as well as
the level of international competitiveness in 1983 (measured in DRC levels) was carried out by the
Hungarian authorities and the Bank.
2   These included among others: plastic processing, rubber processing, agriculture and food processing
machinery, vacuum technology products, road vehicles, and machine tools.



5
on the approach followed in past Bank loans to Hungary's industrial sector. The three Bank-financed
industrial projects until that time were multi-component in character: the Industrial Energy Diversification
and Conservation Project (Loan No. 2317-HU), the industrial Export and Restructuring Project (Loan
No. 2397-HU), and the Fine Chemicals Project (Loan No. 2511-HU). These projects supported
enterprise-initiated projects with a potential for improving competition and generating increased
convertible currency exports, and also helped strengthen the capacity of Hungarian institutions to
implement increasingly complex industrial operations.
E.    Project Implementation
15.   Identical project implementation arrangements were made for both projects. The NBH was
responsible for the overall coordination of the projects, monitoring and use of project funds. Appropriate
accounts and facilities were set at the NBH through which the activities supported by the projects were
financed. Because of the broad approach to industrial policy taken under the projects to support the
restructuring programs, an institutionalized process of continuous monitoring was required.  A
Restructuring Council, comprising government representatives headed by the Deputy Chairman of the
National Planning Office (NPO) and supported by the existing Policy Task Force, was responsible for
the development and monitoring of the industrial policy reform program.
16.    To monitor and implement the specific subsector restructuring components, a steering committee,
headed by the Secretary of State, MIT, and comprising representatives of MIT, NPO, NBH, and
representatives of the respective subsectors responsible for developing the subsectoral restructuring
programs, was established. The steering committee was supported by the Restructuring Program Office
(RPO). The RPO was staffed by qualified full-time personnel, and was responsible for the day-to-day
implementation tasks and for ensuring that the strategic, technical, marketing, and managerial aspects of
restructuring programs (not appraised by the Bank) for the four subsectors would be reviewed. The RPO
was also responsible for the supervision of procurement activities under the subsector restructuring
components. Both projects included the necessary technical assistance and training for strengthening of
the RPO.
17.   Economic Environment and Policy Reform. With regard to the quick-disbursing component, these
two projects were innovative in their approach to tackling transition issues in what was then primarily
a command economy. They attempted to build on the successful sectoral approach and to begin to look
more deeply at systemic reform needs. Implementation experience was evolving on both sides and a
number of policy/institutional weaknesses were identified, which were subsequently analyzed and
addressed through the Bank's first policy-based loan, the ISAL (1988). These actions included measures
to improve financial discipline of enterprises through a more stringent fiscal environment and stricter
application of bankruptcy procedures, as well as creation of a more competitive environment by
accelerating the liberalization of imports. However, some of these measures (e.g., adequate bankruptcy
procedures), although in place, were never enforced, due to the absence of an appropriate framework to
absorb the social cost of adjustment. At the time of the design of the ISAL, although the social costs of
the program were anticipated, no provision was made in the loan to mitigate the adverse impacts of
bankruptcy and closures on the population. This may have contributed to reluctance by the authorities
at the time to accelerate the bankruptcy proceedings. Issues concerning the social cost of adjustment and
other inter-related fiscal matters were subsequently addressed under the SALs which followed.
18.    Following the multi-party elections of 1990, the first to be held after more than 40 years of
communist rule, economic reforms accelerated, and a debate on fundamental systemic issues such as



6
enterprise governance, privatization, and the inter-related financial issues between the enterprises and the
banking sector started. The Bank supported this acceleration of reforms with two structural adjustment
loans and an enterprise restructuring loan. The reform program implemented by the new Government
differed radically from earlier efforts in its clear vision of a market economy fully integrated into Western
Europe. Foreign trade was liberalized (the only goods still requiring licenses are those subject to
international agreements), prices were freed, subsidies to consumers and producers were drastically
reduced and legal restrictions on hiring or firing of labor were removed. Progress was also achieved in
reforming the enterprise and financial sectors, including creation of a large number of new domestic
private banks, as well as the sale of state-owned enterprises to both domestic and foreign investors,
raising the share of the private sector in GDP to more than 50%.
19.   Implementation of these reforms was accompanied by a sharp contraction of industrial output and
real GDP--by 30% and 19% respectively since 1989. The number of resulting lay-offs was also
dramatic, leading to an increase in the rate of unemployment from negligible levels to around 12% in late
1993. The contraction of activity has also been accompanied by a pronounced decline in aggregate fixed
investment (to levels below 20% of GDP), despite large inflows of foreign investment.  The sharp
recession from 1990 to 1993 was partly due to external shocks including the collapse of the CMEA,
responsible in large part for the sharp fall in 1991 (see para 31); major droughts in 1991 and 1992, which
have affected agricultural output; and the UN sanctions on Yugoslavia.
20.   The pace of structural reforms has decreased, significantly affecting the performance of key
economic sectors. In industry, after the wave of enterprise reorganizations and liquidations that swept
the country in 1992, restructuring and downsizing slowed down. The major banks faced important
liquidity and solvency problems. As a result of large losses by SOEs and a persistent large fiscal deficit,
bank lending to the most dynamic sectors in the economy became severely limited. The extent and
impact of the above problems could not have been anticipated at the time when the two projects were
prepared.
21.     Hungary, in mid-1994, is at a watershed. Parliamentary elections have just been completed and
the new Government will have to address urgently the macroeconomic and remaining structural problems
in the enterprise and banking sectors.
22.   Restructuring Subprojects. Disbursement performance of the investment components was good
through the end of 1990, but slowed down considerably thereafter. As mentioned above, the main reason
for this slowdown was the reduced investment demand in Hungary due to a multiplicity of factors,
including (i) the virtual collapse of the CMEA market which was not foreseen at appraisal of these
projects (see para 29); (ii) contraction of the domestic market due to tight credit policies, inflation and
high interest rates; and (iii) the inability of enterprises to rapidly reorient their production to convertible
currency markets, which led to many enterprises operating at low capacity utilization and at times below
break-even.
23.   There were additional factors leading to slow utilization of Bank funds (see para 42). Chief
among them were the relatively limited interest shown by the participating banks in promoting long-term
lending after 1990. Until the establishment of the two-tier banking system, NBH had been responsible
for assessing the economic and financial aspects of these programs and the creditworthiness of the
enterprises involved, as well as for making the credit decisions.



7
24.    Several infrastructure institutions--mold-making facilities and information centers--were set up
for the plastic and rubber processing subsectors. The Restructuring Programs Office (RPO), set up to
assist implementation of these and the investment components, was subsequently privatized, and now
operates as a private consulting company. This company was instrumental in preparing the company
specific data for this report. The design and implementation of information systems requirements (arising
from the separation of the NBH into a central bank and three competing commercial banks), as well as
the strengthening of internal management and analytical functions within the central bank headquarters
were accomplished.
F.    Project Results
25.    The results are mixed. The policy program was pursued essentially as planned, but results were
disappointing. The lines of credit were drawn quickly at first, but then slowed considerably, and
subsequently, of the total amount of US$250 million provided by the two loans, US$66 million was
cancelled. Because of adverse conditions affecting both the plastic and rubber industries, the demand for
subsector infrastructure services declined, and as a result some of these institutions were forced to close
operations.
26.    The results of the Bank-financed restructuring subprojects are best discussed in the context of the
policy environment in which they were implemented. Though far ahead in efforts and revolutionary in
comparison to other neighboring countries, the Hungarian reforms were limited in scope and were not
implemented consistently. The gradualist approach to the transformation, which results from an
understandable desire to ensure social stability during the transition, did not prove successful in avoiding
a sharp decline in real incomes and led to unsustainable levels of social expenditures. Thus at the end
of the 1980's, the State continued to intervene in the economy through subsidy and transfer mechanisms,
a number of prices were still controlled, and informal barriers to the private sector remained. Given this
environment, the restructuring programs could have only limited and mixed impact across subsectors and
enterprises.
27.    The Bank had hoped to generate a demonstration effect with the pre-appraised subprojects. Direct
Bank-financed support to the restructuring programs reached only a small proportion of the overall
industrial sector (only 2-3 % of all SOEs benefitted from Bank financing under the program). However,
within the selected subsectors (especially plastic and rubber processing), because the output of the pre-
appraised enterprises represented a significant percentage of the total subsector output, the impact was
far greater, and the demonstration effect was achieved (see para 27).
28.    Bank funds directed to the support of specific subsector/enterprise restructuring programs
(US$104 million equivalent under IRP I and IRP II) accounted for a very small proportion of total
industrial investment. The policy reform program3, supported by IRP I and IRP II (and subsequently
by the ISAL), influenced investment behavior well beyond what this small proportion would indicate.
The influence resulted from the overall changes in the policy environment which likely helped Hungarian
industry reorient its markets ahead of other Central European countries and also from the subsequent
collapse in CMEA markets. Against this industry-wide impact, the paragraphs below provide an
3  Detailed accomplishments of the policy reform program can be found in the Project Completion Report for
the Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan (2965-HU) dated June 13, 1991.



8
assessment of the direct impact of subsector/enterprise restructuring programs that were directly supported
by the Bank loan proceeds.
29.   IRP I (Plastic Processing) The output of this subsector increased from 374 kilo tons (kt) in 1985
to a high of 420 kt by 1988. As in most other subsectors in Hungary, output fell to 260 kt by 1992 due
to a variety of reasons (import liberalization, decline in domestic and CMEA markets, etc.). Exports to
convertible currency markets, however, grew from 1.3 billion ft. in 1985 to about 5.2 billion ft (in 1985
prices) in 1992. Another important impact of the program has been the spin-offs and the joint ventures
that were created as a result of the subprojects, in order to reach export markets, and obtain technology
and know-how. Subsector infrastructure components (mold making, quality control and testing institutes,
etc.) have been implemented and are in operation.
30.   There has been a dramatic change in the business environment since 1985/86 when the projects
were conceived. However, the Bank as well as most of the enterprises under these projects, believe that
the restructuring and modernization programs undertaken by the enterprises has been positive, and has
placed enterprises in a good position to negotiate with potential foreign partners. The changes in
organizational structures and management systems strengthened the capabilities of enterprise managements
and facilitated a better response to the difficult and challenging economic environment.
31.    Details of sub-projects financed under the Loans are presented in Part III of this report. Summary
descriptions of the main companies and other major project components are as follows:
Note: In formulating restructuring plans for theses enterprises, emphasis was placed on activities
that were competitive in both the CC and CMEA markets. Because of the large volume of
exports made by these enterprises to the CMEA markets, sales to these markets accounted for
a large share of revenues in the rate of return calculations. The economies of scale associated
with these markets enabled these enterprises to be also competitive in Westem markets for
selected products. As a result of the loss of the CMEA and depressed domestic markets,
production has dropped by as much as 50-70%, and profit margins in most cases have decreased
from around 50%, anticipated at appraisal, to about 5% (see para 19). As a result most of the
subprojects have negative or very low rates of returns. Several pre-appraised sub-projects were
not implemented, due to lack of demand for those products. Exacerbating this situation, Western
Europe was undergoing a recessionary period, which restricted markets even further, especially
in the plastics and rubber processing industries, where the bulk of the Bank-financed projects
were.
Plastic Processing Loan 2700-HU:
(i)    Borsodchem (BVK): Following several spinoffs and the transformation of the parent
company, Borsodchem was formed in 1991, as a full successor to BVK. Currently,
Borsodchem is 92 % owned by the State Holding Company (AVRT). During the past two
years, nine subsidiaries were formed from its facilities. The company has implemented
four of its seven original sub-projects. Individual companies were formed out of two of
the sub-projects and operate as independent entities. The sub-projects that were cancelled
were due to market considerations.  Of the four sub-projects implemented, three
(adhesive tapes, plastic tiles and the tool project) had negative rates of return and the
fourth (pipes) had a positive but much lower rate of return than anticipated at appraisal.



9
Overall, the company is in financial difficulties and has received government assistance
in its debt consolidation program.
(ii)    Electrical Insulation and Plastic Works (VSZM).- The company is wholly owned by the
SPA, and is facing financial difficulties. It has implemented six of the original seven
sub-projects. Three of the sub-projects were spun-off as joint ventures with foreign
participation. Only two sub-projects displayed positive rates of return. Data on sub-
project performance for the tool and friction lining projects (both joint-ventures) were
unavailable.
(iii)   Pannonplast (HMV): The company name was changed from HMV to Pannonplast in
1991, and 92% of its shares are owned by the SPA. The company has established six
subsidiaries and seven joint ventures, mostly with foreign collaboration. The company
has implemented five of the six pre-appraised sub-projects. The company has an
excellent management team and is one of the more successful companies under the
project. Most of the sub-projects have positive, although low, rates of returns. The
company was profitable in 1992 and this trend was expected to continue in 1993.
(iv)   Pest County Plastic processing (PEMU): The company was wholly owned by the SPA,
and was bought over by the employees in an ESOP deal in 1993. PEMU has
implemented four of the five pre-appraised sub-projects, with two of them being joint-
ventures with majority foreign collaboration. As a result of the high quality of its output,
the technical plastic sub-project funded by the Bank has enabled them to conclude a
lucrative contract with the Suzuki/Hungary car manufacturing plant. Although the
individual sub-projects displayed negative rates of returns, the company is financially
viable and expects to do better, especially with the new contracts.
(v)    Tisza Chemical Company (TVK): TVK is owned wholly by the State Holding Company
(AVRT). Six joint venture companies have been formed, of which two were based on
Bank-financed sub-projects.   Four of the five pre-appraised sub-projects were
implemented. TVK's business was also badly affected by the collapse of the CMEA
markets and the global recession of the petrochemical industry. As a result, its financial
situation is strained. Two sub-projects had positive, albeit, low rates of return.
(vi)   Subsector Infrastructure: Several plastic processing infrastructure institutions, mold-
making facilities, and information centers were set up. However, because of adverse
conditions affecting the industry as a whole, the demand for their services has declined,
and as a result some of these institutions have closed down. The Restructuring Programs
Office (RPO), set up to implement this component was subsequently privatized, now
operates as a private (Econoconsult) consulting company. Econoconsult was instrumental
in preparing the company specific data for this report.
(vii) Support for Banking System: The project also financed the design and implementation
of the information systems requirements (arising from the separation of the NBH into a
central bank and three competing commercial banks), as well as the strengthening of
internal management and analytical functions within the central bank headquarters in
Budapest.



10
(viii)  Management and Technical Training: Funds were also provided to support overall
management development and training functions for the industrial sector and directly
strengthen management and technical training institutes in order to improve their
capabilities to train industrial managers in different functional areas. The International
Management Institute (IMC), with technical assistance from Indiana University (US),
showed interest in developing management training courses under this component.
However, due to the subsequent availability of grant funds, the IMC did not utilize any
Bank funds.
Rubber Processing Loan 2834-HU:
(i)    Taurus Rubber Processing Company: The rubber processing subsector is dominated by
the Taurus enterprise and accounts for about 70% of the output of the sector. The output
of the rubber processing subsector, which peaked in real terms in 1988, declined
dramatically in the 1990's due to declines in the domestic and CMEA markets, especially
in the transport sector.  As a result, the financial situation of Taurus has been
significantly affected. Because of its strong financial position in the past, cost reduction
programs and other phases of restructuring implemented by the company, Taurus has
been able to weather the downturn in the market and operate, albeit at a very modest
level of profitability. However, as in the plastic processing subsector, the rubber
processing subsector also showed real increases in exports. It implemented four sub-
projects, within budget and on time. These projects have largely accomplished their key
objectives of supporting higher production standards and quality assurance. The software
programs implemented have greatly contributed to its business culture. However, as a
result of the events described above and the world-wide recession in tire manufacturing,
the returns on the sub-projects have been adversely affected. Taurus is actively seeking
joint-venture partners to spin-off some of its production units.
(ii)    Only a very few programs were implemented in the agriculture/food processing
machinery subsector, where there was a significant abrupt decline in worldwide demand.
(iii)   Subsector Infrastructure Component: Due to the dramatic drop in local demand for
rubber products starting in 1989, apart from Taurus, very few SMEs in this sector
participated in the restructuring program. This is also reflected in the disappointing
performance by the subsector infrastructure components (rubber technical center, rubber
export promotion center), which had to be closed due to a lack of demand for their
services.
(iv)   Feeder Industry Component: Funds were provided under the Loan to conduct a study of
the feeder industries in Hungary, as well as investment funds for this sector. The study
was carried out by foreign consultants, however, the MIT was unable to implement most
of the recommendations of the study due to lack of budgetary resources. Because of the
overall poor response to the investment climate in Hungary, demand for funds under this
component was low.
(v)    Support for the Banking System: A feasibility study for the clearing center for the
banking system was completed under the project. Establishment of this center was
subsequently financed under the Financial Systems Modernization Project. Training



11
programs and automation strategy studies for participating banks and computer hardware
for new tax systems were also financed under the project.
G.    Project Sustainability
32.   Based on the policy matrix (Industrial Policy Reformn Program) that the Government agreed with
the Bank for these two Industrial Restructuring Projects, the Government started to pursue programs to
transform the Hungarian industrial sector to a market-oriented sector. However, it became clear that
these could not be effectively pursued and sustained without also addressing systemic issues, such as
governance, privatization and the financial/enterprise sector nexus. While many of these measures were
necessary, they were not sufficient by themselves for sustainability of industrial restructuring. The
effectiveness of the technical assistance components, although significant in the early stages, declined with
the downturn in the respective subsectors. Most of these institutions have, in the current economic
environment, found it difficult to survive as commercial entities without any form of Government
subsidies.
33.   The true contribution of Bank assistance through these projects was the support of fundamental
systemic changes, which fostered the transformation of the overall Hungarian industrial sector. An
unanticipated but positive outcome of Bank-supported programs was the robust growth of the small and
medium enterprises, and a corresponding decline in the production of large SOEs. The other indirect
benefit of the projects was the formation of a very high number of joint ventures with foreign investors,
due to increased international confidence in the prospects of the Hungarian economy, which provided
discipline, new management skills, and advanced technology vital for Hungary's successful integration
in the world economy.
34.   However, although Hungary has made substantial progress in transforming its economy, some
serious structural problems remain. Huge losses (about 13% of GDP in 1992) are still generated by
large numbers of enterprises, including privatized enterprises. These losses continue to be financed
through defaults on bank loans, inter-enterprise arrears, and arrears to the State budget and social
security, thus weakening the banks' portfolio, contaminating other enterprises, and contributing to the
fiscal deficit. Most Hungarian banks remain in state hands, and have suffered from severe portfolio
problems as a result of past lending to state enterprises.
35.   Recognizing the major problems faced by the banks and their negative impact on a sustainable
recovery, the Government initiated a program of enterprise and banking reform in the second half of
1993. This program involved an up-front recapitalization of the banks, designed to restore solvency and
ensure their liquidity. The recapitalization was accompanied by measures to enhance the banks' capacity
to work out problem loans and improve the quality of new lending. However, these actions alone are
not enough.  The new  Government should significantly advance these reforms, accelerate the
improvement of bank governance, accelerate privatization of banks and enterprises, and strengthen the
bank supervision and regulatory framework.
36.   This comprehensive reform is necessary if the policy measures implemented under the IRP I and
IRP II are to be sustainable.  The Government will, however, continue to face difficulties both in
stabilizing the economy further and in implementing its reform program, since its expected benefits are
less visible than the costs of the program and the burden to be borne by the population. Uncertainties
also remain with regard to the pace at which the needed supply response can be expected, because this
will require changes in attitudes and behavior as well as the reallocation of resources to more profitable



12
activities. The Bank would be prepared to support the Government with an Enterprise Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (EFSAL), if it decides to implement a comprehensive and in-depth program to resolve
the remaining enterprise and banking sector problems.
H.    Bank Performance and Lessons Learned
37.   The Bank's performance was effective in the implementation and supervision phases. The
projects objectives were appropriate at that juncture in the Hungarian reform program. The frequency
and composition of supervision missions were adequate throughout the project cycle. One reason for the
success of the overall implementation and supervision phase was that, in spite of the Bank reorganization
which took place, some personnel involved in the design and appraisal of the projects remained actively
involved with the implementation until the loan closing date, thus ensuring continuity.
38.   In the process of project implementation, the Bank also became aware of several procedural issues
that were impeding the utilization of the loans. The Bank recognized these issues and attempted to rectify
some of them through amendments to the Loan Agreements (e.g., increasing the amount of contracts for
ICB, international shopping, etc., acceptance of commercial practices for procurement, financing of free-
standing working capital, opening up the lines to include all manufacturing industries, etc.).
39.   The weaknesses of the overall reform program as it refers to the industry/enterprise sector have
been identified and discussed in an OED report4, and in the audit of the ISAL. The ISAL, approved in
1988 (after these two projects), elaborated the eleven policy areas formulated under these projects. It was
completed in 1990 and the PCR was prepared in 1991. Some important lessons that have emerged from
that experience and are emphasized under these projects, and which could be of relevance in other
countries currently undergoing similar experiences, are as follows:
(i)    At the macro-level, the Hungarian policy of gradual reforms during the 1980's, although
yielding many benefits, did not fully succeed in transforming and dynamizing its
economy. System-wide lessons learned in the process of restructuring in a reforming
economy like Hungary (applicable to these two projects) can be highlighted by some
basic elements of effective industrial restructuring which have emerged from the
Hungarian experience, namely: (a) the need to change the incentive regime to compel
industries and enterprises to restructure (e.g., greater exposure to world and domestic
competition); (b) access to the necessary information, finance, skills and technology that
enterprises need to restructure and cannot generate on their own; (c) effective governance
to be exercised over both privatized and state-owned industrial enterprises and banks; and
(d) the need for financial discipline of enterprises and banks, i.e., a tight budget
constraint.
(ii)    Two of the above mentioned elements affecting enterprise restructuring deserve special
mention with respect to the experience faced under these projects:
4  OED report, 'Hungary - Project/Program Performance Report - Industrial Export and Restructuring Project
(2397-HU) and Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan (2965-HU)", dated June 19, 1992.



13
(a)    State ownership and Management of Enterprises. At the time of these two
projects, SOEs were classified in two major groups, the state administered
enterprises (SAEs) and self-managed enterprises (SMEs), which operated without
Government involvement. Neither of these two forms produced expected results.
The SAEs continued in principal to be subject to detailed control by the
Government, although in most cases with less control than in the past. As far
as the SMEs were concerned, the reform led to virtual elimination of the
influence of the Government in its capacity as owner. Without the establishment
of an altemative ownership influence, the enterprise council focused on short-
term issues and gains, rather than the strategic goals and issues. The failure of
the state to establish clearly its proprietary interest in state-owned enterprises and
banks, and the general absence of competitive pressures in the economy blurred
management incentives and as a result there was little management accountability
for declining profitability or efficiency.  Unless clear ownership reforms
including autonomy and the establishment of proper organizational structures are
in place, the success of enterprise reforms would be limited.
(b)    Financial Discipline at the Enterprise Level.  Due to the lack of accountability
by management, the existence of subsidies during this period, and the absence
of enforcement discipline by the banks, there was a lack of financial discipline
at the level of the enterprises, which did not always act with sufficient financial
prudence in investment choices. The continued access to state resources by
financially weak enterprises during this period, and lack of properly functioning
bankruptcy procedures exacerbated this position. Adequate bankruptcy laws, the
cancellation of subsidies and stricter credit requirements by banks are crucial to
instill financial discipline on enterprises.
40.    Some of the weakness identified above were subsequently addressed in design of the SALs and
the ERL. These included measures to improve financial discipline of enterprises through a more stringent
fiscal environment and stricter application of bankruptcy procedures, as well as the creation of a more
competitive environment by accelerating the liberalization of imports. In addition to promoting measures
to privatize and strengthen the governance of SOEs, the ERL also helped to establish the "Hungarian
Development Foundation (HUDEFO)". HUDEFO provides analytical support for the restructuring of
SOEs and private enterprises, primarily through a service of low cost, focused enterprise-specific strategic
reviews (quick scans), that provide impetus and guidelines for the restructuring process within the
individual enterprises. The responses from enterprises so far have been positive, and demonstrate that
the quick scan approach could be one of the innovative ways to promote enterprise restructuring in
Hungary.
41.    An important lesson that emerged from the design of these projects is the difficulty in designing
conditionalities to monitor progress of the multi-faceted policy matrix. These projects were hybrid in
nature, encompassing a quick-disbursing component and an investment component. The quick-disbursing
component was linked to the policy matrix without any conditionalities for its release. All legal covenants
pertained to the investment component and were met faithfully by the authorities. Although the
Government adhered to the policy matrix spelled out in its letter of industrial policy intent, the policies
were not implemented consistently.  Furthermore, the quick-disbursing component was disbursed
relatively early in the life of the project, the Bank therefore did not retain the leverage necessary to help



14
advance progress in implementation of the measures introduced under the policy matrix for these projects
(for example, bankruptcy procedures were introduced but not were not adequately applied--see para 17).
42.   With respect to the other experiences gained from the design of these projects, some of the
following issues should be considered for future Bank projects: (i) avoiding the allocation of funds to
selected sectors, i.e., plastics, rubber, etc., instead establishing a universal line of credit that would cover
viable projects from any sector; (ii) introducing more flexibility in Bank procedures relating to credit
limits, preparation of restructuring programs, sub-loan applications, procurement procedures etc.,
assuming that participating banks' own procedures are acceptable and (iii) with respect to lines of credit,
ensuring that the banking system has the accountability, capabilities and proper incentives to administer
lines of credit, without which the banks, in a market economy, would be reluctant to on-lend funds.
I.     Borrower Performance
43.    The overall performance of the Borrower and the concerned Government agencies was good in
all phases of the project cycle. The Borrower complied with all the main covenants. By the time of these
projects, the NBH was familiar with Bank's procurement and other procedures. NBH had developed an
excellent monitoring system, which was applied to these projects and also to the other on-going projects,
and which facilitated project implementation and supervision of sub-projects. After the establishment of
the two-tier banking system, the responsibility of sub-project appraisal was passed on to the commercial
banks. Most of the NBH staff who were engaged in this aspect of project appraisal moved to the
commercial banks along with the sub-projects. The high quality and the absorptive capacity of the
Hungarian counterparts were evident in that the coverage, presentation and analysis of each succeeding
sub-project showed improvement, and the same mistake was seldomly repeated. As mentioned earlier,
project implementation was a learning period for the Bank as well as the Hungarian counterparts.
Although authorities strove to meet all the conditionalities imposed under the projects, some reform
measures (e.g., bankruptcy, financial discipline on enterprises, etc.) were not implemented consistently
due to the associated social costs and the politically sensitive nature of these reforms.
J.     Project Relationship
44.   Close personal relationships were established between the Bank staff working on the projects, and
the borrower (NBH), and other agencies such as MIT. Bank/NBH/MIT cooperation was very effective
in all phases of the Projects (e.g., appraisal, implementation and supervision).
K.    Project Documentation and Data
45.   The legal agreements for the Loans provided a good basis for supervision of the Projects. At no
time were there any disputes regarding interpretation of any of the provisions. When the situation in
which the Loan Agreements had to operate changed during implementation (e.g., change to two-tier
banking system, procurement, working capital, etc.), the Legal Department showed praiseworthy
appreciation of important project issues when interpreting and, when necessary, modifying the original
agreements. The Staff Appraisal Reports provided a continuous basis for monitoring the progress of the
Projects. Information from project files, and that provided by NBH/MIT was more than adequate for
supervision and preparation of the PCR.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
FIRST AND SECOND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECTS
(LOAN 2700-HU AND 2834-HU)
PART II: LOAN REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Evaluation of the Bank's Performance
When conducting the appraisal of the credit and during the implementation period, the Bank's experts
spent much time on preparing the restructuring credit that was a new thing for both themselves and the
debtor. They helped the Hungarian experts to acquire the thinking that is new for them both through
personal contacts and relying on the expertise of consultants.
In the implementation of the project, the positive criticism added a lot more momentum to the work rather
than periodical reporting and supervision ever could.
Based on the performance during the project it can be stated, that with such new type credits, the help
of the Bank's experts and are indispensable, especially in areas, where the debtor hasn't been exposed
to the "World Bank approach."
A certain difficulty was caused by the fact, that in the implementation, the involved Bank staff was not
the same as the ones doing the planning and the "Task Managers" were changed frequently.
B.    Evaluation/Description of the Debtor's Performance
General Description/Evaluation of the Programs
Both the 1st and 2nd Industrial Restructuring Programs were experiments for the Bank, as well as for the
Hungarian Government. No such programs were implemented before in this part of the world. Due to
the changes in the project planning policy, the 3rd IRP was different from the previous projects, hence,
we believe it is very important to go into a detailed discussion of the project for the sake of both
Hungarian and IBRD parties.
Both Industrial Restructuring Programs concentrated on the development of subsectors in the 1st IRP,
however, the focus was on the plastics processing industry, while in the 2nd IRP the centers of
concentration were the rubber industry, the food processing industry and farm machinery industry, as
well, as the feeder industry subsector.
The subsectors were selected based on the principle that first the ones having a comparative advantage
were supposed to be developed, because the facilities were assumed to be best there and the management
was also supposed to be more receptive for market oriented approach. The principle was basically
correct, because - according to the industrial policy in the second half of the 1980's - these were the so
called "pulling forces" in the economy, their growth and contribution to exports were well above those



16
of other industries. Feeder industries were selected, however, based on a totally different principle. The
basic objective there was to identify selected or not yet selected activities having an international market
potential and to raise the level of technology of their suppliers so that the supplied companies could
concentrate on the development of their own profile, instead of fragmenting their efforts for vertical
integration - producing components and subassemblies for themselves.
Each selected industry was scrutinized by international consultants, whose observations partly supported
the original selection and also defined the scope of products to be invested into or to be divested. Such
market evaluation approach in selecting products was totally new in Hungary at the time. And this is the
is the reason behind a number of developments not being supported by the World Bank, because those
were either supported by internal "proportionate development" ideas or by lobbying. Such decisions,
however, proved to be right, because the corporate resources were really concentrated on strategic
products.
In the case of the participating companies, the Bank was keen to get them to restructure their
organizations prior to the implementation of the projects, substantially strengthening the
marketing/qualitative approach. Such "software package" issues, however, initially generated a lot of
misunderstanding at the involved enterprises, feeling that this was only an unnecessary burden, while in
some cases they even tried to resist and make the RPO and the Bank retreat from this idea and launch
the investment projects at once.
Much later it became absolutely clear, that with the majority of the enterprises these measures created
the possibility for their transformation and privatization.
The business units introduced at the enterprises were the semen of the units that became first independent
and later were privatized.
The development of financial management, cost management and the introduction of market effects
resulted in the development of corporate sales strategies.
The modernization/development of production equipment created the basis for such enterprise parts to
become really valuable and could be sold in the privatization process, because the products of such
machinery/equipment required less energy and material.
Therefore, the performance of the credit should be regarded a success. The fact that nearly USD 12
million from the 1st IRP and some USD 55 million of the 2nd IRP were not called off from the facilities
is due to the unexpected political/economic changes that have occurred in the meantime and were not
visible yet at the time of concluding the Loan Agreement.
Because of the mentioned changes in the economy, banking costs have increased substantially, because
those tend to follow the inflation of the consumer prices. On the other hand, due to the deteriorating
market conditions (collapse of the CMEA and domestic markets, world-wide recession), the producers'
price inflation couldn't be enforced in the consumer prices. Besides paying interest, the repayment of
the principle imposed a heavy burden on the enterprises. Those firms or business units, that obtained
a substantial credit before, suddenly got into a critical position, but this was not caused by the IBRD loan,
this was caused by the changes in the Hungarian national economy and the inflationary credit policy.



17
The impacts of the 1st and 2nd IRPs on the industries was very different. While in the first case, the
plastics processing industry had undergone a substantial development and the conditions of the production
significantly improved for both the selected and non-selected enterprises, the second loan brought about
a significant development only in the rubber industry, some development in the feeder industry, and
hardly any results in the farm/food processing machinery industries.
Selected Enterprises of the First IRP:
Borsodchem (BVK)
Of the originally planned projects, six were implemented including the software component.
This software component consisted of two dimensions,: one of those had the goal of organizational
development, while the other concentrated on the development of the instruments used for testing in
plastics processing.
Within the framework of the organizational development, the Plastics Processing Enterprise was divided
into several profit/cost centers, defining individual strategic plans and introducing marketing and
controlling organization units.
A success was in this field the restructuring of the Miskolc and Szekszard factories into independent units.
The rest of the successful moves, however, is offset by the financial problems of the enterprise.
Borsodchem was primarily interested in the domestic market, a substantial part of its projects was
connected to the construction industry. Due to the recession in the overall Hungarian market and within
that the construction market, the success in this field generated unutilized capacities.
Overall, the development of instrumentation proved to be successful, with the exception of some
mistakenly selected instruments, that operate unreliably and slowly.
The development of mold making at Gemencplast (earlier BVK Szekszard Factory) was successfully
implemented, but the expanded capacity now cannot be fully utilized.
Injection molding was developed at the Miskolc facility (earlier belonging to BVK). This development
contributed to the successful independent operation of the new plant, but the machines cannot be fully
utilized.
The refurbishing of adhesive tape production was implemented, the production was stopped at the old
plant, and re-started at a new plant using modern, environment friendly technological process. The
demands for the product were dramatically reduced and the production had to be closed down.
The implementation of the MDI prepolymer production remained much behind the planned level. The
reason behind this was partly due to an inappropriate technical preparation and partly due to a wrong
assessment of the market demands.
The upgrading of the production lines at the Szekszard plant was implemented, but due to the significant
demand reduction in both construction and the farming field, the production is only performed at a low
level of utilization.



18
The polystyrene and plastics waste recycling project was eliminated due to the lack of technical feasibility
and doubtful cost effectiveness.
VSzM (Electric Insulation/Plastics Materials Factory)
The present structure of VSzM is hardly reminding us about the organization of the times when credit
was obtained. Their two rural factories - Kiskunfeleghaza and Kisvarda became independent and a large
part of the Budapest Factory was also sold out. Such moves could partly take place thanks to the WB
projects which contributed to the upgrading of the production/testing assets and made them attractive for
buyers.
The upgrading of battery housing production was the largest project of VSzM (over USD 2 million);
within that framework, several modern injection molders and auxiliary machinery were procured.
Following an initial production, the modern manufacturing capacity was practically stopped and attempts
were made to use the machines for the manufacturing of different products.
High interest and principal repayment costs could not be paid by the enterprise, therefore, it sold out the
full plant. The new owner is Pannonplast, but they use the facilities for plastic products rather than
battery housings. The costly mold making is causing problems for the new owner.
The compounding base was implemented at a rather good standard, but its capacity is unutilized due to
the reduction of the demands. The revenues of the present production do not cover for the high
repayment requirements.
The development of injection molded thermoplastic components was implemented at Kinplast Co. (earlier
Kiskunfelegyhaza facility of VSzM), where engineering plastics products are manufactured at a very
demanding standard.
The mold making project was also implemented, but because of market loss, high credit repayment
requirements for this facility (Moldkraft, since separated from VSzM), but got bankrupt.
The brake lining project was not implemented. The enterprise didn't procure the process and the testing
equipment. The earlier Kisvarda facility now operates under the name Caroflex.
Pannonplast
Of the five selected enterprises, Pannonplast operates most successfully. This is mostly due to the IBRD
loans.
The conscious implementation of the software component helped both the senior and middle management
to adopt a market oriented strategic approach. By implementing the hardware projects and setting up the
SBUs the enterprise became attractive for foreign investors. The loss of markets also influences
Pannonplast, hence it is has unutilized capacities.
The enterprise plans to repay all of its WB loans over 1994 which shall improve their cash flow in the
years to come.



19
The pipe fitting project was implemented and equipment is fuilly operational at the Pannonpipe Company,
albeit they cannot be fully loaded. In spite of this, it is the most profitable product within the enterprise
group.
The PVC/PP packaging materials development project was implemented, although with some modification
in the intended technical content. The present production takes place at the Greiner-Pannonplast firm.
The upgrading of the calendaring line required the largest credit. This allowed for a substantial
improvement of the level of technology and the involvement of foreign direct investment in the operation
of the factory. However, the products are less demanded in the market due to the recession in the
housing/construction industry.
The upgrading of manufacturing hollow bodies/crates and boxes was implemented. Due to the change
in the agricultural production structure and the reduction of the production level, the demands for these
agricultural products have also reduced.
PEMU
Because of the reduction of its market, this company is in a difficult financial position.
The impact of the software project is very small, it plays a role only in the self accounting of some SBUs
and in the quality assurance of the engineering plastics processing plant.
The development of engineering plastics manufacturing was implemented differently compared to the
original objectives, due to the market demands changing in the meantime. This investment allowed, that
enterprise could become a supplier for the automotive industry, recently emerging in Hungary.
The investment, implemented to upgrade compounding is practically inoperational, the enterprise is
planning perhaps the sale of the total equipment.
The two projects requiring smaller investments were intended to develop the production of Silicon and
Teflon and PE tubes. For both projects the utilization of the machinery/equipment is extremely low.
TVK
The enterprise didn't employ foreign consultants for their organizational restructuring. Their software
package covered primarily the development of a computer network and the secondary objective was to
develop QA by procuring these testing instruments and the development of color printing.
The collapse of the Russian market and the reduction of the domestic food processing industrial outlets
is having a very strong impact on the enterprise's performance. Due to the reduction of the demands,
the planned number of machines was not procured neither for the manufacturing of multi layer foils nor
for the printing of films. Unfortunately, even this reduced capacity cannot by fully utilized.
The upgrading of the milk packaging foil made it possible for the enterprise to maintain its marketable
position.



20
The production of bags with valves loads the machinery/equipment up to only 60%. The new machines,
however, significantly improve the quality of the existing product.
Non-Selected Plastics Processing Enterprises
With the exception of the five selected enterprises, all companies belong to this category, that are active
in the plastics processing field or are closely linked to that (e.g. mold manufacturing). Following the
launch of the credit program, the scope of participants was extended to the agricultural cooperatives also
active in the mentioned field.
The Loan Agreement provided for a USD 12 million credit line for the SMEs active in the plastics
processing field.
The provision of credit and the identification of potential debtors was implemented along two lines. The
commercial banks, that emerged just at that time, did a more or less intensive marketing among their
customers to commit the available credit line. Besides the banks, it was the RPO that had to do sufficient
marketing to attract interest. Printed and electronic press also did some advertizing, along with some
government agencies (Ministry of Industry and Trade and NBH).
When viewing more closely the detailed credit appraisal work at the SMEs, one comes to the conclusion,
that the branch network of the commercial banks was involved in the information/selection of the
enterprises only to a moderate extent. Among the hindering factors we can mention, that the two-tier
banking system was just emerging and there was a lack of expertise at the newly formulated banks -
especially at the branch office, as well as the lack of skills in onlending WB credit. The same topic will
come up again in the part discussing the experience and performance evaluation of the commercial banks.
A significant part of informing the potential debtors was provided by the RPO. Among the methods used
both groups (at county level events, professional conferences, and representatives of over 300 firms), and
individual organizations received information in the form of presentations. Some 60 interested customers
looked up the RPO and detailed discussions were conducted on the potential provided by this credit line.
When the scope of potential projects was expanded (the possibility of providing working capital credit)
intensive discussions were opened with an additional 20 enterprises.
Based on the above described performance we believe, that the credit preparation work was appropriate
under the given circumstances.
Of the relatively low number of interested customers only a few got as far as really obtaining the credit.
Several candidates were screened in the initial discussion stage. The major reasons were: lack of an
appropriate clue of a market existing at the other end and the undercapitlization of the involved small
enterprises. Problems occurred when preparing the credit applications. For the smaller firms and also
for the large enterprises also it was difficult to furnish financial data, that had to be provided in a
different form than the traditional accounting regulations allowed. The demonstration of the expected
market impact of organizational development, development projects and methods, because such long range
and detailed view was never taken by the enterprises before concerning their activities.
Majority of the applicants needed the help of consultants to prepare their applications because of the
previously mentioned reasons. The help of the consultants and the intensive involvement of the RPO and



21
Bank staff, however, substantially mitigated the initial problems in this field. The submitted applications
required relatively little amendment and additions, generally suitable to be the basis for appraisal.
Summarized we can conclude that the interest concerning the credit was due to the following reasons:
No intensive rather explanation and promotion work could be provided as yet by the just emerging
commercial banking system.
Part of the enterprises found inhibiting the high requirements of the credit applications and the strictly
regulated procurement procedure.
In the meantime new, and more advantageous forms of credit have occurred (e.g., the START credit
scheme).
The evaluation method for such applications proved to be adequate. The RPO undertook the evaluation
according to market/technical and other points of view and provided its opinion to the involved
commercial bank. Following the RPO providing its view and the cost efficiency analysis of the
application, the bank concluded the credit contract with only a few exceptions. Naturally, during this
process both the World Bank and the NBH played an important supervisory and approval role.
The efficiency of the preparation, application and evaluation is proved in a quantitative manner by the
fact, that out of twenty applications submitted, eighteen were accepted. Following the conclusion of the
credit contracts, the projects were usually launched quite quickly and, with the exception of some cases,
the procurement procedures were closed rather efficiently. The reasons of the difficulties, that occurred
in this field were primarily due to inexperience and the novelty of the methodology used.
Tendering experience at that time was mainly compiled at some specialized export/import enterprise but
even those were uncertain sometime when some WB guidelines had to be observed. With the end users,
the preparation of technical specifications was causing some problems and they found it difficult to accept
the strict tendering rules.
The use of other procurement methods (International Shopping, Direct Purchase) was only rare in this
category. Obtaining appropriate proposals and the preparation of procurement reasoning usually didn't
pose a problem. The organizations requesting to use a procurement method other than tendering usually
obtained the non objection of the Bank, if they could provide well founded arguments.
There was only one major procurement problem within the scope of plastics processing SMEs. The sum
of USD 2 million worth machine procurement of Budaplast wasn't implemented. Because the vendor was
at fault, the machines were never accepted and the litigation doesn't seem to be avoidable in this
particular case.
The subproject agreements and the implemented projects represent a sum below USD 10 million. In spite
of that, we still think that the original USD 12 million plan was realistic because the practical ceasing of
interest rates from 1990, when totally unexpected reasons came up. The discussion of these reasons find
at the discussion of the general economic position.



22
Of the firms involved in the credit program, the Plastics Processing Cooperative, Kaloplasztik, Kossuth
MGTSz (Lajosmizse), Szolloskert Cooperative, Zalaegerszeg State Farm, Jaszsag Cooperative, Mubutor
Cooperative and Szolitisz achieved positive results. The ROI values of their projects support these facts.
The mentioned organizations managed to implement successfully their technical development projects,
fought successfully against the negative market effects and provided a good basis for their transformation.
There were a few firms, however, that couldn't achieve the planned results of an otherwise technically
well implemented project. Among those, we have to mention Kaloplaszt, the Altalanos Gep-es Muanyag
Szovertkezet and Lajtaplasztik.
At the organizations, being in close contact with the agriculture the shrinkage of their markets and the
transformation problems were even more apparent.  These organizations include the agricultural
cooperatives (Kossuth-Monor, VorosSzikra, Egyetertes) and also Zala Zoldert groceries and fresh produce
(wholesale/retail). The position of the Voros Szikra and Egyetertes agricultural cooperatives would be
somewhat possible.
Selected Enterprises of the Second Industrial Restructuring Program
The enterprises of the Hungarian Rubber Industry Sector started preparing this program in 1984/85.
Over this period, the efficiency and international competitiveness of this sector was well above the
average industrial performance, and its exports were also significant. Credit sources, however, that
would have been needed for development, were available for enterprises at that time only to a limited
extent or not at all. At the time of planning this program the low interest of the Bank's loans was rather
attractive for the enterprises, therefore in the preparation phase ambitious projects were designed.
Besides Taurus producing three fourths of the total national output in the given sector, there were some
8 - 10 medium size and a few small size enterprises that were also interested in obtaining WB credit.
Due to the perception that the application and appraisal procedures were too bureaucratic, and the project
approach being totally foreign for most SMEs, numerous enterprises retreated from even submitting their
intended applications. Several firms albeit having started their preparations, didn't implement the
development plan because of the disadvantageous economic phenomena and the increasing interest rates
that occurred over the implementation period.
Following the credit appraisal of the Bank, the initially grandiose plans were streamlined and settled
during the detailed project development when the financial ratios had to be clearly stated and the
intentions had to be adjusted to the actual burden bearing capacity of the enterprises.
The common infrastructure development ideas that concerned the rubber industry as whole (Rubber
Industry Technical Center, Marketing Information Center, foreign trading organization for the small
enterprises) were welcome by the involved firms.
Actual development was implemented by Taurus, a large enterprise, and the two medium size firms:
Kaloplasztik and Tisza Shoe Factory. The impact of the WB credit at these selected enterprises was as
follows:



23
Taurus
Of the original ten projects accepted by the Bank, four were really implemented, all with the originally
intended contents and within the planned cost budget/time schedule.
Hardware Component Projects
Development of the Agricultural Tyre Production
The development project was implemented using a USD 12,047 thousand credit and it significantly
contributed to the increased competitiveness and quality of the agricultural tyres. The combination of
these factors allowed for Taurus to become one of the world leader farm tyre brand manufacturer. Due
to the reducing demand and the depreciation burden, however, the financial ratios fell well behind the
planned values.
Development of the W-sheet Production
By utilizing a USD2,290 thousand credit good conditions were established for the production of a high
technical standard rubber sheet production. By introducing a new, material conserving technology and
hence the reduction of waste a significant reduction was achieved in the production costs.
The sales volume, however, fell well behind the planned value, which was partly due to the construction
of flat roofs suddenly stopped in the domestic construction market, and partly due to the channel
insulation market in the Middle East eliminated by the ongoing wars in that region. The elimination of
the CMEA and the recession in the Western European countries didn't allow the penetration of new
markets. Due to such reduction of the demand, the available capacities are extremely underutulized,
hence the too highinterest burden and depreciation costs plus the leasing costs of the auxiliary equipment
just cannot be borne by the product and the viability of this production is now a query.
Machine production project
With the utilization of a USD 3,253 thousand credit, the main technical/economic objectives of the project
i.e. modem technology, production cost reduction and rquality improvement were all implemented. Half
way through the implementation the Machine Factory was split up into 5 independent limited liability
companies and the new equipment was re-located to 4 of those. The profitability of these new
organizations was rather different. The more prudent planners and the ones already having stable
Western partners showed a longer term viability. The use of new technologies caused a jump-like
improvement in the production quality, although due to the rapid outdating of CAD/CAM systems it is
a query, whether the individual units will be able to purchase new equipment now, when their inbuilt
capacities are underutilized. The equipment was contributed to these limited liability companies by the
parent company as an in kind equity stake so the repayment of the credit is a burden on Taurus.
Conveyor belt production project
Utilizing a USD 2,345 thousand credit a new mixing equipment was installed along with some auxiliary
equipment. As a result, the capacity was expanded, production cost of the products was substantially
lowered and the environmental position was also significantly improved. The crisis of the market i.e.



24
the recession in the domestic mining industry, as well as the excess capacities in the world cause this
project to remain well behind the planned performance.
Software Component
Market Research Project
It was very useful to obtain the market research studies, but the actual changes in the economic
environment didn't always follow the patterns assumed in those. The establishment of a computerized
infrastructure, however, allowed the implementation of new data processing methods.
Management Development Project
Within the framework of this project Taurus's management acquired international skills. This must be
the reason behind the fact, that most of those managers don't work anymore with Taurus. Instead most
of them became senior staff for joint ventures involving international partnership.
Quality Assurance Project
The installation of new test equipment and the implementation of internationally recognized methods
provide a good basis for maintaining existing markets and the penetration of some new markets, too.
Management Systems Project
The enterprise developed and implemented a logistics system and introduced controlling measures. The
divisional structure, set up by following the suggestion of the consultants (tyre and non tyre divisions),
proved to be the most successful. Within a short space of time the enterprise set up several independent
divisions, mostly covering one factory. Over the years even since several organizational restructuring
projects were implemented.
The number of employees of the enterprise was 11 thousand people at the time of obtaining the credit;
today, as opposed to that, Taurus employs only 3,800 people.
The planned central MIS was never implemented. The individual units since then implemented their local
information systems, relying on their own resources.
Summarized, the basic goals of projects i.e. the improvement of the standard of production and increased
competitiveness of the products were mostly achieved. The credit greatly contributed to the increased
net worth of the enterprise and, hence, to its successful privatization.
As a result of the software programs, the corporate culture and international competitiveness substantially
improved.
The gradually reducing turnover, that was due to the deteriorating economic environment, couldn't
finance the debt service. Taurus didn't have the necessary resources to cover for its financial problems.
The present credit consolidation program, however, allows now for them to re-start a profitable financial
management.



25
Kaloplasztik
The view of Kaloplasztik in connection with the WB financed development is similar to that of Taurus.
The hardware projects contributed to the enterprise to keep its position in the domestic market and
become a supplier for the emerging automotive industry. There is also the possibility for the export of
automotive components. Due to the present limited market possibilities a capacity utilization is low, the
ROI values are well below the planned values.
The software projects made an unambiguous positive effect. The production process, implemented with
the involvement of a consultant, is still successfully in operation. The quality assurance projects and the
implementation of an internationally recognized QA system opened up new market potential for the
enterprise.
Szolnoki Mezogep Vallalat (Farm Machinery Co.)
Of the farm machinery enterprises this was the only one that obtained credit for machine procurement.
It procured ten CNC lathes, as opposed to the originally planned 12, and one edge bending machine
instead of the planned 2. The vacuum kiln heat treatment equipment improves the quality of the produced
component. The electronic painting line provides an attractive appearance for the products using a
material conserving technology. Although the utilization of the equipment doesn't achieve the planned
high value (FRR 56, ERR 40%), yet the RIO values are still above 30, which is a unique result.
Magyar Gordulocsapagy Muvek (Roller Bearing Factory)
This was the largest project of the feeder industry program. Because of the many technical problems with
the machine, preparing the inner and outer rings for the conical bearing, it was accepted only at the end
of 1993, in spite of the fact, that the original contract was signed in 1991. Presently the machine is
operating with a low capacity utilization, but without any technical problems. The quality of the products
is excellent.
Pannonplast
Based on the apparently successful projects under the 1st IRP the company wanted to be also included
in the 2nd IRP. The application was accepted for the development of the 110 liter capacity waste
container production. Within the framework of this project, the enterprise procured a new machine and
an injection mold. The actual production was moved to the Curver Ltd firm, that was established at the
Debrecen plant of Pannonplast, and it is rather profitable.
SMEs of the 2nd Industrial Restructuring Program
Within the framework of the 2nd IRP the credits to SMEs in the rubber and feeder industry sectors
showed a lot of similarities with those, experienced during the 1st IRP plastics processing companies.
As the 2nd IRP was launched later, it was possible to utilize some planning/organizing experience,
obtained during the 1st program. The economic changes, however, have had a continuous negative effect
since 1990 on the implementation of the credit program and the formulation of profits.



26
The 2nd IRP covered a broad scope of the industrial sector of the national economy. In spite of that, the
number of interested organizations was less, than in the 1st IRP.
Besides the few large enterprises (Taurus, MGM, Szolnok Farm Machinery) within the subsectors (rubber
industry, feeder industry, farm/food processing machinery production) originally interested in obtaining
credit, there were about 40 to 50 SMEs showing a serious interest. The number of subloan agreements
was only 13, including the plastics processing companies also indicating interest in this particular
program.
In our view the organizing and evaluating activities of this program were no worse, than under the 1st
IRP. Yet a much lower interest was generated and much ;less funding was committed, than originally
planned. When analyzing the underlying reasons, the number one is the economic changes over the
1989/90 period, that we discussed in detail under the analysis of the general economic situation. The
position of potential debtors was deteriorated by the fact, that the indications of crisis occurred very
rapidly in the involved industries (e.g. feeder industry, farm machinery production).
The experience obtained in appraising applications and conducting procurement were quite the same as
those under the plastics processing companies projects. As a positive phenomenon it seems to be
worthwhile to mention, that the heterogeneous composition and the different purpose of
machinery/equipment to be procured didn't cause any problems in the implementation of such
procurement.
The profits of SMEs, included in the credit program, showed a rather wide deviations. The profits, that
were envisaged when planning the project, were achieved only by a few firms, while numerous
enterprises are now facing serous problems.
The Kecskemet Printing Press, the "Egyenloseg MGTSz" agricultural cooperative and OMUV achieved
really positive results. Their ROI values are good. The development projects really fitted the envisaged
changes, hence they helped to offset the effect of negative forces in the economy.
The strongest decrease in the user market occurred in the case of mold making (Dexter) and the precision
instrument manufacturing (Micoop), but some printing press enterprises also face large difficulties in
finding new market opportunities.
Beside the weakness of quantitative results (ERR, FRR), however, technological development,
organizational restructuring and change in the attitude of professionals were the positive features of this
program. And we expect, that the positive effects of these results shall show in the years to come.
Evaluation of the Infrastructure Components Under the 1st Industrial Restructuring Program
General Infrastructure Projects
The general infrastructure projects were all fully implemented and lead to a success. The import
liberalization was implemented in a gradual manner during the program implementation.
The participating commercial banks provided for their staff substantial re-training, using the facility made
available for such purpose in the form of study tours abroad and relying on the services of consultants.
These same banks started the provision of innovation credits; seven enterprises received a total of USD



27
3.2 million, exceeding the originally allocated USD 3 million funding. The financed projects were
successful. Later on with two enterprises (Merleg Co., LTd. and Salina Co.) market difficulties
occurred, that now cause financial problems. The credit, provided to these two, amounted to USD
319,000 i.e. only some 10% of the total provided credit.
NBH created a LAN using its own credit line. The computers greatly contributed to the establishment
of accurate computer records. The network is still in operation.
The credit lines, allocated for infrastructure projects were all utilized, the objectives were all successfully
met.
Subsector Level Infrastructure Projects
Of those allocations the credit line for educational and institutional framework development was fully and
successfully utilized. The help, provided for the Restructuring Committee in the form of consulting, and
the corporate management development courses, organized by Senzor, as well as upgrading the re-training
of engineers at the Budapest Technical University were all parts of this program.
The quality control and research/development programs were also implemented. Of the two research
institutes, financed within the framework of the QC program EMI is still successfully operating as an
industrial R & D institute, duly meeting its debt service commitments. MUKI announced a bankruptcy
bank in 1992, following a bankruptcy agreement it paid back the credit and was privatized. Its activities
are now carried out by the Plastics Research&Development Ltd, the owners are Pannonplast and AV Rt.
The efficiency and ROI of the development projects, financed using the R & D credit line, fall well
behind the planned values, due to the overall recession in the plastics processing industry.
The Plastics Information Center, set up within the building of VEGYTERV was transformed into an Ltd.
with one of its significant activities being still the provision of information for the plastics industry.
Similarly to the procedures in preparing the 2nd IRP, studies were conducted on the enterprises of the
selected subsectors (Taurus, Kaloplasztik, Oroshaza Farm Machinery Co.) and the restructuring of the
metallurgical industry.
The infrastructure projects under the 1st IRP were implemented and majority of the goals were
successfully attained.
Evaluation of the Infrastructure Projects under the 2nd Industrial Restructuring Program
General Infrastructure Projects
Practically a full import liberalization was implemented during the course of this program. Limitations
of foreign trading were removed, foreign trading became a civil right for any entrepreneur.
The development of an appropriate tax information system was started. In 1988 a new tax system was
introduced, that complied with the international practice. Its two crucial elements are the VAT and the
personal income tax.



28
With the involvement of international consultants a study was conducted on the development of the feeder
industry and the road vehicle industry.
The fund, that was made available for the NBH was utilized for the improvement of its information
system and the re-training of its staff.
For the Clearing Center Co. a study was prepared on the establishment of a central payment and clearing
system for the banks. This Clearing Center was implemented, its operations shall commence this year.
In order to improve their organization and management, the commercial banks employed consultants and
provided training for their staff, using the respective allocations.
Therefore, the above funding was fully utilized and the set objectives were fully met.
Subsector Level Inrrastructure Projects
In the case of selected subsectors such as the rubber industry and the farm/food processing machinery
industries, studies were prepared with the involvement of international consultants on the organization
structure and MIS improvements of the enterprises, covered in the program.
At two large farm machinery enterprises (Oroshaza, Kecskemet) these studies really helped the accurate
assessment of the enterprise position and defined the tasks to be implemented. In the course of the
implementation, however, it became clear, that under the suddenly changed economic environment no
further investment projects should be implemented in this industry. In spite of that, the implementation
of the so called organizational development software component contributed a lot to the successful
privatization of the enterprises.
T-he Oroshaza Farm Machinery Co. was split up into several independent companies. The profiles,
emphasized under the WB project, were all privatized as Kecskemet Agrikon Co., and as AGrikon Cabin
and Agrotechnological Works (Kiskunmajsa). In the case of both firms the Hungarian equity stake is
65%, while the stage of foreigners amounts to 35%. Both firms are profitable and have significant
exports.
The market information, quality control and export promotion organizations, intended for the rubber
industry, were not implemented. The major underlying reason was the already apparent economic
recession and also the fear of the small enterprises, that Taurus shall utilize its overwhelming size to
enforce its own interests within such organizations.
The Commercial Banks
Activity of the Commercial Banks
The commercial banks, involved in the implementation of the credit programs (Magyar Hitel Bank,
Budapest Bank, Kereskedelmi Bank) played an increasingly important role in the onlending procedures.
They were not yet involved in the preparation of the 1st IRP, but having been established during the
process, they were already involved n the implementation. In the case of the 2nd IRP they were already
fully involved starting from the preparation stage. The commercial banks managed to establish a



29
satisfactory cooperation with the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the RPO (Econoconsult) that was
set up by the MoIT.
The activity of the commercial banks and the successful implementation of some programs were hindered
by the following factors:
- The deterioration of the overall economic situation many times hindered or fully inhibited the approval
of the credits, because the onlending risk was mainly supposed to be assumed by the commercial
banks themselves.
- Especially in the initial period, the commercial banks employed less experts, than it would have been
necessary and in general, high level skills and knowledge, required for such risk taking, was lacking
at these banks.
- The serious limitations and complicated procedures, imposed on the credit provision process by the
WB guidelines generally increased the time, required for reaching a decision.
- The financial stimulus, provided for the commercial banks (2% margin) was certainly not very
attractive. Smart banks with good business strategies, however, managed to also utilize the WB
credits to organize new customers for themselves.
- Over the recent years such attractive credits appeared in the market (such as the E-credit or the
START credit), that reduced the interest in the IRP credits.
The development of the banking system and the appearance of new commercial banks seemingly created
an advantageous situation for the debtor, but due to the above described difficulties still prevailing, no
advantageous changes have occurred in the provision of credit.
The Restructuring Program Office (RPO)
The Ministry of Industry set up in 1985 the Plastics Coordination Office in order to support the
implementation of the 1st IRP. Its prime task was to foster the procurement of the selected enterprises
while making sure the compliance with the related WB guidelines, later on it was also expected to
participate in the appraisal of the applications of such enterprises. In the case of this latter task, the RPO
investigated the corporate structure and the technical/marketing viability of the suggested project. The
commercial banks then approved the applications relying on the evaluation of the RPO. The RPO also
provided a significant help to the enterprises in conducting their procurement. They explained to the
enterprises the procurement guidelines of the Bank, helped to put together tender materials and provided
help in setting out a technical specification or a system of criteria for evaluation. No inisprocurement
had occurred at all under this credit program.
With 2nd IRP opening up in 1987, the Plastics, Rubber and Farm Machinery Program Offices were
combined, and the Restructuring Program Office (RPO) emerged. Its scope of tasks, besides the ones
already explained above, also covered credit promotion activities with the involved enterprises and the
coordination among the relevant organizations within a given credit structure, as well as the follow up
of the credit, together with the NBH and the commercial banks.



30
By 1990 the credit obtaining possibilities for enterprises practically ceased, due to the inhibiting high
interest rates, the scope of activities for the RPO also narrowed down, part of its staff left for other
institutions, so it seemed to be sensible to combine it with the Fine Chemicals RPO. The new
organization was privatized, and now operates as independent consulting forum under the new name of
Econo Consult Co.



PART III: BASIC DATA SHEET
1. Related Bank Loans: Bank operations in support of the Industrial Sector in Hungary are summarized
below:
Loan Number         Loan Title      Year of Approval     Loan Amount            Status
(US$ million)
2317-HU           Industrial Energy    1983              109                Completed
Diversification and
Conservation
________ ________ Proj ect_        _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _
2397-HU           Industrial Export    1984              110                Completed
and Restructuring
Project            _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
2511-HU           Fine Chemicals      1985                73                Completed
2709-HU           Second Industrial    1986               25                Completed
Energy
Conservation
Project
3020-HU           Third Industrial    1989               140                On-going
Restructuring
Project
2965-HU           Industrial Sector   1988               200                Completed
Adjustment Loan
3459-HU           Enterprise Reform    1992              200                PCR to be
Loan                                                     initiated



32
2.a.   Project Timetable Loan (2700-HU)
Item                             Planned Date                   Actual Date
Project Brief and Issues Paper
Preappraisal/Appraisal                   12/09/85                       12/09/85
Loan Negotiation                         04/04/86                       04/04/86
Board Approval                           05/27/86                       05/27/86
Loan Signature                           06/05/86                       06/05/86
Loan Effectiveness                       08/06/86                       08/06/86
Loan Closing                             06/30/92                       06/30/93
Last Disbursement                        03/31/92                       11/09/92
The Loan Closing Date was extended.
2.b.   Project Timetable Loan (2834-HU)
Item                             Planned Date                   Actual Date
Project Brief and Issues Paper
Preappraisal/Appraisal                   12/24/86                       12/24/86
Loan Negotiation                         04/27/87                       04/27/87
Board Approval                           06/11/87                       06/11/87
Loan Signature                           08/31/87                       08/31/87
Loan Effectiveness                       11/25/87                       11/25/87
Loan Closing                             06/30/93                       09/30/93
Last Disbursement                        03/31/93                       11/17/93
The Loan Closing Date was extended.
3.a.   Loan Disbursements (2700-HU)
(US$ Million)
Bank Financial Year  |     Estimated      |        Actual               Actual % of
and Semester           Cumulative              Cumulative             Cumulative
1987
06/30/87               35.60                  47.74                   134
1988
06/30/88               51.80                  53.78                   104
1989
06/30/89               74.20                  66.85                   90
1990
06/30/90               88.90                  79.29                   89
06/30/91               96.70                  87.24                   90
1992
09/30/90               100.00                 88.20                   88
06/30/93               100.00                 88.20         188



33
3.b.    Loan Disbursements (2834-HI)
US$ Million)
Bank Financial              Estimated                        Actual                       Actual % of
Year                  Cumulative                      Cumulative                     Cumulative
and Semester                                                                   l
1988
06/30/88                  63.40                           60.18                            95
1989
06/30/89                 89.80                          68.73                             77
1990
06/30/90                 114.80                          78.64                            69
1991
06/30/91                  133.20                         95.39                             72
1992
06/30/92                  143.50                         95.39                             66
1993
09/30/93                  150.00                         95.39                             64
6a.     Financial and Economic Rates of Return on SubproJects (2700-HU)
Name of          Subprojects      Bank Subloan   Total Project Cost Plnned %   Planned %   Actual %   Actual %
Enterprise                             (USD 000s)      (USD OOOs)
FRR        ERR           FRR        ERR
BVK              Slicing of adhesive  587.36        1,163.35             211.05       99.44    -38.94      -27.31
tapes
Miskoic Factory    1,147.57        1,873.55              41.84       39.40      -1.51       2.65
Upgrading
Szekszard Plant      685.98         939.27              184.70      249.62      9.46        9.46
Upgrading
Tool Project         369.68         706.34               50.36       60.80    -16.90      -16.90
BVK Total                           2,790.59         ,682.51              49.70        54.20     -4.13       -1.84
VSZM             Battery Casing     2,102.87         ,664.03              19.91        25.98    -18.36      -16.44
Electric Plastic     288.85         590.70               29.02       28.80      6.46       11.62
Components
Thermoplastic Parts    832.72       ,125.65              29.83       37.61      9.81       21.16
for Industry
Thermoshrink-ing     716.44         877.60               65.76       73.88    -54.54      -44.45
Products
Friction linings*    347.77        1,380.53              29.13       24.28
Tool Manufacturing*  1,685.75       ,616.89              37.26       49.76
VSZM Total                          5,974.40       12,255.40              27.34       33.35    -32.93       -16.73
* Data not available



34
6a.     Financial and Economic Rates of Return on Subprojects (2700-HU)
Name of           Subprojects     Bank Subloan   Total Project   Planned %   Planned %    Actual %    Actual %
Enterprise                          (USD OOOs)       Cost
(USD OOOs)                                               l
FRR         ERR        FRR         ERR
Pannonplast        Pipe fittings      1,810.19            3,587.57      27.98      43.52        10.96     14.04
Packaging          1,402.28           3,383.07       29.37      37.02        2.18       5.13
Containers
Caldendar          2,416.52           5,020.40       28.74      31.53       -0.12      4.38
Upgrading
Hollow Bodies      2,202.16           3,206.08       32.21      33.04        -5.01     0.80
Disposable         1,510.87           3,026.65       29.79      24.13        4.32      12.86
Container
Pannonp Total                         9,342.02           18,223.77      24.34      28.85        2.60       7.53
PEMU               Compounding        1,338.78            1,309.10      36.16      40.42        0.00       0.00
Manufacturing
Technical Plastics    5,015.64        6,350.72       59.29      45.87      -10.73      -8.98
Silicon and Teflon  403.07              503.53       36.40      26.86      -46.09    -51.68
Polyethylene Pipe   621.95              377.39       78.23      24.28      -20.70    -18.68
Production
PEMU Total                            7,379.44            8,540.74      47.62      35.59       -19.60    -17.82
TVK                Tubes and films         1,094.86       1,541.37      42.86      50.04        -7.99     -0.39
Microprocessor pr.    111.51            164.24       68.45      97.93       -2.90      4.14
Film Printing      1,479.75           1,991.88       90.47     116.25       -6.63     -1.01
Valve-bag making    3,464.11          4,300.52       49.19      48.78        4.25      7.55
cap
TVK Total                             6,150.23           7,998.01       41.06      47.80        -0.39      4.22



35
6a.     Financial and Economic Rates of Return on Subprojects (2700-HU  cont.)
Name of           Subprojects     Bank Subloan   Total Project | Planned %   Planned %   Actual %    Actual %
Enterprise                          (USD OOOs)       Cost
(USD OOOs)
FRR        ERR         FRR _R
Kossuth Agr. Co    Development of Foil   634.26             904.25      00.00       00.00      223.93     337.97
Lajozsm            Production
Kaloplasztik       Plastic Product Dev.      783.46        1,386.59     43.40      888.20       27.78     34.47
Kaposplast         Binding stripes          1,014.53       1,422.74      58.40     127.50       -2.48      3.54
Budaplast*         Foam Panel                 164.56        189.71       50.50      50.50       00.00     00.00
Altalanos Gep es*    Plastic Foil and Straw   288.37        304.45       44.50      50.80       00.00     00.00
Muanyag            Production
Plastic Industry          216.96         230.38      37.90       41.60      00.00      00.00
Production
Lajtaplastik       Modernization of Foil      587.28        831.91       27.50     188.20      -17.38     -15.49
Muanyagipari Coop.  Technical Plastics        682.97        810.36       30.00      34.70      113.00     194.98
Szikra Coop.*      Production of Hollow       174.49          n.a.      22.22       39.25       00.00     00.00
Bodies
Szoloskert Agr.    Modernization of Foil      527.58        895.52       67.50     370.00       14.87     40.22
Coop.              Production
Voros Szikra Agr.    Production of Hollow     238.78        406.43       22.91      40.23      -47.20     -51.59
Coop.              Bodies
State Farm of      Production of Hollow      430.38         608.29       44.67      59.45       18.09     21.15
Zalaegerszeg       Bodies
Egyetertes Agr.    Modemization of            580.60        631.46       72.70     104.20       -5.96      -3.62
Coop.              Plastic Plant
Grocery of Zala    Plastic Machines          374.04         771.00      72.70      113.70       20.88     20.36
County
Jaszsagi Coop.*    Procurement of             93.56         117.32       00.00      00.00       00.00     00.00
Heating Tech.
Szoltisz Ltd.      Feeder Industry           201.77         296.89       36.53      36.53       60.87     71.15
Invest.
Mubutor Coop.*     Expansion of               61.69         167.97       40.22      42.61       00.00     00.00
Fumiture-making
facilities
Elektrostat. Ltd.*  Electrostatical Dye       310.01        533.54       21.00      21.00       00.00     00.00
House Bldg.
* Data not available



36
6b.     Financial and Economic Rates of Return on Subprojects (2834 HU)
Name of the        Subprojects      Bank Subloan   Total Project  Planned %    Planned %  Actual %   Actual %
Enterprise                         (USD 000s)       Cost
(USD 000s)
FRR         ERR        FRR        ERR
TAURUS             Agricult. Tire           12,047.19     22,575.54       31.72      36.59      -12.43     -10.43
Product.
Wide Foil Production     2,290.69       5,990.27       58.66      70.79     -63.08     -77.61
Rubber Machinery &       3,253.09       3,087.21       32.75      39.37      N.A.       N.A.
Mold Production
Conveyor Belt            2,344.93       4,789.82       75.93      85.17         +          +
Product.
Taurus Total                                19,935.90     36,442.84
Kaloplasztik       Reconstruction of          544.41       1,034.08       47.98      71.46      34.40      94.22
Rubber Industry
Tisza Boot & Shoe    Extension of Tool-      1,381.86      1,825.43       76.33     107.28      -1.46        1.37
Factory            Making Capacity
Agr. Machinery Ent.  Development of          2,411.88      8,259.10       55.87      39.78      30.98      40.71
Szolnok            agricultural machinery
Pannonplast        Waste Containers           897.32       1,500.58       47.00      83.00      24.09       34.30
Plastic Processing
Dexter             Mold-making Project       2,198.07      9,440.37       18.00      34.00     -45.11     -44.57
Printing House     Printing Industry         2,902.82      6,114.69       27.85      45.52      22.34      42.76
Kecskermet         Development
Mllszeripari Coop.   Feeder Industry          664.00         881.94       28.00      43.00     -23.99     -23.87
Development
Uj Elet Agr. Coop.   P-C-B Development        996.78       1,778.95       N.A.       N.A.        2.22      -2.56
State Printing House  Dev. of Packing Mat.   2,979.15      4,528.99       28.60      56.80         +          +
Prod. Capacity
Elzett             Feeder Industry Dev.      1,083.02      2,685.63       55.99      54.65      -9.14      -13.70
Hungarian Roller   Export Development        5,471.70                     28.00      26.00                    **
Bearing Works
Egyenloseg Agr.    Dev. of Limestone          201.92         219.52       51.52      51.52       7.79      13.31
Coop.              Milling Plant
OMUV Inst. & Iron  'Bonell' Elastic           197.67         555.13       19.50      45.00      -9.00      29.66
Ind. Coop.         Upholstery Springs
Printing House Zala  Reconstruction          1,384.84      2,039.28       72.10      85.89      -1.98       3.56
+       Rates of return could not be calculated since all the next benefit number were negative.
Project not operational due to litigation.



37
Status of Legal Covenants
Hungary
First Industrial Restructuring Project
Loan 2700-HU
Overall Project Rating: 1
Agreement   Section   Covenant  Status    Original         Revised       Description of Covenant          Comments
Type                 Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date          Date
LA           3.01(a)   M           OK                                    Borrower to carry out Parts A, B    Complied
and D of the Project and take
action required on its part to
cause Part C of the Project to be
carried out by the Innovation
Financing Institutions and the
Guarantor respectively, provide
promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other
resources required for the
purpose, and conduct its
operations and affairs under the
Project in accordance with sound
financial standards and practices
with qualified management and
personnel, and in accordance with
the Basic Law and Credit Policy
Guidelines
LA           3.01(b)   M           OK                                    For carrying out Part C of the   Complied
Project, Borrower is to make
available to the Innovation
Financing Institutions funds under
Subsidiary Financing Agreements
terms and conditions of which are
to be approved by the Bank and
include those set forth in Schedule
6
LA           3.01(c)   M           OK                                    For carrying out Part E of the   Complied
Project, Borrower is to make
available to the Guarantor funds
under Subsidiary Financing
Agreement terms and conditions
of which are to be approved by
the Bank, and include those set
forth in Schedule 6
LA           3.01(a)   M           OK                                    Borrower to coordinate and       Complied
monitor the overall execution of
the Project and ensure that except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the individual subloan limits and
the aggregate loans to any one
enterprise shall not exceed the
limits stipulated in the Section
LA           3.02(b)   M                                                 Borrower to employ consultants   Complied
satisfactory to the Bank for
carrying out Part D of the project



38
Status of Legal Covenants
Hungary
First Industrial Restructuring Project
Loan 2700-HU
Overall Project Rating: 1
Agreement   Section   Covenant  Status    Original        Revised       Description of Covenant         Comments
Type                 Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date          Date
LA           3.04      M          OK                                    Procurement to be governed by   Complied
Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement
LA           4.01(a)   F          OK                                    Borrower to maintain satisfactory    Complied
records and accounts in
accordance sound accounting
practices
LA           4.01(b)   F          OK                                    Borrower to have records and    Complied
accounts for each fiscal year
including those for the Special
Account audited in accordance
with appropriate auditing
principles by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, furnish to
the Bank not later than five
months after the close of the fiscal
year, certified copies of the
audited accounts, and furnish such
other information as the Bank
may reasonably request
LA           4.01(c)   F          OK                                    Borrower to maintain appropriate   Complied
records and accounts for all
expenditures for which
withdrawals were made from the
Special Account and ensure that
audit report contains a separate
opinion by the auditors as to
reliability of such separate
accounts, and the associated
procedures and internal controls
LA           4.02      F          OK                                    Borrower to maintain separate   Complied
accounts for receipts of payments
of interest and principal under the
Subsidiary Financing Agreements
GA           3.02      M          OK                                    Guarantor to employ consultants    Complied
satisfactory to the Bank for
carrying out Part E of the Project
GA           3.04      M          OK                                    Guarantor to perform all its    Complied
obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement
GA           4.0 1(a)   F         OK                                    Guarantor to maintain adequate  Complied
records and accounts in accord-
ance with sound accounting
practices in respect of expend-
itures related to Part E of Project



39
Status of Legal Covenants
Hungary
Flrst Industrial Restructuring Project
Loan 2700-HU
Overall Project Rating: 1
Agreement   Section    Covenant  Status    Original           Revised       Descripton of Covenant             Conts
Type                  Fulfillment    Fulfillment
Date          Date
GA            4.01(b)    F           OK                                     Guarantor to have such records     Complied
and accounts for each fiscal year
audited in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles by
independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank, furnish audit reports not
later than five months after the
end of the fiscal year, and furnish
such other information as the
Bank may reasonably request
Guarantor to have such records    Complied
and accounts for each fiscal year
audited in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles by
independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank, furnish audit reports not
later than five months after the
end of the fiscal year, and furnish
such other information as the
Bank may reasonably request
Key
Covenant:                                  Status:
E Economic                                 ACT Needs use of formal remedies to bring about compliance
F Financial                                 NYD Not yet due
M ManagerLal                                OK  Covenant compled with



40
Status of Legal Covenants
Hungary
Second Industrial Restructuring Project
Loan 2834-HU
Overall Project Rating: 3
Agreement   Section   Covenant  Status    Original        Revised      Description of Covenant          Comments
Type                 Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date         Date
LA           3.01(a)   M          OK                                   The Borrower declares its        Complied
commitment to provide promptly
as needed the funds, facilities,
services and other resources
required for the purpose, and
conduct its operations and affairs
under the Project in accordance
with sound financial standards and
practices with qualified
management and personnel, and
in accordance with the Basic Law
and Credit Policy Guidelines
LA           3.01(b)   M          OK                                   For carrying out Part A of the   Complied
Project, Borrower is to make
available to the Guarantor funds
under Subsidiary Financing
Agreements terms and conditions
of which are to be approved by
the Bank and include those set
forth in Section 2.05 of this
Agreement
LA           3.01(c)   M          OK                                   For carrying out Part D of the   Complied
Project, Borrower is to make
available to the Eligible Banks
funds under Subsidiary Financing
Agreements terms and conditions
of which are to be approved by
the Bank, and include those set
forth in Schedule 4
LA           3.01(d)   M          OK                                   For carrying out Parts E and F of  Complied
the Project, Borrower is to make
available to the Guarantor funds
under Subsidiary Financing
Agreements terms and conditions
of which are to be approved by
the Bank, and include those set
forth in Schedule 7



41
Status of Legal Covenants
Hungary
Second Industrial Restructuring Project
Loan 2834-HU
Overall Project Rating: 3
Agreement   Section   Covenant  Status    Original         Revised       Description of Covenant          Comments
Type                 Fulfillment    Fulfillment
Date          Date
LA           3.02      M           OK                                    Borrower to coordinate and       Complied
monitor the overall execution of
the Project, supervise the carrying
out by the Participating Banks of
their obligations under the
Subsidiary Financing Agreements,
and ensure that, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the
individual subloan limits and the
aggregate loans to any one
enterprise shall not exceed the
limits stipulated in the Section
LA           3.03      M           OK                                    Borrower to employ consultants   Complied
satisfactory to the Bank for
carrying out Part C of the Project
LA           3.04      M           OK                                    Procurement to be governed by    Complied
Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement
LA           4.01(a)   F           OK                                    Borrower to maintain satisfactory    Complied
records and accounts in
accordance with sound accounting
practices
LA           4.01(b)   F           OK                                    Borrower to have records and      Complied
accounts for each fiscal year
including those for the Special
Account audited in accordance
with appropriate auditing
principles by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank not later
than five months after the close of
the fiscal year - certified copies of
the audited accounts, and furnish
such other information as the
Bank may reasonably request
LA           4.01(c)   F           OK                                    Borrower to maintain appropriate   Complied
records and accounts for all
expenditures for which
withdrawals were made from the
Special Account and ensure that
audit report contains a separate
opinion by the auditors as to
reliability of such separate
accounts and the associated
procedures and internal controls



42
Status of Legal Covenants
Hungary
Second Industrial Restructuring Project
Loan 2834-HU
Overall Project Rating: 3
Agreement   Section   Covenant  Status    Original         Revised       Description of Covenant           Comments
Type                 Fulfillment    Fulfillment
Date          Date
LA           4.02      F           OK                                    Borrower to maintain separate     Complied
accounts for receipts of payments
of interest and principal under the
Subsidiary Financing Agreements
GA           3.02      M           OK                                    Guarantor to employ consultants    Complied
satisfactory to the Bank for
carrying out Part A of the Project
GA           3.04      M           OK                                    Guarantor to perform all its      Complied
obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement
GA           4.01(a)   F           OK                                    Guarantor to maintain adequate    Complied
records and accounts in accord-
ance with sound accounting
practices in respect of expend-
itures related to Part A of Project
GA           4.01(b)   F           OK                                    Guarantor to have such records    Complied
and accounts for each fiscal year
audited in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles by
independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank, furnish audit reports not
later than five months after the
end of the fiscal year, and furnish
such other information as the
Bank may reasonably request
Key
Cov_:                                     Statu:
E Etcm                                   ACT Needs ue of formal remedie to bring about compliance
F Fibmda                                  NYD Not yd due
M Mansil                                  OK Covuat compied with



43
8.a.   Bank Manpower Employed on Project (2700-HIJ)
Stage of               Year            Number of          Number of            Specialization         Rating
Project Cycle                             Persons           Staff-weeks          Represented"           Status
Preparation            FY86                 9                      36.9      F.A., Eco, Eng, Leg
Appraisal             FY86                 13                    102.1      F.A., Eco, Eng, Leg
Negotiations            FY86                 4                       9       F.A., Eco, Eng, Leg
Supervision
I                  FY87                 9                     23.4         F.A. /Eco/Eng
2                  FY88                 8                      16.3                                  1
3                  FY89                 5                      12.3                                  1
4                  FY90                 7                      13.6                                  1
5                  FY91                 6                       6.7         F.A./Eco/Eng
6                  FY92                 5                       8.9           F.A./Eng
7                  FY93                 3                       5.0           F.A/Eng
Project Completion
I                  FY94                 1                      3.0             F.A.
Eng Engineer       Eco Economst
F.A. Fmania Anmlyst  Leg Legal expert
8.b.  Bank Manpower Employed on Project (2834-HU)
Stage of               Year            Number of            Number of          Specialization        Rating
Project Cycle                             Persons            Staff-weeks          Represented           Status
Preparation            FY86                  8                      43.1      F.A., Eco, Eng, Leg
Appraisal             FY87                 22                      151.1    F.A., Eco, Eng, Leg
Negotiations            FY87                 8                       12.5                          _
Supervision
I                  FY87                 2                        1.5           FA/Eng
2                  FY88                 7                       25.4       F.A., Eco, Eng           2
3                  FY89                 7                       17.8                                1
4                  FY90                 8                       14.0                                 1
5                  FY91                 9                        6.9                                2
6                  FY92                 6                       12.2                                2
7                  FY93                 3                        4.2             FA                 3
Project Completion
L  1               FY94                                          3               FA                 3
M:AHUN\IRP.tCR



