Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No2P-4313-HU
REPORT AND RECOMI!ENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF TIE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO Us$100.0 MILLION
TO THE
NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
May 7, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and maty be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed -vithout World Bank authorization. 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1985        March 1986
Currency Unit   =        Forint (Ft)
US$1             =       Ft 49.90             Ft 46.0
Ft 1             =       US$0.020             US$o.021
An exchange rate of Ft 45  = $1 was used in the appraisal report.
Hungarian Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY UF ABBREVIATIONS
CMEA      -    Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
DRC       -    Domestic Resource Cost
MOI       -    Ministry of Industry
NBH       -    National Bank of Hungary
NPO       -    National Planning Office
OMFB      -    State Office for Technical Development
PPS       -    Plastics Processing Subsector
RD&E      -    Research, Development and Engineering
RF        -    Restructuring Facility
RPO       -    Restructuring Program Office
SDB       -    State Development Bank
SME       -    Small and Medium-sized Enterprise
TFP       -    Total Factor Productivity



FOR OFFICLUA USE ONLY
HUNGARY
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       National Bank of Hungary (NBH)
Guarantor:      Hungarian People's Republic
Amount:         US$100.0 million equivalent
Terms:          15 years, including 3 years at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Beneficiaries:  Government of Hungary. National Bank of Hungary, industrial
enterprises through innovation financing institutions,
enterprises and institutes in the plastics processing
subsector, and other industrial enterprises
Relending       Out of US$100 million equivalent, $33 million equivalent would
Terms           remain with NBH.  The remaining $67 million equivalent would
be relent on the following terms:
(a)    $59.5 million equivalent to commercial entities for a
maximum period of 10 years, including a grace period
not exceeding 3 years, at an interest rate equal to at
least the Bank rate plus a 30% mark-up.
(b)    $3.0 million equivalent to innovation financing
institutions at an interest rate equal to at least the
Bank rate plus a 20% mark-up for a maximum period of 10
years, including grace period not exceeding 3 years,
which will be made available to subborrowers at an
average return equal to at least the Bank rate plus a
301 mark-up and for a period of maximm  10 years,
including a grace period not exceeding 3 years.
(c)    $4.5 milion equivalent to the Government for 15 years,
including a grace period of three years at an interest
rate equal to at least the Bank's rate plus a 301
mark-up.
NBH will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project         The objective of the Project is to support the restructuring
Description:    of Hungarian industry to enable it to achieve international
competitiveness. The Project has two major components:
(a) Industry-wide restructuring component which includes
support for a 5-year program of industrial policy and
institutional reforms. The reform program is supplemented by
specific institution-building with particular regard to
innovation financing, management development and banking
institutions; and (b) Specific subsector restructuring
component to expedite restructuring in the plastics processing
subsector (PPS). This includes support for (i) the develor-
ment of the PPS infrastructure; (ii) the restructuring
programs of five selected plastics processing enterprises; and
(iii) the restructuring of small and medium-sized enterprises
(SMEs) in the subsector.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. ls contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- Li -
Benefits and
Risks:          The industrial policy reform program is expected to provide
the necessary conditions for efficient restructuring and
growth by encouraging domestic and international competition,
enhancing efficient resource mobility and improving financial
discipline and control. The support for innovation and
management development will help to upgrade the technological
capacity of Hungarian industry and provide new management
skills. The specific subsector restructuring component of the
Project will help enterprises in the plastics processing
subsector to develop sustained international competitiveness
through changes in strategies, organizational, management and
physical restructuring of enterprises combined with infra-
structural support for the subsector. The main risk of the
industrial policy reform program relates to the possiblity of
future adverse macroeconomic developments in Hungary which
might lead to pressures for a slowdown of the momentum for
reform. Strong commitment by Hungarian authorities to
implement the program, continuous policy dialogue between the
Bank and the Hungarian authorities and intensive Bank
supervision would contribute to ensuring appropriate
macroeconomic policies and sustainability of the current
reform effort, thus minimizing the risk. Emphasis during
Project preparation to strengthen Hungarian institutional
capacity and the active involvement of Hungarian counterparts
in the appraisal process reduces the risk relating to the
complex and multi-component nature of the Projec; involving a
large number of diverse institutions.
Estimated Costs:                                Local    Foreign      Total 1/
US $ Million     --
Industry-wide Restructuring Component:
Incremental Working Capital                  12.0     130.0       142.0
Innovation Finance                            9.8       3.0        12.8
Management Development                        0.5       1.0         1.5
Technical Assistance and Related
Services (including Banking System
Support)                                    2.1       6.0         8.1
Subtotal                                  24.4     140.0       164.4
Specific Subsector Restructuring Component:
Technological Infrastructure                 20.0      13.9        33.9
Selected Enterprises                         44.9      41.7        86.6
Non-selected Enterprises                     16.4      15.8        32.2
Sub-total                                    81.3      71.4       152.7
Total                                       105.7     211.4       317.1
1/ The cost estimate includes U$30.8 million of taxes and duties.



- iii -
Local    Foreign      Total
Financing Plan:                                 -=--US $ Million
IBRD                                          -       100.0       100.0
Government                                    8.3        1.9       10.2
NBH                                          46.1     107.3 1/   153.4
Project Entities, incldg. paid-in equity   51.3         2.2        53.5
Total                                    105.7     211.4       317.1
Estimated Disbursement: IBRD FY  1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
Annual                     35.6   16.2   22.4   14.7    7.8    3.3
Cumulative                 35.6   51.8   74.2   88.9   96.7  100.0
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 6069-HU dated May 7, 1986.
1/ NBH will provide foreign exchange by sale to the enterprises against
local currency.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the National Bank of Hungary with the guarantee of the Hungarian People's
Republic for the equivalent of US$100 million to help finance an industrial
restructuring project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3
years of grace at the standard variable interest rate. About $62.5 million
of the loan proceeds would be onlent to project beneficiaries for a period
not exceeding 10 years and three years of grace. All these subloans, except
for innovation financing institutions, would be at an interest rate equal to
at least the Bank's variable rate plus a 30Z mark-up which includes a fee for
the foreign exchange risk to be borne by the Borrower. About $3 million
would be onlent to innovation financing institutions at an interest rate
equal to the Bank's variable interest plus a 20Z mark-up. $4.5 million would
be onlent to the Government for 15 years, including three years grace, at an
interest rate equal to least the Bank's rate plus a 30X mark-up.
PART I: THE ECONOMY -L'
2.       Hungary joined the World Bank on July 7, 1982.  The first Economic
Report was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 19, 1983 (Report
No. 4174-HU). An updating Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 5006-HU)
and a Power and Coal Subsector Review (Report No. 4746b-HU) were distributed
to the Executive Directors on August 13 and October 24, 1984, respectively.
An Economic Mission visited Hungary in June 1985. Its findings were recently
circulated to the Executive Directors (Report No. 5951-HU dated March 12,
?986) and have been incorporated in this report. Country social and economic
data are given in Annex I.
Introduction
3.       The present economic system in Hungary combines state ownership and
central planning with significant enterprise autonomy over investment and
production decisions. The system has evolved from the post-war period when,
as in other socialist countries in Eastern Europe, planning was based on
physical targets and central administrative directives. Since 1968, reform
of the economic system has been pursued to increase efficiency both by
strengthening the influence of market forces on enterprise activities, and by
developing a system of "economic regulators" through which the State can
indirectly guide overall economic activity.
4.       In the period 1978-80, Hungary embarked on a program of adjustment
in two phases. First, the authorities placed priority on external
stabilization in order to restore a balance of payments equilibrium and come
to grips with a large burden of external debt. Second, in late 1978, the
Government reaffirmed its commitment to the structural economic reforms which
had been initiated in 1968 but largely suspended since the early 1970s.
While the objectives of both external stabilization and structural adjustment
were embraced simultaneously, stabilization remained the main preoccupation
at least through 1983. More recently, however, the authorities have
Substantially identical to Part I of the President's Report for the
Power Project (P-4301-HU) circulated to the Executive Directors on
May 1, 1986 for consideration on May 20.



- 2 -
acknowledged that sustained balance of payments equilibrium can be
facilitated by an accelerated pace of structural adjustment to improve
competitiveness and generate export-led growth. Consistent with this, the
Hungarian authorities have been designing a series of economic reforms which
are more wide-ranging than any taken to date; implementation of some of these
reforms began in 1985 but the full package is scheduled to be carried out
within the current (1986-90) Five-Year Plan period. During 1985 the external
account again has become strained; the major challenge before the authorities
in the next few years, therefore, will be to manage domestic demand while
continuing the structural changes in the economy through the reform process
(para. 17 through para. 19).
Structural Features of the Economv
5.       The "Socialist" sector, comprising state enterprises, state farms
and agricultural cooperatives, accounts for nearly 90% of GDP in Hungary.
Although private activity has been evident for some time in trade and service
activities, it is most important in agriculture, where, for certain products,
output from private holdings constitutes a large share of the total.
6.       The principal structural features of Hungary's economy are:  (a) a
relatively high share of industry (including construction) in GDP (41% in
1984, with 39% of total employment), compared with most developing countries;
(b) a predominance of heavy industry in total industrial output (67% in
1984), reflecting an emphasis common to many socialist countries; (c) a
relatively large proportion of the labor force employed in agriculture (22%
in 1984) compared to industrial market economies; there is, in fact,
significant scope for growth of labor productivity and further shifts of
labor out of this sector; and (d) a high share of GDP entering into foreign
trade (about 41%). Hungary's dependence on trade makes it vulnerable to
fluctuations in international trade and prices, and is a principal argument
in favor of reforms aimed at increasing the adaptability of the economy to
changes in world markets. Hungary imports nearly half of its total energy
consumption and a large proportion of its other inputs to industry. The
importance of industry in total production also implies that Hungary's
overall prospects for growth and balance of payments equilibrium depend on
the ability to compete in foreign markets. While manufactures constitute a
major share of total exports (64% in 1984), they are more significant with
respect to exports to countries belonging to the Council of Mutual Economic
Assistance (CMEA). Agricultural commodities and raw materials represent
major shares of exports to convertible currency markets (about 30% and 35%,
respectively).
7.       Hungary's labor force declined by 0.3% p.a. during the period
1975-84. There is a growing perception of a labor shortage in Hungary, which
has created pressure to economize on labor, adopt modern techniques to raise
labor productivity, and shift labor into the more efficient activities.
The Stabilization Program, 1978-84
8.       Hungary's external account imbalance peaked in 1978 with a $1.2
billion trade deficit. The burden of foreign debt in convertible currencies
reached $7.6 billion (46% of GDP), in contrast to only $1.1 billion in 1970.



These developments resulted in large part from rapid increases in investment,
delays in adjusting domestic prices (especially for energy), and
deterioration in international terms of trade. The stabilization program
started in 1979 relied mainly on cuts in investment to curb domestic
absorption and on restraint of convertible currency imports.
9.       The controls on domestic aggregate demand resulted in a steady
improvement in the balance of convertible currency trade, which shifted into
surplus by 1980. However, the concurrent rise in interest rates and
deterioration of banking confidence in Eastern Europe caused financial
difficulties in the convertible currency account in 1982, when the withdrawal
of short-term credits during the first quarter of the year reduced reserves
to barely one month of convertible currency imports of goods and services.
In 1983 and 1984, the Government successfully regained external liquidity and
rebuilt depleted reserves by two means. First, the stabilization program was
strengthened after 1982 within the framework of two IMF Standby Arrange-
ments -L'-, which were successfully implemented, resulting in the generation
of $0.3 billion surpluses in the convertible currency current account in 1983
and 1984 (equivalent to about 8X of convertible currency merchandise
imports). Second, the improvement of the external account restored the
confidence of the international capital markets in Hungary, leading to an
increasing availability of loans from commercial banks. Medium and long term
capital inflows from commercial banks during the 1983-85 period totalled
about $6.9 billion, including $1 billion raised through World Bank
cofinancing.
10.     Thus, Hungary's determined pursuit of its stabilization objectives
has contributed to its restored access to external loans and has enabled debt
servicing obligations to be met. Nevertheless, the emphasis on restriction
of demand has entailed costs in terms of GDP growth, which was only 1.82 per
year on average between 1978-84, in contrast to 5f in the 1970s. Zo
Resumption of Economic Reform
11.     While adopting stabilization measures, the Government resumed
systemic reforms to make enterprises more responsible for production and
investment decisions and to ensure that these decisions reflected
market-based signals ("economic regulators"t- prices, taxation, wage policy
and interest rates) rather than central directives. The ultimate intention
of the reforms is to raise the overall efficiency of the economy by
increasing the enterprise managers' concern for profitability, and by
shifting resources to their more productive uses.
An IMF standby arrangement (for $525 million) and a compensatory
financing facility (for $80 million) were approved by the IMF in
December 1982. A second standby arrangement (for $425 million) was
approved in January 1984. No further standby arrangement is currently
contemplated.
2/  Total GDP growth includes the effect of customs duties and valuation,
which declined by 5% annually from 1978-84.



- 4 -
12.      The main elements of reform between 1980-84 were the following:
(a) A major change in the system of pricing was instituted in 1980 to
link certain domestic prices to export prices in convertible
currency markets, thereby reducing the scope of "cost-plus"
price-setting. Unadministered (free market) pricing has since been
extended to about half of industrial output (excluding food
processing);
(b) The system of wage regulation was revised in 1983 to allow greater
wage differentials and thereby more closely link rewards to
performance;
(c) Legal provision was made in 1982 to facilitate the establishment of
new enterprises and business associations as a means to stimulate
competition;
(d) In 1982-83, measures were adopted to permit the issuance of bonds by
firms, thus increasing the scope for reallocation of investment
resources.
13.      Although each of these reform elements represented a significant
break from past practice, they did not result in increasing substantially the
profit-mindedness of enterprises. The limited effectiveness of the 1980-84
phase of reforms indicated that partial modifications in only certain aspects
of the economic system would not change the behavior of firms as long as
managers could bargain with authorities over enterprise-specific regulations,
and a lack of genuine competition precluded the discipline of the market. At
the same time, there appeared a conflict between the desire to decentralize
economic decision-making for purposes of efficiency, on the one hand, and the
urgercy of managing domestic demand for external balance, on the other, which
appeared to call for the maintenance of administrative controls. Yet another
source of tension underlying the rEform process has been the official
commitment to minimize the social costs of adjustment, in particular by
containing consumer price inflation.
Expanded Reform Program (1985-90)
14.      The experiences of 1978-84 underlined the need to make longer-term
structural adjustments to enhance the efficiency and competitiveness of the
economy. Thus, external equilibrium could be achieved through more dynamic
export performance without sacrificing growth of output. Highest priority in
the 1986-90 Plan has therefore been given to increasing the competitiveness
of the country's manufactures in the convertible currency market and to
reducing imports of energy and raw materials. Raising the levels of
convertible currency exports will call for greater efficiency in production,
improved product quality, improved competitiveness and market responsiveness;
these objectives also require an upgrading of the country's industrial
capital stock. much of which is outdated and based on technologies which use
relatively high levels of energy, labor and other inputs. As the economic
performance in 1985 has been disappointing, (para. 17-19), there is a need
both for a more flexible macroeconomic management and to move urgently
towards systemic economic reform, to promote external balance with growth.



15.      To meet these requirements, the authorities launched a more
extensive phase of economic reforms in 1985. The current stage of reform is
planned to continue the transition to a market-based setting of prices and
wages; a further increase in competition among enterprises; improvement of
their financial discipline and control; and fostering the mobility of
productive resources, through an integrated package of policy actions (see
Part III).
16.      To increase competition, both foreign and domestic, measures
intitiated in 1985 focus on allowing greater freedom of entry and exit in
industrial and trading operations, and on liberalizing foreign trade. The
development of a competitive environment will tend to enhance financial
discipline and autonomy of enterprises. Further actions to realize this
objective center, first, on the introduction of a new self-management system
which limits direct state intervention in enterprise decision-making.
Second, the fiscal code has been revised to make taxation more predictable
and objective and allow enterprises greater discretion in the use of profit
reserves. Whereas the tax reforms also serve to encourage the reallocation
of productive resources, institutional changes in the banking system and
financial intermediation are to be the direct vehicles for carrying out this
redistribution. These changes will also permit monetary instruments to be
used more effectively for macroeconomic adjustments, thereby reducing the
excessive reliance on fiscal intervention' which tend to penalize profitable
firms.
Recent Economic Developments and Future Prospects
17.      Performance in 1985.  While the above efforts were being initiated,
in 1985 the economy experienced a severe slowdown. This development
reflected the adverse effects of the harsh winter; a poor performance of
exports to the convertible currency area, accompanied by deterioration in
terms of trade; and a slowdown in aggregate investment. GDP is estimated to
have declined by 0.5% in 1985, in contrast to a growth of 2.6% in 1984.
Preliminary figures indicate that output of the manufacturing sector fell by
about 0.8% and construction output by 7%. Agricultural production also
declined by 5.3%, largely as a result of a 7% drop in livestock production.
18.      The current account in convertible currencies showed a deficit of
about $0.5 billion in 1985, a disappointing development after two consecutive
years of current account surpluses. At the same time, the current account
balance for non-convertible currency trade moved from a perennial deficit to
a surplus of about $0.4 billion in 1985. The sharp rise of foreign exchange
reserves in 1985 ($0.9 billion), combined with reserve increases in the
previous two years, brought total convertible currency reserves to over 6
months of imports by the end of 1985. This high level of reserves gives the
Government considerable room for maneuver in managing its external balances,
but provides no grounds for complacency.
19.      While facing strains in its convertible currency account, since 1983
Hungary has had also to cope with stagnating or declining supplies of the
favorably-priced oil and raw materials imports from socialist countries and
deteriorating terms of trade in nonconvertible currency transactions. In
addition, lines of credit to finance trade deficits in nonconvertible



- 6 -
currency have been curtailed. Hungary has been required to increase exports
to the nonconvertible currency area and to reduce its debt, which amounted to
about $1.6 billion at end-1985. Nonconvertible currency exports in real
terms increased by more than 7% p.a. during the 1982-85 period, which has put
pressure on supplies of merchandise which could be directed to convertible
currency markets.
20.      External Debt.  In December 1984, Hungary's total convertible
currency debt was $8.8 billion (of which $7.4 billion was medium- and
long-term), representing about 43% of GDP. This debt again rose in 1)85,
reaching a record level of $12.0 billion by December, which was partially
offset by the $0.9 billion increase in reserves mentioned above. Government
policy aims at lengthening the average debt maturity and limiting the
expansion of short-term borrowing. The maturity structure of med-um and long
term debt has improved considerably since 1982; nevertheless, about half of
this debt will mature within 3 years, calling for continuing careful debt
management.
21.      Hungary's convertible currency debt service in 1985 amounted to $3.0
billion.  The debt-service ratio  -' has risen from 41% in 1984 to 56% in
1985. The sharp rise in the debt service ratio in 1985 reflects several
factors unique to 1985. First, about $300 million in debt service payments
were amortization of debt due after 1985, and were part of the Government's
efforts to develop a more favorable debt structure. Excluding these early
payments brings the convertible currency debt service ratio down to 51%.
Second, as noted above, export performance was poor in 1985. Third,
borrowing increased sharply as Hungary sought to take advantage of the
favorable terms available in international capital markets to build up
reserves and restructure its debt. While Hungary may prepay debt in the
future, it does not plan to increase net borrowing in the medium term. The
developments in 1985 highlight the im2ortance of improved export
performance. The main thrust of the economic reform effort is to improve the
efficiency and competitiveness of the economy, which should lead to more
rapid export growth. As the economic reform program takes hold, the
convertible currency debt service ratio is expected to decline to 30-35% by
the end of the decade.
22.      Medium-term Gutlook.  Weak external demand for Hungarian exports,
combined with policies aimed at curbing aggregate domestic demand, will
probably keep GDP growth for 1985-90 at an average rate of about 2-2.5% p.a.
Growth of consumption--and that of total domestic absorption--are to be held
below the growth of output. Since Hungary's population is approximately
stationary, even this low growth of consumption would permit some improvement
in per capita living standards. Government policies aim at reversing the
fall in investment, with a moderate growth of gross domestic investment
(about 3% annually) projected for the rest of the 1980s. The authorities
have adopted an annual inflation ceiling of 5% for the 1986-90 period to
protect real wages--a target which could, however, constrain the progress of
economic reform and macroeconomic adjustment.
Amortization plus interest payments on medium and long term convertible
currency debt, divided by exports of goods and services. The total debt
service ratio for both convertible and non-convertible debt was about
30% in 1985.



23.      Bank projections indicate that it may be possible to ease the
restrictions of the stabilization program toward the end of the decade,
although some restraint on aggregate demand will have to be maintained to
ensure positive current account balances. The favorable impact of the
economic reforms on the country's economic growth path will become more
apparent toward the end of the decade. The industrial sector is expected to
be the leading beneficiary of the reforms and to grow at an average rate of
about 3% during 1986-90. A lower average rate of growth is projected for the
agricultural sector (2-2.5%).
24.      External Capital Requirements.  Bank projections for the 1986-90
period indicate that Hungary's annual amortization of its convertible
currency medium and long term debt will average about $1.6 billion (including
repayments to the IMF). If stabilization efforts continue to be successful
and further deficits in the current account can be avoided, gross medium and
long term capital inflow requirements will be on the order of $1.5 billion
per year. The Bank expects to provide some of those canital needs with the
remainder financed by commercial banks.
Assessment of Country Performance
25.      The policy dialogue at both the macro and micro levels between
Hungarian authorities and the Bank has been fruitful. Notwithstanding the
difficulties currently facing Hungary's economy, the high level of reserves
and the Government's record in stabilizing the economy and managing its
external finances in the early 1980s provide grounds for cautious optimism
regarding the macroeconomic situation. The overriding issue at the present
time concerns the conflicts in policy objectives which the Government faces
in the short run: namely, the pressures to protect real wages and planned
investment levels, as against the need to implement an active exchange rate
and trade policy to help improve the country's external accounts further,
liberalize pricing, restrain aggregate demand, and institute flexibility in
economic management. The Government officials have indicated that they are
prepared to take appropriate action if the conditions underlying the 1985
performance prove to be more than transitory. Although the anticipated
growth rate for the economy for the rest of the decade is relatively low, the
economic reform program to which Hungary is committed, and which the proposed
project would support, should strengthen its growth path during the 1990s.
In sum, given the country's performance to date in managing aggregate demand
and its continued resolve to achieve extern<'.. balance and pursue needed
systemic reforms, Hungary is considered creditworthy for additional Bank
lending.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HUNGARY "
26.      The proposed loan would bring total Bank commitments to Hungary to
$903.4 million for fourteen loans (including six 'B' loan participations in
commercial cofinancing syndications) for projects in industry, agriculture,
energy and transport.
Substantially identical to Part II of the President's Report for the
Power Project (P-4301-HU) circulated to the Executive Directors on
May 1, 1986 for consideration on May 20.



- 8 -
27.      The Hungarian Government has asked the Bank to focus its attention
on structural adjustment in the productive sectors: agriculture, industry,
energy and transport. The Bank concurs with this selection of priorities and
is supporting Hungary's structural adjustment process through project-basLd
lending aimed at export generation; import substitution, particularly in the
energy sector, through increased domestic production and conservation; plant
upgrading and technology transfer, to reduce production costs through more
efficient input utilization, and to improve productivity and product quality;
and industrial restructuring to enhance international competitiveness,
improve efficiency and reduce the concentration of enterprise activities.
28.      The Hungarian Government had looked to the Bank to assist it in
expanding access to external capital markets. In this respect, the Bank was
a successful catalyst in mobilizing six commercial cofinancing syndications,
a 200 million Eurodollar loan and a $70 million equivalent Japanese Yen loan
in 1983 for the Grain Stcrage and Mechanization and the Industrial Energy
Diversification and Conservation projects; a 385 million Eurodollar loan and
a $93 million equivalent Japanese Yen loan in 1984 for the Industrial Export
and Restructuring and the Petroleum projects; and a 300 million Eurodollar
loan and a $120 million equivalent Japanese yen loan in 1985 for the
Integrated Livestock, Fire Chemicals and Transport projects. The Bank's
participation in these syniications under the new cofinancing arrangements
amounted to $30 million and $8.8 million equivalent, respectively, for the
first two projects, $35 million and $12.2 million equivalent, respectively,
for the next two projects, and $36 million and $14 million equivalent for the
last two projects. In all these cofinancing operations, the Bank was able to
improve the terms over the most recent Hungarian berrowings and to introduce
the country to commercial banks from which it had not borrowed previously.
Bank Lending Strategy
29.      The Bank expects to continue to provide technical assistance in
project preparation and design, and in institution-building. Planned
economic and sector work covers energy, industry, agriculture, financial
sector and foreign trade. The Bank has already reviewed the coal and power
subsectors, the industrial sector, the chemical subsector and the transport
sector. These sector studies are providing policy inputs for the Bank's
dialogue with the Hungarian authorities and come at a time when further
reforms are being introduced in the Hungarian economy to increase the impact
of market forces and enterprise autonomy. Discussions have already been
initiated in this respect. Under the first two projects, the Barik drew the
Hungarian authorities' attention to the drawbacks of using interest rebates
as an incentive system. Following subsequent discussions the authorities
eliminated the system of interest subsidies starting January 1, 1984.
Training through EDI was in.:tiated with a first course on the financial and
economic evaluation of projects, held in early January 1984 in Budapest. Two
procurement seminars and a seminar on grain inflow-outflow analysis to
determine storage requirements have also been held in Budapest. They were
received with much interest by the Hungarian authorities who requested
further cooperation in this area. Consequently, an EDI seminar on structural
adjustment was held in mid-January 1985 in Budapest, and a further
procurement seminar in June 1985.



- 9 -
30.      The loans in the pipeline represent only a small portion of
Hungary's total need for external financing, and of its total (disbursed)
convertible currency debt. However, they provide a substantial net addition
to the flow of convertible currency available on longer repayment terms. The
implementation of on-going projects and disbursements are satisfactory. The
disbursed debt outstanding to the Bank is expected to constitute about 14% of
Hungary's total projected convertible debt in 1990, and the Bank's share in
Hungary's debt service payment is projected to rise to about 9% by that time.
31.      Hungary signed the Articles of Agreement of IDA and IFC on
April 29, 1985. IFC is exploring possible investments in Hungary. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of September 30, 1985.
PART III: THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
32.      Industry is the single largest sector in Hungary, contributing about
a third of its GDP, employment and gross domestic fixed investment. It
accounts for 90% of the total imports and 79% of its total exports. After a
rapid growth and diversification up to the mid-1970s, its performance has
been umsatisfactory, with only a 2% average annual growth and little
structural change in the 1980s. This is especially disappointing since
nearly three quarters of the sector shows near or actual international
competitiveness, with domestic resources costs below 1.1. Improvement in
efficiency measured by totai factor productivity (TFP) has been negligible,
with substantial differences among industries. Processing industries have
shown small but positive and increasing TFP growth since 1981 following the
introduction of pricing reforms in 1981. Improved industrial sector
performance is crucial to Hungary's transition from stabilization to
adjustment with sustained growth.
33.      Despite the intermittent progress made since the 1968 reform which
terminated the physical planning system, and introduced a new system of
economic plannirg and management linked with markets, the policy environment
in which irdustrial enterprises operate has constrained the performance of
the sector. The principal constraints to sector growth are the lack of
adequate domestic and international competition, limited resource mobility,
and the lack of financial discipline and weak autonomy of enterprises, along
with underdeveloped institutions and infrastructure to support improved
productivity.
34.      Limited domestic and international competition have sharply reduced
incentives for superior performance and improved productivity. The
regulatory, financial and other barriers to free entry and exit of
enterprises have created a highly concentrated industrial strv.cture. Legal
forms of enterprises acceptable to social ownership have been strictly
limited, essentially to state enterprises and cooperatives. Failing
enterprises were either subsidized or merged with other enterprises, as their
liquidation was considered incompatible with the principle of social property
and guarantee of full employment. Further, a virtual state monopoly on
international trade through the specialized state trading organizations
limited international competition.



- 10 -
35.       Constraints on the reallocation of resources have also hindered
structural adjustment in industry. The lack of capital markets, and
allocation of credit by the National Bank of Hungary, which combines both
central banking and commercial banking functions, have prevented reallocation
of resources from uneconomic activities towards activities in which Hungary
has a dynamic comparative advantage. Wage policy, implemented through wage
level guidelines, and heavy taxation on wage increases, reduced worker
incentives for higher productivity and mobility of workers. Constraints on
direct foreign investment, as well as weaknesses in the institutional
framework for management and technological development have impeded transfer
of technology and know-how. Though most industrial products have been placed
under pricing rules designed to align them with world market prices,
reflecting the actual or potential import or export prices in convertible
currency markets, free market pricing has not been fully achieved and the
pricing rules continue to be used as an instrument for controlling
inflation. As the state depended largely on enterprise taxation for its
resources, a high tax burden, combined with subsector specific and enterprise
specific exemptions and subsidies for loss-making enterprises, reduced
incentives for superior performance. Together with direct state regulation
and limited managerial autonomy, these factors molded enterprise behavior
away from market demand, cost and quality performance and profits, with
little premium being attached to profitability, financial prudence,
innovation and productivity.
36.      Overall strategy.  In view of the dominance of the industrial sector
in the economy and its recent stagnant performance, the medium-term objective
of Hungary's Seventh Plan is a major restructuring of the industrial sector
to increase its efficiency and international competitiveness. The broad
medium-term strategy for such restructuring, developed jointly with the Bank,
combines an industrial policy reform program to create suitable conditions
for restructuring, and a program of specific restructuring measures to
expedite an adequate supply response to the policy reforms envisaged. This
strategy would involve:(i) changing the production structure by emphasizing
innovation and manufacture of products where Hungary has a comparative
dynamic comparative advantage; (ii) improving productivity and
competitiveness of existing production facilities through technological
upgrading and managerial improvements; and (iii) changes in the behavior and
motivation of enterprises to enhance dynamism and responsiveness to market
developments.
37.      Industrial Policy Reform Program.  in line with the above strategy,
the Government recently formulated an industria;. policy reform program
affecting the economic management system. Key aspects of this program
constitute the policy reforms supperted by the proposed project.  It is aimed
at: (i) encouraging stronger domestic and international competition; (ii)
enhancing efficient resource mobility; and (iii) increasing the autonomy of
enterprises with tighter financial discipline and control. Based on these
three principal objectives, the program addresses reforms in the following
eleven policy areas: entry of enterprises, liquidation of enterprises,
international trade, pricing of industrial products, taxation, wage
differentiation and labor mobility, capital market, banking system,
enterprise management system, direct foreign investment, and technology
development. This program, along with an implementation schedule, is
summarized in the Government's Letter of Intent, and its attachments



- 11 -
Annexes IV and V); it reflects a major reform of the Hungarian economic
system as it affects the industrial sector. The Government has begun to make
progress in these policy areas. Amongst the measures already implemented
are-the approval of the principles of legislation for corporate association
and the promotion of the creation and growth of SMEs, together with the
decentralization of state enterprises; the approval of the principles of
legislation jor enterprises liquidation and the initation of restructuring of
troubled enterprises; the introduction of measures for export promotion,
reduction in nominal tariffs, removal of quantitative import restrictions and
development of an import competition program, together with automatic
granting of import and export rights and abolition of restriction on foreign
trading rights; reductions in state regulation of pricing; the introduction
of structural changes in enterprise taxation and the abolition of subsectoral
tax exemptions in virtually all subsectors; the initiation of wage level
taxation and incentives for retraining; the establishment of bond markets and
the development of secondary trading of equity securities, the approval of
reforms of the banking system together with the initiation of new financial
institutions and indirect instruments of monetary control; the enactment of
legislation to transfer autonomy to enterprise management and the implement-
ation of this legislation in a majority of enterprises; improvement of tax
incentives for joint ventures and the introduction of incentives for direct
foreign investment in selected activities; strengthening of existing
innovation financing institutions and the establishment of new ones. The
program contains further specific measures to be implemented during 1986-87,
while outlining the framework for intended reforms in the later period up to
1990. The program reflects a significant move away from centralized planning
and direct control towards greater reliance on market mechanisms, indicative
planning and decentralized economic management regulated by macro-economic
instruments.
38.      With a view to promoting domestic competition, the program envisages
the removal of state monopoly in industrial enterprises and encouragement of
new forms of "corporate associations", including joint stock and limited
liability corporations. This involves the removal of barriers to the entry,
growth and exit of enterprises signaled by profits and losses.  Towards this
end, the legal framework for corporate associations, including the concept of
shares, is to be legislated in 1986. Several measures aimed at removing
biases against entry and growth of small private enterprises have been
implemented in 1985 and 1986, and are to be strengthened in future years.  To
promote competition, the decentralization of a number of large enterprises
has been completed, and further decentralization at the initiative of the
enterprises themselves would be encouraged by incentives. Simultaneously, to
reinforce competition, efficiency and financial discipline among industrial
enterprises, the principles of a legal framework for liquidation have been
approved and would be legislated in 1986. This would permit concerned
parties to initiate bankruptcy proceedings in the courts and facilitate
market orientation and phasing out of inefficient enterprises. The
Government has completed a review of all state industrial enterprises and
identified about 50 enterprises in a critical financial situation. Among
these, those which are potentially viable enterprises would be restructured
with assistance from a Refloatation Fund set up by the Government. The
remainder are likely to be subject to liquidation proceedings.



- l2 -
39.      To encourage greater exposure of Hungarian industry to external
competition, reforms in the area of international trade include measures for
tariff reform, import competition, export promotion and liberalization of
trading activities. Besides removal of quantitative restrictions other than
on consumer goods, these measures include the progressive reduction of
tariffs in line with GATT agreements, and rationalization of tariffs based on
a review of effective rates of protection, promotion of import competition
between domestic production and imports as well as among imports economy-wide
(excluding a limited negative list covering strategic goods), encouragement
of competition among foreign trading enterprises, and dismantling of the
monopoly on foreign trade by granting import and export rights to all
enterprises for their inputs and products. These would be supported by
export promotion measures designed to provide free trade status for exporters
and incentives to investments oriented towards exports.
40.      The objective of pricing reforms is to replace existing pricing
rules with market pricing by the end of 1990, and to transform the role of
the state from regulating prices to the regulation of imperfect markets.
Actions have already been taken to exempt a significant percentage of
industrial output from the export pricing rule, and to liberalize the export
pricing rule. This rule, which required enterprises to limit their average
price increases to the average increases realized on exports would be further
liberalized progressively and eventually abolished by 1990.
41.      The current tax system places a heavy burden on industrial
enterprises and has reduced the incentive to maximize profits; subsector and
enterprise specific exemptions have further weakened profit orientation and
resulted in a lack of transparency of enterprise performance. With a view to
enhance further enterprises' profit motivation, two major fiscal reforms are
planned, which would help reduce the tax burden on enterprises. They include
the introduction of a personal income tax and a value added tax. These
reforms are being designed with technical assistance from the IMF.
42.      To encourage labor productivity and mobility, wage lecel taxation
was introduced in 1985 to replace the highly progressive taxation of wage
increases which prevailed until then. This new system would be applied
progressively to all enterprises until it is replaced by the personal income
tax. This would facilitate movement of labor from low productivity areas to
higher productivity ones. To meet the resulting social costs of such
adjustment, the worker retraining program has been strengthened.
43.      The capital market development program would include an increase in
the variety of financial instruments and strengthening the primary and
secondary share and bond markets, along with improvement of the accounting,
auditing and financial reporting practices of enterprises. Banking reforms
complement the development of capital markets, and aim to transfer the credit
mobilization and allocation function to the market, and to promote the use of
indirect instruments of monetary control. Accordingly, a competitive
two-tier banking system is being promoted. Preparations are under way to
separate the commercial banking function of the National Bank of Hungary
institutionally from its central banking function through the creation of two
competing commercial banks effective January 1, 1987. New financlal
institutions and banks, including a bank with majority participation of a



- 13 -
leading US bank, innovation banks and a credit bank have been established in
1985 and early 1986. Other banks, including one with IFC participation, are
being promoted. Enterprises would be permitted a free choice in placing
their accounts, which would promote competition among banks.
44.      Reforms to encourage management autonomy and competitive behavior
will be facilitated by the recent introduction of a new enterprise management
system. Large state enterprises, with a few exceptions, are to be managed by
an enterprise council and smaller state enterprises by an elected enterprise
assembly. This change has been implemented for two-thirds of all state and
council enterprises in 1985 and the process would be completed in 1986. The
enterprise councils and assemblies are empowered with full rights and
responsibilities in all aspects of business operations and decisions, with
the state having the right and responsibility to ensure that the enterprise
operations are in accordance with relevant laws.
45.      To bridge the technological gap between Hungarian and western
industries, the reform program aims at encouraging inflow of foreign capital,
technological, management and rmarketing know-how through the promotion of
direct foreign investment. Measures already implemented in 1986 provide
increased incentives for joint ventures and associated technology transfer
activities, and these would be modified in the light of experience. The
program also includes measures to promote Hungary's capacity for techno-
logical development; these are aimed at strengthening infrastructural
support, eliminate barriers to financing technological developments and
innovations and induce market orientation of RD&E activities. Such measures
include the establishment of regional and sectoral RD&E centers with close
links to enterprises, promoting and strengthening of innovation financing
institutions, consulting firms and research institutes.
46.      The above-mentioned reforms would be supported by measures to
achieve an expeditious and sustained supply response and to create a
demonstration impact on the rest of the sector. These measures would be
subsector and enterprise specific and aimed at building organizational and
management capability, supporting activities designed to realize productivity
improvement, upgrading product-mix, eliminating uneconomic product lines.
promoting marketing development and restructuring of assets. Restructuring
programs are to be developed for several subsectors identified as potentially
competitive. Studies, financed by the Bank under on-going projects, are
already under way for some subsectors and would help in formulating
development strategies and restructuring programs.
47.      Under the proposed project, the plastics processing industry has
been selected as a prime candidate for restructuring for the following
reasons: (i) its potential comparative advantage but current low
productivity growth; (ii) its linkages with other sectors and its potential
for direct and indirect exports growth as well as efficient import subs-
titution (iii) its representative character in terms of the problems of the
manufacturing sector and therefore its demonstrative value; (iv) potential
for development of efficient small and medium-sized competitors in Hungary
and in world markets. The growth of this subsector has been constrained by
an inadequate market orientation, overconcentrated structure, aging technology
and inadequate infrastructure support. The main elements of a development



- 14 -
strategy for the PPS to remove the above constraints are: (i) upgrading
enterprise effectiveness, productivity and quality, and restructuring current
operations to reduce cost; (ii) promoting wider plastics application through
broadening the raw material base; (iii) technical assistance and special
credit facilities for small and medium enterprises (to SMEs), and improvement
of management and marketing; and (iv) strengthening infrastructure support,
especially to develop SMEs.
48.      The progress and the impact of the industrial policy reform program
will depend on the judicious application of macroeconomic policies, which are
consistent with sectoral incentives for adjustment and growth. In the course
of discussion of the Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 5951-HU, dated
March 12, 1986 ), the importance of appropriate macro-economic policies to
create a conducive environment which would enhance the effectiveness and pace
of industrial policy reforms was stressed. Among these, the maintenance of a
flexible exchange rate and active trade policy are of particular importance.
The Letter of Intent recognizes the importance of maintaining a sound macro-
economic framework.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
49.      The Bank has so far assisted three projects in the industrial sector:
the Industrial Energy Diversification and Conservation Project (Loan
2317-HU), the Industrial Export and Restructuring Project (2397-HU) and a
Fine Chemicals Project (2511-HU). They supported enterprise-initiated
investments with a potential for energy conservation and increasing
convertible currency exports. Their implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily.
50.      The proposed project would support industrial restructuring which is
one of the primary objectives of the Government's seventh five year plan and
is also in line with the Bank's assistance strategy for Hungary. Through
this assistance, the Bank proposes to facilitate changes in the industrial
sector aimed at (i) improving the quality of industrial goods and expanding
exports; (ii) improving the efficiency of industrial operations through
technological upgrading and material saving; (iii) changing the structure of
production; and (iv) helping enterprises to become more responsive to market
signals. In collaboration with the Hungarian authorities over the last 18
months, tLe Bank has helped to review the competitiveness of Hungarian
industry and to formulate a strategy for the industrial sector, which would
include both the creation of necessary conditions for restructuring, as well
as the preparation of soecific subsector restructuring programs to stimulate
sufficient supply response. The-restructuring program and the proposed
restructuring actions are crucial to strengthen the competitiveness of
Hungarian industry and its external balance. In addition, the Bank is
undertaking, again in collaboration with Hungarian authorities, (a) a study
of the financial sector, with a view to analyzing and evaluating means of
improving the mechanisms for resource mobilization and allocation, as
relating to enterprises and households; and (b) an exports study, which would
analyze the institutional, procedural and policy obstacles to exports as a
basis for possible Bank support. The planned economic and sector work, the
dialogue on economic management and the design/scope of future operations
would provide the means for monitoring the progress of the industrial reform
while ensuring appropriate economic performance.



15 -
PART IV: THE PROJECT
51.      The project has its origins in the extensive analysis of the
competitiveness of Hungarian industry carried out jointly by the Bank and the
Hungarian authorities. The project was identified and prepared with
assistance from the Bank and consultants. It was appraised in October/
November 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1986 with a
delegation led by Mr. Miklos Pulai, Deputy Chairman, National Planning
Office, and which included representatives of the National Planning Office
(NPO), the Ministry of Industry (MOI) and the National Bank of Hungary
(NBH). A Staff Appraisal Report entitled, "Hungary Industrial Sector
Restructuring Project" (No. 6069-HU dated May 7, 1986) is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the loan and
project are listed in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex Ill. Maps of
the country showing the project area (IBRD 19507R) and Bank projects in
execution (IBRD 17361R) are attached.
Project Objectives and Scope
52.      The project's objectives are to assist the restructuring of
Hungarian industry and to enhance its potential for exports. Towards these
objectives, the project includes two mutually reinforcing components: (i) an
industry-wide restructuring component, which includes support for a five-year
program of industrial policy and institutional reforms supplemented by
specific institution-building support for (a) innovation financing,
(b) management development, and (c) technical assistance to strengthen the
capability of Hungarian institutions to implement, monitor and develop
further the reform program; and (ii) a restructuring program for the plastics
processing subsector, including support for (a) development of needed
infrastructure to increase die and mold production, quality control and
testing, research and development, (b) restructuring programs of five
selected enterprises, and (c) the restructuring of small and medium
enterprises (SMEs) in the subsector.
Industry-wide Restructuring Component
53.      Industrial Policy Reform Program.  The five-year industrial policy
reform, reflected in the letter of intent and its attachments (Annexes IV
and V), constitute the core of the industrial restructuring effort. Several
salient actions have already been taken (para. 37) and provide the basis for
the proposed Bank loan. To support future actions, the Project provides for
technical assistance, training, institution-building and other services
required in different policy areas. It also includes assistance for
developing restructuring programs in other selected subsectors. Under the
project, foreign exchange would be made available to financially sound
enterprises in subsectors not deemed to require major subsectoral
restructuring for meeting incremental working capital requirements (other
than energy inputs, goods covered by bilateral trade agreements or defence
related goods) to (i) promote the expansion of convertible currency exports;
and (ii) enhance competition in the domestic market for materials and inputs
to induce supplying enterprises to upgrade quality to international levels.



- 16 -
54.      Innovation Finance.  The project would support three Innovation
financing institutions (Innofinance, Investbank and Technova) which would
provide industrial enterprises, particularly SMEs, with appropriate forms of
finance to design and develop new products/processes, initiate pilot plant
activities for commercial development of technologies, acquisition and
assimilation of imported designs, patents and knowhow. These three
institutions have been selected for participation in the project following
appraisal of their creditworthiness, technical and managerial capacity.
Other institutions which meet criteria satisfactory to the Bank would also be
eligible for support. The project would (i) refinance subprojects financed
by these institutions, following appraisal in accordance with an evaluation
methodology agreed with the Bank, and (ii) assist them through technical
assistance, strengthening their operating policies, evaluation criteria,
analytical methodology to identify, prepare and appraise RD&E subprojects.
Prior to concluding a subsidiary finance agreement with each of the
innovation financing intitutions, NBH will review its financial status and
its action plan for institutional strengthening, and will require the
adoption of satisfactory policies for appraisal and supervision of innovation
subprojects. It will be a condition of NBH's refinancing that the first two
subproject packages of each institution have been approved by the Bank and
the innovation financing institutions have agreed to implement institutional
strengthening programs.
55.      Manageme t and Technical Training.  The project would support the
Industrial Management Institute (IVI) to improve its training capabilities
and enhance the effectiveness of its training programs for industrial
managers in different areas of management. A study by foreign consultants to
assess the training needs of senior managers has been initiated and following
completion of the study, five programs will be formulated for senior
management. Also, a similar study for other levels of wanagers would be
undertaken under the project. Further, the project includes specific
software and hardware provisions for enhancing training capabilities.
56.      Support for the Banking System.  The project includes support for
the design and implementation of an information system arising from the
separation of the National Bank of Hungary into a central bank and two
commercial banks as well as to strengthen the internal management and
analytical functions of the central bank. Funds would be provided to meet
the foreign exchange requirements of computer and communication hardware and
software. Additionally, consulting assistance would be provided to develop
an appropriate organization, operating policies and procedures of the
proposed commercial banks.
57.      Technical Assistance and Related Services.  The Government plans to
integrate relevant international experience and expertise in undertaking the
industrial restructuring program and to carry out studies in accordance wich
terms of reference agreed with the Bank; some of the studies are already
under way. The project would include assistance for such efforts through
provision of funds for international study tours, consultant services and
training. It would also include assistance for studies in selected
subsectors to assess existing constraints and to formulate strategies for
their restructuring.



- 17 -
Restructuring of the Plastics Processing Sector
58.      Technological Infrastructure in the Plastics Industry.  To
strengthen the technological infrastructure of the subsector, the project
includes (i) support for facilities to design and produce molds, including
the installation of a computer-aided design and manufacturing facility;
(ii) upgrading of facilities of selected key quality control and testing
institutes; (iii) strengthening the RD&E program; and (iv) establishing a
technical and marketing information center primarily to serve the needs of
small and medium enterprises (SMEs). Mold and die manufacturing facilities
of three enterprises would be expanded based on a feasibility study carried
out with foreign technical assistance financed by the Bank. The project
would also strengthen the activities of four profit-oriented institutes by
providing modern equipment for application engineering, substitution of
traditional structural materials by plastics and testing of engineering
plastics, etc. Ir. addition, the Government has agreed to provide needed
foreign exchange resources for institutes assisted by it to strengthen their
quality control and testing activities. The RD&E program would include ten
programs of research sponsored and conducted by PPS enterprises and
institutes in the (i) production of plastics resins; (ii) processing of
plastics and (iii) application of plastics.
59.      Restructuring Programs of Selected Enterprises.  The project
includes restructuring of five selected enterprises in the subsector. These
programs, developed with the assistance of qualified international
consultants, have been appraised by the Bank and found satisfactory. As part
of the restructuring program, each enterprise would adopt a strategy related
to its products/markets, structure and organization, management skills and
systems, designed to enable it to specialize in competitive products, upgrade
technical/quality levels of products, use superior raw materials, and phase
out uneconomical products. In addition, each enterprise has agreed to
implement, with external assistance, an integrated program to address its
critical organizational, management and systems requirements. The
preparation of a satisfactory program on organization, management and
systems, along with an implementation schedule will be a condition of NBH
making its first subloan to each enterprise.
60.      Restructuring Programs of Non-Selected Enter;orises.  Besides the
five enterprises included under the project, eligible subprojects of other
enterprises in the subsector would be supported through a facility to be
established in the National Bank of Hungary. Financially viable enterprises
which obtain at least 309 of their sales revenues from processed plastics
products or are fully involved in approved background activities, and which
have developed restructuring and development programs in line with the
approach agreed with the Bank and appraised as satisfa.: tory by the
Restructuring Program Office (RPO), will be eligible for support for
investments in plastics processing or background activities with a minimum
financial and economic rate of return of 181. NBH has agreed to provide
financing for enterprises needing consultants' assistance in preparing
restructuring programs. The assessment by the RPO of the restructuring
programs would focus on the competitiveness of main product lines, the
orientation of market/product strategies, improvement of organization and
management systems and the enterprise's capability to implement the program.



- 18 -
Sub-loans financed by the proceeds of Bank loans would generally be limited
to not more than $1 million, and in addition, no enterprise would be eligible
for more than two subprojects. The project includes consultant services co
assist the Restructuring Program Office in the technical appraisal of the
restructuring programs. The first three subprojects and all subprojects with
subloans of over $1.0 million will be subject to the Bank's prior review
before their approval by the National Bank of Hungary, and the Bank would
review the rest ex-post.
Project Costs and Financing
61.      The total project costs are estimated at $317.1 million, of which
$211.4 million or 67% is in foreign exchange. These costs which are based on
early 1986 prices include physical contingencies at 10% of base costs, and
price contingencies of 7% in 1986-87, 7.5% in 1988, 7.7% in 1989, 7.6% in
1990 and 4.5% thereafter in foreign exchange, and 7% annually for local
costs. The cost estimates also include $30.8 million in import duties and
taxes. The cost estimates include about 240 man-months of consultant
services.
62.      The proposed Bank loan of $100 million would be made to the National
Bank of Hungary with the guarantee of the Hungarian People's Republic. It
would provide $30 million to meet incremental foreign working capital
requirements. NBH would finance the remainder of the estimated requirements
of $100 million from its own resources with possible parallel co-financing
from foreign commercial banks. For the other components of the project, the
Bank loan would provide $70 million, representing 43% of total costs and 90%
of foreign costs. For the project as a whole, the proposed Bank loar. would
finance 32% of total costs, or about 49% of the foreign exchange costs. The
balance of the costs will be met by the Government ($10.2 million or 3%),
National Bank of Hungary and foreign cofinancing ($153.4 million or 48%), and
project beneficiaries ($45.8 million or 14%), and paid-in equity from various
sources ($7.7 million or 2%).
Onlending Arrangements
63.      The National Bank of Hungary would on-lend proceeds of the Bank loan
as follows: $3.0 million to innovation financing institutions for a period
not exceeding ten years, including a maximum of three years grace, at a rate
not lower than the Bank's standard variable interest plus 20%; $59.5 million
to PPS enterprises/institutes for periods not exceeding ten years, including
a maximum of three years grace, at a rate equal to at least the Bank's
variable interest rate plus a mark-up of 30%; $4.5 million to the Government
for 15 years, including three years grace, at an interest rate equal to at
least the Bank's variable interest rate, plus a 30% mark-up; and $33.0
million will remain with NBH. During the commitment period of the loan, the
proposed on-lending rates are expected to be well above domestic inflation
and, thus, should be positive in real terms. The conclusion of a subsidiary
loan agreement with the Government on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness. NBH would bear the
foreign exchange risk. Sub-loan repayments in excess of the debt service on
the Bank loan would be utilized by NBH to finance industrial restructuring
subprojects in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank.



- 19 -
Status of Project Preparation
64.      Actions agreed on policy reform as the basis for processing of the
project have already been implemented in all eleven policy areas including
critical actions with regard to international trade, pricing, taxation and
foreign direct investment (para. 37). For other elements of an industry-wide
nature, terms of reference for management training, institutional development
and subsector studies have been agreed. For the plastics processing
industry, restructuring programs of the five selected enterprises have been
prepared, appraised by the Bank and found satisfactory. Financing plans and
procurement arrangements have been agreed, and a general procurement notice
has been issued.
Project Implementation and Coordination
65.      NBH will be responsible for overall project coordination and
implementation. A Restructuring Council, coordinated by the National
Planning Office and supported by a Policy Task Force, has been established to
monitor, evaluate and develop further the industrial policy reform program.
66.      A high level steering committee has been set up under the auspices
of MOI, and comprising representatives of MOI, NPO and NBH, and
representatives of the respective subsectors, to develop subsectoral
restructuring programs and monitor their implementation. This Steering
Committee is supported by a Restructuring Program Office (RPO), with
qualified personnel. RPO would be responsible for ensuring that restruct-
uring programs address strategic, technical, marketing and managerial
issues. It would be assisted, as necessary, by foreign consultants. RPO
would also supervise the procurement of goods and services needed by the
plastics processing enterprises included under the project. NBH would be
responsible for evaluating the financial and economic aspects of the programs
and the viability of the enterprises in accordance with agreed criteria. To
ensure that the restructuring programs are sound, the first three subloans
for other enterprises would be subject to prior Bank review. The Bank would
review ex-post other subloans to eligible enterprises. NBH, together with
MOI and State office for Technical Development (OMFB), would be responsible
for reviewing the techno-economic aspects of the innovation financing
institutions and determining their eligibility for refinance. NBH, assissed
by committees already established, would also be responsible for implementing
the support to the banking system, the technical assistance and management
training programs.
67.      Since the industrial restructuring program would continue over
several years, NBH would establish a restructuring facility to Einance/
refinance: (i) innovation financing institutions; (b) subsector infra-
structure development; (c) restructuring programs of selected en-terprises;
and (d) restructuring programs of other eligible enterprises, primarily
SMEs. It would replenish these facilities from various sources. Subloan
repayments in excess of the amounts required by NBH to service the Bank loan
will be utilized by NBH to finance subprojects in the plastics processing
subsector and other subsectors being restructured in accordance with
eligibility criteria agreed with the Bank.



- 20 -
Procurement
68.       Contracts for incremental working capital requirements ($30 million)
will be procured through enterprises' normal competitive bidding procedures
by inviting price quotations from at least three suppliers from eligible
countries. All other goods and materials financed by the Bank loan will be
procured in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines. Contracts for
equipment and materials valued above $1.0 million within a total estimated
cost of $24.2 million, will be awarded through international competitive
bidding. Proprietary equipment, items critical for efficient project
execution, technical licenses, and contracts estimated to cost less than $1.0
million individually, and expected not to exceed $38.8 million in aggregate
will be procured through limited international bidding and special
contracting. Consulting services ($7.0 million) will be procured in
accordance with Bank guidelines. All bidding packages for equipment and
material estimated to cost over $1 million, and for licences and consulting
services will be subject to the Bank's prior review. The procurement
arrangements are summarized in the following table.
Procigem,r Arraigmita
(Ojrent IPA million) 1
Prcrnrt Method         Total
ICB   LCE   Other   N.A.    Cost
Iruhaty-wide RestrtLwirg Component
Incremtal Working Capital               -      -    130.0  12.0 b/ 142.0
(30.0)        (30.0)
iowvatiaon Finance                      -      -     12.8          12.8
(3.0)        (3.0)
Mwiniqat DeLop nt                       -      -      1.5    -      1.5
(1.0)        (1.0)
Techniral Assistance and Related Services  2.0        6.1           8.1
(-incl. BDnking System Support)       ;2.0)        (4.0)   -      (6.0)
Total Cazpwnent                  2.0         150.4  12.0  164.4
(2.0)       (38.0)         (40.0)
Specific Subswctor Restructring Prmo
Tedhological Infrastructure             5.0   3.5  20.0   5.4 c/  33.9
(5.5)         (5.5)
Selected Enterpri
Enginserinig KrKi-bw, M nsgesit and Sofovmra    -  -  12.2   0.4 b/  12.6
(6.4)        (6.9)
Civil Works                           -      6.0   1.2    -       7.2
Equipuent                             2D.2   6.6   18.0   13.6 b/  58.4
(20.2)       (11.8)         (32.1)
Woring Capital & Interet Dfwing
Cstructicn                          -      -      -     8.4    8.4
Non-Selected Enterprises d/             2.0   6.0  19.4   4.8 b/  32.2
(2.0)       (13.5)   _     (15.5)
Total Ccqxxent                  27.2   22.1   70.8  32.6   152.7
(22.2)       (37.8)         (60.0)
Total Project                   29.2   22.1  221.2  44.6   317.1
(24.2)       (75.8)  44.6  (I0l.0)
a/ Fi8ze  .  in brackets orespand to Banlc financing.
_b/ uport duties and accuinlatim toc.
cl Wbdrdng capital c interest during construction.
d/ Bed cn a azvey of the subpmjects pip!lime of non-elected enterpriss.



- 21 -
Disbursements
69.      Disbursement from the proceeds of the proposed loan will cover
(i) 100X of foreign expenditures for technical assistance, consultant
services and training, materials for incremental working capital, innovation
finance, and (ii) 1007 of foreign expenditures and lOOS of local ex-factory
costs for goods related to plastics processing. Withdrawal applications for
incremental working capital expenditures, and contracts valued at less than
$200,000 equivalent will be submitted on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures (SOE). In order to expedite project implementation and
disbursements, two revolving funds, one for $15 million and another for $5
million, equivalent to about four months estimated disbursements for the
working capital and other project components, respectively, would be
established. This would be maintained in two special accounts with NBH. The
project is expected to be completed by June 1991, and the loan closing date
would be June 30, 1992.
Reporting and Auditing
70.      The Restructuring Council will submit reports at regular intervals
on the progress of reforms and its impact both on the economy and the
industrial sector, including progress in exports, productivity, and other
relevant matters (para. 65). In addition to a review of economic
performance, these reports will include: (i) an analysis of the policy
reform program; (ii) continued analysis of the competitiveness of industry;
(iii) a review of the performance of the non-competitive sectors and problem
enterprises; and (iv) a review of the performance of the plastics processing
sector. NBH will submit quarterly reports on the project's progress, based
on information received from the project beneficiaries. All project entities
will maintain separate project accounts. All project accounts and NBH's
special accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, and NBH would provide the Bank with short form annual audit reports for
the preceding fiscal year within five months at the end of the fiscal year.
The contents of the reports to be submitted to the Bank at sectoral and
enterprise levels have been agreed at negotiations.
Benefits and Risks
71.      The principal benefits of the project arise through the industrial
policy reform program, which it supports. The project would help strengthen
the impetus behind the reform program, improve the economic climate, induce
restructuring and enhance exports. It wou7.d lead to improved competition,
financial discipline, resource mobility and investment efficiency, thus
contributing to increased growth of the industrial sect'ar. The restructuring
program of the plastics processing sector would contribJute to greater market
responsiveness, lower costs of production, better utilization of material and
energy, higber labor productivity, and improved product quality. The program
would help to improve the competitiveness of some 260,000-290,000 tons of
plastics products valued at over $350 million in 1985 prices. Direct exports
of plastics products are expected to be doubled to $50 million in 1990,
besides indirect exports of about $100 million by I3 . The overall economic
rate of return for the restructuring programs of the five selected
enterprises is estimated in excess of 401.



- 22 -
72.      The project would have continued repiicability by serving as a model
for the design and implementation of other subsector-wide and enterprise
restructuring programs in Hungary. The institutional capability in Hungary
would also be improved by the close participation of local institutions in
the proposed project.
73.      A major risk associated with project is the Government's strong
anti-inflationary objective. The high priority being attached to this goal
could slow down the pace of reforms, particularly in the areas of pricing and
wage deregulation and also deter progress towards a more flexible exchange
rate policy.  However, given the Government's commitment to change, continued
Bank monitoring of macroeconomic management and an active policy dialogue
should help minimize this risk. Other potential risks relate to the ability
of enterprises to adjust their commercial behavior to respond to market
signals following introduction of the reforms and the delay in the rate of
implementation of various components due to the complexity in project design
involving a large number of diverse institutions. The strengthening of the
institutions under the project, the active involvement of top managements of
the selected enterprises in project preparation and proposed project
coordination arrangements would reduce these risks.
PART V. RECOMMENDATION
74.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
May 7. 1986



-23-                                                       ANNEX I
(Page 1)
HUNCART                - SOCIAL ZKUICATORS  "TI.   , SH"IA
HUCUGARY                              4 R C  OUPS (WlCHTD avRI   U
MOST                     (oST VCCUT ESTIMAT) /Lb
UCUEVT          FAST cUrOWAN              tNDU>IYAL
1q*,pJb    1i74b  ItsnitAYy.Lkb    No-NXAitT cONONIC s      KARE!ET EC inO
ARM (TlINM  SQ_ .   )
TOTAL                              91.0        93.0       93.0
AG& bUiLTIIL                       73.4        69.8      6h.H
GM r  CAPITA ()                        ..          ..       Z150.0                                    11062.9
=Ro  CnwTIoU MER CWITA                                                                                 49.
(KILOGRAM ur OIl EQUlVALINT)    1354.0      2070.0      2U13.0            418.I                     91.3
r.nt          Am  VITuL .rArmla
POPULATION.HII?YEAR (TKOUSANS)   P994.0    10317.0    10699.0
UR3A  roPuLArION (z or TOTAL)      '0.1       .47.9        54.3              13.8                     76.7
POPULATION PROJCCTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (HILL)                           10.7
STATIONARY POPULATIOK (HILL)                             11.0
POPULAtWN .4NENTU                                         1.1
POPULATION DEJSLTE
PER SQ. KIM.                    107.3       111.1       113.0              67.3                    140.3
PER SQ. Wt. ARI. LAND            139.L      150.4       162.7              3.4                     322.2
POPULATION ACE STRUCTUaE (X)
0-14 IRS                        25.3        20.1        21.7              24.4                     23.]
15-64 YXS                        65.6        67.4       65.2               63.4                     66.6
63 AND AOVY                      9.0        11.3        12.5              10.0                     12.0
POPULATION GROwT RAT  (Z)
TOTAL                             0.7         0.3        0.3                0-C                      0.
UR A                               1.3        2.1         1.6               1.3                      1.3
CRUDIE R1 *tATE (PER THMOS)        14.7        14.7        11.9              19.0                     13.3
CrlUDE DOAT  RATS (PER TIIOUS)     10.2        11.6        13.9              10.3                      0.9
GROSS REFODUCTION RATE              1.0         1.0        0.9                1.2                      0.9
A/IILY PIANING
ACCEPTros. A_ML  (WS)              ..       149.0 Ic   711.8 Ic
USERS (2 OP ghNDD WIow)            ..        67.0o7      74.0  T            ..                      71.1
man larri
INDEX OF 0OO0 PROD. rPE CAPITA
1969-71-100)                      83.0        91.0      147.0              109.6                    107.2
P11 CApIT SUPPLT O0
CALORIES (U oP REUTRETS)        119.0       127.0       134.0             133.2                    132.9
PRSTINS (CRAMS MR DAY)           84.0        91.0        95.0             LOO.0                    101.0
OF aWICE ANIMAL AND PULSE       36.0        39.0        46.0 to           53.8                     61.4
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DCATh RATE         3.6         2.4         1.0               1.6                      0.6
LrP  EXPICT. AT 6LRIT (YEARS)      68.4        69.6       69.9               69.6                     79.5
IIFArT IOlT. RT (FI r110S)         47.6        35.9       19.0               19.6
ACCESS TO SANE WATEr CIPOP)
TOTAL                            22.7 !j     36.6 Lu    66.9 9-
URBAN                             ..         65.0 i,    33.8 r
RURAL                             ..         10.6 /j    62.8 ...
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(X or PoPULAnON)
TOTAL                             ..         27.2j       3 3.3 I            *
URUN                              ..         50.1 L     72.6 4j...
RIJEAL                            ..          6.2i    30.3 7.
POPULATION PER PhYSICIAN          720.0       510.0      400.0 lb           368.7                   353.2
POP. PCR NURSIN PERSN             330.0 /I    30.0       150.0 7            130.7                    164.1
POP. rPR HOSPITAL R0O
TOTAL                           140.0       120.0       110.0              88.6                    120.9
URUS                             80.0 /i   1'0.0        130.0 Is         109.0                    143.2
URRAL                             ..          ..         ..             13766.7                    778.1
ADHISSIOPS PER HOSPITAL NEW         ..         20.5       21.6 /h            16.4                     17.8
AYEIACE 'ZE OF HOUSEOD
TOTAL                             3.I         3.0        2.3 f.
URBUA                             ..          2.7        2.7 7..
RURAL                             ..          3.2        3.07.
AVURA  0O. OF MR1OKS/1OOH
TOTAL                             2.4         2.0        1.3 lb.
URBA                              .           1.9        i.s 71
RURAL                                         2.0        1.6 ''
PErCrTAcG  Of DOCLLISS WLTi ELECr.
TOTAL                            74.6        91.7       go                   ,
us=RE                             ..         96.6        ":I
RURAL                             ..         87.4       96.9 E              -.



-24-                                             ANNEX I
(Page 2)
wMA                   - SOCIAL IODCO  DA Infr
mg                    ME N (ND6  (Y IGNUD *ACS /
HOT                     (MORT WCET  E3TINATE)1Lb
9/baL                CONT            EAST EUROFIAN             U  IT UY
b  iqxLb E3T1NATEL~  POP-NiARK  g00mmIzEu           sAaxz moowonsi
mJcam         -
ADJUSTRED NRDLLET RATIOS
PEIMT ia  TOTAL                  101.0       97.0       100.0             104.3                    101.2
HALE                  103.0       96.0       100.0              96.1                    102.6
FEMALE                100.0       97.0       100.0              97.6                    102.4
IRCODART: TOTAL                  23.0        63.0       73.0               69.7                     S7.1
KAUL                   21.0       71.0        74.0              70.5                     80.3
FALE                   24.0       55.0        72.0              74.9                     64.1
VOCKTIOEAL (X OF SEcOUDar)          30.4       73.6       74.1               32.5                     13.4
FULWIL-TEAOIZ RATIO
P?3.AI                           24.0        18.C        15.0              12.2                     16.7
SECONDALY                         11.0       26.0        19.0              16.0                     11.6
PASSENGE CARIS/TOUSAND POP          3.3        23.2       106.6              97.5                    366.3
RADIO RIOIVERU/TIIOUSAND POP      222.6       244.6       261.5             429.6                   1093.2
TV RECEIVEM/TVOUSA1D POP            10.4      171.1       262.2             286.6                    492.3
Nmvrnnza V"DATIL G33
INTEREST") CIROILTIOU
PE  TlWOUSND POPULATION          143.6       213.5      248.9              365.2                    320.4
CIUL ANUIAL ATrECUCRICAPSTA        14.0         7.7        6.4               12.9                      3.3
TOaL  LABOR VOIC  (TTUS)         4777.0      5031.0      5196.0
FamL CPEECIT)                    36.4        42.0       42.7               47.3                     36.2
A WLCUUh t13031)                 36.7        25.2       20.5 Ah            17.3                      6.2
XNDUStr (PERCENT)                34.3        44.4       42.9              4 43.7                    37.7
PARTICIPATICO  AM  (PERCNT)
TOTAL                            47.8        48.7       46.6               51.1                     46.0
HALM                             63.1        538.2       57.4              56.7                     59.5
FYEALE                           33.7        39.7       40.0               46.0                     32.7
zCouoIxc DEPEIDZDCT RATIO          0.7         0.7        0.7               0.7                       0.7
PzD.=T or PRIvATz INCOMz
RIECIVED r
NhOS s5 OF KCISDOLDS              12.1 Ik    11.5 /k    10.6 /k.
IGhET  20 Of MOUSEIOLDS          34.6 WL    33.7         32.3 WE           3.1
LaST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS            9.4 7       9.9 7     10.6                *-                      5.4
LOUS?T 4O1 OF NOUSUOLDS          23.6 -N    24.6 7W    26.2 7               ..                      16.4
ESTIDMD A*0Ll1Th POVERTY INCOIM
LErEL (USS PF  CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..          ..
UAL                               ..          ..
ESrDIAED UEATIVR POUT  INCOKE
LEML (USS PU CAPITA)
U3*                               ..          ..         .                  ..
RRAL
CSTIDUATD FOJP. lLO  ASOLUTE
POVETS INIIC LEVEL t2)
RURAL                             ..          ..
Nr AVALLABLE
NOT AIPLICAB
K O T C S
/a  The group averages for each Indicator are populatioe.veighted ar/,tli_e mas. Coverage ot countrisa
mmg cbe indiratora dapenda on availabllity of data and La not unifors.
lb  Unlinr othe-nico noted, "Data for 1960" r*for to any yas! between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and data for 'Homc Racent Eatiesta" between 1961 and 1983.
/c  lloan of reproductive age (17-49) uaing oral contraceptiwa;  Id 1966. omen of repmoductiv  aeg less
than 45 ryars; La 1977; /f ldocn of reproductive ae loms ctan 40 peorm; LI Percentgey of occuplid
dwellio;  lb 1960; /1 1W2; a  1978; /k Percentage of incom  received by the reapaCtIve percent ot
Cho PoplCaCl,n. and d4t- refer to years 1W2. 1972 and 1977.
JUNIE. 1965



-25-                                               ANNEX I
(Page 3)
DRFINMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATOXS
NOa Although thedataasudrawn fro m toufcsetillyjudpdt mosa ulhontativeand libII -it should alto be noted that they may not betntcrnationally
coospnmble becuse of the la ck ost andardied dessiuora ma conepa umd by differem countnes in colcting the data. The data are. nonetheless, useful to
descnbe orden of mnWitude, indicate irends, and cwactew certan mjor difeua between cosarie.
The rerence groups are (l te same country group of the subect country and 123 a country group with somewhat higher average mnconw than the country
group othe subjct country (caept for "High IncomeOil Exporna group wher -Middle Income North Afrca and M iddle Eau" is chosn beause odstranger
,ocso-ultural afilnitial. In the re.eenc group data the avew am popultion weighted arithmetic -na   r each indicator and shown only when mnajonty
ofthe countries ma agruph data for that undictor Since thecovera cofeounineu among the diaton depmds on theavailability of data And is noi unifom I
cauutonsmuttbhe e ner in  tin   doneinditeto anoher Th ves rn  am only  dul n omparngthe value fcone indicator at a time among
the country ondc rence group.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                          Crmde Bk* RIoe (par trhsed)-Number of live birnhs in the year
Tor)a-Total surface ar  compnsing land area and inland.waters:  per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                       Crna Deah Rate (per touaud)-Number of deaths in the year
Agrishaul-Estimate or agricultural area used temporarily or     per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen prdens or to  Gro  Repedwa Ncre-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow, 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                           will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current        in 1960. 1970. and r983.
market prices. calulated by same conversion method as World     Ibudly PISii-AccCpW5, Annua (uhousaadsl-Annual num-
Rank Atias ( 1981-3 basis); 1983 data.                          ber of accepton of birth-control devices under auspices of'national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                  family planning progam.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignitem      FanfPImnqVsa(percentof mriedwon cn)-Thepercen-
petroklum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-  tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograims of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands arm prcticing any form ofcontraception. Women
1982 data.                                                      ofchild-bearing age are generally women aged 1549. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                 groups.
Toald Populton. Mid- Yew datousandr-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.   FOOD AND NUTRMITON
and 1983 data.
Urban Pop.luti.n (percet of total)- Ratio of urban to total      nxof Food  octie Per Caita (196-71 = 100)-Index ofper
capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed (or agrculture. Food commoditis
ability of data among countries 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.      include pnrmary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
POPuaie A'vojecuio.                                             which are edible and contain nutrients (fg. coffee and tea are
Popudtanon in yew 2000-The projection of population for 2000    excluded); they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with infornation on  vegetables, fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
intcrnational migration in the base year 1980. thesw parameters  on national average producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at frve-yar intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.             A,' Capita Spply oqfCalories (percent frequiriements)-Comput-
Stazionary population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replaxemet level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate - 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zcro. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected charcteristics of  and healtb considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of ferility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                      waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momnentum-ls the tendency for population growth to   Per Capita Supply of Protein (grra  per dlya-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for mninimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year s. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
opuetia  Densty                                                 average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-   Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area: 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.                Per Caa Protein Sapply Froms   mal nd Pise-Protein supply
Per rq.km. agricultural land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grarns per dav: 196 1-65.
land only, 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
PDpuriau Age Strcem' (pereeu)-Children (0-14 years). work-      C        (agesl -4) Deck Rare (per thousand j-Number of deaths of
ingage(15-64years). and retired(65 yearsand over)as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of nid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Popalwio Growth Rate (perrea,-toeal-Annual growth rates of      from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.    HEALTH
PopuAion Growtm  Aw  (ptren)-rmat-Annual growth rates           Lift Expetancy at Blik (yesrs)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data      infant would live if prevailing pattems of mortality for all people



-26   -                                         ANNEX  I
(Page 4)
at the time of of its birth were to stay the sne throughout its life.  Pupi-tracher Ratio - prmarsr. and secondary-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 19B3 data.                                     rolled in primary and secondary lIvels divided by numbers or
lJuat Mwealt Rase (pr ahmmassd) -Number of infants who die    teachen in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year; 1960. 1970 and 1983 dta.                                CONSUMPTION
Accsto Soft  W,r (pwt  of pt4                     i,  d       Phewr C,s (per thousad papmlationa-Passenger cars com-
rural-N umber of people (total. urban an rural) with reonable  prise motor cars seating kls than eight persons: excludes ambul-
aex to safe water supply (include treated stiface waters or   ace. hearss and military vehicles.
untmated but un_cDtatd Water such a that from protected       R , Rwjm  (pbr thoindpop4wilow-All types of receivers
borehos. sprnps and sanitry wells) - perentages of their   c-  for radio broadcasts to gencral public per thousand of population.
tive popubationa In an urban ar  a publc fount in or standp t  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not mom than 200 meter from a house may be co  IdeIed  registration of radio sets was in effect; data for rcent years may
as being within reasonable   s of that housw  In rural ares   not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing.
reaonable acces would imply that the houewife or memben of the
houselbold do not bave to spend a diproportionate pat of the day  TVoReneras (puicpr  trhousandpopuaionV  recld es  hr broadcast
in fetching the family's water need                           to  nd publc pr thousand populahon; cxdudn umfid TV
Accurate  oEwua DEyisul (    at u, _                          in , receivs in countrit.   and in yem whe registration of TV sets was
aNd  w-Number of people (totaL urban, and rural) senred by
excra disposal as percentages of their  spctive populations.  Newsppe Cacaldn  (per thauas*dpopalutiauJ-Shows the aver-
Excrta disposl may include the colaction and disposaL with or  age cirulation of "daily general interest newspaper," defind as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne sysems or the use of pit privies and simar installtions,  It is considered to be -daily' if it appears at least four times a week.
Ptp__rim par Phpddi_-Population divided by number of prac-    Cinea Auwi Atrendeiwe per Cata per Year-Based on the
tising physicins qualified from a medical school at univerity level  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Rspai.. per NwrA  Pwson-P4bpulation divided by number of      drive-in cinCmas and mobile units.
practing aole and female grduat nunres, assistant nurses,
practical nurse and nursing auxiliaries.                       ABOR FORCE
A=       pw H        3      4 w _    rdPopuhtion              Trsal La1 F' Fce (w ds)-Economically active persons, in-
(totaL urban and rural) divided by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in public and private, generl and salid  students, etc., covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hopta ald  bi t   ccnteL Hasptals a  clvaro  countries ar not comparabk; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data
permaenty staffed by at kast one physician. Establishments prov-  Fewa  (percem)-Female labor force as percntage of total labor
iding princapaly custodl care are not included. Rural hospitals,    force.
however include bealth and mnedil centers not permanently staffed  Asricawe (percea)-Labor force in farmning forestry. hunting
by a physican (but by a nmdicl assistant nurse, midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force. 1960. 1970 and 1980
whicb offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical faciitieL                                          iansry (percent)-Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
A _d_sininsr pw Hesetl Bd-Total number of admissions to or    facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
dischag  from hopitals divided by the number of beds.         force 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
PAdkaru  Rdat (percent)-todsl. mmk, anifemak-4articipation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as totaL male. and fenale labor force
Average Si-e of iN  _Asl  (peso nsr p nase         h_         as percentages of totaL male and female population of all ages
andranl-Ahouseholdconsistsofaproupofindividuals who share     respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These ar based on ILOs
iiving quarter and thteir m   meals. A boarder or lodger may or  panricipation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population, and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Averue Numler ,f Paut per R.tu-salJ mram, and rw_,.-          Eeonouc Dependency Rrio--Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural    65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied convenfional dwellings, respectively. Dwelings excludc
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DISTRIBUTION
P-rete of Dir&as with Ekeavicty-totai, wrhm, and ruwW-        Percentae of Toral Dispahie lncew (bwt i cask nd knd)--
Conventional dwellings with eectricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of totaL urban, and rural dwellings respectively,        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4ye EnrwIL.nt Ras                                            The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prbnary school - toal. nml and femk-Gross totaL male and      levels, and should be interpreted with considcrable caution.
female enrollment of all ags at the primary level as pcntages of  Esimae Absolte owerty Jncome Leve (USS per capitasj-aan
respctivc pnmary shool-age popultions. Whil many countries    and raaW-Absolute poverty income level is that incomc level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years, others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
diffeenca in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requircments is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estuasted Relatre Poverty Income Level (USS per cWapia -rbsn
education, gross enrollment may exd 100 percent since some    and rvral-Rural relative povcrtv income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard pnmary-school  averagc per capita personal incomrc of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - tong, male andfeale.-Computed as above.    living in urban areas.
secondary education requies at Icast rour years of approved pr-  Esisated Population &elow Abhoae Fbvry lcome Lerd (per-
mary ins _uctonl provide gesnml vocationaL or teacher training  cent J-wrbn ad rral- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupis ustally of 12 to 17 year of age correspond-  who are "absolute poor."
ence counes are gneraly excluded.
Vocationd frolimuti (percent of secordary)-Vocational institu-          Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tiom include technicaL indusrial or other prgrams which operate      Economic ;nalysis and P! zijections Department
indpendently or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



- 27 -                                                 ANNEX I
(Page 5)
CT3 DAT A:SA
93.036 sq km                                            10.7 mllion (tmd-195U)                               11.0 per Sq km
at of erout    0.2 5 (ron 1970 to 19952               223.1 per sq km of arable land
POPuLATION  hAsrlTEIDSTWCS (19631                                             HELT
Crude birth rate (per 1.0oo)                        119                       Population per phsician (19303                         347
Crude desth rate (per 1.000)                       a139                        Pultin per hoSpital bed  N191)                        110
infant mortality (per l.000 live births)            19.0
S of private Inem. hishest 20 Percent               32.3                   _                  _    U lT
least 40 percent               23.2                      X  _ced by top l10 of mre
Scled by mIllest 105 of  mrs
ACCEUMSM TAD  rsKn DfIC  CrCmc  e
X of poPulation - urban                              32.5 a                       of population - urban                               99.2
- rural                             42.1 Li                                   - rural                                 97.6
SUJUs l]mAiM
Calorie Intake as Z of reuirants                   134.0                      Adult literacy rate S (19U2)                            99
Per capita protein intake (a-                      105.23                     Priary school enrollant S 1931)                        97.0
PDS CAPITA IN 14 la: MSOLaw
NISK " lc  P        T TN 194                                                   m     T    nF G            eestant oricesi
I   .               SL                     1L70-75            flJE              I    D            1
3P at Market Prices                  20.4             100.0                    6.Z                2.2                2.1               2.6
Gross Dmstic hnest_nt                 5.2              ZS.5                    6.9                2.Z               -4.2              -2.7
Gross moastic Saving                 5.               2S.6                   10.5                S.7                3.S               6.3
Resource Clance                       0.6               2.2
Exports or Goods. NFS                 e 3              4e.a                    9.6                6.9                5 2                s.a
Zoerts of Goods. UPS                  7.7              37.7                    7.5                3.9               -0.5               0.1
OUTPUT- La  mLEct so
ParyvT    I 1934
l|t AddtdL bor Force /4                                              C      Pe Worker
Agricultur              I"               3.5           17-2                1.072                 21.7            3.265                79.1
industry tncl. constr.) 401              5.4           22.3                1.90                 23.6             4.403 1o6.6
Servies                 39               6.4          37.7                 l*940                 29.7            3.265                79.1
unallocaegd I            n               Li            1 J.  
TotalAverag         979             20.4          Io01.e              4*940                 ioto             4.130 Lj            100.0 /J
im)                 t of  P
Current SeclPts           572.9        U.S             S9.0
Current Expnditures       517.7       52.9             52.7
Current Surplus            55.2        5.6              6.3
Capital Expnditures        U.7         6.0              7.0
xternal Assistance (net)
Li Percntae of o       ed delllngs.
2 world lt Atlas m_wdtlqty. All other c ersions to dollars In this table are at the averao  crcial exche    rate prevailing
durin the prid coved
La Actiwe earnes.
fL  Cust.  dutess and valation differences ttCh are not allocated by sector show considerable fluctuation. There Is tihas a distortion
Introduced Into the interpreuttin of dete on structural chanee In the econo.
a   Excluding wallocat .
Not applicable                                                                              SeOA
eot available                                                                               Fabruar 25  19g
'IsFp4)



- 28 -                                                         ANNEX I
(Page 6)
ran TiY DATA- IMCAEY
im    ~         si           imL_nu_m
s122            I                122              nl                li              12                 1215t1lfi
311ton Fortnts outstunding  nd  period J
"aney and Quasi  mar                                292.2            3117.6            52.3            360. 2           405.6            421.2              443.0
lank Cradit to Public Sector                       *42I4             467.4            4n9 3            S39.7             66. 1           175 2              58Z.2
Bank Credit to Privata Sector                        61.6              4.1            107.2            129.9 1S3.6                        14.3              1279.6
( Parcantaos or Inds. ssars  )
nay  nd Quai Honey as  or, Gap                       46.4             46.15            48.9             48.7             47.6             47.0               45.2
Genral PriCe Index (1971 . 1002                     114.1            124.2            125.6            141.1,           35.1             163.2              176.1
An_Il percentlee Chags In:
Cinsumr Price lndex                                   4.6              3.9              9.1              4.6              b.9              7. 2o3
l_nk credit to Puilic Sector                         Ia.S              9.6              6.6 S.1                           s.0              1.5                2.2
lank credit to Private Sector                        14.3             15.3             11.9             11.8             11.4             15.5               16.4
iSLAn oF PAWTS
H11Era11s  xpW!QRn   uLraKw. 10-               Trade in              Trade In
[Hill ions US$1                                                             n         X                      K
Exports of Gootds                      *.ad.4o    9.003.0      0.a7u.0    a.o 66    Fuels. electric enrgy                      24.8        0.7      503.6       20.2
Iports of Goods                        d.eSS.o    i.575. 0      1412.0    8.0e22.5    ba naterlals. sui-fintshed
on-factor Services (Moto          a          l   - 154             M1    - 5 A           prodcts. spare parts                 382.9       23.4    1 672.6       23.8
esource Csep (dficit . -I                -37.0       454.4       470.0       660.0      tchinery. transport equlD_nt.
other capital goods                i.650.g      413.6      601.9       12.1
Interest Pa2nUs (tnt)                 -1.119.0      -962.5      -666 0      -759.7   etfactured coaxer goods                  652.1       17.3      66W.        13.4
nuOers      _ lttm wes                    A.r.iultafl oods                                                                  .SLI         JAJ    Lu7 1 5t-I 
Other Factor Prnts (rut)                 211.0       1322.       206.0       105.0             Total                        3.7684       200.0 4o   9 1.9      lOO.0
Not Transters                             4Ll         3.2     0    2..       -ALA
BWance  n Current ACcoUnt               -691.0      -212.0         26.0      271.2    C EAL DtT. DE SII 2            914
Uss GI
adluN- aW  Lond-Tern Capital                                                           PubliC debt. Incl. guaranteed                                            6.3
ASSe U                               -130        -180          -68.0     -155.9       (of which:  conertible currencyl                                      27.4)
Liabilities                         1.119         261.0        214.0   1014.3    lon-grant" orivate debt
Znoews                           (2.0252    (1.20.01   (1.409.02  (2.sS6.7)           Total outstnding and disbursed                                       6.3
Outflows                          (-906)      (-940)    (-1.255.01 (-1.642.4)
Short-Teprn Capital                                                                    OMB SISUTtF RATn   FOR 1914'
Assets fL                             -a"         -"          -266 0     -291.6                                                                               2
LiabilitieS a                        -622        -811.0       533        -524.1
Publ IC debt. inrl. auaranteed                                          2
Othwr It_5 n.e. la L225                                           3152       436           Ion-guaranted private debt
Increase In  Ieservs (-increae)          61         Sol        -779.0      -740.3             Total                                                           25.9
IAILJQES      S 1- 1tiAf LFIIG Ifen-er 19S1 (m1n USSM:
W 1 00479.**747Fonnts
Ft. I 00 . 50 021                                                                                                                               3o0            JL
OLutstanding and disbursed                                 336.2
qO5 1            Fr oints                                                         Undisbursed                                                4652
u$ I eo = .. D9orints
Ft. i.oo * $0.o20                                                                 Outstanding.  ncl. udisbursed                              802.4
fl  Ion-reserve assets: mstly export firnancin.
a   Includes errors md omissimns.
a   Use of UF Resources.
ft etie of tetl debt _-vice an amelum- an  lone-ter  debt to total esgorts of' Oeds and sarv ces.  Th  debt service ratio Corrempondino to convertible
currency dbt as 4*.n.
* ot apolicable.                                                                                                              EMIA
buot available.                                                                                                               larCh 11. 2986
14"F(S)



- 29 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
Statement of Bank Loans "
(as of March 31, 1986)
US$ Million
Loan       Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
Number       Year       Borrower         Purpose                Bank   Undisbursed
2316-HU      1983       NBH b'        Grain Storage & Mech    130.4          17.4
2317-HU      1983       HPR '/        Energy Conservation       109.0        71.7
B2-HU     1983        NBH           Grain Storage & Energy)
Conservation         )  30.0          -
B3-HU     1983        NBH           Grain Storage & Energy )
Conservation          ) 8.8-'1        -
2397-HU      1984       NBH            Industrial Exports &)
Restructuring      )   110.0        70.5
2398-HU      1984       OKGT d'       Petroleum                  90.0        58.1
B8-HU     1985        NBH           Industrial Export & )
Restructuring, and)    35.0           -
Petroleum )
B9-HU     1985        NBH           Industrial Export &  )
Restructuring, and )   12.2-L/        -
Petroleum )
2510-CU      1985       NBH            Integrated Livestock      80.0        74.0
2511-HU     1985        NBH           Fine Chemicals             73.0        67.8
2557-HU     1985        HPR           Transport                  75.0        69.9
Bll-HU     1985        NBH            Integrated Livestock,)
Fine Chemicals and )   36.0          -
Transport )
B12-HU      1985       NBC           Integrated Livestock, )
Fine Chemicals and  )  14.0          -
Transport            )
Total                                  803.4       429.4
of which has been repaid               _
Total now held by Bank                 803.4
Total undisbursed                                  429.4
~-' The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
b / National Bank of Hungary.
.E'' Hungarian People's Republic.
d.   National Oil and Gas Trust.
_' US$ equivalent of Japanese Yen loan of Y2.1 billion.
f' US$ equivalent of Japanese Yen loan of Y3 billion.
~' US$ equivalent of Japanese Yen loan of Y3.5 billion.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
HUNGARY
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare the project   April 1984 to
October 1985 (18 months)
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project              The National Planning Office
and the Ministry of Industry
with the assistance of the
Bank and external consultants
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank          April 1985
(d)  Date of first mission to consider the project  December 1984
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission           October/November 1985
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations              April 1986
(g) Planned date of effectiveness                    July 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Measures to be taken by the Borrower include:
(a) to evaluate subprojects by innovation financing institutions in
accordance with a methodology agreed with the Bank (para. 54);
(b) to ensure that the five selected and other non-selected enterprises of
the restructuring program would implement a satisfactory program on
organization, management and systems along with an implementation
schedule before financing the subloan (para. 59);
(c) to ensure that only plastic processing enterprises which are
financially viable and which comply with agreed financial covenants
will be beneficiaries of the Bank loan (para. 60); and
(d) to ensure that only enterprises which are financially sound in
subsectors not deemed to require major restructuring will have access
to Bank funds for financing incremental working capital foreign
exchange needs (para. 53).



- 31 -                                ANNEX IV
Page 1
HUNGARY - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Letter of Industrial Policy Intent
May 6, 1986
Dear Mr. Clausen:
Re: Letter of Intent on the Development of Economic Conditions
Concerning Industrial Restructuring in Hungary
I am writing this letter in reference to the proposed first
industrial restructuring loan.   The Government of the Hungarian People's
Republic began to implement, within the framework of the planned economic
system, a series of economic reforms in 1968.  Hungarian economic policy
has sought to achieve its objectives by increasingly linking national
economic planning with the active role of markets mainly through the use of
indirect economic regulators.   The fundamental thrust of the reforms has
been the greater use of market signals and competition for efficient
resource allocation and dynamic growth, accompanied by increasing autonomy
for enterprises. The Hungarian economy has considerably improved its capa-
bility to adjust, and has become more closely interlinked with world
markets.
Since the events of 1973-74, flexible adjustment to cianging
external and internal conditions has become even more important. In 1979,
the Government renewed the pace and vigor of the reforms in parallel wIth
its program of stabilization and structural adjustment, following increas-
ing strains on the balance of payments.  The economic policy pursued since
1979, which aimE:d at improving the external balance, necessitates further
continuous and significant steps toward enlarging the role of market
forces, improving entrepreneurial attitudes in enterpzises, and expanding
the role of market based instruments for macroeconomic management.   The
success of the stabilization program, aided by the reform process, has
provided us the opportunity to begin concentrating our efforts on the
medium-term structural adjustment of the economy.   Important progress in
the reform process achieved since 1979 helped us avert a potential debt
crisis in 1982, and contributed to laying the foundation for stronger
economic growth.   Speeding up the development of this economic management
system is an integral component in the consolidation of the results of the
efficiency and equilibrium-oriented economic policy, and, therefore, a
priority of Hungarian policy.  But, the success of this policy depends as
much on a relatively stable external financial environment and lessening
protectionism in international trade, as the structural measures that will
improve the responsiveness of the Hungarian economy to changes in that
environment.
Restructuring of the industrial sector is the centerpiece of our
structural adjustment program, and is one of the principal objectives of
the  Seventh Five-Year Plan  (1986-1990).    The industrial sector is of
central importance in this respect, since it accounts for approximately
one-half of convertible currency exports, where its competitiveness  in
price and quality has been deteriorating, and for as much as two-thirds of
convertible currency imports. Starting in January 1985, therefore, we have
begun to introduce a reform program affecting the entire economic manage-
ment system which will significantly improve the economic conditions for



ANNEX IV
- 32 -                              Page 2
the restructuring and development of the Hungarian industry.   (Hereafter,
we refer to the industry-related aspects of this reform program simply as
the industrial  policy  reform program).   This  industrial policy reform
program, as outlined in the Attachment to this letter, aims to induce and
enhance the structural adjustment in industry with a central focus on the
autonomy and discipline of enterprise decision-making in an environment
where market signals and economic regulators will assume increasing
importance in influencing enterprise motivation and behavior. This letter
describes the main objectives and thrusts of the reform program, and in
particular discusses important linkages among its various components that
make the program a unified and coordinated package of industrial policy
reforms.
The industrial policy reform program constitutes the core of the
industrial restructuring program, which we hope will be supported by the
World Bank through a series of industrial restructuring loans over the five
year period starting in 1986. As in the past, we will continue to consider
the reforms as an ongoing process because the specific steps and targets
needed  to achieve  structural  adjustment  in the industrial sector will
change and evolve over time, depending on economic trends at home and
abroad, and on the results of the reform measures previously undertaken.
We understand, therefore, that the World Bank's consideration of each of
these loans will be based upon satisfactory progress being achieved in the
execution of the industrial policy reform program.   We propose, in the
course of the preparation and appraisal of each loan, to review: progress
in each area; the further elaboration of the measures already indicated in
the Attachment for succeeding years; and additional measures to be imple-
mented in the future.   It is our conviction that both the financial and
non-financial support that may be provided by the World Bank for our five-
year program of industrial restructuring will make important contributions
towards achieving our stated objective and assuring the sustained progress
of the restructuring process.
Macroeconomic Conditions and Macro Policies
We recognize that the success of our efforts towards industrial
restructuring will depend critically on the evolution of the external and
domestic economic conditions as well as the policy environment at the macro
level.  It is important, therefore, to recognize here this interdependence
and to consider macroeconomic conditions and policies which we believe are
particularly relevant for industry.
In the late 1970s, various factors including major deterioration
in the terms of trade, the world receEsion, and import-intensive growth,
unaccompanied by adequate developments of export capacity, led to increas-
ing strains on Hungary's balance of payments condition.   The convertible
trade deficit in 1978 reached 782 million dollars (BOP) (4.7% of GDP), and
the total convertible currency debt rose to 7.6 billion dollars.   The
maturity structure of the dabt, heavily weighted towards the short-term,
made the external position even more vulnerable. This was further exacer-
bated by the world recession following the second round of oil price
increases in 1979, the international debt crisis in the early 1980s, and by
increasing protectionism among Hungary's major trading partners in the
West.



- 33 -                                ANNEXIV
Page 3
The Government's stabilization policies and increasingly flexible
economic management system under the reforms helped improve the balance of
payments condition considerably in 1983 and 1984. The convertible currency
trade deficit switched to a surplus of 1.2 billion dollars (BOP) in 1984,
and reserves rose from about 400 million dollars in March 1982 to 2.2
billion dollars (about 7 months of import requirements) by the end of
1984. While the stabilization measures focusing on investment and import
expenditures were effective, it has been difficult to introduce simulta-
neously concerted and growth oriented measures for structural adjustment.
The improvement in convertible currency exports in real terms since 1980,
particularly in industrial export3, has therefore not been satisfactory.
In 1985, lower than anticipated export performance, combined with factors
such as pent-up demand. for imports revealed as some of the stabilization
measures were lifted', and an unusually harsh winter causing high energy
imports, has led us to a less favourable convertible currency trade
balance.   In early 1986, the Government initiated additional measures to
promote exports.
Looking forward, we consider 1986-1987 to be the crucial years
during which to complete the stabilization effort and to embark on the task
of medium-term  structural  adjustment.    We  do  not,  therefore,  expect
substantial recovery in GDP growth during these two years.   Beyond 1987,
prospects for economic growth will depend to a large extent on the supply
response of the irdustrial sector to the measures contained in the indus-
trial policy reform program. It is our conviction, in parti'ular, that the
success of the industrial policy reforms during the next five years will be
crucial in determining the economic growth of Hungary till the end of this
century.
In the years to come, the objectives of the Hungarian economic
policy will undergo major changes compared to the past years.   The main
objective will focus on developing the economy towards rapidly adapting to
the changes in the world economy, accelerating technological development,
improving and enlarging the scope of export capabilities, strengthening
structural changes and--based on all this--stepping up economic efficiency
oa the one hand, and achieving gradual progress in modernization of the
economy  on  the  other.    The  acceleration  of  industrial  restructuring
has a decisive role to play in this process. At the same time, we consider
it an important task in improving and stabilizing the domestic and external
balances of the economy.   Within this context, we intend to maintain a
continuous trade surplus in order to gradually reduce the country's
indebtedness.   We will also continue to strengthen the domestic market
equilibrium, and support this by ensuring appropriate monetary conditions.
We think that if the above objectives are successfully met, economic growth
can take or. a further impetus, which in turn may facilitate the growth in
domestic absorption, at a rate gradually approaching the rate of GDP
growth.   We attach great significance to the reallocatirn of available
resources; the most important element of this being our intention to raise
the share of investments to benefit the manufacturing industry as well as
investment in selected production infrastructure activities.
In addition to the above, economic policy objectives of Hungary
attach emphasis on maintaining full employment and simultaneously increas-
ing the efficiency of employment, as well as on moderating the increase in
consumer price levels.



- 34 -                                ANNEXIV
Page 4
Economic policy reckons with the application of instruments which
are in line with the above objectives.   In the interest of structural
changes, technological development, and the acceleration of improvement in
efficiency, we began to develop the economic management system in 1985, and
will continue to develop the system in the years to come.  Changes in the
system focus on enhancing the possibilities and improving the conditions of
autonomous management for enterprises, and on inducing the enterprises to
be increasingly interested in developing their activities in line with the
above objectives.   In order to promote restructuring, the State is using
market instruments which encourage enterprises to develop exportable
production, to conserve energy and materials, and to realize effective
technological progress.   It is primarily with such instruments  that we
intend to achieve the proper equilibrium of the foreign trade balance.
These aims are supported by government sponsored programs.
We intend to augment the scope and role of monetary policy instru-
ments to implement the above objectives. The equilibrium of the economy at
the macro level can be maintained by increasingly relying on the flexible
use of indirect instruments of fiscal and monetary policy, including
interest rate.  When created, the competitive institutions and markets of
the competitive monetary system will promote the process of industrial
restructuring as well. Furthermore, in achieving the saving and investment
balances, we intend to use methods which facilitate widening of the invest-
ment possibilities among profitable enterprises and forcing inefficient
enterprises co restructure their activities.
Together with the instruments applied to increase exports effi-
ciently, a flexible exchange rate policy will also serve the purpose of
achieving the balance of payments equilibrium.   Hungary's exchange rate
policy will continue to be based on the principles that the exchange rate
is to reflect the opportunity (or the production) cost of foreign exchange,
and to help achieve the objectives related to the external balances, in the
context of a reasonable anti-inflationary policy. The exchange rate policy
and the instruments supplementing it will invariably be applied flexibly so
that they reflect the competitiveness of tradable activities, and ensure
appropriate relative profitability between export-oriented production and
production for the domestic markets.
Finally, it is our intention to implement anti-inflationary policy
on sound economic grounds.  This policy will not lead to a loss of price
flexibility since, within the overall moderation of the increase in the
price level, relative prices must change as the result of economic forces.
Accordingly, we wish to support the moderation of price increases by step-
ping up the efficiency of production, meeting the balance objectives and
developing market conditions in the economy.  Furthermore, in controlling
inflation, an important role will be attached to monetary policy as well as
the decisions to curb increases in budget expenditures.
As earlier indicated, while the appropriate macroeconomic policy
framework is not fully and explicitly considered in the industrial policy
reform program, we recognize that the existence of such a framework is
crucial to providing an environment in which market mechanisms and incen-
tive policies can operate effectively for the success of the industrial
restructuring program.



- 5-                                 ANNEX IV
Page 5
Industrial Policies for Restructuring
Industrial restructuring in Hungary requires: (1) substantial
changes in the overall structure of industrial production, by emphasizing
activities with a dynamic comparative advantage and eliminating those that
are uneconomic; (2) major and sustained improvements in the efficiency and
competitiveness of production facilities; and (3) changes in the behaviour
and motivation of economic entities to enhance flexibility, dynamism and
market orientation.
The primary reason which led to these requirements for industrial
restructuring in Hungary is the policy environment within which enterprises
have operated in the past, exacerbated by constrained investment in recent
years as part of the stabilization program. in light of the restructuring
requirements discussed above, we have identified the following three
complementary themes in the policy environment that need to be addressed
to induce industrial restructuring: (1) improving efficient resource
mobility; (2) encouraging increased market competition, and (3) increasing
the autonomy of enterprises in the framework of stronger financial
discipline and control.
Based on these three themes, the industrial policy reform program
for restructuring will address a number of areas.   The reform program
addresses incentive issues in the areas of pricing, trade, and tax poli-
cies.    In  addition,  the reform  program addresses  a number  of other
policy areas related to aspects of the current Hungarian economic system
that are crucial to the above three themes.  Specifically they are: entry
and liquidation of enterprises, wage differentiation and worker mobility,
development of the capital market and the banking system, state enterprise
management system, direct foreign investment, and technological develop-
ment.   Policy reforms in these areas, combined with reforms in pricing,
trade, and tax policies, jointly comprise a whole package that requires a
coordinated program of actions on all fronts, taking the maximum ad--ntage
of all mutually reinforcing linkages.
As discussed earlier, the industrial resructuring program, and
hence the program of policy reforms to support it, must be a process which
evolves over time as internal and external economic conditions chang,, and
as experience of the policy measures undertaken is accumulated.   Accord-
ingly, the present program  in most of the policy areas contain more .ceci-
fic measures for the earlier years than the later years of the 1986-1990
Plan period.  The salient elements of the industrial policy reform program
are highlighted below; the framework of the measures to be implemented in
each of the areas and their expected time schedules are represented in the
Attachment to this letter.
* * *
Entry of Enterprises
The structure of industry in Hungary is highly concentrated, and
has contributed to limiting the degree of domestic competition and  he
efficient  mobility  of  resources.       The  size  of  our  economy,  the



-                                      Pae -ANNEXIV
- 36 -                        ~~~~~~~Page 6
regulatory, financLal and other barriers to entry of enterprises, the
virtually assured survival of state enterprises, among other historical
factors, have resulted in such an industrial structure.   The intended
reforms in the area of entry of enterprises, together with the reforms in
enterprise liquidation discussed below, address directly the issue of
industrial structure, domestic competition,  and resour.e mobility.   The
objective  of the policy reforms in this area are:   (1) to lower the
existing regulatory and financial barriers to the entry of new enterprises;
(2) to promote actively formation of all forms of enterprises, with an
emphasis on associations; and (3) to promote growth of small and medium
enterprises in particular.
Important progress has already been made in this policy area. The
state monopoly in establishing industrial enterprises has long been
abolished.   Today, enterprises are free to found subsidiaries and joint
ventures.   Restrictions on the profile of enterprise activities have been
almost entirely abolished.   In the recent years, a substantial number of
Trusts and large state enterprises have been decentralized and a large
number  of  factory  establishments  have  been  made  into  independent
enterprises.   Since 1982, private business associations and partnerships
have been given legal protection with virtually no restrictions on their
activity profiles.
There are three major tasks we intend to achieve by the end
of1986. First, based on principles approved in 1985, we intend to complete
the development of a modern legal framework for corporate associations, and
to have it legislated during 1986. Application of the old legal framework
has been cumbersome and has not provided adequate stability to encourage
entry of new enterprises including joint ventures with foreign companies.We
believe that the new legal framework will in itself remove a major barrier
to the entry of corporate associations (share companies and limited
liability companies among others) and will promote creation and growth of
these forms of enterprise in Hungary, thereby introducing a greater degree
of flexibility in the dynamic process of entry, growth, and competition of
enterprises.   Following the enactment of the legislation, we intend to
develop promotional measures for creation and growth of associations in
Hungary.
Second, active participation of small and medium enterprises is
very much needed in manufacturing and service sectors. We are fully aware
that dismantling regulatory and financial barriers will not result in the
immecdiate and automatic entry and growth of these enterprises.   We have
introduced in 1985 several measures to promote the creation and growth of
small and medium enterprises.   In 1986, we intend to develop further such
measures including: ensuring equal access to credit; modifications in
labour regulations, insurance and tax schemes; and improving access to
infrastructure and technical assistance.
Third, we have completed the development of a program to
decentralize a substantial number of large state enterprises in order to
increase their efficiency and to enhance competition and the transparency
of enterprise performance. We intend to complete the implementation of the
state-initiated component of the program by the end of 1986, while



- 37 -                              ANNEX IV
Page 7
developing measures to provide incentives and support for enterprises to
pursue further decentralization at their own initiative.   The implementa-
tion of the program will be coordinated closely with the introduct'on of
the new enterprise management system, to be discussed below, which is
designed to give full management autonomy to state enterprises.
The freedom of entry of enterprises is closely tied to the
development of the banking system and the capital market.   Concomitant
developments toward competitive banking system and a capital market which
can offer flexible financial instruments is necessary to foster entry as
well as growth of enterprises.   It is envisaged that the legislation for
corporate association will include the legal Iramework for equity-type
financial instruments and other related securities, as discussed below.
Liquidation of Enterprises
One important policy of the Government concerning low efficiency
enterprises and those in critical financial situation is to create such
economic environment that will induce and allow economically viable
enterprises to restructure themselves in order to create and maintain
efficient activities and sound fiaancial management.  In parallel with the
above general objective, reforms for enterprise liquidation are to be
implemented in order to address the issues of industrial structure,
domestic competition, and the mobility of productive resources, as well as
of efficiency and financial discipline among industrial enterprises.
We have had a framework for the State to liquidate state
enterprises administratively. In practice, failing enterprises were almost
always merged with other enterprises  rather than being dissolved.   We
have, however, made important progress in 1984, and have successfully
liquidateda few industrial enterprises.  Ou  experience to date has shown
that not just the State but any party directiy concerned with the business
affairs of an enterprise should have the possibility to initiate the
process of liquidation, so as to reflect better the conditions and
mechanisms of the market, with the due legal process for settlements in the
court system.
The objectives of the policy reforms over the five years,
1986-1990, are therefore to establish firmly the stabillity and the
permanence of the liquidation process, as well as to establish the legal
precedence for liquidation.
We intend to accomplish two major tasks in the area of liquidation
by the end of 1986. First, based on principles approved in 1985, we intend
to  legislate  a  new  legal  framework  for  liquidation  in  1986.    The
legislation is intended to permit all concerned parties, including the
creditors, and the enterprise itself, to initiate bankruptcy proceedings in
the courts, and will not give priority in settlements to any party,
including the State, with the singular exception of wages and otl;er
payments owed to workers. The legal framework will be accompanied by the
Refloating Fund in the Ministry of Finance which will be used to
restructure those enterprises deemed economically salvageable and thus
prevent recourse to full liquidation proceedings.



ANNEX IV
- 38 -                                Page 8
Second, as an adjunct to the liquidation process, we have con-
ducted a review of all industrial enterprises which resulted in the identi-
fication of about 26   enterprises in a critical financial situation.  The
review provides a basis to determine possible actions for liquidation or
for restructuring.   Subsequently, restructuring plans have been developed
for a number of these enterprises and implementation is under way.   For
other enterprises, restructuritig plans are being developed with a view to
finalization in 1986. We also consider this review to be a necessary part
of our efforts to establish the legal procedure for liquidation in the
early years of implementing the new legal framework.   It is anticipated
that some liquidation proceedings will be initiated in 1986, thereby
providing a sound basis on which to continue building the needed legal
procedure and solidifying the liquidation framework in 1987 and beyond.
An important part of our program is to build, as quickly as
possible, the institutional capacity to implement liquidation proceedings
through our judicial system.   We also need to build the institutional
capacity and appropriate funding to execute the financial and other aspects
of corporate restructuring associated with the Refloating Fund at the
Ministry of Finance.   We have already begun preparatory work for such
institution building.   Training programs  for judges and financial and
accounting experts in the central as well as the district court system was
started in 1985 with external technical assistance.   In all the above
areas, we aim to establish firmly the required institutional capabilities
by the end of 1986.
Finally, we must note here that, as in the area of entry of enter-
prises, the area of liquidation is also closely tied to the concomitant
development of a capital market which can offer greater flexibility through
the provision of alternative financial instruments.
International. Trade
Hungary is a small and trade dependent economy reliant on export
performance. Furthermore, given the limitation of the size of the domestic
market, external competition through exports and imports is the key ingre-
dient in bringing about higher standards of quality, greater efficiency,
and dynamism in our industrial sector. The objective of the policy reforms
in the area of international trade is, therefore, to promote exports and
strengthen import competition.   In achieving this objective, a flexible
exchange rate policy is clearly one of the important instruments as we have
discussed earlier in this letter.
We have made a significant progress in instituting measures to
increase competition and efficiency in foreign trading activities.  First,
we deregulated all import and export profile restrictions on foreign trade
organizations, except for strategic goods on the negative list. Second, we
have instituted that all enterprises can apply for and receive automatic-
ally the right to export their products and the right to import inputs
required for their production (except for strategic goods). Third, we have
introduced incentive measures to encourage the establishment of multi-
function trading houses.



39                               ANNEX IV
Page 9
Industrial trade with the convertible currency area has some
potentially  serious  structural  problems.    We  have  observed  that  the
competitive advantage of our irdustrial exports has visibly declined in
recent years, and recognize the need for modernizing the technological
basis and the structure of production to achieve increased exports.
Accordingly, we have developed in 1985 and subsequently implemented
starting in 1986 an export promotion program to encourage investment and
technological development for export activities supported by tax and other
incentives. The program is based on a process of bidding among enterprises
and subsequent agreement between the enterprise and competent authorities
on the terms to be fulfilled. We will regularly review thle result achieved
under the export promotion program as from 1987 and afterwards, on the
basis of which we can determine and make the eventually needed adjustments
in the program.
We have also launched in 1985 and developed a series of measures
to be introduced starting in 1986 to promote exporting activities, and to
ensure an even more favorable trade regime for the exporters.   Measures
include, inter alia, the modification of the duty drawback system to create
its automaticity, an increase in the indirect tax rebate for convertible
currency exports and the strengthening of export marketing, advisory and
promotion institutions and activities.
Hungary joined GATT in 1973.  As per agreements reached through
the Tokyo round of tariff negotiations, we have continued to lower the
tariff rates across the board, so that by 1985 the mean nominal rate of
tariff is down to 18 percent (about 10 percent when trade-weighted).  We
will continue the reduction in tariffs scheduled for 1986 and 1987, with
the target of reducing the mean nominal rate to about 16 percent in 1987.
We intend, after 1988 supported by a review of the effective rates of
protection, to rationalize the tariff structure in conjunction with our
obligations under the GATT agreement, and with special regard to tariff
negotiations to be held in the framework of the new multilateral trade
negotiations.
As part of the short-term stabilization measures following the
balance of payments difficulties we had to impose a series of import quotas
and surcharges in September 1982. As the external balance situation eased,
we were able to lift these restrictions, the last of which was lifted on
January 1, 1985.   In the area of consumer goods,  however, we feel it
necessary to maintain the existing quota on convertible imports, which had
been in place previously.  With the sole exception of the consumer goods
quota, we intend to maintain the import regime free of quantitative
restrictions in the future in accordance with the GATT rules, and to rely
increasingly on overall macroeconomic policy and flexible use of mar-et
based instruments for managing the balance of payments.
A part of convertible currency imports into the industrial sector
to date can be characterized as complementary and not competing imports.
We have developed a program which in line with the balance of payments
equilibrium objective will promote efficient import competition, and serve
a two-fold objective--enhance domestic competitiveness through import
competition as well as improve tLie efficiency of import purchases.   The



- 40 -                                   ANNEX IV
Page 10
program is intended to be launched in 1986 and subsequently implemented
gradually in several steps.  T;ts will encourage the use of international
competitive bidding procedures to promote competition between domestic
production and imports as well as among imports, with limited exeptions, in
the case of those purchases where the tender invitation practice is
internationally applied, offer appropriate economic benefits, and the
financing is assured.   We intend to review the results of the program in
1987, and implement the eventually necessary adjustments thereafter.
Pricing of Industrial Products
As a small and trade-dependent economy with its industrial sector
increasingly integrated into the international community through trade,
Hungarian pricing policies of industrial products should be and are based
on the economic principle of reflecting the relative world prices.
One of the most important accomplishments of the reforms is in the
area of pricing policy.   Since 1980, most industrial products have been
aligned with what we refer to as simulated world market prices, which
reflect the actual or potential import or export prices, or dominant world
market prices prevailing in the convertible currency area.   These pricing
rules represent a major departure from the preceding pricing regime, where
most prices were set administratively on the basis of production costs; our
experience with the new pricing rules has been positive.   In considering
further reforms in pricing, we are aware that no pricing rule would be able
to replace prices determined by competitive market forces.   At the same
time, however, we have a highly concentrated industrial sector with yet
limited domestic and international  competition.    The objective  of  the
policy reforms in the area of pricing industrial products must hence be
two-fold: First, on the basis of market development, to move increasingly
from the State regulation of prices towards the market determination of
prices; and second, to limit the role of the State in the regulation of
industrial prices to the regulation of imperfect markets, while fostering
greater competition through other aspects of the reforms.
In light of these objectives, we intend to focus on two principal
areas in 1985 and thereafter. The first area concerns the exemption in the
domestic market of manufacturing enterprises from the export pricing rule,
which requires enterprises to limit the average increase in prices of their
products sold on the domestic market to, at most, the average price
increase realized on exports. In 1985, we have taken significant steps to
amend and liberalize  the rule and its application.   As a result,  the
percentage of industrial output exempted from this rule has increased
significantly.   We have also completed a series of procedures related to
entry into the Price Club," which is the main means by which enterprises
gain exemption from this rule, and have implemented modifications to ensure
greater transparency, objectivity, and predictability for enterprises.
Starting in 1986, we intend to review market conditions annually and
implement further exemptions with the objective of abolishing the export
pricing rule entirely by 1990.
The second area has to do with the regulation of imperfect
markets.   The legal framework, within which to determine the practices
associated with imperfect markets, has been set out in the Law of Unfair



- 41 -                              ANNEX IV
Page 11
Economic Practices enacted in 1985. In this context, we have also prepared
a program to change the main functions of the governmental agencies
currently  responsible  for  market  supervision  to  that  of  regulating
imperfect markets.  We intend to implement the program starting in 1986,
but we realize that substantial institution building efforts will be
required.
Taxation
The main source of government revenue in Hungary has been the
income generated by the enterprises, and approximately three-quarters of
the Government revenue currently originates in enterprises.   The high tax
burden on enterprises contributed to reducing the profit orientation of
enterprises.
In the past, the use of subsector and enterprise specific
exemptions and subsidies were built into the taxation system. The frequent
changes in the taxation rules made predictability difficult for enter
prises.  These features also reduced the cost discipline among industrial
enterprises, and did not provide an adequate incentive to perform better
than average.   As we make further progress in the reforms, the principal
function of the taxation system should be in regulating the economic
activities indirectly.   For the taxation system to serve this function
well, we believe it should enable the smooth functioning of market
mechanisms,  and  enhance  the  efficiency  and  profit  orientation  of
enterprises. Therefore, the objective of the policy reforms in the area of
taxation are: (1) to improve the financial position of more efficient
enterprises;  (2)  to  create  greater  uniformity  of  existing  taxes,
particularly among industrial enterprises; and (3) to create greater
uniformity of financial environment for different forms of enterprises.
We have recently begun to make some important progress in this
policy area.   We began to reduce the subsector and enterprise specific
subsidies and taxes.   We restructured and simplified the taxation system
and rates so that the focus of taxation would be more on factor costs of
production rather than on profit. The tax restructuring and simplification
plan was implemented in 1985, and included the introduction of wage tax,
property tax, and accumulation tax, to replace a series of previous taxes
and  tax-like  withdrawals.    These  changes have  enhanced  the  financial
prospects of efficient enterprises while curtailing availability of
resources to those that are relatively inefficient.
In implementing the tax restructuring and simplification plan, de
were not able to achieve a complete uniformity in the tax treatment of all
industrial enterprises with respect to wage tax and property tax.    We
intend to remove all subsector and enterprise specific tax exemptions in
the manufacturing industries effective January 1, 1986, with the exception
of some specific exemptions for the textile industry which will be sharply
reduced in 1986 and eliminated in 1987.  With respect to the accumulation
tax introduced in 1985, we were able to achieve uniformity across
subsectors.   The rate of accumulation tax at 182, however, may have been
too high and possibly dampened the investment demand excessively.  We will



- 42 -                              ANNEX IV
Page 12
lower the tax to 15% in mid-1986 and intend to monitor continuously its
impact on the economy, and assess the feasibility of reducing the tax rate
further  in  1987,  and  thereafter.    We  have  also  further  reduced  the
accumulation tax rate for priority activities such as exports and energy
and material conservation.
Starting in 1986, we intend to work on two major programs for tax
reform.  First, as part of the objective to improve the financial position
of efficient enterprises, we must begin to consider ways in which the tax
burden  on enterprises  can  be  reduced.    We  have  already  begun,  with
technical assistance from the IMF, to develop a new system of personal
income tax which will include the incomes of all working persons (not just
the self-employed persons as is currently the case) in the tax base, as
other forms of wage taxation are gradually transformed. Following approval
of the basic principles, we intend, in 1986, to develop a proposal for the
introduction of personal income tax.   We intend to develop in 1987 the
detailed program for introducing the personal income tax for implementation
starting possibly in 1988.   We also intend  to develop a proposal for
introducing other changes in the tax system, including the possibility of
introducing the value added tax.   We intend to develop, also in 1986, a
program for the introduction of these changes, and develop a detailed
program in 1987 with the view to implementation possibly in 1988.   An
important part of the development of these programs is to establish the
financial and administrative infrastructure necessary for the smooth
introduction of the new taxation system.  We intend to begin our work for
developing this infrastructure starting in 1986.
Second, as activities of various sizes and forms of enterprises
other than the state enterprises increase their importance in industry, the
issue of uniformity in tax and other financial incentives among them would
become increasingly important. We intend therefore to begin to assess the
financial environment of different forms of enterprises starting in 1986 in
order to develop on a continuous basis concrete proposals for action which
we intend to implement, also starting 1986.
Wage Differentiation and Worker Mobility
Industrial wages in Hungary have been relatively uniform across
different activities and occupations, and have not fully reflected
performance diffferences.   It has become increasingly clear that this has
restricted efficient mobility of workers and created undue shortages and
surpluses in different occupations at different times in different parts of
the country.  Our objective in this area of policy reform is therefore to
provide incentives for mobility toward efficient activities and greater
productivity of workers in industry, and thus directly address the issue of
efficient resource mobility for industrial restructuring in the context of
the labor market.
We have made major progress towards realizing this objective this
year.   Effective January 1, 1985, we introduced wage level taxation (as
opposed to wage increase taxation) in the system of wage regulation for
industrial enterprises.  We have already observed the favorable impact of
this new system in terms of productivity and orderly mobility of workers in



- 43 -                               ANNEX IV
Page 13
enterprises which elected to take advantage of it.  We intend, therefore,
to continue to encourage an increase in the number of enterprises using
wage level taxatton in 1986 and thereafter, with a view to having all
enterprises in the competitive sphere subject to this system of taxation by
1990. We hope that introduction of the system of personal income tax will
be beneficial in enhancing the development of an efficient market mechanism
in the labor ma.ket.
As worker mobility has increased in recent years, we have
introduced measures to modify the existing Worker Retraining Program to
meet  increased demand.    In 1986, we intend to strengthen the program
further and establish an appropriate level of funding to better meet the
needs for adjustment assistance to displaced workers, such as those
emerging from liql'idation related actions.
Development of the Capital Market
Along with the development of an efficient labor market, the
development of a capital market, which can mobilize and allocate capital
more efficiently, is an integral part of the further progress of the
reforms, and directly addresses the issue of efficient mobility of
productive  resources  for  industrial  restructuring.    Furthermore,  the
development of the capital market, supported by intended changes in the
banking system discussed below, is closely linked to the successful
implementation of intended tasks in other areas of policy reform, such as
the entry and liquidation of enterpriscs. Our objective here is to develop
a variety of flexible financial instruments and institutions which would
enhance the flow of capital in our economy.
The major accomplishment to date in the area of the capital market
is the introduction of bonds sold to enterprises and households among the
financial instruments available for raising capital, and the associated
establishment of the primary and secondary bond markets.   Our experience
with bonds has been favorable, and we are committed to ensure further
development  of  the  bond markets.    As we  continue  to accumulate  our
experience with bonds, and as the bond markets become increasingly active,
we intend to review and modify the existing legal and regulatory framework
for bonds, if necessary.   We intend to conduct such a review in 1986.
Furthermore, as bond markets deepen, we perceive the need for new types of
institutions and infrastructure supporting  the markets.   We intend to
develop measures to promote further development of bond markets through
meeting some of these perceived needs in 1986, and begin implementing the
measures starting in 1987.  A fixed maturity flexible rate bond where the
rates are linked to the profit performance of the issuing enterprises was
introduced in 1985. We intend to promote introduction of other forms, such
as fully floating rate bonds and zero-coupon bonds, in 1986.
As part of the work to modernize the legal framework for corporate
associations which we noted under the area of entry of enterprises, we have
established the principles for the issue and secondary trad'ng of equity
instruments and other securities, available to enterprises, in 1985.  We
intend to work towards strengthening the primary and secondary markets for
equity instruments and other securities in 1987, following the development



- 44 -                              ANNEX IV
Page 14
of the appropriate legal framework in 1986.  Given the existence of limited
public companies in Hungary today, we have started the development of a
secondary share market under the existing legal framework, parallel with
the above developments, and initiated secondary trading of existing shares.
As the capital market develops, there will be a need to strengthen
accounting, auditing, and financial reporting practices of enterprises and
institutions which support and provide these financial services. We intend
to study such needs in 1986 with a view to implementing necessary measures
starting in 1987.
Banking System
The banking system plays an important role in supporting orderly
and sound development of the capital market. We have been working towards
modernizing the Hungarian banking system for some time and have recently
taken significant steps in this area. The accomplishments to date include
the decision to separate the central banking function of the National Bank
of Hungary from its commercial credit functions, the introduction of
various indirect monetary control instruments including a flexible interest
rate policy, and the establishment of new financial institutions and
banks.  These achievements all contribute towards our objective to create
a two-tier and competitive banking system in which the role and effi-
ciency of credit will be enhanced by giving banks autonomy in deciding
whether to grant credits, and by initiating measures to ensure profit
orientation and responsibility for the consequences of credit decisions.
We have been reviewing, with the assistance of the IMF, the recent
experiences of the first stage of the banking system reform, and have
developed proposals for further institutional changes and modifications of
the system of monetary control this year.  Starting in 1985, we have also
been actively promoting the establishment of banks with foreign participa-
tion in Hungary; preparations towards establishing banks among others one
with IFC participation are underway.   We have also began to implement a
flexible interest rate policy.   In 1986, we intend to take measures to
enhance the autonomy of the credit sections of the National Bank of
Hungary, with the objective of completing their full institutional separa-
tion from the central bank by the beginning of 1987, for which preparations
are at an advanced stage.  We intend, at the same time, to encourage the
creation and growth of other financial institutions.   Starting in 1987,
free choice in banking will be possible for enterprises by lifting existing
restrictions regarding their choice of where to place their current
accounts. These measures, together with others we intend to undertake will
contribute towards enhancing competition in the banking system.   At the
same time, the role of the central Bank will be enhanced by enabling it to
use flexibly and effectively the new indirect instruments of credit and
monetary policy.
Enterprise Management System
The beneficial impact on industrial restructuring of all the
policy reforms discussed so far will be substantially limited, if the
management of state enterprises in the industrial sector cannot act with



- 45 -                              ANNEX IV
-                             Page 15
full  autonomy  in making  their business  decisions.   We  have  recently
developed a new system of management for state enterprises, which we
consider will meet our oujective of enhancing competitive behavior of state
enterprises through greater autonomy and increased accountability of their
performance. With exception of a few of the largest state enterprises and
public utilities where responsible ministries will continue to supervise
directly the managements of the enterprises, all other state enterprises
will be managed either by an enterprise council (for larger enterprises) or
by an elected enterprise assembly (for smaller enterprises).   The enter-
prise councils and assemblies are empowered with full rights and responsi-
bilities in all aspects of business operations and decisions related to
structural and organizational changes. The State retains only the right to
establish new state enterprises and to ensure that state enterprises are
operating in accordance with relevant laws.
Starting in January 1985, we began to implement the new management
system in selected state enterprises. We have completed implementation in
about two-thirds of the relevant state enterprises by the end of 1985.
Earlier in the discussion of reforms in the area of entry of enterprises,
we noted the need to coordinate the implementation of the new management
system with that of the state enterprise decentralization program.   The
coordinated implementation of the new management system is expected to take
place in 1986, with respect to the remaining one-third of the relevant
state enterprises.
The principles underlying the new management system are fixed.
The detailed operational form of the new system should naturally evolve
over time as we gain experience and as economic and business conditions
change.   We will therefore continue to assess the need for changes.  As
part of this exercise, we intend to develop and implement proposals for
encouraging greater use of external advisors by enterprise councils.   In
1986, we intend to study and develop proposals for systematic provision of
financial and other performance indicators to the management of the
enterprises, the state, and other enterprises.   We also intend to review
and assess observed impediments in the supply of management expert
advisors. Furthermore, in 1987, we intend to assess the effectiveness of
the new system and formulate recommendations for strengthening it.   An
important part of this study is to assess the effectiveness of the system
in maintaining productive relations between the management and the workers.
Direct Foreign Invectment
We intend to pursue the promotion of direct foreign investment and
associated transfer of technological, management and marketing know-how
towards the objective of increasing efficiency of resource use and
developing the technological capacity and competitiveness of Hungarian
industry.
Despite various improvements in the framework for direct foreign
investment in recent years, we have not been satisfied with the level of
direct foreign investment activities so far realized. Therefore, based on
an assessment of the factors which may have hindered direct foreign



ANNEX IV
- 46 -                             Page 16
investments into Hungary, we have developed for implementation in 1986 a
program of measures to promote direct foreign investment and associated
technology  transfer  activities.       These  measures  include  improved,
transparent, and more favorable tax and other incentives (rather than case
by case determination as at present), increased efficiency of licensing and
approval, and a simplified accounting system.   We also intend to make
special efforts to attract direct foreign investments into selected
priority  industrial  subsectors  supported  by  additional  incentives.
In parallel we intend to launch a promotional campaign and implement
other supporting measures.   We intend to assess the effectiveness of the
proposed measures in attracting direct foreign investment based on
experience gained through the end of 1987; we intend to implement further
modifications, if necessary, based on this assessment.
Technological Development
Technological change is ultimately the driving force for dynamic
industrial growth. As we make progress on reforms and continue to increase
the reliance on market signals for efficient resource allocation in the
environment of stronger market competition, we must place even greater
emphasis on technological change.
Our primary objective here is to accelerate technological develop-
ment in Hungarian industry, in order to narrow the technological gap rela-
tive to other industrialized economies. We have elaborated the actions to
be emphasized in pursuit of this objective for the Seventh Five Year Plan
period.   Specifically, we intend to focus on: the modernization of the
infrastructure of technological development; the implementation of national
programs in selected priority areas such as electronization, bia-techno-
logy, and material and energy conservation technologies; the promotion of
innovation activities through specific measures including the establishment
and strengthening of innovation-financing institutions and innovation
parks; the strengthening of services available in the areas of consulting
and engineering, etc.; and the development and implementation of measures
to enhance the importance of intellectual property and related rights.
* * *
We have taken significant actions and measures in 1985 to abolish
the supervisory role of the Government with respect to enterprises (other
than those remaining under the state supervision).   Furthermore, in line
with reforms outlined above, the role and functions of the concerned
governmental agencies will naturally have to evolve and change.  In this
context, we intend to assess continuously these required changes, and
implement them as necessary.
Institutional Arrangements
Industrial restructuring is a medium-term process -- one that
requires continuing coordination and direction among all concerned
governmental agencies, and at both the policy and operating levels.  The
broad approach to industrial policy to support the restructuring program as
discussed in this letter has many interrelated facets, and to achieve the



ANNEX IV
- 47 -                                   Page 17
intended results will require continuing supervision and evaluation process
that  is  institutionalized.      Therefore,  the  industrial  restructuring
program, and accordingly the proposed World Bank asdistance to support
it, will be supported by the following institutional arrangements:
A Restructuring Council coordinated by the National Planning Office has
been established, and is responsible for the development and monitoring of
the industrial policy reform program.  A Steering Committee, organized by
the Ministry of Industry and supported by a Program Office, is responsible
for developing the restructuring program, monitoring its implementa-
tion, assessing effectiveness and formulating recommendations for changes
therein.  Arrangements for ensuring coordination between the Restructuring
Council and the Steering Committee have been made to ensure the effective-
ness of the program as a whole package.
* * * * * * *
The discussion in this letter of the package of industrial policy
reforms to support the industrial restructuring program demonstrates the
broad scope of the structural adjustment process necessary in Hungarian
industry. We believe that the letter also conveys the reality that this is
a medium-term and continuing effort to which the Government is totally
committed. On behalf of the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic,
I declare the Government's committment to the execution of this program,
and hereby request the World Bank to assist in this effort by extending the
first Industrial Restructuring Loan to Hungary at the earliest possible
date.
With best regards,
Yours sincerely,
Sgd/ Joszef Marjai
Deputy Chairman, Council of Ministers
The Government of the Hungarian People's Repu;llic



- 48 -                                               ANNEX V
(Page 1)
9mmry of lIitrial Fblicy Defom Prcm, 1985-1990
Fuure PrOWR
Aretai  Already WM                      1986                      1987                    19881990
I. DMy OFi ENIRwI!
Xl ective:
o lAer rguaory and             frincpes of wdern          LegLalnte frmwk for          [velop ad impleuent         Ae         effectiveness
financial berries to         lega  frmairk for          crporate asociatom.          _mira to pwtee              of the ma_*ir  and
entry.                        oxrporate anocietion                                   oeatirn ad groth of         imlomz mdica-
(.bat.   iy. llited                                     asaocatiu. Asm              tici  if treaamy.
O PrmDe fomatimn of all        1iAbil1ty Cmy, ZD                                       efferivumm of du
fam  of mnterpriai with    other) appovsL                                            Mengum  ad 1linit
aWuai.an a nociatia..                                                                modificetla  if rf
sry.
o Proxe growth of 1mul
ad umdiau atarpriam.
f1rOditkial Clx allow-    INwlp aid Iupite             lA         effectiveam. of
mm apt irntron*ad          fuwth    m        to p-      tie    irm  ad  imple-
to failtate trndtitAm      mote aeatlr  and grami       mat aodiTri:mti       l-
of mu                      of ml  ad adl- e         mara.
into atperativ.            prism  (e.g., atablh-
Approval pKUce   Il-   imat of fhmudal Intito-
fld. MM liursivea          ti   Do emble equfl
provlidd for weected       ace  to acedt, Imsl
activitlm  (e.g., *w-      ac        to Infrnructure
vtes, exporta, imt         g ad tecbdcml amitar
recydllzg. etc.).          senvide, adIkairz  in
labo  -elta,  sodal
hint., ad indivldiul
tK sdChM.).
Ffrat Phae of dec-         oi2ete IqIMi3tatim  of   Revio ad cmEImm
tralizatiox prcrthe first    e of the                   lzplemetitn of the de-
developed for sele*te      deentralizatio program       cetrllzatiw  prqpa.
Impg state .tuprl
for tie objective of
increom efficisEy
per-Cy a perfanrait
and acietitia6
pleted for about 420
en-. incudE
aprpite  fimedral
restrurl  of thee
eterpnises (frm Jim
1981 to Jan. 1986).
Tax iriotivm and otler   lvlqp wd laint
meBa   implinted to        fiuther man-um  to
enaprSupport                      ag-
deotrUzti                  dtnIei.



49                                                 ANNEX V
(Page 2)
Actiom Already lk9                     1986                      1987                   1988-1990
o FAcablsih the legl prec-    Review of finaial
dam  f  liqf idacadA         axucLon of indLutrral
enewprini  bed on
o Ecablish tdo stabLty         criteria of jrofitabil-
wi permice of the            ity. liquidity wid
liquidaim  prooms.           solvcy clmpated,
reAultI   In the identi-
fidarion of abot 26
erterprim In a
critical fina,cial
tibuiaOf   Refloota4m    Coalete reflostatmn pla
(restructurir) plai       lnlmmAci  for otier
deeloped for saw           designted artrprises,
eirarpram  mlad            taldng amunt of tdnir
IqPimastatic be impr       1985 perfonammce.
principles of che legpl    Legisloa  friamxk for       Liqudatia proondirp Omia  to bild
franaaik for  1ivid4a-     liquidatlo.                 acpleted for the fir.t       gpl prsctdm  for
tic,    h may be                                         p, of aterprea.           liquidation b em-
initiated by  t enter-                                                            oatig fxthwr
prise or its cxeditos,                                                             liquidati- procmed-
-we
Decide cma      for liquid-   Revigw e1 xena with       Ilan .oam
Arica proceedigs  d mi       liqid.r1                   t1tm  to eagtm
In'tace proom  for tU                                   ti  liqddatiZ
fit- few enterprlses.                                   f&ar, if   _
sr.
ESrabliU  instti
cpepblity to faclitate
applicatic  of llqudailm
framwok.
Principle to itinhtl-      Establsh lntitutial        1*,view eqerie  with         Tploan  rec a-
tionlme Neflostation       cpabilty to  ngeeflotation R            Ftui           tiou tD etruna
~md appwed.                Rdai              bead on                               tbi oparati  a.  d
elaborated fr8ntWrec.                                   effectivesle  of the
Ref lbnaten uWld, if
Sstem to make filrncl
data an alterprisen
p-li introduedI and
insittibnLzd
System of ac     to
information an crdit
perform    of  er
gl- introducedaidw
eff WIni



-50-                                                      ANNEX V
(Page 3)
Actions Alre.y Taken                  19e6                     1987                  1908-1990
III.   WATI4L TAIRE
Oblective:
o PF!wte eJaru.              kAss to focsp traie
rihts siJ11i  d for
o Strsmthei lnpot mmq1eti-   aU  aterpriu, for aU
dcii.                       prodiucts EKE inpuft of
the emtarpdiai, wxludK-
Irv tin  neatiist."
melopmd  mitd initiat     implY nt Iplrt Ptmsot*im    Ctino kr    P.  ntial   C'ntimm laqplea-
Iaplmimtatlai Of Eort   Ptgru&                       Pgrm                        tCim of &port PFwr-
aDtIm ftWM                                                                      tia 
Praimirdry rism of Evier initial 9          .rimn
(a) MkNnws to eir-    intial .wPadm  idzn            of Pq2ort Prautimi
qo invacut directed    aqpact prautiM p nB.           Propm   Adjust, if
at eqaIJ1 9olertibls                                     a,  in dx light
awrency q epot (Incin-  lMmdfLcatim of duty          of mxpariemim.
dii  prity cradits       drAk mta  to De
admi   -        fxt. ama-   autr.aticiy.
adlatic  tat) d    d
an a _wma
(b) Abirim of  iort
puffls  utrntna far
Fbmeig Trame Org.dz&-
tiny,  skLtiHlg th
_ugatiie hst."
(C) MlIMtstlmf of
_iiul to 0amWiap
functim tralin bouses.
td) SuRwdz& of
exor - wKt advi-
Soy and p-io acti-
vitim
N1231U tariffs reducd    Ibxr taixml taiff, to    Red   nwdrll tariff a to   Bunion ti  fvtue
to an averap of 18.1%.    an ava  of 17.1%          mu arp of 16.1L            poaaiillti  for
farther ratiaamltze
timn of th tarfff
stutue supre
by a aUsf mi tim
efactiw rtm of
protacti4,  ad with
special =ard to
tarff      -
to be blad In tie
F      I of tin 
Imatilatmoll trade



- 51 -                                                    ANNEX V
(Page 4)
Fufture
Acions Already Mmi                      1986                      19                      1988-1990
Qmntitative   port re.-   imintain th  hwqot relm free of qpaitative retrictimc In a=rdam with
trictiow  rmd              the GI rule, ad rely _icrsingly on owrafl macroenmic policy ad
(mcept for the global      fladble ums of mret Iws lztrints, sLb - the Ecchge rae, for BDe
quDta of car                Imn     t.
axx. bpt   wbl
rovad in 1984), i.e.,
teutmd to the loport
uii  pratiw
folowad befor
Septwrh  1962.
Parallel foreign t-ade
rights grrad to
Foreign f1rade O%wdiz-
tion ealuizg the
negative list."
Elaboration of tiE prin-    lqlazt the fLrat #me         1li  tie effectivenws         xtirm       Impo rt
d.pTm  of a prgcg  pm-   of the Upoct Oiqetitia         of the iqmrt Omqpetitim    Competition Progrm.
metig itq2ort rqseti-    Pfogrm.E Progrm  .Dhlemlt
tdon imin  oweetit.e                                    adjusmta if rnecqy.
biddlrg proadt                                          Boen so%x of   g
ncluding the poecibi-
Uty for grantig ad hc
i-rtu   dghm.
IV. RD; F oDrMM
Cbjective.
o lIcreadrgly mm fri          Cbet-     pricing mle
st-  rglatim of prdow    abolimbed
tomda rket dedi-
tim  of prim, bad              ort Pricing RlMe         Revie  erket comlitiom       Review  ket oaditim         Abolih !AEq,or
*aket  %mlp:nt.              liberalized.               of aslmectoce ad enter-      of adhectors and eter-    Prlcing Rule by 1990,
prim  to gat further        price  to grmt f iuth        foUming further
o hbste greater Weqtltxi    &port profitabilIty           ewqtitr  (Including at        expw  (Inludig at    acm -1is in 1988
and limit the role of te     rule aboliaebd.            the lnitiative of NIW)       the initiative of NIO)      arm 1989.
state In the mulatim  of                                fxun tie &port Pricig        frao  de Expart Pricing
price.    tim roulatio      Camteti tive Pricing        Rule thxtugh both a          Rule tbxugu both a
of lo.erfec eats.            Systa wnded ad             reduction in te s          or reductio  In the amps of
etarprids   rewlew  to    its aweru  ad increased   its CVerp and
gmit enim2ti  from muberldp  In the Prim Increased mebeship in
Eqrt Pricing Rule to       Club.                        the Prie Club.
aboxt 49Z of mwfactr-
ig wtput, by both
casing the amreus    of
the samp of cerug of
the Rule ad by
htig  aebip in tle
Price Cub.
1Indi utrial D-
operatives graned
option of  toric
antry into Prim Clb.



- 52 -                                            ANNEX V
(Page 5)
Prture Proga
Actiom Already T1;                       1986                       1967                     198-1s
Deied Price CLub pro-
cures ad tbeix adin-
ihtration, takerg Into
acrmt enterprml'
perception of their
trepeuxcy, ad
Xetctabil.ty; Lmple-
.iatULd modiftcalC
acrrdirly.
rIplamatarim of law of
fdair Ecomic Pran-
Lice initiated.
Pmpration of the           Dep -d begin iple-               tin,  Implemntacin          cmdxuin    lamita-
principl .i of a p cra     Muatlim  of the pwga.          of the pLogrin.              tim of tUm piopun.
to transform the main
function ard cepaiy of
cmmrsed  -mrmwA
ncis sAy  fn prim
regintlon Wards
regulato of imperfect
ndisets bed on the law
Of Ihifair EMMc
Practices.
V. TAXaTXQ
iiJor structural
o   emate gruner utifonafity    iqlmts in
of adtitig t,  pwt-            m-eri-   tion
ularly       industrial       iqiarntad.
o  atw    g ter urifonity    All forms of tc ecmi-    SurpLy risum  texie                 AboLish tax erauciiu  In
of ffindal eaw ir t           tilm for specific Dur-   subectr taK e2tCitu.            textIe mubseco.
for different form of         facturiig sluectors
enterprises.                  other tha tectile sub-
sactor abolished (pro-
o lin we  tte flnlayda.         perty tax e,mption for
position of ae ef.cient    textUe subeectoe tO be
enterprises.                      ed out over tue
ymnrs).
Structure of turnor
Iau  streamlined.
lDdsiim takent tn reduce    Assess the fisi,lity of    Asms the fassibiUty of
-azmzal   taK to 15X.   and  acardirgly, I,Ale-           ad, aconlialy. lmple-
mlt watinuad radw=ios         nt tinc-  ueductiBma
I,n accumilation tw.          In aaxwlatim  tc-
DE ML initiated tsirds   Approval of mdn 6in-             IDe       ppsDl for
the introduction of        ctipl   of persowul inan       intrhctm  of permnal
persoaAi irmxm tl          tax.                           1n         tax ad abt for
,-a



- 53 -                                           ANNEX V
(Page 6)
Futtwe Progran
Artium Already Taken                    198b                       1987                   1988-1990
Gxidittmal to approval.   IOitionul to appo
develop proram for the      val, begn to IqIk
intrxduction of prsonal    met the prngra  to
Inoaw  tax.                 intnrodue the lnacm
ta.
DOIF TA initited tonrds    Develop proposal for othur
the introduction of VAT.   chages in the taxation
systae, Including the
introduction of VAT aid
!abmidt for approval.
Develop progran for eastab-   GxOitional to approval.   GCutlonal to appro-
Lishing financial ntd        develop dwa program for      val, Ibg1n to Imple
institutional Infra-         the introduction of         nent         progrm.
structure reqtdred for      dchiges In taxation
introducirg new taxation     system.
syste.
Bein to assess the           Contdme to assess the        CGtine the proces.
fin1ncal envirrmenrt for    financial eriroment for
different for.m of           different form of
enterprises; de-lop ad       enterptlses; develop and
lipl-et proposas to          Impleent proposals t
cre  uniformity scrow        create ufriformity aoso
different forms of           different form of
enterprises.                 enterprises.
V. WAE DIFFENAIA ON
AND WM ?srxr
Objective:
Provide incertives for         Earning level taxation      Continue to enurage          Cmoris to enurage            All eterprses in
efficiet mobility aid        implrnted as part of        increase in te twuxr of    inree In the  ne of   cipetime sectors
greater productivity of      w.ge Egulation sysrt        enterprises awered urler    enterprises covered ader   sbject to 'W  level
workers.                                                iM  level taxati.             tW*   level taxation.        taxation.
Wage regulato ns di-
fied to increase the       ontxinue to decrease the      Omtinue to decrease the
mmiber of enterprises      number of enterprises in      nmber of enterprises in
dcosirg earning level      the amupetitive sector        tbe awtpecitive sector
taxation ard reducirng     wAdh are permittea to         whidi are penrital to
the nuber pernitted to    rezmin uader cantrafly        reomin aider acntrally
dcwse eanin lcren          administered wage regul-      administed ss  regular-
ment reglation.            tire.                         ron.
Modificatioxm intrxiuoed    Stregtthen worker
in administration of       retrainiqg progra
worker retrainixg          further.
progras to ircrease
eligibility for direct     Establish apprpriate
hidgetary sipport.         level of fwwding to
impnleat worker
retrainirg program.
Profit tax rebate for      Introduce profit tax
retrainig approved,        rebate for retrainig.



54 -                                            ANNEX V
(Page 7)
Future Progra
Ac tlorn Already T.*m                    198b                        1987                    1981990
VII. CAPITAL 4PARPJT
Objective:
a Develop fintMcial irstnr-    Biterpnse .rd  rdlvi-        Review cth legal and rr-
mnmts 4rd Inscitiutinnm for   dual btld markets estab-    Littory framwxk for
greacer flow of capitaL.      Lished.                      bxrds; pmpose and imple-
rint chlges, if nsO-
s-ary.
Develop mesares to            Isplamenc the propg   to
pronte primry ad secnn-   strengthen primary ad
dary boed  arkets (nIrket    seodary bhd markets.
institutras  fIal
servrc institutlina,
etc.).
Floatinn rate ad other
form of hinds Issuaied.
Principles of legal         Develop legal frameork                                     Revise tie legal and
franrk  for equity          for equities and other                                     regulatory framewrk
instr-rents and otter       securities, in the contact                                 for equity Instru-
securities established.    of the law of anrporate                                     emts ad ocher
associatrin.                                               s  urities.  Iple-
ment moldfications,
if  ecssary.
Develop measures to          Iplarit the
prcrvte primary and         tnesrs.
se-xdary   dwrkets.
Secondary trading of
equity instrments and
other secaritles
initiated.
Dlvelop and Introduce
other foros of financial
instruents (e.g.,
instruents btdgirg
equity instrunrts and
other securities and
bonds).
Study acauntig aid           Ibplmrnt the proposals.
auditing practies as well
as related institutiais
;md servis; and  velop
proposals for strertlhr
hIg thex.



- 55 -                                                   ANNEX V
(Page 8)
hbture Program
Actiom Already Takn                       19tb                       1987                    1988-1990
Vill.  RNCIIt SYSTh
objective:
o Enhce the mnle ak d           Banking sector iform
effectiveniss of credit       propoal approved.
throtu the establisthenr
of a tto-tier, copetitive
baing system.                 Separation of central        FBbrice the autonqy of        GNplete the separation
balirg ad credit            the credit secdin  of the    of anstral banke r  ard
bmnkirg functions of NBil   NH and prepare for rdti-    credit bankin  frictran
decided; initiated          tutional separation.          of NH, ad establish to
implemeItation.                                                ting uiri-prpce
mria  bnks.
TIplaumntation of           Bats with foreIbp parti-      Gatimra to enaxrage
mssures to pimote the       cipation to starm opera-      establstmem of baks
establishmet ad opera-    tion.                           with foreign particip-
tici of bnks with                                          ttao.
foreip  psrticipatio  In
order to enhance comps-     litiate a joint venture
titian.                     bwk with 1M  participa-
Lion.
New financial institu-      Eapsd operation of other      Ebpad operation of other
tions  d abs est-                bndet banks.             irdepedent bat.
blisbed:
(a) Eight Inrwatirn         Implemeat iMeasr  to          Establab free doice in
Banks established.          strengthe Innovation and      baidng partners by
Financial Develop             enrprises.
(b) A credit bas            Institurions.
separated from Nil
establistae.
Establish bank to facili-
(c) Organizing banks        rate ledaig to  nall and
with foreip  participa-     meium enterprises.
tirf started.
Irdirect istnts of         initiate tqplenration        Initiate lzrpleentatlon
monetary control            (to otatinm  in 1987):         (to cntirs  in 198B):
introchaated:
(a) uLnfnr reserve            (a) AU.ocatica of reaf-
(a) Feserve reqntrent       requierents.                    ariwg Ures accardirg
an deposits.                                              to ca2qetcive bdiding,
(b) Peldisaunt facility.      market criteria.
(b) Decisicn made to        (c) Initiate implmenta-       (b) Reasse  interest
Incroduoe aiditional        cian of flexible Interest     rate structure.
indirect Instrumnts of      rates an deposits and on
rxretary control (radis-   loans to enterprises.
counting facility, re-
financing lines, Inter-
bank mey market,
etc.), aM  to begn
impleentatio



56  -                                                  ANNEX  V
(P';age 9)
Putirt.r Pn,grn
Actionul Alr..adv T.ken                 191N                      1987                    1988-1990
LX. IN'flWIRFt MAME2
Cbjectitw:
o  ihane amwectciwe             sw enterprise mrnge-
bebavior of enterprises      ment system legblIated.
th.migh greter aaxy
aid increanAl acontabi-
lity.                       tNw enterprise mrune-       Cbaplete Iimplentation of
anet systea  Ipintai    the enterprie mimgement
in albut 2/3 of all        systm in th emini
state and tDunil taler-   state Wd ax1cl emter-
prises aubject to the      prLss, In coordinttat
new systan6                with the deasntralizatlon
tkidertake study to ases    Contimte the evolu-
the effectivenss of the    tion of the enter-
enterprise manisement       prise esn tgemt
system, ad to recmmerd      "Stem.
wuxwres far streegter-
trg the system.
Bdsting  onstraints an     Assess exisLtng retwork of
greater use of expert      institutiaos supplying
avsers by enterpris        maugent expert
to support their manage-   advisers.
ment stiled and min
oxstraints identif ied
to he ai the supply
side.
sormite program  to          Begin timplemntacim  of     roninue implaenta-
support and enace            the programs.               tion.
mawaenet developaer and
trainin (e.g., stregrthiw
e,dstizg institutions ad
their oxrricula, establish
new institutiona, or
asures to priute
maagement development and
trainirog rithin enter-
jrises).
Develop proposals for        baplent the proposals.
systematic provision of
finanwal information to
the enterprtse muaeumnt
body, the state, and other
ancerned enterprises.
Also, develop proposals to
cmrrect for lxpedinmts to
the use of external finan-
cial service Instttutios.



- 57 -                                                   ANNEX V
(Page 10)
Future Progr_
Actiuiw Aireedy TAken                    1986                       1987                   1988-1990
K. DIRECI tRFIR
LWESBMT
Objective:
O Prnmte direct forelig         Study *n o,tntratnts to    Implet  ara     to            Begin to assqes effec-       Gomplete thi  assess-
nvewstrnt *id associated     direct foreign Inwest-      encrAage direct foreign       tiwitas of dti  fraewrk    mrnt; tIplant wut-
tedmologicli trans fer       senlit completed; a         investmert ad associated      and spporting nasnres;       ficationia, as neces-
activities, for greater      progr;fu develuped ai       technilogy transfer acti-    implant nwdifications,    sary.
efficitecy mi developnlit    m;usIres to enlcorag<e     vcites; ad dewelop            as necesshy.
of teehnologicAl cipacity.   direct Foreign Invest-      further .d linch a ro
ment ad relattix  tch-      motiomnl campaign progran
nolgov tr;ansfers.         to attract direct foreign
M?astwres Include .ippro-    Investment.
priate lgal fr;mmwurk,
eni form eac and other
Incentives, *asier
tirinistrative proce-
dures., etc.
evse the lgal ard
administrative framework
for direct foreign
inveshmeit ia parallel
with the legislation of
corporate associatita.
Priority sksectors         liplant incentives for
ihere direct foreign        selected priority mAr
investrent ts to be        sectors.
pramoted, selected ad
namued together with
associated tax
incentives.
Joint venture approval      Introduce simplified
process simplifted.        accounting system for
joint ventunm.
Xa. 1aYaxv DEVEW
Objectives:
o Aceleratirkg techrology      EldEoratitn of technol-    Start implmmatin of                                         Corduct mid-tern
developmet resulting in      ogy policy concept and      udlurterrm mtional ad                                      review of dt
improved cnpetitiveness,    fr.mework for the            sectoral F6D prepamr.                                      programs (1988).
aid naowing the tech-        Seventh Five-Year Plan
nolagy gap in selected key    oxpleted.
areas in dte loqg run.
o Mtdernization of de                                       lImpleant policy   r         Investigate  seaures         Assess te impact of
infrastructnre of tech-                                  to strengthm market           coducive to adequate         wamme  already
nology developnment.                                     orientatior in H&D.           appreciation of intellec-   introduced; introduce
tual property and greater    changes and addi-
amurenesa of its import-    tional neasures if
ance a capital asset.       necessary.



- 58 -                                                 ANNEX V
(Page 11)
Future Program
Actiom Already Taken                     1986                       1987                    1988-1990
Study prepared on LhL      !-velop and begin  Iple-      Contlnue iipIMetaLAnn        Oxduct p e-riodkaL
amsolidated development   mentaticn of a progrmn in    of thL program.                evaluatiom  of the
of R&D rand t dmology       selected prioraty arena of                                pIgrda. Ourl1re
delopmnt infrastruc-    tehnology develoap-t                                           detail the pgram
ture, ad aidorsed.          infrastruur  (updating                                     (for 1991-19%).
f acilities-instruaents,
etc.-ln R&D Ihtitutions;
comprter aided R&D irfor-
mation sysetem aid retwrk;
rqvonal and sectomil R&D
service caters, etc.).
Establish fndirng, insti-
tutional capahbities and
schedule for its imple-
mentation.
EatablJ.shd rmi Finan-     Streigthen Firmiczl  1nno-  PMtitor rogress; impl-
cil IUnvation bisti-       vation Institutiors to        nent further actio  as
tutions; dcsged the        allow substantial aqpan-      required.
statia of existing Imns-   siax of activities ard
atiaon Rxds.               upgrading their decdson
vakdir  methodologiea ard
marketirg capabilities.
Pruote creatin aid
growth of aVxeerizmg
zanaitant zompades with
emphasis on:
(a) strengthening their
rolas in techngy
sepqrts l* rs  ard
dcmestic diffusion; and
(b) improvments in tech-
nology aapqired fro
abroad, incluldig applica-
t ion to rew fields.



.  >   2  _  t   i   v    >    F   :  4c    ', 
. ~ ~ ~ ' X               z .1,> n ,il,qj
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  -0     ,,'
>t,.l,~~~~~
/-ac    



_                   _                              _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IITRD 173GIR
HUNGARY                                          EXISTING FEAT.URES
BANK SSSTE  D   PROJE           S                  P-         R.d                       CZECHOSLOVAKIA                                  ;LOVAKIA
PROJECTS                                            .d.."                                                                                                                                                                                        U  5-..R
12                     ...                   -          asoa - -p                           -                                -/ -                                     J                                                        
E    MELEVATION5                                             .- i/                             J-
AUSTRIA  S     .;u NArrbo 
ST.0UTSR=   - 200                                                                                                               \ _ -                                            a T                    A.PROV
KRCSLe,RR,                            i  r          f         Tsc /orR 0 AA 5
UU*          .....             .. Ra
AZ~~~~~~~~~~
t ,f- 5 < = _>-\e>o w_- - - _58-o#\\o~5                                                              -                                                                    /> UNUR  w-/-' nJr    \
*v S Moh c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                                                                                       F- rF>~   s_>   AN r
tUGO SLAV IA   t.;;_   )          o              , _;>J                                        E    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ sr Ft                                                             UU FAA                         L. > 
~~e  <_*n-YUGOSLAVIA 
_ _                       _ _           _                                                                                                                A.8_Nr    e*wae ~ ~ _>bLAI 
v x Jr *sG v- K~~~~~ILURETERS                                                   RILlMETERT                                                                        AD   \LAF~           @      _-r5 
! _ r a < Il^Lt JcReeCE t- _( | TURKEY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOR T 
ErPL BURY FUXE






