Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25004
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-39200; TF-23014; COFN-04190)
ON A LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$42 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF EL SALVADOR
FOR AN
ENERGY SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
December 18, 2002
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Country Management Unit 2
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 2002)
Currency Unit = US Dollar (official currency since 2C01)
(Col6n, local currency, will not circulate after
2003)
1.00Col6n = US$ 0.11
US$ 1.00 = g.75 Colones
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AES-CLESA      Compafnia de Luz Electrica de Santa Ana (Distribution Company of Santa Ana)
CAESS          Compalia de Alumbrado de San Salvador (Distribution Company of San Salvador)
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CEL            Comision Ejecutiva HidroelectHca del Rio Lempa (Rio Lempa Electric Utility Company)
CNE            Comision Nacional de Energia (National Energy Council)
CIDA           Canadian International Development Agency
CPMSP          Comision Presidencial de Modernizacion del Sector Publico (Presidential Commission for the Modemization of the Public
Sector)
DEE            Direcci6n de Energia Elictrica (Electric Energy Directorate)
CREH           Comist6n Reguladora de Electricidad e Hidrocarburos (Electncity and Hydrocarbons Regulatory Commission)
DELSUR         Distnbuudora de Electricidad del Sur (Southern Region Distribution Company)
DEUSEM         DistHbuidora Elictrfca de Usulttin (Distnbution Company of Usultan)
DUKE           Duke Energy International El Salvador
EEO            Empresa Electrica de Oriente (Eastern Region Distribution Company)
EHRC           Electricity and Hydrocarbons Regulatory Commission
ERR            Economic Rate of Retum
ETESAL         Empresa de Transmision de El Salvador SA (El Salvador Transmission Company)
EXIMBANK       Export-Import Bank of Japan
FINET          Fondo de Inversiones en Electricidady Telecomunicaciones (Investmnent Fund for Electricity and Telecommunications)
GESAL          Geotermica Salvadoreiia S4 (Salvadorian Geothermal Company)
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
IMF            International Monetary Fund
NEC            National Energy Council
NEJAPA         Nejapa Power Company
NGO            Non-Government Organization
NPV            Net Present Value
SAL            Sector Adjustment Loan
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SIGET          Superintendencia General de Electricidady Telecomunicaciones (General Superintendence for Electricity and
Telecomunications)
TAL            Technical Assistance Loan
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
UT             Unidad de Transacciones (Transactions Unit)
MEASUREM          UNITS
kW                Kilowatt (a measure of electric power)
MW                Megawatt (1000 kW)
kWh               Kilowatt-hour (a measure of electric energy)
MWh               Megawatt-hour (1000 kWh)
GWh               Gigawatt-hour (1000 MWh)
Vice President:     David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:        Jane Armitage
Sector Manager/Director:       Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Eduardo Zolezzi



EL SALVADOR
ENERGY SECTOR MODERNIZATION
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                 10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  I 1
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                 13
9. Partner Comments                                                               14
10. Additional Information                                                        14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             24
Annex 8. Borrower's contribution                                                  26
Annex 9. Map                                                                      27






Project ID: P007173                                      Project Name: ENERGY SECTOR
MODERNIZATION
Team Leader: Eduardo H. Zolezzi                          TL Unit: LCSFE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 18, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: ENERGY SECTOR MODERNIZATION                   L/C/TFNumber: SCL-39200;
TF-23014;
COFN-04190
Country/Department: EL SALVADOR                                         Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: Power (80%); Central government administration
(10%); Telecommunications (10%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   10/12/1992                             Effective: 10/06/1995        05/16/1997
Appraisal:  12/13/1993                               MTR: 06/30/1997           11/10/1998
Approval:  07/06/1995                             Closing: 06/30/2000          06/30/2002
Borrower/Implementing Agency: Government of El Salvador/CPMSP and CEL
Other Partners: EXIMBANK of Japan, Co-financier
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                        Shahid Hussain
Country Manager:     Jane Armitage                            Edilberto Segura
Sector Manager:      Danny M. Leipziger                        Martin Staab
Team Leader at ICR:  Eduardo Zolezzi                          Hernan Campero
ICR Primary Author:  Luis Luzuriaga
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M-Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Background:
The decade of the 1980's was a period of economic decline for El Salvador, due to social unrest,
civil war and natural disasters. By 1992 when the civil war ended, the Government started a
program for economic and social reform to alleviate poverty and for improving the quality of life
in the country. The program had the full support of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the
World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID), the US Government and many other American and
European countries. Specifically, the Bank supported the Government's efforts through three
operations: Power Sector TAL (Loan 3389-ES, 1991), SAL I (Loan 3293-ES, 1993), and SAL II
(Loan 3646-ES, 1993).   Subsequent loans supported further the reforms: Public Sector
Modernization TAL (Loan 3646-ES, 1993) and Private Sector TAL (Loan 3946-ES, 1996). The
focus of reform was: (a) modernizing the public sector; (b) fostering private sector export-led
growth; (c) improving the efficiency of public services and reducing poverty; and (d) ensuring that
development would be environmentally sustainable over the long term. The Sector Adjustment
Loan (SAL) operations supported reforms of the petroleum sector, elimination of price distortions
in fuels, development of alternative systems for fuel subsidies and preparation of a new
hydrocarbons law. The Technical Assistant Loan (TAL) included the preparation of studies for
the power and hydrocarbons sectors and studies to create a legal framework for the protection of
the environment.
As a part of the economic reform, the government initiated a program to restructure the energy
sector, which included: (a) creation of legal and institutional frameworks for the sector; (b)
enacting pricing policies and procedures based on economic costs and market forces; (c)
promotion of private sector participation in the energy sector; and (d) creation of institutional and
policy framework to address environmental issues.
Original Objectives-
The Project objectives were directed to support the Government's efforts to reform the power
sector and included: (a) improvement of the reliability of the electric service and increase service
coverage by rehabilitation, modernization and expansion of power generation, transmission,
sub-transmission and distribution systems; and (b) assistance in the restructuring of the sector's
legal and regulatory framework through the preparation of legislation and procedures.
Assessment. The Project objectives were appropriate, as they were developed to support the
Government's efforts to reform the energy sector, which for decades had been controlled and
partly financed with public funds. The electric power sector was vertically integrated and
controlled by the state owned utility Comisi6n Ejecutiva Hidroelectrica del Rio Lempa (CEL).
The petroleum sector was regulated by the Government and was operated by a private monopoly.
Prices for both sectors were controlled by the Government and most of the time did not reflect
-2-



economic costs, causing distortions to the economy and deficits that had to be covered with
public funds. The objectives of the Project reflect the Bank's assistance to the Government, as
stated on the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of that time. The purpose of the Project
was the rehabilitation of installations damaged or destroyed during the civil war, the expansion
of service coverage to larger segments of the country and the improvement of quality of service,
all with the least intervention of the Government.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives of the Project were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The Project included the following components:
Part A: Policy Studies and Technical Assistance. (1) Energy Sector Restructuring. Provision
of technical assistance for the: (a) drafting of regulations for the Electricity Law, the CNE Law (
Comisi6n Nacional de Energia or National Energy Council) and the CREH Law (Comisi6n
Reguladora de Electricidad e Hidrocarburos or Electricity and Hydrocarbons Regulatory
Commission); and (b) implementation and operation of CREH and CNE, including the provision
of equipment required and training of their personnel. (2) Power Sector Restructuring. Provision
of technical assistance for the promotion of: (a) private sector participation in power generation;
and (b) the restructuring of CEL in accordance with the Electricity Law, CNE Law and CREH
Law. (3) CEL's Studies. Provision of technical assistance for: (a) the preparation of feasibility
studies for the El Tigre and El Zapotillo hydroelectric projects or such other project as the Bank
may agree based on the conclusions of the pre-feasibility study at that time being carried out by
CEL; (b) the design and supervision of the rehabilitation and expansion of the hydroelectric plants
described in Part B of the Project; (c) the preparation of a study on the environmental impact of
existing power stations; (d) the improvement of CEL's information and telecommunication
systems; and (e) the training of CEL's staff in technical, financial and managerial matters.
Part B:   Rehabilitation and Expansion of CEL's Hydroelectric Power Plants. (1)
Rehabilitation, including installation of the required electromechanical equipment for the 5 de
Noviembre (rated 81.4 MVV), Cerr6n Grande (135.0 MW) and Guajoyo (15.0 MW) hydroelectric
power plants. (2) Installation of a new 67.5 MW power generation unit at the "Cerr6n Grande"
hydroelectric power plant. (3) Installation of equipment for sedimentation control along the
Lempa River basin where CEL's hydroelectric plants are located.
Part C:    Modernization of CEL's Telecommunication and Information Systems.
Modernization of CEL's information and telecommunication systems, including the central load
dispatch center, through the provision of the required equipment and parts.
Assessment. Part A of the Project focused on the implementation of reforms of the energy sector
and of the power sector, based on legislation being prepared by the Government. This was done
through the execution of studies related to new legislation and/or regulations, training of the
personnel of the agencies involved, including provision of office equipment. Part A also
- 3-



included assistance for CEL to prepare feasibility studies, with the purpose of having
information on new hydroelectric resources to be developed either by CEL and/or by the private
sector, required to cover the growth of the power market. Part B and C provided CEL with
resources to modernize its power system, which at the time when the Project was prepared, was
dispatching over 95% of the electric power consumed in the country. Rehabilitation and
modernization of the power system was required, as little or no maintenance work was done for
many years, due to a chronic financial shortage of CEL and all the difficulties presented during
the civil war. The rehabilitation and modernization of the national transmission system was
being supported by loans from IDB. The three components were clearly linked to the objectives
of the Project, and the assignment of responsibilities was done considering the executing
capabilities of the institutions.
3.4 Revised Components:
During the mid-term review meeting held in Washington in November, 1998, the Government
informed that CEL would not proceed with the expansion of the Cerr6n Grande hydro-electric
power plant, as an economic study prepared by consultants concluded that the cost of energy of
the addition would be too expensive to compete in the new, open market now existing in the
country. Therefore, this component was eliminated from the Project and the corresponding
budget assignments were cancelled from the two loans (US$23 million from the Bank loan and
US$7.6 million from the Japanese Exinbank loan). In addition, in conversations with the
Government in August 2000, the feasibility study for a hydroelectric project was not executed
because the Govermment decided that the private sector should get involved in this activity.
Another important reason for the cancellation of the study was the heavy opposition to the
development of new hydroelectric projects by private organizations and NGOs, on social and
environmental grounds. Although the agreed revisions were important, they did not amount to a
restructuring of the Project, therefore the Executive Directors were not informed.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The program of reforms to the energy sector proposed by the Government was complex and
subject to the approval of the political parties controlling the Legislative Assembly. Pillars to the
reform were the issuing of a new Electricity Law and the creation of two new agencies, National
Energy Council (NEC) and Electricity and Hydrocarbon Regulatory Commission (EHRC). The
Project was designed to consolidate the reforms for the power sector and to implement new
reforms and establish the new structure proposed in the new Electricity Law. During preparation
the identified risks included the possibility of the Legislative Assembly not enacting the required
new legislation, however the Government was willing to face and resolve any political obstacles
that would delay the reforms. In fact, the two agencies NEC and EHRC were never created as
proposed in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), but rather the Electricity Law created SIGET (
Superintendencia General de Electricidady Telecomunicaciones or General Superintendence for
Electricity and Telecommunications), an independent regulatory agency, with similar duties as
described in the SAR and later DEE (Direcci6n de Energia Electrica or Electric Energy
Directorate) under the Ministry of Economy.
Assessment Project preparation is rated as Highly Satisfactory (HS), as the objectives were
-4 -



well designed and attainable, and were an integral part of the program for government reform
started years before. The objectives were consistent with the CAS and government priorities.
Two Bank Sector Adjustment Loans and a Bank Technical Assistance Loan supported
preparation of the program. The Project observed the Bank's safeguards regarding the
environment, safety of dams and involuntary resettlement. The executing agencies were willing
to support the government objectives, took ownership of the components of the Project assigned
to each institution and were willing to learn in the process of execution of the Project.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
(a)   Improvement of the power sector service reliability and service coverage. The SAR
proposed that reliability of service and coverage to the population be improved by the
rehabilitation, modernization and expansion of power generation facilities, transmission lines,
sub-transmission and distribution networks. The goals established were met or surpassed as
shown in the following table. In general, the quality of technical service as compared to the past
has improved. The distribution companies have no exclusive concession areas and therefore have
no obligation to serve all customers. Customers have the right to complain and be compensated
for service interruption.
1993             1999            2001
(Actual)    (SAR)      (Actual)  (Actual)
Country's population (000)        5,662      6,213      6,100 *   6,200 *
Installed capacity (MW)           815         1,108       988      1,118
Number of customers (000)         695         880         982      1,129
Electricity coverage (%)           61          68         73        74
Price to final consumer (US cent/kWh)  5.00   8.60       10.42     11.98
* Estimated                              I                      I
(b)   Restructuring of the power sector. After protracted discussions and negotiations
between the Government, the Legislative Assembly, the Bank and other lending institutions, in
October 1996 a new Electricity Law was enacted, which during the more than five years of
application, has in general proved to be adequate for the power sector of the country. The key
features of the Law are: (a) unbundling of the activities of the sector: generation, transmission,
distribution and commercialization of energy; (b) competition in the generation and
commercialization activities; (c) unrestricted and open access to the transmission system, which
for now is owned by a government owned utility; (d) unregulated generation prices, and
transmission and distribution prices regulated according to established and transparent norms and
regulations; (e) freedom to the energy users to choose their supplier; and (f) definition of the
rights of the energy users.
The Electricity Law created the Unidad de Transacciones, UT (the Transactions Unit), as an
autonomous body, with the purpose of administrating the power Wholesale Market (Mercado
Mayorista), which is composed by the short term and/or long term private contracts between
- 5-



generators and distributors, and by the Spot Market (Mercado Regulador del Sistema), which
balances at every moment the supply and demand of generation. UT is also in charge of the
operation of the transmission system, including the interconnection with the neighboring
countries, with the purpose of ensuring service continuity.
The agency EHRC proposed in the SAR was not created, instead the Electricity Law created the
Superintendence for Electricity and Telecomunications, SIGET, in charge of: (a) monitoring the
development of the power market; (b) regulating the charges for the use of the transmission
system and for distribution; (c) resolving disputes among operators of the sector; (d) regulating
the charges of the UT; (e) granting concessions for the installation of hydroelectric and
geothermal power plants; (f) eliminating practices that are against free competition in the sector;
and (g) publishing statistical information for the sector.
Another agency proposed in the SAR, CNE, was not created either, instead in January 2001 the
Electric Energy Directorate, DEE, was created, as part of the Ministry of Economy, with the
purpose of: (a) ensuring an efficient operation of the generation, transmission, distribution and
commercialization activities; (b) ensuring high quality of service; (c) ensuring that tariffs are based
on competition and in an efficient use of resources; (d) developing the policies for subsidies for
investments and energy consumption, if required; (e) proposing policies for public investment in
rural electrification, energy efficiency and technological development of the sector; (f) preparing
indicative planning studies to guide the future development of the sector; (g) evaluating the
natural resources available for energy production; and (h) promoting the integration of El
Salvador to the Central American power market.
The Fondo de Inversiones en Electricidad y Telecomunicaciones, FINET (Investment Fund for
Electricity and Telecommunications) was created in July 1998, with the purpose of administrating
public funds for the extension of electric and telephone services to rural areas. From May 2001
FINET is also in charge of the administration of public funds to cover the subsidy for the electric
bills of low-income consumers. Prior to this date, at the request of the Government, CEL had to
pay this subsidy.
As established in the Electricity Law, the electric sector was restructured and CEL, the publicly
owned utility that had monopolistic control of the sector, was transformed by: (a) selling to
private investors all thermoelectric power plants; (b) establishing a geo-thermoelectric company
which now has a strategic private investor who will fund future developments; (c) establishing a
new company, owner of the national transmission system; and (d) selling to private investors the
ownership of all distribution companies. CEL remain as an estate owned utility, owner of the four
existing hydroelectric power plants. The companies that today form the electric power sector are:
(a) generation: CEL, Duke Energy, Nejapa Power, GESAL (Geotermica Salvadorefia SA) and
several smaller private power generators; (b) transmission: ETESAL (Empresa de Transmisi6n de
El Salvador SA); (c) distribution: CAESS, DELSUR, DEUSEM, EEO and AES-CLESA; and (d)
commercialization: several companies in charge of direct service to low voltage consumers and
dedicated to the import and export of energy to and from Guatemala and Honduras.
Based on the results and recommendations of the Environmental Assessment financed by the
- 6-



Project, the Ministerio del Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales (Ministry for the Environment
and Natural Resources) has established norms and regulations for the operation of power plants,
transmission systems and distribution companies. Today, all activities of the electric sector
require an environmental permit, including existing installations. CEL and all other sector players
have or are in the process of preparing environmental assessments for their existing installations,
in order to get the operations permit, which will have to be periodically renewed. All new
installations require an environmental assessment.
Assessment. The development objectives of the Project were achieved. When the Project was
conceived, the electric sector had a monopolistic structure and today, an open and competitive
structure is in place, with full participation of the private sector. No major problems had arisen
during the five-year operation of the new system. Electricity price is perceived by consumers
somehow high due to market price volatility, responding to cost variations, mainly from
imported fuel. Quality and coverage of service have improved, while tariffs have remained at
reasonable levels.  In fact, private investors have praised in international forums the
Salvadorian structure of the electric sector. Comparing actual achievements with the reforms
proposed in the SAR: (a) the Electricity Law was enacted and regulatory and normative rules
are used to regulate and oversee the behavior of the sector; (b) deregulation and privatization of
the sector was accomplished; and (c) environmental codes for the sector were prepared and are
being observed.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Part A: Policy Studies and Technical Assistance. The Project provided funds to finance
studies and technical assistance related with the restructuring of the power sector, and for training
and purchase of equipment required by the new sectorial agencies. During the execution of the
Project, the: (a) entities that participated in and benefited from the program are: Comisi6n
Presidencial de Modernizaci6n del Sector Puiblico, CPMSP (Presidential Commission for the
Modernization of the Public Sector), SIGET, DEE, UT and the Ministry of Environment and
Natural Resources. These agencies benefited with the acquisition of office and technology
equipment and vehicles, and with training and assistance to international seminars; (b) sector
studies executed under this component include: Indicative planning for El Salvador power sector
for the period 2002 to 2010, simulation models for the national power sector, norms to establish
distribution charges, energy efficiency studies, etc; and (c) engineering studies and training for
CEL included a study to analyze the sedimentation of the Lempa River, where CEL has installed
four hydroelectric plants, a study to review the safety of the dams of all hydro-plants, the design
of standardized supervisory and control systems for the hydro-plants, the design and supervision
of construction for the rehabilitation of three hydroelectric power plants financed by the Project, a
study for re-powering the 15 de Septiembre hydro-plant and the design of a Uniform Accounting
System for CEL. Parallel to these studies, the Project provided funds for training of CEL
personnel.
Part B: Rehabilitation and Expansion of CEL's Hydroelectric Power Plants. Funds of the
Project financed: (a) the rehabilitation and/or re-powering of the Guajoyo, 5 de Noviembre and
Cerr6n Grande hydroelectric power plants, which increased annual generation of the three plants
by 193 GWh or 18% of annual generation in an average rainfall year. An additional benefit of the
-7-



rehabilitation is that the life of those plants has been extended by at least another 20 years; (b)
modernization of CEL's management information system, including state-of-the art hydro-electric
generation optimization models; (c) modernization of CEL's supervisory system for the
hydro-electric power plants; and (d) installation of equipment to monitor the safety of the dams.
Part C: Modernization of CEL's Information and Telecommunication System. This
component included the rehabilitation of existing installations and the modernization and
expansion of the telecommunication system used by CEL. CEL, ETESAL and UT use the new
system for the remote control and operation of all four hydroelectric power plants and of the main
substations of the national transmission system.
Assessment. (a) The design was appropriate to achieve the objectives and outputs of the
Project, as it provided a balanced support to the structure and regulation of the power sector
and to the needed rehabilitation and modernization of CEL's installations. The Project also
offered a balanced support to the government agencies and the independent agencies in charge
of the modernization and of the regulation and supervision of the sector, and to CEL to improve
its efficiency within the new, restricted role after the re-structuring of the sector. Today, the
Salvadorian power sector is operating in an open and efficient manner, with participation of the
private sector, all within the norms and regulations established with the assistance of the
Project; (b) the performance indicators included in the SAR were designed to supervise CEL's
performance prior to its unbundling, but were incomplete to supervise the performance of the
overall sector after CEL sold its subsidiary companies; and (c) the output of the components of
the Project is rated Satisfactory, as most components were executed as planned, and all
contributed to the modernization of the Salvadorian power sector.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR provided an estimate of the Estimate Rate of Return (ERR) for the rehabilitation of the
Guajoyo, 5 de Noviembre and Cerr6n Grande hydro-plants, on which 71% of the total cost of the
Project was spent (as compared to 56%  of total cost estimate-revised).  The ERR was
re-calculated using the actual investment costs and actual incremental energy. For two power
plants, the final results are better than estimated at Project design: 5 de Noviembre 30.2% (SAR:
25.1%) and Cerr6n Grande 54.1%% (SAR: 34.1%), while for Guajoyo the final ERR is lower,
6.5% (SAR: 12.6%). For this ICR an integrated ERR for the operation of the three plants was
calculated resulting in 27.0%, as compared to 24.5%, the value calculated for the conditions
during the appraisal of the Project. Annex 3 presents the ERR and Net Present Value (NPV)
values for each of the three plants and for the combined operation of the three plants.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
As a direct result of Project implementation, institutions that did not exist nor were required under
the monopolistic power sector of the past were created: (a) SIGET was created as an independent
regulator, it has been operating efficiently for six years and has been accepted by the power
-8-



industry, the public and the political structure of the country; (b) DEE is a small and well-staffed
government agency, and with the assistance of consultants has been trying to guide the efficient
development of the power sector; (c) UT plays a fundamental role in the daily dispatch of the
energy produced by local generators and imported from neighboring countries; (d) ETESAL
provides open access to the national transmission system to any Salvadorian generator or to
importers of energy; and (e) CEL has been downsized to a small organization, which remains as
the owner of four hydro-electric power plants.
All the companies operating in the electric sector that either existed prior to the sector
restructuring or were created as a result of the restructuring have been impacted by the new
structure of the market. They all have to compete to minimize costs and improve the efficiency of
their organizations.
Assessment. The achievements reached by the government of El Salvador in restructuring the
power sector are regarded as successful and complete and the institutions and operators are
operating satisfactorily.  The sector has stature in the Central-American region and
international investors appreciate the technical competence and seriousness of the institutions.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Two factors delayed the execution of the Project: (a) congressional approval of the loan took
longer than forecasted, because a problem of jurisdiction of the contract with the co-financer of
the Project, EXIMBANK of Japan had to be resolved before approval; and (b) because two major
earthquakes and a hurricane hit the country during the period of execution, causing delays as
government agencies had to set other priorities and physical execution of some components were
affected.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
(a) After the loan was approved by the Board, the Government requested the Bank to convert the
currency of the loan to a single currency (US dollar) rather than the standard basket of currencies
as approved. The protracted negotiations that followed delayed the signature of the loan and
initiation of the Project. Eventually, the loan was approved as single currency. According to the
Government, this was a good decision as El Salvador trades mainly with the USA and since 2001
the country has adopted the US dollar as the national currency. (b) Another factor under
government control affected the behavior of the power sector: in early 2000 the bulk generation
price reached abnormally high levels, and the government, in an attempt to limit price increases to
the final consumer, ordered the intervention of CEL in the market, in an operation through an
existing thenno-electric generator that was equivalent to subsidizing the sector. This was the only
unsuccessful time that the Government tried to control the power market, ever since then the
DEE is supervising that the market operates more regularly and that the prices to the final
consumer are averaged over longer periods of time.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
(a) CPMSP was the Government agency in charge of the coordination of the component dealing
g9-



with policy studies and technical assistance to the institutions of the sector. This agency spent
only 26% of the budget assigned from the Project (or 1.3% of the total cost of the Project), as the
beneficiary agencies (SIGET, DEE, UT and FINET) in many instances preferred to use other
funds from loans or grants from IDB, USAID and CIDA among others, which often were easier
to use, considering the Bank's requirements for hiring of consultants. Nevertheless, the objectives
of the Project for these institutions were met, regardless of the origin of the funds. (b) CEL also
had delays at the early stages of implementation, because the institution was focused mainly on
the privatization of its assets and the creation of a new streamlined institution. The numerous
changes in staff and organization affected the execution of the Project, until a Project
Coordinating Unit was created in 1997 and a full time director was nominated for this Unit, since
then the Project advanced without major problems.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The SAR estimated the total cost of the Project at US$101.2 million but after the request of the
Government to cancel a component of the Project, the expansion of Cerr6n Grande, the estimated
cost was reduced to US$64.0 million. At closing of the loan, the final cost of the Project was
US$ 58.45 million or 91% of the revised cost estimate. The main reasons for the lower cost of
the Project were the low utilization of the budget assigned to the Government (US$2.75 million
of which only 26% was used) and the exclusion requested by the Government of the feasibility
study for a hydroelectric project (US$ 3.1 million). The costs were financed by the Bank loan
(US$36.97 or 63.3% of total cost), by the EXIMBANK loan (US$10.87 or 18.6%) and by CEL
(US$10.61 or 18.1%). The unused funds from the two loans were cancelled (US$3.8 from the
Bank loan and US$8.7 from the EXIMBANK loan).
The SAR estimated that the two loans would be disbursed in a total of nine semesters starting in
July 1995 and ending in December 1999, however, because of the original delays in loan approval
and effectiveness explained before, disbursements started only in mid-1998 and were completed in
October 30, 2002. There was another reason for the delays, related with procurement: CEL
prepared the first bidding documents following the Bank Procurement Guidelines of January 1995
as specified in the Loan Agreement, however the Bank required that the latest version of the
guidelines be used. Eventually, CEL did change the bid documents, but the Project suffered a
delay in its implementation.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The reforms of the power sector that have taken place in El Salvador since 1996 are substantial
and have changed completely the way the business is conducted in the country. Before the
reforns, CEL controlled 95% of the power consumed in the country, while in 2002 only 29% is
controlled by CEL, the rest by private operators. Before the reforms, tariffs were set by CEL
previous authorization of the government, often at levels below real costs because of political
considerations. Today, generation tariffs are set by direct negotiations between local generators or
importers of energy and distributors and transmission, and distribution tariffs are set according to
established regulations supervised by SIGET. So far the new structure has survived arguments
among political parties against the reforms. As the transformation has been radical and the private
-10-



sector is deeply involved in the power sector, today it would be difficult to reverse the process
and return to the old government controlled monopolistic system. Strong interests are involved in
defending the reforms, and include private power producers, private distribution companies,
private commercialization companies, unregulated consumers and importers and exporters of
energy. The chances of reversing the reforms would increasingly diminish as time passes and the
reformns are consolidated by the continuous and un-interrupted operation of the power system.
The other important component of the Project, the rehabilitation and re-powering of three
hydroelectric power plants, and the rehabilitation and modernization of CEL's information and
telecommunication systems was successfully accomplished.  Today, CEL has a modem
hydroelectric power generation complex of four hydro-electric power plants and its associated
supervisory system, which is operating more efficiently and with lower operating cost than prior
to the execution of the Project and under normal conditions will last at least 20 more years
without problems.
Assessment. Project sustainability, defined as the probability of maintaining the achievements
of the Project is qualified as Likely. Except for the four hydroelectric power plants, all of the
assets owned by CEL have been sold to private investors or spin-off as public or semi-public
commercial companies (UTESA and GESAL). Unless an extreme political shift occurs in the
future, it is unlikely that the power sector assets would return to public ownership or that the
reforms accomplished in the last six years would be reversed.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
No transitional arrangements were necessary, as at the end of the Project the power system is
operating fillly under the new ownership and regulatory structure set-up by the Electricity Law of
1996 and subsequent regulations.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
As noted before, from the onset the Bank promoted and supported the Government's program of
reform and modernization of the public sector. The identification of the Project considered the
reform and rehabilitation of the power sector within the overall program of reform and the Bank's
strategy as established in the CAS. At appraisal the Bank made sure that the objectives and
components of the Project were consistent with the overall program and provided the tools to the
executing agencies to tackle the complexity of Project, through training, provision of
technological equipment and funds for hiring consultants. Therefore, lending performance of the
Bank is rated Highly Satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
In spite of the high rotation of Project management (from appraisal to closing of the project there
were six task managers), in general the Borrower and specially CEL received an adequate
orientation and support during the supervision of the Project. When there were delays to declare
effectiveness of the loan, or implementation delays due to an initial weakness of the
- 1 1 -



implementation units, the supervision missions collaborated and assisted in solving problems.
When the Government decided to cancel one important component of the Project (the expansion
of Cerr6n Grande), the Bank teams assisted the Government to prepare a financial analysis as a
basis for an appropriate decision. However, because the complexity of the components and the
number of international agencies involved, Bank's supervision should have dedicated more
attention to the technical assistance program managed by CPMSP. In the case of CEL, at the start
of activities, the delays in procurement caused by the use of outdated Guidelines, could have been
averted if the supervision missions would have been very clear on the version of the Guidelines to
be used in the Project. Based on these considerations, the supervision of the Project is rated as
Satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank performance was adequate from the inception of the Project to its successful
completion. During the entire period, the Bank often assisted the Government and CEL to adjust
the programs according to new, unforeseen circumstances. The Bank also exercised pressure as
means to improve performance and correct delays, for example, by not immediately accepting
requests for extension of the closing date of the Project, until certain specific conditions were met.
Based on the successful implementation of the Project, Bank's performance is rated Satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
When the Government decided after the civil war to initiate a program to rebuild its economic,
social, political and institutional structure, it looked at the power sector as one of the important
sectors for development. The technical assistance provided by the Bank by the Power Sector
TAL defined the changes needed for reform. The Borrower's performance was Highly
Satisfactory, as the preparation of the fundamental principles for the Project followed the
overall pattern of reform and was well-conceived and total, without reservations or
commitments.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Ten years have elapsed from the conception of the Project until its completion. During this period,
three administrations of different political ideology have controlled the government, and yet, the
principles of reform of the power sector prevailed and the transformation of a monopolistic
system to an open, competitive power market has been complete. Based on this achievement,
which was the objective of the Project, Government's implementation performance is rated
Highly Satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
CEL:
In 1995 CEL was a large institution with some 3,000 employees, that controlled most of the
power business in the country. As part of the execution of the Project, CEL had to be
re-structured by selling the distribution systems and the thermo-electric power plants and by
forming spin-off companies for the geothermal-power plants and the high voltage transmission
system. The new CEL has about 400 employees. At the same time, CEL had the mandate to
- 12 -



rehabilitate its installations and modernize the institution. At the initiation of implementation of
the Project, CEL had difficulties in procurement, due to disagreements with the Bank on the
standard bid documents to be used. The resulting delays cannot be attributed to CEL alone.
Other delays occurred by the lack of an adequate control system for the large number of contracts
signed under the Project. CEL hired a specialist that reinforced the Project Executing Unit and
the problem was solved. An issue that caused some concern with the Government and the Bank
was the insistence of CEL in executing the feasibility study for a new hydroelectric project, as
contemplated in the Project documents. According to CEL, the selected project, Cimarr6n,
would have been an important contribution of renewable energy to the country, and the project
could have been developed by anyone interested, the private sector, CEL or by a partnership of
both. Eventually, CEL accepted the decision of the Government not to execute the study.
Overall, the performance of CEL as an executing agency was Satisfactory.
CPMSP:
According to the SAR, all activities related to the power sector restruicturing had to be
coordinated by the Ministry of Planming. Due to the public sector restructuring, this Ministry was
eliminated and the responsibility of coordination was transferred to CPMSP, a unit operating
under the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency. The role of this unit was restricted to
providing advice on the availability of Project funds and the conditions for use of the funds, to
institutions such as SIGET, DEE, FINET, UT, etc. CPMSP performance was Satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Considering the important achievements of the Project, all due to the good performance of the
Borrower and the executing agencies, the overall Borrower performance is rated as Satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The most important positive lessons learned are:
Project objectives: the Project was a success because its objectives were an integral part of a
broader Government program for public sector reform, which promoted more efficiency in public
services and displacement of the state in business that can be provided by the private sector.
WeU defined objectives and components: the assistance of the Bank through the CAS, two
SAL and a TAL provided the elements for the Government to prepare a well defined Project, with
achievable objectives that improved the chances of successful completion of the Project.
Government commitment and ownership: El Salvador is one of the few countries in where,
perhaps by chance, there has been continuity in the reform programs, regardless of the political
party in control of the Government. The commitment and ownership shown by the entities in
charge of the reform assured the success of the Project.
Dialogue with the affected institutions: One important element that assured the success of the
project was the dialogue of the Government with the institutions to be affected by the Project, in
this case with CEL and with the worker's unions of CEL and the distribution companies. In other
- 13 -



countries, the most important resistance, often passive resistance, has been given by the
institutions affected by closure or downsizing.
Among the negative lessons learned the following are worth mentioning:
Implementing Unit: the unit in charge of the execution of the project has to receive the full
support and attention of the Bank' supervision missions at the onset of the Project execution, as
usually project schedules do not provide for much time for on-the-job training of such unit. The
same is true for preparation of bid documents: the Bank should provide quick, on-site training,
using the latest Guidelines of Procurement.
Outside pressures: In spite of the obvious advantages for the Government and CEL of having
ready a feasibility study of a new hydroelectric project for future development by the private or
the public sector, the Government and the Bank yielded to outside pressure of NGO's and
cancelled the execution of the study, although it was included as one of the components of the
Project.
Multiple sources of financing. The Borrower had multiple sources of financing for Part A:
Policy Studies and Technical Assistance and the executing agencies preferred to use other sources
of funds than funds from the Bank's loan. The reason was that the agencies considered the Bank
procurement guidelines as too restrictive and required long periods of time for drafting and
approvals, while the funds of other agencies were easier to use for financing studies or training.
For future operations, the Bank should discuss clearly with the Borrower the conditions for the
use of Bank funds and other sources of financing, or should not finance components where other
less restrictive sources of funds are financing the same Project as co-financing or independent
financing.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The implementing agencies CPMSP and CEL prepared ft final project report titled "Informe
Final de Ejecuci6n,"which has been filed in the project files. Annex 8 presents the comments
prepared by the Technical Secretary of the Presidency in the name of Borrower.
(b) Cofinanciers:
No comments were received from the Project co-financer, EXIMBANK of Japan.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
No comments were received.
10. Additional Information
No other informatin included.
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrlx                   Projecd In last PSR'                 ActuaYLtatst Estimat
A - Improvement of the Power Sector Service
Reliability and Service Coverage:
(i) Rehabilitate and re-power hydro electric  1999                         2001 - 2002
power plants with an installed capadty of 96
MW.
(ii) Modemize CEL's telecommunication  1997                                2001
system.
(iii) Increase electricity coverage from 61% in 1993 61%                   1993 61%
1993 to 68% in 1999.                  1999 68%                             1999 73%
2000 -                               2000 74%
(iv) Prepare feasibility study for a  1997                                 Not done
hydroelectric power project.
(v) Expand the Cerr6n Grande hydroelecric  1999                            Not done
power plant
B - Restructuring of the Power Sector.
(i) Enact the new Electricity Law for the  1995                            1996
power sector.
(ii) Enact secondary legislaton for the power 1996                         1998 - 2001
sectoes operations and environment.
(iii) Re-structure CEL in accordance with the 1997                         1998 - 2001
new power sector's legal framework and
transfer to private sector all distribution
companies.
(iv) Establish the power sector policy agency 1997                         DEE: 2001
DEE, the regulatory agency SIGET and the                                   SIGET: 1996
electricity fund FINET.                                                    FINET: 1998
(v) Estabiish the Transactions Unit (UT) to  1997                          1998
manage power transacions between
generators and distributors.
(vi) Establish wheeling prices for the use of  1997                        1998
the transmission system.
(vii) Define the regulabons for the operabon of 1997                       2000
hydroelectric power plants.
(viii) Prepare electric service standards.  1997                           2001
1/ End of Project
-15 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (In US$ million equlvalent)
Appraisal    Revised      Actual      Percentage
Estimate     Estimate      Cost       of Revised
Component                               US$ million  US$ million  US$ million   Estimate
(Note 2)
Part A: Studies and Technical Assistance       9.46        11.24        6.91          61%
Energy Sector Restructuring                  2.61         2.61        0.70
Power Sector Strengthening                    1.49        1.49        1.03
Engineering Studies:
Feasibility Studies Hydroplant              3.36        3.36         0.00
Feasibility Study for Cerron Grande         0.50        0.50         1.40
Feasibility Study for Guajoyo               0.87        0.87         0.95
Feasibility Study for 5 de Noviembre        0.00        1.61         1.65
Environmental Impact Assessment Study       0.63        0.00         0.00
Sedimentation and Dam Safety                0.00        0.80         1.18
Part B: Rehabilitation and Expansion of
Hydroelectric Plants                        75.19        39.41       42.37          108%
5 de Noviembre                               23.78       23.78       25.55
Cerron Grande Modernization                   5.85        8.50        7.94
Guajoyo                                       3.40        3.40         8.30
Cerron Grande Expansion                      38.43        0.00         0.00
Sedimentation Control Equipment               3.73        3.73         0.58
Part C: Modemization of CEL's
Telecomunication System                       7.95        7.95         5.27          66%
Telecommunications                            3.86        3.86         5.04
Information Systems                           4.09        4.09         0.23
Total Project Cost (Note 1)                   92.60        58.60       54.55           93%
Interest During Construction                   8.60         5.40        3.90
Total Project Investment                     101.20        64.00       58.45           91%
Note 1: Includes physical and price contingencies
Note 2: Budget officialy revised during the Mid-term Review Meeting
- 16 -



Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement (Appraisal Estimate) (US million equivalent)
(Note 1)                               Procurement Method
Expenditure Category         ICB        NCB        Other       NBF        Total
1. Works                        3.90       0.10        0.00       0.00       4.00
13_64)      0.00       0.00       0.00       (3.64)
2. Goods                       39.90       3.26        0.20       0.00       43.36
(2.97)     (0.18)      0.00      (39.46)
3. Services                     0.00       0.00       11.24       0.00       11.24
0.00       0.00      (11.24)      0.00     (11.24)
4. Miscellaneous (IDC) (Note 2)  0.00      0.00        0.00       3.90        3.90
0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00
Total                          43.80       3.36       11.44       3.90       62.50
(39.95)     (2.97)    (11.42)      0.00      (54.34)
Note 1: Revised at the Mid-Term Review Meeting
Note 2: Interest During Construction
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank and Eximbank loans.
Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement (Actual Cost) (US million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category         ICB        NCB        Other       NBF        Total
1. Works                        4.40       0.20        0.00       0.00       4.60
(3.64)      0.00       0.00        0.00      (3.64)
2. Goods                       41.10       2.02        0.00       0.00       43.12
(37.40)     (1.84)      0.00        0.00     (39.24)
3. Services                     0.00       0.00        6.83       0.00        6.83
0.00       0.00       (6.83)      0.00       (6.83)
4. Miscellaneous (IDC) (Note 1)  0.00      0.00        0.00       3.90        3.90
.________________________  0.00  0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00
Total                          45.50       2.22        6.83       3.90       58.45
.______________   (41.04)      (1.84)     (6.83)      0.00      (49.71)
Note 1: Interest During Construction
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank and Eximbank loans.
- 17 -



Project Financing by Component
Appraisal Estimate (revised)  Actual Financing   Percentage of Appraisal
Component                 Bank EXIMBANK    Local   Bank EXIMBANK Local   Bank  EXIMBANK   Local
Part A: Studies and TA     10.96    0.00     0.28   6.63     0.00   0.28   60%              100%
Part B: Rehab. Hydro-plants  25.71  10.36    3.20  26.80     9.60   5.97  104%      93%     187%
Part C: Telecom. System     5.33    2.04     0.72   3.54     1.27   0.46   66%      62%      64%
Interest During Construction  0.00  0.00     5.40   0.00     0.00   3.90   -                 72%
Total Project              42.00   12.40     9.60  36.97    10.87  10.61   88%      88%     111%
- 18-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 3. Cost Benefit Analysis
(US million dollars base year 2001)
Guaioyo        5 de Noviembre     Cerr6n Grande    All three plants (1)
IRR (%)    NPV    IRR (%)    NPV     IRR (%)   NPV     IRR (%)    NPV
Appaisal          12.6     0.14        25.1    17.35   34.1      2.2     24.8
Latest Estimate   6.5      -2.1        30.2     33.3   54.1     11.5     27.0      42.7
(Base year 1994)
Note 1: The SAR does not show calculations for the three plants combined, the results shown were
calculated by the ICR team.
- 19 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty       Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year   Count         Specialty                   Progress    Objective
Identification/Preparation
08/31/1992                1   SR ENERGY PLANNER
02/17/1993                3   ENVIRONMENTAL
SPECIALIST, FINANCIAL
SPECIALST, SR ECONOMIST
06/07/1993                1   POWER ENGINEER
Appraisal/Negotiation
09/20/1993                3   SR. ENERGY PLANNER,
SR. FINANCIAL
ANALYST,
ENVIRONMENT
SPECIALIST
02/11/1994                5   SR. ENERGY PLANNER, SR.
FINANCIAL ANALYST,
ENVIRONMENTAL
SPECIALIST, ENERGY &
REGULATORY ADVISOR,
COUNTRY OFFICER
12/15/1994               1   PRINCIPAL POWER
ENGINEER
08/27/1994                1   SR. ENERGY PLANNER
Supervision
10/27/1995                2   ECONOMIST, POWER               S            S
ENGINEER
10/18/1995                2   ECONOMIST (1); SR. POWER       S            S
ENGINEER (1)
02/02/1996                3   ECONOMIST (1); POWER           S            S
ENGINEER (1); FINANCIAL
ANALYST (1)
06/23/1995                3   PRPOWER ENGINEER,              S            S
ECONOMIST, CONSULTANT
05/24/1996                3   ECONOMIST (1); POWER           S            U
ENGINEER (2)
12/09/1996                2   ECONOMIST (1); POWER           S            S
ENGINEER (1)
07/04/1997                3   POWER ENGINEER (2);            S            S
ECONOMIST (1)
11/19/1997                2   FINANCIAL/REGULATORY           S            S
(1); POWER ENGINEER (1)
08/21/1998                2   FINANCIAL (1); POWER           S            U
ENGINEER (1)
05/22/1999                3   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S            S
POWER ENGINEER (1);
FINAN. MNGMT. SPECIA. (1)
-20-



05/22/1999                3   TEAM LEADER (1); POWER          S            S
ENGINEER (1); FINANCIAL
SPECIALIST (1)
06/02/2000                4   TEAM LEADER (I);                S            S
CONSULTANT (POWER) (1);
SOCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
CONSULTANT
(ENVIRONMENT (1)
09/26/1995                1   SR ENVIRONMENTAL                S            S
SPECLALIST
06/23/1995                3   PR. POWER ENGINEER,             S            S
ECONOMIST, CONSULTANT
ICR
02/23/2001                1    SENIOR POWER ENGINEER          S            S
(1)
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                Actul/Latest Estimate
. No. Staff weeks            US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation             82                   239,500
Appraisal/Negotiation                  50                   142,800
Supervision                            98                   422,082
ICR                                     5                    15,000
Total                                 235                   819,382
-21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                     O H OSUOM O N O NA
?SectorPolicies                     OH OSUOM ON O NA
? Physical                          O H OSUOM ON O NA
O Financial                         O H OSUOM ON * NA
O Institutional Development         O H O SU O M O N 0 NA
?Environmental                      O H *SUOM O N O NA
Social
 Poverty Reduction           O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Gender                      O H OSUOM O N * NA
El Other (Please specify)     OH OSUOM ON * NA
X Private sector development        0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
X Public sector management          0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Other (Please specify)            OH OSUOM ON * NA
-22 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
I Lending                                           OHS OS       OU     OHU
Z Supervision                                       OHS OS       OCU    OHU
O Overall                                           OHS OS       OTU      HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
I Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU     O HU
 Government implementation performance             O HS O S     O U    0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                 O HS OS      O U    0 HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS       OCU      HU
- 23 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
All supporting documents can be founded in the Project File. The following tables are included as
supporting documens for the Economic Analysis shown in Annex 3.
Economic Analysis for the Rehabilitation of Guajoyo, 5 de Noviembre and Cerron Grande
fln thousand US Dollars)
Year     Investment    Incremental      Total     Incremental   Benefits at   Net flow
O0M           Cost      energy, MWh  6.8 centslkWh
1999        8,118             0         8,118            0            0        -8,118
2000        7,648             0         7,648            0            0         -7,648
2001        10,788            0        10,788        11,000         748        -10,040
2002        10,286            0        10,286        61,000        4,148        -6,138
2003            0             0             0       192,500       13,090       13,090
2004            0             0             0       192,500       13,090       13,090
2005            0             0             0       192,500       13,090       13,090
2006            0             0             0       192,500       13,090       13,090
2007            0             0             0       192,500       13,090       13,090
2008            0             0             0       192,500       13,090       13,090
2009            0             0             0       192,500       13,090       13,090
2010            0             0             0       192,500       13,090       13,090
2011            0             0             0       192,500       13,090       13,090
2012            0             0             0       192,500       13,090       13,090
2013            0             0             0       192,500       13,090       13,090
2014            0             0             0       192,500       13,090        13,090
2015            0             0             0       192,500       13,090        13,090
2016            0             0             0       192,500       13,090        13,090
2017            0             0             0       192,500       13,090        13,090
2018            0             0             0       192,500       13,090        13,090
2019            0             0             0       192,500       13,090        13,090
2020            0             0             0       192,500       13,090        13,090
2021            0             0             0       192,500       13,090        13,090
(Investment)     36,840                                          IRR =                27.0%
NPV =               42,691
-24 -



Economic Analysis for the Rehabilitatlon of Guajoyo, 5 de Noviembre and Cerron Grande
(Calculated using the SAR figures for each individual plant)
(In thousand US Dollars)
Year     Investment   Incremental      Total     Incremental  Benefits at   Net flow
O&M           Cost     energy, MWh  6.8 centslkWh
1995        1,006            0         1,006           0            0        -1,006
1996        8,383            0         8,383           0            0        -8,383
1997        9,127            0         9,127           0            0        -9,127
1998        7,497            0         7,497            0           0        -7,497
1999           0             0             0      125,630        8,510        8,510
2000            0            0             0       125,630       8,510        8,510
2001            0            0             0       125,630       8,510        8,510
2002           0             0             0       125,630       8,510        8,510
2003            0            0             0       125,630       8,510        8,510
2004           0             0             0       125,630       8,510        8,510
2005           0             0             0       125,630       8,510        8,510
2006            0            0             0       125,630       8,510        8,510
2007           0             0             0       125,630       8,510        8,510
2008           0             0             0       125,630       8,510        8,510
2009            0            0             0       109,430       7,413        7,413
2010            0            0             0       109,430       7,413        7,413
2011            0            0             0       109,430       7,413        7,413
2012            0            0             0       109,430       7,413        7,413
2013            0            0             0       109,430       7,413        7,413
2014            0            0             0       109,430       7,413        7,413
2015           0             0             0       109,430       7,413        7,413
2016           0             0             0       109,430       7,413        7,413
2017           0             0             0       109,430       7.413        7,413
2018            0            0             0       109,430       7,413        7,413
(investment)     26,013                                        IRR =               24.5%
-25-



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution
GOBIERNO DE EL SAL VADOR - CPMSP
INFORME FINAL DE IMPLEMENTACION
PROYECTO DE MODERNIZA CIONDEL SECTOR ENERGCA
LOGROS POR COMPONENTES DEL PROYECTO
PRESTAMO PMSE 3920
PRESTAMO Japan EximBank 419
Reestructurac ion del sector energia: i) Estudios y Asistencia Tecnica para poner en vigencia
la Ley de Electricidad, que permitiria participaci6n del sector privado en generaci6n y
acceso a la redes de transmis ion y distribuci6n.
Para 1992 el Sector Energia tenia al Ministerio de Economia como regulador de los
hidrocarburos a traves de la Direcci6n de Hidrocarburos y Minas, y encargado tambien de la
regulaci6n econ6mica (Tarifas) del sector electricidad. Asimismo, se tenia a la Comisi6n
Ejecutiva Hidroelectrica del Rio Lempa, CEL, entidad aut6noma, como operador vertical del
sector energia el6ctrica y autoregulado tecnicamente. La CEL se encargaba de la planificaci6n
de largo plazo y del financiamiento de nuevas obras de generaci6n, transmisi6n y distribuci6n
de electricidad, teniendo al Gobiemo, a traves del Ministerio de Hacienda, como garante de los
prestamos. Las tarifas no necesariamente reflejaban los costos.
El gobiemo de El Salvador trabaj6 y puso en vigencia una nueva Ley General de Electricidad,
separando el rol regulador del rol operador, y estableciendo un esquema de subsidios para los
consumidores de bajos ingresos. La nueva ley tambien estableci6 reglas claras de entrada al
mercado por los operadores, asegur6 el derecho de interconexi6n del sistema de transmisi6n,
un sistema tarifario que permite la recuperaci6n de los costos para empresas eficientes y la
protecci6n de los consumidores.
Asistencia en la implementaci6n y desarrollo de capacidades operacionales de la Comisi6n
Reguladora de Electricidad e Hidrocarburos, CREHy de la Comisi6n Nacional de Energia,
CNE.
El Ministerio de Economia, a traves de una nueva Entidad, La Direcci6n General de Energia
Electrica, DEE, se ha quedado con el rol de politica, normas, y vigilancia del sector en lugar de
la CNE que no se cre6. La DEE esta trabajando en: Vigilancia del buen desempenio del marco
regulatorio e institucional del sector electrico; elaboraci6n de planes de desarrollo y
financiamiento para electrificaci6n rural; Participaci6n de El Salvador en el Mercado Electrico
Regional Centroamericano y elaboraci6n de estrategias y planes para la promoci6n de la
eficiencia energ6tica.
El Gobierno consider6 no necesario crear la Comisi6n Reguladora de Electricidad e
-26-



Hidrocarburos, CREH; en su lugar funciona la Direcci6n de Hidrocarburos y Minas del
Ministerio de Economia, quien entreg6 en agosto de 2002 a la Asamblea Legislativa una
propuesta de ley sobre Dep6sitos, Transporte y Comercializaci6n de Hidrocarburos.
Se cre6 la Unidad de Transacciones o UT, entidad independiente, que tiene por objeto la
operaci6n del sistema de transmisi6n de energia electrica, el mantenimiento de la seguridad del
sistema y el aseguramiento de la calidad minima de los servicios y suministros, asi como la
operaci6n del mercado mayorista de energia electrica. La UT esta organizada como sociedad
de capital, representado 6ste por acciones nominativas. (Ver www.ut.com.sv).
En 1998 se cre6 El Fondo de Inversi6n en Electricidad y Telefonia o FINET, con personalidad
juridica y patrimonio propio, administrado por el Fondo de Inversi6n Social para el Desarrollo
Local de El Salvador o FISDL, con la finalidad de facilitar el acceso de los sectores rurales y
los de menores ingresos de la poblaci6n, a los servicios de electricidad y telefonia.
Definir el nuevo rol de CEL bajo el nuevo marco regulatorio puesto en vigencia, y la
asistencia a la misma, de ser necesario, para incentivar la participaci6n del sector privado
en su generaci6n.
Se puso en marcha un Plan de reestructuraci6n del sector, particularmente de la empresa
publica CEL. El 1 de noviembre de 1999 inicia Geoterinica Salvadorenia o GESAL como
generador independiente, derivado de CEL, con las centrales geotermicas de Ahuachapan de
95 MW y Berlin de 65 MW.
El 31 de julio de 1998 se crean las sociedades GENERADORA ACAJUTLA, S.A. DE CV. y
GENERADORA SALVADORENA, S.A. DE C.V. derivadas de CEL, dedicadas a la
generaci6n t6rmoelectrica. El 1 de octubre de 1999 inicia operaciones la Empresa Transmisora
de El Salvador;, S.A. de CV. (ETESAL) como resultado de la desintegraci6n vertical de la
industria, y con los activos de transmisi6n separados de CEL. Se crearon cuatro compafilas de
distribuci6n de electricidad regionales, derivadas de CEL. (1994). En enero de 1998 se ofreci6
al sector privado, en licitaci6n pibhlica intemacional, las cuatro companifas de distribuci6n
electrica, habiendose vendido el 75 % de las acciones de estas compaiiias a socios estrategicos
intemacionales, 20 % a los trabajadores de las distribuidoras y CEL y 5 % en Bolsa de Valores.
El paquete signific6 en la parte intemacional, US$586 millones. (Ver www.cel.gob.sv).
CEL esta reestructurada con la finalidad de dedicarse a la generaci6n hidroelectrica, con cuatro
centrales: Guajoyo de 20 MW; Cerr6n Grande de 135 MW; 5 de Noviembre de 84 MW y 15
de Septiembre con 157 MW. En abril de 1999 se aprueba el decreto legislativo que permite
vender en licitacion internacional y precalificaci6n, la "Planta Generadora Acajutla" (gas diesel
y bunker C), y "Generadora Salvadoreia" (Soyapango, gas diesel y San Miguel, gas diesel),
derivadas de CEL, por un monto ligeramente superior a 125 millones de d6lares.
Estudios de ingenieria a ser ejecutados por CEL:
CEL ejecut6 apropiadamente los estudios de factibilidad de El Tigre, Paso del Oso, San
Marcos Lempa y El Zapotillo; el Disenlo detallado y especificaciones tecnicas para la expansi6n
de la tercera unidad de la Central Hidroel6ctrica de Cerr6n Grande; el Estudio de factibilidad y
-27-



disenio para la rehabilitaci6n de la Central Hidroelectrica de Guajoyo; Estudios de impacto
ambiental de las Centrales Hidroelectricas de Guajoyo, Central 15 de Septiembre, Central 5 de
Noviembre y Central de Cerr6n Grande; Estudio del mejoramiento del sistema de
Telecomunicaciones y de la adquisici6n de informaci6n de campo en tiempo real para la
generaci6n de energia.
Parte B, Rehabilitaci6n, Modernizaci6n y Expansi6n de Centrales Hidroelectricas a cargo de
CEL:
CEL ejecut6 adecuadamente la rehabilitaci6n, modernizaci6n y expansi6n de la central Cinco
de Noviembre, Central Cerr6n Grande, Central Guajoyo, asi como adquisici6n de equipo de
control para la sedimentaci6n.
Parte C, Inversi6n en la Modernizacion del sistema de telecomunicaciones y del sistema de
adquisici6n de informaci6n de la generaci6n en tiempo real. CEL ejecut6 adecuadamente este
componente.
-28-



MAPISECTION






90 00,                        89 030'      j                  89  00'                        88 '30'                        88O00'
To Son J-cnto ;
onto Rosao
To Puerto Barrios                                                                EL   SALVADOR
Metapan     ( >San tcglS.. o V-^,                    0   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS  r  RAILROADS
Loke Gu,jo0                                                             DEPARTMENT CAPITALS    EL MAIN PORTS
G U A T E M A L A          To                                                               0   NATIONAL CAPITAL         _  RIVERS
G..t...I. City  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~      -   PAVED ROADS            ---DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
F_ SECONDARY ROADS                      --- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
o   ,/t     gA N ~~~~~AX  0' uv  H   t        Dul,eob> 
C.,ici,p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tgiiap
/  aConddellornc lexistepe  on"p6.  kc<i A T E NtANG  ),                                                               sc
To G-t...Io City      Rio                                           lp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E T,nl  ton~nCncign 
14100'                                                                latenon~~~\ "   -'r,
 ~~~~r                ' Ch.1      nc An         _G                                                                                               14r00'
a                                    ''t02   nssHn,S nsun tepeque
At<8o                                      S
= ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                           ~~~~~~~~ ri M;>In AS                        Re-,ben 
COSTAa \2nomo  ,f^/ 05   %                       ILOMETERS                     P A   C SAFSonCF CEAN
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                             P'                VEEUL nto R
c   O  C E A N   J   .    ,_,   < _o   orocceptrxncc of such boundones                                                    M~~~~A  z  P
c              A           [  i>_->  BRAZIL                    89t00'                         8830t                         8889<3000R.re









Report No.:       25004
Type:    ICR



