Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3920-ES
                             Project Agreement
                  (Energy Sector Modernization Project)
                                  between
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
            COMISION EJECUTIVA HIDROELECTRICA DEL RIO LEMPA
                        Dated September 26, 1996
                                                     Loan Number 3920-ES
                           PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 26, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and COMISION EJECUTIVA
HIDROELECTRICA DEL RIO LEMPA (CEL).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Republic of El Salvador (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to sixty five million Dollars ($65,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that CEL agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set
forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and CEL, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for
under the Loan Agreement will be relent to CEL on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS CEL, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obli-
gations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                               Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so
Page  2
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                               ARTICLE II
                        Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01.  (a) CEL declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out Parts A.3, B and C of the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with the statement of
Energy Policy and with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for such Parts of the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Bank and CEL shall otherwise agree,
CEL shall carry out the Electricity Tariff Plan, CEL's Performance
Plan and the Power Distribution Plan in accordance with their
respective terms.
     Section 2.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.03.  CEL shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Condi-
tions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts A.3, B
and C of the Project.
     Section 2.04.  CEL shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, CEL shall not take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05.  (a) CEL shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange
views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts A.3, B and C
of the project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  CEL shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A.3,
B and C of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan,
or the performance by CEL of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06.  CEL shall not later than January 31, 1997: (a)
establish and thereafter maintain a project implementation unit, with
an organization structure, powers and functions satisfactory to the
Bank; and (b) appoint to such unit a director who shall have qualifi-
cations and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 2.07.  CEL shall jointly with the Borrower: (a) not later
than January 31, 1997, furnish to the Bank for its comments, the
Sectoral Environmental Assessment; and (b) promptly thereafter assist
the Borrower in implementing the Sectoral Environmental Action Plan in
accordance to its terms.
     Section 2.08.  Without limitation to its obligations under Section
2.05 of this Agreement, CEL shall:
     (a)  not later than January 31 and July 31 of each year until
completion of the Project, furnish or cause to be furnished to the
Bank in respect of Parts A.3, B and C of the Project a report, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, containing, inter alia,
information on: (i) the Project activities carried out during the
preceding six months; and (ii) the expenditures made in respect of
Page  3
such activities;
     (b)  (i)  not later than September 30 of each year until
               completion of the Project, beginning in 1997, parti-
               cipate in the joint reviews referred to in Section
               3.05, paragraphs (b) and (c), of the Loan Agreement;
               and
         (ii)  thereafter, take all such action as may be required
               from CEL pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (d)
               (ii) of such Section 3.05;
     (c)  prepare in respect of Parts A.3, B and C of the Project, on
the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the
Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later
date as may be agreed for this purpose between CEL and the Bank, a
plan for the future operation of such parts of the Project;
     (d)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with CEL on said plan; and
     (e)  thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into
account the Bank's comments thereon.
                              ARTICLE III
                   Management and Operations of CEL
     Section 3.01.  CEL shall carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound engineering, administrative,
financial, public utility and environmental practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02.  CEL shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
environmental practices.
     Section 3.03.  CEL shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be con-
sistent with appropriate practice.
                               ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01.  (a) CEL shall maintain records and separate
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition including separate
accounts in respect of Parts A.3, B and C of the Project.
     (b)  CEL shall:
          (i)  have its records, separate accounts and financial
               statements (balance sheets, statements of income
               and expenses and related statements) for each Fiscal
               Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
               principles consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than four months after the end of each
               such year: (A) certified copies of its financial
               statements for such year as so audited; and (B) the
               report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
               and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
Page  4
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records, accounts and financial statements as
               well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time
               to time reasonably request.
                                  ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination;
                        Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01.  This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02.  This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of CEL thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agree-
ment shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall
promptly notify CEL thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                          Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01.  Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram
to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made
at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address
as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
     For CEL:
          9a Calle Poniente 950
          San Salvador
          El Salvador, C.A.
          Cable address:            Telex:
               CEL El Salvador      20303 CEL SAL
     Section 6.02.  Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement
on behalf of CEL, or by CEL on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan
Agreement, may be taken or executed by its President or such other
person or persons as its President shall designate in writing, and CEL
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
Page  5
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
                    COMISION EJECUTIVA HIDROELECTRICA
                      DEL RIO LEMPA
                    By /s/ Ana Cristina Sol
                                                Authorized Representative
