Page  1
March 26, 1999 
His Excellency 
Mr. Manuel Enrique Hinds 
Minister of Finance 
Blvd. de los Héroes 
San Salvador, El Salvador
Re:
El Salvador: Energy Sector Modernization Project
(Loan No. 3920-ES): Amendment 
Excellency:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement (Energy Sector Modernization Project) between 
the Republic of El Salvador (the Borrower) and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) dated September 26, 1996, (the Loan 
Agreement). Whenever used in this letter, the several terms defined in the Loan 
Agreement have the respective meanings set forth therein.
Pursuant to the letter sent to the Bank by the Borrower’s Minister of Finance, 
on February 19, 1999, the Bank hereby (i) acknowledges the cancellation by the 
Borrower, on such date, of the amount of US$23 million from the Loan Account, and in 
consequence commitment charges cease to accrue on such amount; and (ii) agrees to 
amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
(a)
Part B.2 of the project is deleted.
(b)
Part B.3 of the Project should read as follows:
“Installation of equipment for sedimentation control at the hydroelectric 
stations 
referred to in Part B.1 above.”
All references to Part B of the Project should be read as referring to Part B 1 
and Part B 3 as amended.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement is amended as set 
forth in the Annex to this letter amendment.   A revised Amortization Schedule will be 
sent to you shortly.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing the two originals of 
this letter and returning one fully signed original to us.  Upon receipt by the Bank 
of such fully signed original, the amendments set forth in this letter will be 
effective as of the date of this letter.
Sincerely,
International Bank for Reconstruction 
   and Development
By /s/ Donna M. Dowsett-Coirolo
Director 
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
Page  2
By /s/ Manuel Enrique Hinds 
Authorized Representative
Date: March 26, 1999
