                                               Document of
                                            The World Bank

                                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                         Report No: 29705

                              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (PPFB-P3560 SCL-44860)

                                                   ON A

                                                   LOAN

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$16.5 MILLION

                                                  TO THE

                                     REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN

                                                 FOR THE

                   ATYRAU PILOT WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT




                                             MARCH 18, 2005




Infrastructure and Energy Sector Unit
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
 official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective )

                  Currency Unit = Kazakhstan Tenge (KZT)
                         KZT 1 = US$ 0.008
                         US$ 1 = KZT 130

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1 -   December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

                AMC               Anti-Monopoly Committee
                AOA               Atyrau Oblast Akimat
                CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
                CWR               Committee for Water Resources
                DO                Development Objective
                ICR               Implementation Completion Report
                IP                Implementation Progress
                Lcd               Liters per capita and day
                M3                Cubic meter, 1,000 liters
                O&M               Operations and Maintenance
                OED               Operations Evaluation Department
                OP                Operational Policy
                PPF               Project Preparation Facility
                PAD               Project Appraisal Document
                SA                Special Account
                TA                Technical Assistance
                TCO               Tengiz-Chevroil
                USAID             United States Agency for International
                                  Development
                VAT               Value Added Tax




                 Vice President:   Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
              Country Director:    Dennis de Tray, ECCU8
Sector Director/Sector Manager:    Hossein Razavi/Sumter Lee Travers, ECSIE
            Task Team Leader:      Takao Ikegami, ECSIE

                                       KAZAKHSTAN
                            ATYRAU PILOT WATER SUPPLY


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26

Project ID: P008500                                                  Project Name: ATYRAU PILOT WATER
Team Leader: Takao Ikegami                                           TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 18, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: ATYRAU PILOT WATER                                       L/C/TF Number: PPFB-P3560; SCL-44860
   Country/Department: KAZAKHSTAN                                                         Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (42%); Sewerage (42%); Sub-national government
                            administration (10%); Central government administration (6%)
                  Theme: Other urban development (P); Pollution management and
                            environmental health (P); Standards and financial reporting (P);
                            Infrastructure services for private sector development (S); Municipal
                            governance and institution building (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 1998/09/10                                     Effective: 2000/06/23                2000/06/23
     Appraisal: 1999/05/13                                         MTR: 2001/06/30
      Approval: 1999/06/08                                      Closing: 2004/09/30



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN/ATYRAU OBLAST AKIMAT (AOA)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:                Dennis de Tray                                 Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Manager:                 Sumter Lee Travers                             Ricardo Halperin
Team Leader at ICR:             Takao Ikegami                                  Motoo Konishi and Piotr Krzyzanowski
ICR Primary Author:             Klas Ringskog


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
    The objective of this pilot project was to strengthen the capacity of the Vodokanal (the water
    and wastewater enterprise) in the City of Atyrau to provide reliable and safe drinking water
    and disposal of sewage in an environmentally responsible, financially, operationally, and
    institutionally efficient and sustainable manner. The project was a pilot to prepare for a larger,
    full-scale project including: (a) training in management and implementation of internationally
    financed projects; (b) establishing a sound financial base for the Vodokanal; (c) formulating a
    rationalized investment program; and (d) strengthening the operational and management
    capacity of the Vodokanal.

    Key performance indicators for the project included:

    (a) Improvements in service delivery, operational and financial efficiency, and customer
        satisfaction;
    (b) Reduction in the incidence of waterborne diseases through improved water quality; and
    (c) Completion of feasibility and technical studies for the full scale project.

    The project objective was clear and consistent with the country's development priorities as
    outlined in the CAS at the time, which was organized around two principles: (i) promoting
    private sector-led growth with the goal of facilitating the completion of transition to a market
    economy, by improving the legal and institutional framework and rehabilitating the physical
    infrastructure necessary for growth; and (ii) strengthening social protection by rationalizing
    the delivery and financing of social services. The project aimed at contributing to this strategy
    through: (a) rehabilitating priority municipal infrastructure; (b) reforming the public sector by
    improving the financial viability and sustainability of the water utility; (c) promoting
    development and involvement of local private enterprises in sector activities; and (d)
    improving public health and mitigating transitional poverty through targeted assistance. The
    project's objective was also in line with the need for capacity building at the regional and local
    levels in the water and wastewater sector in Kazakhstan. Central Government responsibility
    for the sector had at the time been decentralized to municipalities, and central government
    provision of subsidies and capital investment funding to the sector had been terminated.

3.2 Revised Objective:
    The project objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

    The project consisted of the following five components.

    Component 1: Rehabilitating the Water Supply and Sewerage Systems - US$10.7 million
    (66%):
    This involved a single contract to cover the following works in two districts in Atyrau:




                                                  - 2 -

(i) Privokzalny District
     a)     Water Supply - Rehabilitation of 2 km of 800 mm diameter mains, 1 km of 200
            mm diameter mains, and 3 km of smaller mains, together with replacement of pipe
            network in Section 5 of the Privokzalny Housing Development. It was also to
            include leak detection works and construction of a new booster pumping station
            (third level of pumping).
     b)     Sewerage - Replacement of sewerage pipe works and pipes in 65 apartment
            basements in the district, rehabilitation of selected sections of sewers, and
            renovation of pumping stations.

(ii) City Center District
     a)     Water Supply - Construction of a new water main (1.2 km of 600 mm and 5 km of
            500 mm pipes), a river crossing (1 km), and other connections.
     b)     Sewerage - Provision of new sewers, pumping mains, and pumping stations.

Component 2: Emergency Repairs - US$1.2 million (7%)

This component was for small civil works repairs/rehabilitation and urgent replacement of
meters, pumps and other materials identified by the vodokanal during project implementation,
which could make immediate and significant improvements in its operating and cost efficiency.

Component 3: Institutional Strengthening and Project Management - US$2.9 million (18%):
This component comprised:

Institutional Strengthening of the Vodokanal: Provision of Technical Assistance to strengthen
operational and financial management of the Vodokanal, including: (a) a leak and demand
management study; (b) a wastewater and drainage water disposal options study; (c) financial
and accounting TA; and (d) preparation of a draft management and performance contract.
Institutional Strengthening of the City of Atyrau:      Provision of Technical Assistance to
strengthen the institutional capacity, financial management and administration of the city of
Atyrau, including: (a) preparation of a medium-term city infrastructure rehabilitation plan; (b)
institutional strengthening of the city administration.
Project Supervision and Management: Technical assistance to the CWR and AOA in the
management, implementation, and supervision of the project, including: (a) project
supervision and management; and (b) design and implementation of system financial
management and accounting, preparation of the accounts and financial statements, and audit
of project accounts and financial statements, including external auditing services.

Component 4: Incremental Operating Costs - US$0.5 million (3%)
This involved financing of incremental operating costs of project implementation and
management of the CWR and AOA. The component included financing of administrative
support, office equipment, spare parts, and other operational costs for the two organizations.




                                             - 3 -

    Component 5: Refinancing of PPF - US$1.0 million (6%)
    This would re-finance the PPF, which was used to finance detailed design and preparation of
    bid documents for the pilot project, a study tour, and engagement of consultants for project
    preparation and implementation.

3.4 Revised Components:
    The project components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

    There was no QAG (Quality Assurance Group) review conducted for this project at entry.
    The ICR, however, rates the quality at entry of the project as having been Moderately
    Satisfactory, based on the strength of: (a) the consistency of its objectives with the
    Government priorities at the time, and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) as
    outlined in section 3.1 above; (b) the design approach adopted, which focused on piloting
    critical operational, financial, and management improvements to move the vodokanal towards
    financial and operational sustainability before undertaking a full scale project, given its poor
    institutional capacity and dire financial situation at the time. Despite the recognition of the
    need to pilot, the anticipated scope of reform was nonetheless quite beyond client capacity;
    and (c) adequately addressing the Bank's safeguard policies, and relevant economic, financial,
    social, and institutional aspects of the project based on reasonable assumptions. Although the
    project addressed most potential project risks at entry, the risk relating to continued
    Government support for policy and institutional reform, including willingness to take tough
    decisions on tariff increases, which later proved to be critical to achievement of the project's
    financial objectives, was rated as "modest" which proved an underestimate.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

    Given the multi-pronged nature of the project's objective, aiming to strengthen the
    vodokanal's capacity to provide both safe drinking water and sewage disposal services in a
    manner that is environmentally, operationally, financially, and institutionally efficient and
    sustainable, the achievement of the objective has been analyzed in this ICR, with respect to the
    specific dimensions as follows:

             a)      To strengthen the vodokanal capacity to provide safe water

     Outcome of sub-objective (a): The vodokanal capacity to provide safe water was
     strengthened in several ways. First, the Privokzalny District, constituting about 15,000
     subscribers out of the city's 43,000 subscribers, has been completely rehabilitated, which has
     permitted water service to be continuous and with pressures of 45 m H2O.(4.5 bars). The
     higher water pressure has meant that all floors in the buildings in the Privokzalny District are
     now receiving water. In the past, apartment dwellers above the ground floor had to carry
     their water from the lower floors. The poorest district in Atyrau, the Privokzalny district,
     was only provided with hot water supply before the project but now has continuously


                                                  - 4 -

running cold water. Second, the water distribution system in the City District has been
partly rehabilitated, which has improved service standards and which will permit further
rehabilitation of the network and service extensions. These follow-on investments are now
starting with local financing. Third, the production system that was previously owned by the
oil company KazTransOil was legally transferred effective January 1, 2002 to the Atyrau
vodokanal resulting in a unified command of the entire water cycle from intake through
treatment, transmission and distribution. The transfer constitutes a more sound institutional
arrangement and will permit measures in the future to increase total system efficiency.

      b)      To provide safe and sewage disposal services

Outcome of sub-objective (b): The sewerage investments completed under the project has
meant a cleanup of 65 apartment building basements that were previously flooded with
sewage. Similarly, the rehabilitation of the sewerage network and of pumping stations in this
area has increased the reliability of sewerage services.

      c)      To provide both water and sewerage services in a manner that is
              environmentally, operationally, financially, and institutionally efficient and
              sustainable.

Outcome of sub-objective (c): The environmental improvements have been analyzed under
sub-objective (b) and the operational improvements, made possible by the amalgamation of
the KazTransOil production facilities and the vodokanal distribution system under
sub-objective (a). The vodokanal's financial sustainability has been confirmed by the
demonstrated performance of the Atyrau oblast to provide all supplementary funding
necessary to pay for any operational deficit, to pay for the necessary maintenance and to
fund new investment. (The financial sustainability will be further analyzed under the analysis
of the project's overall sustainability.) Finally, the operational efficiency and sustainability
has been enhanced as a result of the merger of the production and distribution facilities.

In contrast to the significant improvements achieved in the status and operations of water
supply and sewerage systems in the parts of the city that directly benefited from the project,
little was done by the city to address the operational efficiencies in those parts of the
systems that were not covered under the pilot. While several studies were carried out under
the project by the consultants, with the aim of improving the vodokanal's efficiency, most of
the recommendations were neither adopted nor effectively implemented.

Atyrau provides an example rare among Bank project cities of meeting utility financing
needs through the budget when tariff increases were denied by the national regulator.
Because the benefits to the target population anticipated at appraisal and detailed in the PAD
were obtained and appear sustainable, the project is rated "moderately satisfactory"
despite the disappointing progress on the efficiency dimension.




                                            - 5 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

             (i)  Components 1 and 2: Rehabilitating the Water Supply and Sewerage Systems -
                  US$10.7 million (66%) and Emergency Repairs ­ US$1.2 million (7%):
                  Improved water supply and sewerage service delivery in selected priority areas,
                  and improved operational and management efficiency: This component is rated
                  as Satisfactory. The works under this component resulted in improved water
                  supply and sewerage service delivery to an estimated 37, 000 people in Atyrau.
                  Furthermore, the health situation in the city has improved as a result of the
                  project, in particular with respect to water-borne disease morbidity according to
                  oral statements from the: Sanitary and Epidemiological Center of Atyrau
                  Oblast). The physical investments under this component were completed in a
                  timely and efficient manner, resulting not only in early completion of activities,
                  more than one year in advance, but also in a significant saving to Government of
                  about US$ 4.5 million below the originally estimated amount. The cost saving
                  was mainly brought about when a decision was made by the PIU, on the advice
                  of the Bank, to purchase cost effective high quality plastic pipes for water
                  supply rather than steel pipes. The high quality polyethylene pipe not only
                  proved to much cheaper but also technically appropriate given that the Atyrau
                  soils are highly corrosive due to their high salt content. The physical output
                  under this component is detailed in the Table 1 below with a comparison
                  between appraised and executed quantities:




                                                 - 6 -

   Table 1: Comparison of Appraised and Executed Physical Quantities, Components 1 and 2

     Project Category             Appraised                  Executed                Difference
                                                                                 Executed-Appraised
(a) Privokzalny District
Rehabilitation of 800 mm
pipe                                2000 m                    2010 m                 ~ the same
Rehabilitation of 300 mm
pipe                                   0                      760 m                   +760 m
Rehabilitation of 200 mm
pipe                                1000 m                   3,230 m                 + 2,230 m
Rehabilitation of smaller
diameter sections                 Undefined                  6,590 m                 Undefined
Leak detection program                                   Done through pipe
                                                            replacement              ~ the same
Booster pumping station            1 station                 1 station               ~ the same
Rehabilitation of sewerage
in basements                     65 buildings              65 buildings              ~ the same
Renovation of sewage
pumping stations                  Undefined                  2 stations              ~ the same
   Renovation of sewers           Undefined                  1,380 m                 Undefined
(b) City Center District
    600 mm water main              1,200 m                    790 m                    -410 m
    500 mm water main              5,000 m                   4,680 m                   -320 m
      River crossing               1,000 m                    790 m                    -210 m
    Smaller diameters             Undefined                   440 m                  Undefined
   New sewers, pumping
    mains and stations            Undefined           2 pumping stations and
                                                         4,860 m of sewers           Undefined
   Total Component One                                                         Executed approximated
                                                                                 appraised quantities



             (ii)     Component 3:     Institutional Strengthening and Project Management ­
                      US$2.9 million (18%) This component had three       subcomponents:
                      l Institutional strengthening of the vodokanal itself which included: (a) a
                          leak and demand management study; (b) a wastewater and drainage
                          options study; (c) the introduction of a financial management system;
                          and (d) the preparation of a draft management and performance
                          contract
                      l Institutional strengthening of the City of Atyrau
                      l Project supervision and management.




                                              - 7 -

    The first and third of the sub-components were executed as planned. However, the second
    component that aimed at strengthening the institutions in the City of Atyrau was not fully
    effective following the decision by the Central Government of Kazakhstan to no longer
    borrow for technical assistance. The sub-components of the institutional strengthening of the
    city administration and the drafting of an investment plan of the city were not executed
    following the central government's decision. In contrast, the sub-component of drafting a
    management contract for the vodokanal operation for a potential private operator was
    completed although it did not result in any private management contract. This sub-component
    was financed by a preparation grant under the North-East Water Supply Project.

                (iii)  Component 4: Incremental Operating Costs ­ US$0.5 million (3%). This
                       component was executed as planned both at the office of Committee for
                       Water Resources at the Ministry of Agriculture and in the Atyrau Oblast
                       Akimat.

                (iv)   Component 5: Refinancing of the Project Preparation Facility ­ US$1.0
                       million (6%). This component was executed as planned.

    In summary, four of the five project components were executed as planned, whereas the TA
    sub-component to the City of Atyrau was abolished following the Central Government
    decision in 2001 not to borrow for TA.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

    At appraisal, the overall Net Present Value (NPV) for the total project was US$2.1 million
    (using a discount rate of 10%), and the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was 16%. The
    economic analysis at the appraisal was applied to the investments in the Privokzalny and City
    Center project areas, comprising US$6.7 million or 54% of the physical project components
    totaling US$12.3 million. In the ICR, it proved difficult to replicate the intricate economic
    analysis of the PAD for a number of reasons. First, in the absence of reliable metering for the
    major part of the City of Atyrau it is unclear to what degree there has been a reduction in
    water consumed from the previous norm of 275 lcd to the 165 lcd as assumed in the PAD.
    Second, it is unclear whether the substantial previous subsidies that the KazTransOil provided
    to the water production in the facilities subsequently transferred to the vodokanal were taken
    into account in the earlier economic calculation. And third, it is not clear that the substantial
    cash contributions to the project from TengizChevroil (as assumed in the PAD calculation) did
    not simply constitute a subsidy and transfer payment. In such a case they should not have been
    included as a project benefit.

    For these reasons the economic rate of return estimation is instead simplified in the following
    manner:

       l Assuming that the PAD estimates of the project benefits are correct, it stands to
            reason that they should not be any lower in reality since all the physical components
            were executed approximately as planned. In particular, the Privokzalny and City
            Center districts are enjoying reliable and safe water supply and wastewater services.


                                                 - 8 -

       l Focusing on the outcome of those project costs that were considered in the PAD
             economic rate-of-return calculation it is clear that the actual outcome is more
             favorable than the appraised costs. In particular, there were substantial cost savings
             due to efficient procurement of pipe and due to the effective and economical
             performance of the civil works contractor.
       l Considering, then, that the actual costs were substantially lower and that the benefits
             should be at least of the level assumed by the appraisal, the actual rate-of-return
             should exceed the 16% estimated at the appraisal.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

    The Financial Rate of Return (FRR) was estimated to be 16% for the project at appraisal.
    However, it could not be recalculated in the ICR because the appraisal calculation of the FRR
    was based on a number of assumptions that subsequently did not materialize. In order to
    replicate and make comparable the earlier FRR calculation one would have to obtain and
    integrate with vodokanal accounts the financial statements of the KazTransOil that at the time
    of appraisal operated the production works from which the vodokanal purchased water at
    strongly subsidized rates. KazTransOil, which was not party to the loan, is unwilling to
    provide these accounts. However, it is clear that the appraisal FRR estimate was not achieved
    due to the failure to realize the anticipated tariff increases.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

    The project's institutional development impact is rated as Negligible. The institutional
    capacity of the Atyrau Oblast and the Vodokanal was gradually able to improve under the
    project, through the training carried out in various aspects of financial management, in
    addition to capacity building for project preparation, management, and implementation. The
    Atyrau region's ability to use its water resources in a more predictable and transparent fashion
    was facilitated by the transfer to the Atyrau vodokanal of the water production facilities that
    previously belonged to the oil company KazTransOil. The complete control of the entire
    water cycle from the capture, treatment, transmission and distribution of water favored the
    subsequent (albeit unsuccessful) effort to bring in a private operator. Key members of the
    local authorities were also able to gain a greater understanding of good practice in institutional
    reform needed for transition from a centrally controlled structure to a market driven structure,
    by participating in a study tour to Poland and Germany. The study tour demonstrated to the
    delegation the feasibility and advantages of effective and efficient water and sewerage
    services.

    However, the outcome of the envisaged improvements in the institutional capacity of the
    vodokanal with respect to financial management issues was somewhat compromised by the
    fact that actual application of the recommended modern financial management methods were
    not adopted by the vodokanal in spite of training provided. The failure of the project to
    improve the financial management is paralleled by the difficulties of the vodokanal to produce
    monitoring data on a continuous basis in order to measure its operating performance. The
    decision of the Central Government not to borrow for technical assistance undercut the
    project's objective to improve the efficiency of the vodokanal. The negligible rating for IDI is



                                                   - 9 -

    primarily motivated by the failure of the vodokanal to perpetuate and effectively assimilate the
    improvements and recommendations that were made during the period of active Bank
    supervision. In this respect, the continued dependence of the vodokanal on the Atyrau oblast
    for their financing has meant a loss of institutional autonomy that could have been used to
    cement the potential institutional improvements.

    The project did result in proven successful experience by all levels of government from dealing
    with an International Finance Institution and in so doing will facilitate possible future projects.
    In particular, systems of project management and international procurement were successfully
    assimilated.

    The project did envisage the possible promotion and involvement of local private enterprises
    in sector activities although the project objectives did not include private sector participation
    as a target. To this specific end, a study tour was made to two cities with private operators,
    Gdansk in Poland and Leipzig in the Eastern Länder of Germany. Being motivated by the
    lessons learnt during the study tour the City of Atyrau did request expressions of interest from
    potential private operators in the year 2003. However, there was not one single expression of
    interest, possibly explained by the requirement that potential private operators were asked to
    finance the investments needed to improve and extend service. It should be noted that the
    Bank was not involved with either the preparation or with the actual bid to bring in a private
    operator.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
    Knowledge of Bank Operations
    The project was one of the first Bank funded operations in the water sector in Kazakhstan,
    and knowledge of and/or experience with Bank operational procedures by the Borrower was
    still limited. This affected the rate of progress of the project especially at the start, as it took
    time for the Borrower's staff to get familiar with Bank procedures.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
    Changes in Government's Rules for Financing of Technical Assistance
    The project did not fully utilize the funding for technical assistance available under the loan
    due to the decision made by the Government in 2001, to discontinue use of loan funds for
    financing any form of technical assistance, effective 2002. Under this decision technical
    assistance activities would be financed directly by Government. Given the budget limitations
    from central government, there was an increased risk of components that would fall under this
    category not being implemented, depending on existing priorities. This factor affected the
    implementation and outcome of the Institutional Strengthening Component of the project, for
    example, the Institutional Strengthening component for the city was not implemented.

    Changes in the structure of the utility provider
   The merger of the Vodokanal with the water production facilities originally owned by the
   National Company KazTransOil, to form the new Utility State Enterprise Atyrau Water
   Treatment and Water Supply Administration (KGP AWTWSA), had a substantial effect on



                                                     - 10 -

    the financial outcome of the project. The merger was effective on January 1, 2002 and meant
    that the vodokanal was no longer able to benefit from the subsidies for water production that
    had been provided by KaztransOil before the merger. This resulted in almost doubling of the
    financial operational costs. (This question and the measures taken to safeguard the financial
    situation of the vodokanal are further analyzed under the section of financial sustainability.)

    Lack of management and financial autonomy
    The lack of management and financial autonomy on the part of the vodokanal made it
    impossible for certain crucial decisions that would improve project implementation to be
    made, as staff at this level directly involved in project management lacked sufficient
    decision-making authority. Moreover decision-making at higher levels was also slow.

    Inadequate tariff structure revision
    The project appraisal document assumed that the vodokanal would adjust tariffs as needed but
    the issue remained highly political. Thus in spite of the difficult financial situation of the
    vodokanal operations the Government body responsible for tariff regulation (the
    Anti-Monopoly Committee) remained reluctant to approve the necessary tariff revisions.
    There was no tariff adjustment since the year 2000. Instead, beginning in 2002 the Atyrau
    oblast elected to provide subsidies to cover the operational deficits and provide investment
    funds. The corresponding budget support was sufficient to guarantee the financial
    sustainability of operations.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
    As a result of frequent reorganizations within the vodokanal's internal structure, the directors
    of the vodokanal were changed four times over the three year project implementation period.
    This lack of continuity had a negative effect on the project's implementation progress, as the
    levels of commitment by the different directors to enforce necessary institutional changes such
    as adoption of new financial methods varied. Ultimately some needed changes, such as
    adoption of modern accounting methods by the vodokanal, for which staff had been trained,
    were not adopted.

    Operational Improvements
   While significant improvements were achieved in the status and operations of water supply
   and sewerage systems in the parts of the city that directly benefited from the project, little was
   done by the city to address the operational efficiencies in the remaining parts of the systems
   not covered under the pilot. Given the significant investments to address the existing needs,
   and the funding limitations in the city, the overall outcome of the project was compromised.

   Inadequate adoption of recommendations of Technical Assistance/Studies

    While several studies were carried out under the project by the consultants, including, with the
    aim of improving the vodokanal's efficiency, most of the recommendations were not adopted
    and effectively implemented.

5.4 Costs and financing:
    Costs: The total project cost is estimated at US$14.8 million, in different categories, as shown



                                                    - 11 -

    in Annex 2, compared with the Appraisal estimate of US$19.4 million. Actual costs were
    lower than anticipated due to the economical procurement of water pipe and due to the
    economical and effective performance of the main contractor.

    Financing: The final amount of the Bank loan was US$12.0 million, following cancellation of
    US$4.5 million at the request of the Borrower in March 2003.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
    The sustainability of the project is rated as likely. The rating considers the main aspects of
    sustainability: the technical, financial, institutional, and political sustainability

    The technical sustainability with respect to the project investments is ensured by the good
    quality of implementation by the main contractor and by the simplicity of the works financed.

    The financial sustainability also exists in accordance with the operational guidance for World
    Bank Group Staff published in April 2004. According to the definition of financial
    sustainability as determined by the Water and Sanitation Sector Board of the World Bank,
    operators must receive sufficient revenues from user fees and government transfers to cover
    the costs of operations and maintenance as well as finance rehabilitation and new investments.
    In the case of the Atyrau vodokanal this precondition for financial sustainability clearly is met.
    Table 2 below provides the data for the most recent years 2002-2004:




                                                    - 12 -

      Table 2: Finances of the Atyrau Water Treatment and Water Supply Administration (KGP
                                                   AWTWSA)
                                                 (US$ millions)

         Year              Operating           Operating     Operating          Transfer from           Surplus
                            Income              Costs          Deficit             the Atyrau        available for
                                                                                      Oblast              new
                                                                                                      investment
         2002                 NA                 NA               NA                   10.5             Surplus
         2003                 2.1                5.0              2.9                  9.9                7.0
         2004                 2.1                6.1              4.0                  4.3                0.3

                 Note: The 2002 merger of the KazTransOil production facilities with the vodokanal did not
    result in consolidated accounts until 2003.

    As a result of the timely transfers from the Atyrau oblast the vodakanal AWTWSA has no
    overdue debt service, and is paying its staff and contractors on time. The Atyrau oblast will
    now have to face the debt service on the Bank loan effective February 15, 2005 and onwards.
    During the concluding ICR-mission the Atyrau regional administration stated its unequivocal
    resolve to continue providing the necessary transfers to pay all O&M and investment costs of
    the AWTWSA as well as paying for the debt service under the Bank loan. Considering this
    strong statement the ICR rates that the project is financially sustainable.

    As for the institutional sustainability the existing vodokanal is judged to be capable of
    operating and maintaining the works financed under the project. The works are simple
    rehabilitation of existing infrastructure. In addition, the vodokanal has taken over the
    production facilities that previously belonged to and were operated by KazTransOil. These
    production facilities have been successfully operated since the transfer on January 1, 2002.
    For these reasons it is judged that the institutional sustainability exists.

    Finally, the political sustainability is rated to exist given the readiness of the Atyrau oblast to
    provide sufficient financial transfers to pay for the vodokanal expenditure. Atyrau is the center
    of the Kazakh oil production and the recent higher oil prices facilitate these financial transfers.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
    The project investments have been fully integrated into the vodokanal operational structures
    and have already resulted in improved services. Measures to improve financial viability
    however still need to be institutionalized. In this regard, there would be need for changes in
    the policy environment and levels of commitment of both central and local Government, in
    particular with respect to tariff issues.




                                                     - 13 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
    The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project
    was Moderately Satisfactory. Each one of these activities was carried out in accordance with
    the Government's and Bank's priorities for the sector. The identification process focused on
    critical gaps and opportunities for intervention in the water sector in Atyrau, and the project
    design was consistent with the government's development priorities and the Bank's CAS. The
    Bank's safeguard policies, as well as other relevant aspects including the technical, economic,
    financial, social, and institutional considerations were also adequately addressed during
    preparation and appraisal. However, the Bank preparation failed to adequately identify and
    satisfactorily resolve the dysfunctional tariff regulation in Kazakhstan where the regional
    office of the Anti-Monopoly Committee subsequently rejected the repeated efforts of the
    vodokanal to implement tariffs that would have assured financial autonomy of the vodokanal
    itself. The Bank team consisted of two core team members, and ten specialists, covering
    various aspects of project preparation. Project preparation cost a total of US$330,000 from
    project identification to negotiation, or about 2% of the total appraised project cost.

7.2 Supervision:
    Bank supervision of the project is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The project used
    US$493,000 for supervision and made nine supervision missions. The records from
    supervision missions and reports from the PIU indicate Bank performance as moderately
    satisfactory. Supervision reports were generally well written and provided realistic
    assessments of project performance. However, the team did not take steps to restructure the
    project in response to the institutional problems that became evident early in the project life.
    The supervision team's performance in procurement under the project is rated highly
    satisfactory given the achieved cost savings and timely delivery.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance for the project is considered Moderately Satisfactory.Key benefits
of the project were delivered early, and the Bank team did maintain a consistent focus on financial
sustainability of those benefits. The Bank would have done well in devoting more time and
resources to ensuring the full political support of the respective governments and of ensuring the
feasibility of achieving the implementation of the envisaged tariff policies and efficiency returns.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
    Borrower performance during project preparation is rated as Satisfactory. The Borrower's
    collaboration with the Bank during project preparation was generally adequate, particularly in
    view of the fact that this was one of the first operations of its kind in the water sector in
    Kazakhstan.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
    The central Government had a limited role in the project except in the crucial area of tariff
    regulation. Here, the fact that the economic regulator, the Anti-Monopoly Committee, did not


                                                - 14 -

    permit the envisaged tariff changes meant that the project pricing policies did less than
    expected to promote economic efficiency and financial autonomy. The rating of the central
    government in the area of tariff policies must be rated unsatisfactory. The local government
    performance was satisfactory with the exception of the excessively frequent turn-over of
    directors of the vodokanal and of changes in the vodokanal internal structure. (See section 5.3
    above)

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency was satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
    Overall Borrower performance under the project was rated satisfactory recognizing that
    the overall rating represents a weighted average between the unsatisfactory rating for the
    Central Government and a satisfactory rating of the local government.

8. Lessons Learned

    Lesson One: Strong and Sustained Political Support Is Necessary to Achieve Change

    The project included well-justified components of technical assistance for the Institutional
    Development activities under the project, including training and consultancy studies for
    management strengthening, and the development of tariff policy. However, the project
    demonstrated that the benefits of such components will remain marginal unless there is total
    commitment on the part of Government for follow up action. In the Atyrau case, the project
    consultants carried out comprehensive studies and made sound recommendations for these
    components. However, most recommendations remained on paper and were not implemented
    by the Borrower. This was largely due to the combined effect of the inadequate commitment
    and decision-making on the part of the relevant Government bodies and the Akimat, the
    frequent turnover of staff, and the inadequate legal and institutional framework.

    Lesson Two: Tariff Reform Must be Underpinned by a National Political Commitment

    The failure of the vodokanal to raise tariffs during the project period is explained by the role
    of the national Anti-Monopoly Committee (AMC) and its application of existing laws. It was
    unrealistic to expect a Atyrau vodokanal to be able to apply tariff policies at variance with
    national guidelines, even though it was under a project with Bank financing. Pricing policy
    reforms must be pursued with those bodies in the country's administration that have the
    power to change them.

    Lesson Three: Project Objectives Must be Tailored to the Borrower's and Country's
    Experience and Governance System

    The Atyrau vodokanal and the oblast were unfamiliar with the procedures and requirements of
    international financing institutions and in particular of the World Bank. In consideration the
    choice of a pilot project was correct. However, a pilot project must also be simple and in this
    particular case it might have attempted too much in terms of financial strengthening and
    institutional reforms. Most of the reforms recommended were not implemented. It might have


                                                - 15 -

    been better to simply include the physical works (that were successfully implemented) and
    leave the implementation of the financial and institutional reforms to a follow-up project, with
    adequate financing for effective implementation and with sufficient time to achieve the
    political consensus in favor of reforms.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
                                                                     Deputy Akim of Atyrau Oblast

                                                                                         No.13/65
                                                                                    March 3, 2005
Mr. Loup Brefort
Country Manager for Kazakhstan
IBRD

Dear Mr.Brefort,

                        Re.: Your Letter No.05/038 as of February 2, 2005

        Akimat of Atyrau Oblast reviewed the draft Implementation Completion Report on Atyrau
Pilot Water Supply Project (APWSP ICR) and herewith sends the following comments and
suggestions.

        With regard to para 4 and para 5.3 on the work to increase effectiveness of the operating
the remaining parts of the system which were not covered by the Atyrau Pilot Water Supply
Project (APWSP):

        The works completed within the APWSP partially resolved the problem of supplying
drinking water to the city population. Atyrau City is characterized by unfavorable ground
conditions ­ highly aggressive ground waters are dangerous for infrastructure facilities. It causes
very fast depreciation of the steel water pipes. The major portion of the water supply and
sanitation networks are made of steel with the actual working life of 20-30 years. Due to these
circumstances one can tell that the networks are functioning in an emergency mode.

        Currently the local government is trying to address the issue by constructing and doing
major repair of water supply and sanitation networks using the budget funds.

        With regard to para 6.2 on tariff policy: Tariffs are regulated by the Government of the
Republic of Kazakhstan (Agency for Regulation of Natural Monopolies) and out of the local
government's competence.

        In the Table (Comparison of the Earlier Set and Actually Implemented Volumes,
Components 1 and 2) the information is distorted. In Privokzalniy District there was a new
sewerage pumping station constructed, two screw-type facilities reconstructed and the table also
mentioned a booster pumping station. In the city center area the construction of two pumping



                                               - 16 -

stations is pointed out, and one booster pumping station with the two reservoirs in the hospital
complex is almost constructed. The Table also does not mention the length of the six
emergency-state section of the water supply networks and discharge sewerage manifolds that
underwent the major repair.

        We thank you for your input and hope for future cooperation.

        Best regards                                                    S. Nokin


Department of the economy and budget planning (3122) 32-96-89

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                             - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



Outcome/Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in Last PSR*                Actual/Latest Estimate
(a) Improvement in service delivery,        Entire Privokzalny District has cold same as the last PSR
operational and financial efficiency, and water, previously 3rd , 4th and 5th
customer satisfaction;                      floors had no cold water; water
                                            mains have been rehabilitated in
                                            West Ural River and City Center
                                            District; 15,000 connections
                                            respectively 37,000 inhabitants
                                            benefit from service improvements;
                                            In Privokzalny District no
                                            complaints on lack of water, water
                                            leaks and breaks ;
(b) Reduction in the incidence of           Overall health of the population in   same as the last PSR
waterborne diseases through improved        Atyrau has improved significantly in
water quality;                              terms of number of waterborne
                                            diseases. According to the data
                                            collected by Sanitary
                                            Epidemiological Center of Atyrau
                                            Oblast, Dysentery was reduced from
                                            83 cases in 1999 to 8 cases during
                                            the first 11 month in 2002. Similarly
                                            Typhoid from 83 to 0; Intestinal
                                            Infection from 930 to 394; and
                                            Hepatitis A from 230 to 52. The
                                            project contributed to the health
                                            improvement by providing improved
                                            water supply services to about
                                            37,000 people in Atyrau.

(c) Completion of feasibility and           The future investment program was same as the last PSR
technical studies for the full-scale        defined through a detailed technical
project.                                    analysis that was done as part of
                                            preparatory activities for the
                                            Northeastern Water Supply Project.
(d) To Achieve and therefore maintain a Note section 6.1 which states that        See section 6.1
satisfactory financial position, the Atyrau the Atyrau oblast has given
Oblast Akimat and the Vodokanal will beassurances of providing sufficient
expected to take measures, including but budget support to guarantee the time
not limited to tariff adjustments.          payment of all operating costs, invest
                                            and debt service.
(e) Achieve overall collection.             85%                                   85%



*End of project




                                                               - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
A. Water Supply and Sewerage Rehabilitation                 11.30          11.95              106
B. Emergency Repairs                                         1.00            0.82              82
C1. Institutional Strengthening (Vodokanal)                  1.00            0.41              41

C2. Institutional Strengthening (City)                       0.60            0.00               0
C3. Project Supervision and Management                       1.00            1.02             102
D. Incremental Operating Cost                                0.60            0.22              37
E. Refinancing of PPF                                        1.00            0.25              25
F. Front End Fee                                             0.17            0.17             100


Total Baseline Cost                                         16.67          14.84
 Physical Contingencies                                      2.28            0.00               0
 Price Contingencies                                         0.41            0.00               0
                          Total Project Costs               19.36          14.84
                    Total Financing Required                19.36          14.84


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           13.38            0.00         0.58         0.00         13.96
                                   (10.70)         (0.00)      (0.53)         (0.00)      (11.23)
2. Goods                            0.00            0.00         0.62         0.00          0.62
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.62)         (0.00)       (0.62)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         2.94         0.00          2.94
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (2.94)         (0.00)       (2.94)
4. Incremental operating            0.00            0.00         0.68         0.00          0.68
Cost
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.55)         (0.00)       (0.55)
5. Front End Fee                    0.00            0.00         0.17         0.00          0.17
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.17)         (0.00)       (0.17)
6. Refinancing of PPF               0.00            0.00         1.00         0.00          1.00
Advance                            (0.00)          (0.00)      (1.00)         (0.00)       (1.00)
   Total                           13.38            0.00         5.99         0.00         19.37
                                   (10.70)         (0.00)      (5.81)         (0.00)      (16.51)




                                                - 19 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               11.30              0.00              0.10             0.00             11.40
                                      (9.20)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (9.20)
2. Goods                               0.42               0.00              0.36             0.00              0.78
                                      (0.41)             (0.00)            (0.09)            (0.00)           (0.50)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00              1.36             0.00              1.36
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.21)            (0.00)           (1.21)
4. Incremental operating               0.00               0.00              0.13             0.00              0.13
Cost
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.13)            (0.00)           (0.13)
5. Front End Fee                       0.00               0.00              0.17             0.00              0.17
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.17)            (0.00)           (0.17)
6. Refinancing of PPF                  0.00               0.00              1.00             0.00              1.00
Advance                               (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.25)            (0.00)           (0.25)
   Total                               11.72              0.00              3.12             0.00             14.84
                                      (9.61)             (0.00)            (1.85)            (0.00)           (11.46)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not calculated for reasons given in section 4.3.




                                            - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation

              02/23/1998                6
              05/19/1998                6


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/26/1999


 Supervision

              03/23/2000                4    TEAM LEADER/ECONOMIST            S               S
                                             (1); ENGINEER
                                             ENVIRONMENT (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT/ENGINEER
                                             (1); FMS (1)
              07/14/2000                2    PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST           S               S
                                             (1); SR. FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1)
              12/11/2000                2    SR. SANITARY ENGINEER            S               S
                                             (1); SR. ENV. ENGINEER (1)
              06/03/2001                3    SR. SANITARY ENGINEER            S               S
                                             (1); SR. ENVIRONMENT
                                             ENGR. (1); SR. FINANCIAL M.
                                             SPEC. (1)
              02/27/2002                2    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              07/06/2002                4    TEAM LEADER (1); LEAD            S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              10/03/2002


 ICR




                                              - 22 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                       330,000
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                                      493,000
  ICR                                                               15,000
  Total                                                            838,000




                                            - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 1. Project Appraisal Document
 2. Loan Agreement
 3. Departmental Files
 4. Project Supervision Reports
 5. Consultant's Project Management Reports
 6. Tariff Policy Development Report No. 51702.060.10, (SMEC) International Pty. Ltd., 2001
 7. Institutional Financial and Management Strengthening of the Atyrau Vodokanal: Report No.
    51702.060.08A, (SMEC) International Pty. Ltd., 2001
 8. Agreement on Sewerage/Drainage Water Disposal Arrangements: Report No. 51702.060.09, (SMEC)
    International Pty. Ltd., 2001
 9. Strategy for the adoption of a comprehensive medium term financial recovery program, Report No.
    51702.060.05
10. Governance Options for the Atyrau Vodokanal, Report No. 51702.060.02, (SMEC) International Pty.
    Ltd., 2001
11. Performance Contract, report No. 51702.060.04, (SMEC) International Pty. Ltd., 2001
12. Revision of Tariff Regulation Report No. 51702.060.06




                                                 - 26 -

- 27 -

