Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18983-KZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$16.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
FOR THE
ATYRAU PILOT WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
May 17, 1999
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic and Turkmenistan Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 29, 1999)
Currency Unit = Tenge
LC = US$0.009
US$1.0 = 115.0 Tenge
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMC            Anti-Monopoly Committee
AOA            Atyrau Oblast Akimat
BWC            Bulk Water Company
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CEL            Committee for Extemal Loans
CPPR           Country Portfolio Performance Review
CWR            Committee for Water Resources (of the Ministry of Agriculture)
ESW            Economic and Sector Work
DO             Development Objective
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FRR            Financial Rate of Return
FY             Fiscal Year
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IFC            International Finance Corporation
IP             Implementation Progress
IRR            Internal Rate of Return
KSK            Cooperative of Apartment Owners
l/c/d          liter/capita/day
m3              cubic meter
MOF            Ministry of Finance
N/A            Not Applicable
NPV            Net Present Value
O&M            Operation and Maintenance
OED            Operations Evaluation Department
OP             Operational Policy
PICG            Project Implementation and Consulting Group
PIM             Project Implementation Manual
PIP             Public Investment Program
PMR             Project Management Report
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
SA              Special Account
SOE             Statement of Expenditures
TA              Technical Assistance
TCO             Tengiz-Chevroil
USAID           United States Agency for International Development
VAT             Value-Added Tax
Vice President:  Johannes Linn (ECA)
Country Director:  Kiyoshi Kodera (ECC08)
Sector Director:  Ricardo Halperin (ECSIN)
Sector Leader:  Walter Stottmann (ECSIN)
Team Leader:  Motoo Konishi (ESCIN)
Piotr Krzyzanowski (ECSSD)



Republic of Kazakhstan
Atyrau Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective ..................................................2
2. Key performance indicators .................................................2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ..................................................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ..................................................                          2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ..........................3
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components ..................................................4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms to be sought ..................................................5
3. Benefits and target population ..................................................5
4. Institutional and implementation  arrangements ..................................................                      5
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ........................................8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or
other development agencies ..................................................9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .......................................9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ............................................ 10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .................................................                          10
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic .................................................                                                            10
2. Financial .................................................                                                           12
3. Technical .................................................                                                           13
4. Institutional .................................................                                                       13
5. Social .................................................                                                              14
6. Environmental assessment .................................................                                            14
7. Participatory approach .................................................                                              15
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability ................................................                                                       15
2. Critical risks ................................................                                                       16
3. Possible controversial aspects ................................................                                       16



11
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions ..........................................                                        16
2. Others ..........................................                                                          17
H. Readiness for Implementation ................................................                                         17
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .................................................                                       17
Annexes
Annex I Project Design Summary .19
Annex 2 Detailed Project Description .21
Annex 3 Estimated Project Costs .23
Annex 4 Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary .24
Annex 5  Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities .28
Annex 6  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .37
Table A   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ..................................................:.37
Table B   Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ..................................... 38
Table C   Procurement Plan .................................................                                         39
Table D   Allocation of Loan Proceeds .................................................                              40
Annex 7         Financial Management and Disbursements .................................................                  41
Annex 8         Project Processing Budget and Schedule .................................................                  44
Annex 9         Documents in Project File .................................................                             45
Annex 10    Status of Bank Group Operations in Kazakhstan ................................................. 46
Annex 11    Country at a Glance .................................................                                       47
Annex 12    Social Assessment .................................................                                          49
Annex 13   Project Implementation Responsibility Matrix .................................................  56
Annex 14    Monitoring Indicators .................................................                                      61
Maps
IBRD 30042  Kazakhstan
IBRD 30043   Project Area in Detail



Republic of Kazakhstan
Atyrau Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic and Turkmenistan Country Unit
Date: May 13, 1999                                 Team Leaders: Motoo Konishi and Piotr Krzyzanowski
Country Director: Kiyoshi Kodera                   Sector Director: Ricardo Halperin
Project ID: KZ-PE-8500  Sector: Water Supply       Program Objective Category: EN
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan       Program of Targeted Intervention:   [ ] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data              [X] Loan       [ ] Credit     [  Guarantee      [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: US$16.50 million
Proposed terms:                       [I]  Multi-currency    [X] Single currency, US$
Grace period (years): 5          [   Standard Variable  [I]  Fixed         [I]   LlBOR-based
Years to maturity:   20
Commitment fee:    0.75%
Frond End Fee:     1.00%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                      Local              Foreign            Total
Government                                        $2.86 million                        $ 2.86 million
Cofinanciers: USAID                                                  $ 1.50 million    $ 1.50 million
IBRD                                              $0.62 million      $15.88 million     $16.50 million
Total $3.48 million     $17.38 million     $20.86 million
Borrower: Republic of Kazakhstan
Guarantor: n/a
Responsible agency: Atyrau Oblast Akimat (AOA)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):     2000       2001       2002       2003        2004
Annual        3.7        6.2        5.8        0.5        0.3
Cumulative        3.7        9.9      15.7        16.2       16.5
Project implementation period: 8/1999-9/2003 Expected effectiveness date: 9/01/1999 Expected closing date: 9/30/2004



-2 -
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective (see Annex 1):
The objective of the project is to strengthen the capacity of the Vodocanal (the water and wastewater
enterprise) in the City of Atyrau to provide reliable and safe drinking water and disposal of sewage in an
environmentally responsible, financially, operationally, and institutionally efficient and sustainable manner.
This project is a pilot to prepare the basis for the larger, full-scale project including: (a) training in
management and implementation of internationally financed projects; (b) establishing a sound financial
base for the Vodocanal; (c) formulating a rationalized investment program; and (d) strengthening the
operational and management capacity of the Vodocanal.
2. Key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
(a) Improvements in service delivery, operational and financial efficiency, and customer satisfaction;
(b) Reduction in the incidence of waterborne diseases through improved water quality;
(c) Completion of feasibility and technical studies for the full-scale project.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16989 KZ               Date of latest CAS discussion: August 26, 1997
The CAS is organized around two basic principles: (a) promoting private sector-led growth, including
improving the legal and institutional framework and rehabilitating the physical infrastructure necessary for
growth, with the goal of facilitating the completion of transition to a market economy; (b) strengthening
social protection, including rationalizing the delivery and financing of social services, with the goal of
mitigating transitional poverty.
The proposed project contributes to this strategy through (a) rehabilitating priority municipal infrastructure
which is inhibiting private sector-led growth; (b) reforming the public sector through improving the
financial viability and sustainability of the water utility; (c) promoting the development and involvement of
local private enterprises in sector activities; and (d) improving public health and mitigating transitional
poverty through targeted assistance.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
To reduce its fiscal burden, the central government decentralized the responsibility for the water and
wastewater sector to the municipalities in 1993 and terminated the provision of subsidies and capital
investment funding to the sector. The sector has not yet undertaken reforms to adjust to this new
environment and local governments do not have the resources to provide to the sector. Consequently, the
sector is starved for cash, basic maintenance is neglected, infrastructure and service levels are deteriorating
rapidly, health indicators show resurgence of waterborne diseases, and the sector is losing its customers as
they develop their own sources of water supply. The main problems are: (a) poor financial management
characterized by low revenue collection (below 60 percent) and low tariffs that barely cover operating and
maintenance costs; (b) lack of a strategy to pull the sector out of a downward spiral; (c) lack of sources of
funding to rehabilitate the existing system; (d) inefficiency of operation (e.g., large unaccounted for water);
(e) a complicated institutional structure with multiple operators that makes efficient operation difficult;
(f) poor quality of infrastructure which is deteriorating prematurely; and (g) ineffectiveness of
municipalities to strategically and financially govern the water enterprises.



The central government requires all vodocanals to be self-financing and allow them, through the Anti-
Monopoly Committee (AMC) of the Ministry of Finance, to set tariffs that cover operations and
maintenance costs and depreciation. While these rules are helpful in terms of setting general framework for
the sector, the sector needs a more detailed strategy/guidance on how the vodocanals can become self-
financing, who should pay for the cost recovery for capital investments, and how to untangle the complex
institutional structure existing in the sector. Also, given that much of the infrastructure was built in 1960
and 70s, a staged rehabilitation program is required to keep the existing services intact.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Project will address selectively all of the issues presented above in Part B2, and pilot an approach
which can be applied not only in the City of Atyrau, but in other urban water and wastewater systems
around the country. The main aim is to establish: (i) a modest investment program to begin the process of
improving operation and service levels; (ii) a disciplined financial management to improve the financial
position of the Vodocanal; (iii) a modern management method, including a contract and performance based
relationship between the owner of the assets (the regional administration) and the operator (Vodocanal);
(iv) to improve operational efficiency; and (v) to begin the process of streamlining the complex ownership
and institutional relationship within the sector.
The proposed project will pilot operational, financial and management improvements to the Vodocanal
before undertaking a full-scale project, which would come on stream within the next four years. The full-
scale project would cover the rehabilitation of the water, wastewater and drainage networks in the rest of
the city. A financial projection, carried out for both the Pilot and the anticipated full-scale project (see
Annex 5), indicate that significant operational, financial and management improvements need to be made
before Vodocanal will be in a financial position to undertake a larger loan. The following improvements
will be sought during the Pilot Project phase:
(a)  Vodocanal Operation. Current condition. An increasing number of customers without service
(insufficient pressure to provide water to apartments above the third floor; an increasing number of
customers converting to water from outside standpipes); numerous service interruptions; rapidly
deteriorating assets, at least 50% unaccounted for water; and no source of funding for system
rehabilitation. Consumption norm used to set individual billing stand at 275 liter/capita/day (l/c/d), or
nearly twice the consumption level of Western Europe. The Project will: (i) finance rehabilitation of
water supply and sewerage system of two large sections of the city; (ii) introduce modem
pipes/pumps that last much longer than existing materials and reduce operation and maintenance cost;
(iii) provide technical studies that will aid in more efficient operation of the system, including a leak
and system management study in preparation for the full-scale project; (iv) finance technical
assistance and training to improve operational efficiency; (v) conduct customer satisfaction surveys
and public hearings to determine trends in service quality improvements; and (vi) formulate annual
operational improvement plan to be agreed with the regional administration.
(b)  Vodocanal's Finance. Current condition: Unsustainable financial position, characterized by low
revenue collection (below 60%), low tariffs (does not cover even the basic operations and
maintenance (O&M) costs), poor financial and accounting management system. The Project will: (i)
formulate a comprehensive medium-term financial recovery program that will have the Vodocanal
covering its full operating and maintenance costs (including depreciation) in five years, and full cost
recovery (including repayment of capital investment) in ten years;' (ii) conclude an agreement
between Vodocanal and regional authorities on a program to finance the financial recovery program;
(iii) adopt consumption-based billing, including installation of meters at apartment blocks; (iv) adopt
international accounting standards and retrain accounting and management staff; (iv) adopt a rational
formula for tariff calculation. In order to instill financial discipline, the Vodocanal will enter into a
See Section DI - "Project Rationale: Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection" for detailed discussion.



- 4 -
Project Implementation and Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Atyrau Oblast Akimat (AOA) to
repay the capital investment portion of the loan over 15 years starting January 1, 2005. The assets
created by the Project will be registered under the ownership of Vodocanal.
(c)  Vodocanal Efficiency. Current condition: as a natural monopoly without the possibility being
privatized in the near future, the Vodocanal lacks competitive pressures to improve its performance.
The Project will introduce: (i) operational and financial performance contract, including relevant
indicators; (ii) customer satisfaction survey and public hearings; (iii) review of the
legislation/regulations governing Vodocanal; and (iv) Project Implementation and Subsidiary Loan
Agreement for Vodocanal to repay the capital investment portion of the loan.
(d)  Capacity Building. Current condition: not yet exposed to modern methods of Vodocanal
management and operation; limited understanding of the true financial condition of the enterprise and
limited knowledge of modem financial management techniques; virtually no experience in investment
planning within financially constrained environment; and no experience with international contracting
and project management. The Project: (i) provides exposure to selected Vodocanals in Europe
through study tours and technical assistance; (ii) complete conversion and modernization of
accounting and financial management as discussed above; (iii) provides for city and Vodocanal
investment planning experience within a predetermined financing limits; (iv) develop project
implementation capacity in the City of Atyrau to prepare for the full-scale project.
(e)  Institutional Structures. Current condition: the assets of the city water supply and wastewater
system are owned and operated by four different institutions and this is causing major operating
problems. A solution is not obvious, particularly since the best technical solution (for Vodocanal to
take over the assets operated by others) is not financially affordable. While it will take several years
to resolve this issue, the Project will carry out a basic study of the options.
If the above noted reforms do not bring about notable efficiency improvements in the operation and
finances of the Vodocanal, foreign management contract or full privatization with foreign management
would be considered under the proposed full-scale project.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed costs breakdown)
Comrponent                               Category        Indicative   % of   Bank       % of Bank
Costs      Total   Financing   Financing
(US$M)             (US$M)
A.  Water and Sewerage Rehabilitation    Works           13.375     64       10.700      80
B.  Emergency Repairs                    Works/Goods      1.204      6       1.153       80/100 **
C.1 Institutional Strengthening - Vodocanal  Services     1.112      5       1.112      100
C.2 Institutional Strengthening - City   Services        0.675       3       0.675      100
C.3 Project Supervision and Management   Services         1.150      6        1.150     100
C.4 USAID Technical Assistance           Services         1.500      7      ---         ---
D.  Incremental Operating Cost           Miscellaneous    0.675      3       0.545       80
E.  Refinancing of PPF                   Miscellaneous    1.000      5        1.000     100
F.  Front End Fee                        Miscellaneous    0.165      1       0.165      100
Total 20.856      100     16.500      80
** Bank financing: 80% for Works and 100% for Goods



- 5 -
2. Key policy and institutional reforms to be sought:
(a)  Adoption of a comprehensive medium-term financial recovery program
(b) Introduction of performance contract and monitoring indicators to improve the governance and the
performance of the Vodocanal.
(c)  Revision of the tariff regulation to allow full cost recovery including investment cost.
(d)  Evaluation of the financial and operational viability of merging the bulk water supply and water
distribution companies.
(e)  Institutional, financial and management strengthening of Vodocanal: consumption-based billing;
accounting conversion, financial and operational planning and management, infrastructure
maintenance.
(f)  Agreement on sewage/drainage water disposal arrangements (environmental management).
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits:. (a) A safer and more reliable water supply service for the 30,000 residents of Privokzalny and
20,000 residence and businesses in the City Center commercial areas; (b) repair of leaks from the sewage
pipe work and in the apartment basements will reduce the risk of disease from this source; (c) replacement
of the highly corroded water main at the river crossing will increase reliability of the water supply to the
downstream areas; (d) improving the water and sewerage services in the central area of the city will
significantly increase its property value for attracting commercial development; (e) a relatively more
financially stable and responsible Vodocanal.
Target Population: the 30,000 residents of Privokzalny and 20,000 residences, new consumers and new
businesses in the City Center commercial area of the City of Atyrau. The proposed Project would help meet
the local needs of safe drinking water, adequate sewerage system, and basic drainage.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
General:  Overall Project coordination will be the responsibility of the Atryau Oblast Akimat (AOA),
vested in the office of the First Deputy Governor responsible for Construction and Communal Affairs. No
separate project implementation unit will be established in AOA. Technical and procurement aspect of
project implementation will be coordinated on behalf of the central government by the Committee for Water
Resources (CWR) under the Ministry of Agriculture. The Pilot Project will be used to build local
implementation capacity in anticipation of the full-scale project. Funding for consultants and training has
been included in the Project.
The Committee for External Loans (CEL) of the Ministry of Finance (MOF) will play its already defined
role to represent the borrower to monitor the expenditures and exercise fiscal oversight. CEL will be
responsible for the coordination and disbursement of loans. It is made up of three units: (i) Project
Preparation unit, (ii) Project Implementation unit, (iii) Financial Operational unit. The Project
Implementation unit is responsible for procurement issues and for monitoring of contract performance in
accordance with World Bank guidelines. The Financial Operation unit of CEL will provide a quasi internal
audit function of the financial activities of AOA. It reviews all applications for disbursement from the loan.
The withdrawal applications are prepared by the AOA consultants and submitted with all documentation
for review and co-signed by CEL. This practice will continue for the proposed Atyrau Pilot Project. A
matrix detailing project implementation responsibilities for each institution is outlined in Annex 13.



-6 -
During Negotiations it was agreed that (i) as a condition of Board presentation, on the basis of "Project
Implementation Responsibility Matrix" (Annex 13) a Project Implementation Agreement be executed by
CEL, AOA, CWR, and the city of Atyrau; and (ii) as a condition of effectiveness, the CWR and AOA have
engaged qualified financial and procurement consultants under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and the AOA shall have installed accounting system software satisfactory to the Bank. The Board condition
on executing the Project Implementation Agreement was fulfilled on May 10, 1999.
AOA and MOF will enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, which specifies the repayment obligation of
AOA for the project. Execution of such an agreement will be a condition of project effectiveness.
Reporting.  In order to ensure timely reporting to the Bank, the AOA will submit a quarterly report in a
format satisfactory to the Bank, no later than three weeks after the end of each quarter. The quarterly report
will cover the progress and expected completion date for civil works and equipment contracts, progress of
the institutional components, policy studies and training program, and activities of the financial, technical
and procurement consultants to be hired under the Project. Reporting formats have been agreed on at
Appraisal and are explained in Annex 7 (Financial Management Assessment) and in the Project File. The
report formats cover financial and procurement information, including (a) comparison of actual physical
and financial outputs with forecasts, and updated six-month project forecast; (b) project financial
statements, including sources and applications of funds, expenditures by category statement, and special
account reconciliation statement; and (c) procurement management report, showing status and contract
commitments.
AOA will also submit annual reports to the Bank no later than January 31 of each year of project
implementation. The report will contain the following two sections: (a) Annual Progress Report; and (b)
Annual Work Plan for the Project.
(a)  The Annual Progress Report would cover the progress of each component, implementation of key
reforms, key performance indicators, Vodocanal financial and operational performance and project
financial statements.
(b)  The Annual Work Plan would contain a plan for the implementation, updated disbursement profile,
and target key performance indicators during the coming year. Budgets and disbursement forecast,
which would be based on the appraisal estimates, would be amended where necessary to reflect
changes in the costs and scope of each project component. The budget for the financial, technical
and procurement consultants and the operating cost of the implementation unit will be included in
this plan.
The arrangements for progress reports was agreed upon during Negotiations.
Financial Management and Accounting:   Existing CWR financial management and accounting system
have been assessed and are described in Annex 7, including the identification of areas that require
strengthening in order to meet the requirements of the Bank's OP 10.02 for the provision of accurate and
timely information on project resources and expenditures. It was agreed during Negotiations that as a
condition of effectiveness: (i) the CWR and AOA have engaged qualified financial, technical and
procurement consultants under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) established project financial
management systems, including internal controls accounting and reporting satisfactory to the Bank; and
(iii) the AOA and CWR shall have installed computer software for accounting records using the format set
out in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) and satisfactory to the Bank. Such systems, described in
Annex 7, will including accounting and internal control systems that (i) are in accordance with
International Accounting Standards; (ii) reliably record and report all assets and liabilities and financial
transactions of the Project; and (iii) provide sufficient financial information for managing and monitoring



- 7 -
project activities. Detailed accounts will be kept for each project component and its sub-components
according to a chart of accounts agreed at Appraisal and described in the PIM.
Auditing: The annual audit of the Projects accounts will be carried out by a firm of independent auditors
to be appointed at the commencement of the Project. Both the appointment of the auditors and the terms of
reference for the audit engagement will be approved by the Bank on a no-objection basis. The audit will be
carried out in accordance with Kazakhstani Standards on Auditing and International Standards on Auditing.
Where there is conflict between the two aforementioned standards, the International Standards on Auditing
will prevail. The audited report which will include an opinion on the status of the operation of the Special
Account, together with a management letter will be presented to the Bank no later than four months after
the end of the fiscal year to which it relates. AOA, CWR and CEL will be expected to submit its comments
on the matters raised in the management letter and proposals for implementing those recommendation. The
appointment of an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank to undertake the audit for the first fiscal year
during Project Implementation will be a condition of effectiveness.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. The main monitoring instrument will be the Financial and
Operational Performance Agreement between AOA and the Vodocanal. The monitoring plan would
include performance indicators that will be used to track progress made towards objectives. The AOA will
submit to the Bank semi-annual performance review by July 31 and January 31 of each year, and draft
annual performance agreement for the upcoming year by December 15 of each year for Bank's review and
comments. The Government and the Bank will conduct joint reviews annually during supervision
mnissions. A mid-term Review would be undertaken by June 30, 2001. An Implementation Completion
Report would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the closing date.
Project Implementation and Subsidiary Loan Agreement: A Project lmplementation and Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, will be entered into between AOA, MOF
and the Vodocanal, and will be a condition of effectiveness of the loan. The loan agreement will be for the
repayment of $11.8 million (the capital investment portion of the Bank loan). The terms and conditions of
the agreement will include, but not limited to, the following:
* The principal amount of $11.8 million will be paid by Vodocanal to the AOA in equal semi-annual
installments over twenty years, including a grace period of five years;
* Interest shall be charged on the outstanding balance of the subsidiary loan at a rate equal to the rate
payable by the borrower. Any interest payable during the first five years of the agreement will be
capitalized against the principal amount;
* To achieve and thereafter maintain a satisfactory financial position, AOA and the Vodocanal will
be expected to take measures, including but not limited to tariff adjustments, to ensure that
beginning in 2001, collected revenues are sufficient to meet the aggregate of operating expenses
and other financial obligations. To meet this condition, Vodocanal' s operating revenues would
need to cover: (i) operational and maintenance costs including depreciation; (ii) interest and other
charges on debt services; (iii) the cost to write off bad debt; and (iv) increase in working capital;
* Achieve overall collection level of not less than 70% for fiscal year 2000, 75% for fiscal year 2001,
80% for fiscal year 2002, and 85% for fiscal year 2003;
* Vodocanal will introduce consumption based billing to the Pilot Project area by June 2002 or by
completion of rehabilitation of the Project area, whichever comes first;



- 8 -
*  By September 2001, AOA to revise the law to enable Vodocanals to charge tariffs that cover up to
total cost of operation including all debt service;
*  To prevent Vodocanal from jeopardizing its financial position by incurring additional debt, the
Vodocanal will be required to seek prior Bank approval for any additional debt unless revenue and
expenditure forecasts satisfactory to the Bank demonstrates that Vodocanal's internal cash
generation (net income in cash before interest and depreciation) during the next years would at least
cover 1.3 times its debt service requirements (interest charges and amortization of principle);
*  By December 15 of every year (starting December 15, 1999), conclude, in consultation with the
World Bank, a financial and operational performance contract between the Vodocanal and the AOA
which would contain, inter alia, Financial and Operational Performance Agreement for the coming
year.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
(a)  The possible use of foreign management contract or full privatization with foreign
management. The options of brining in foreign management contractor or full privatization of the
Vodocanal including foreign management were discussed with the regional authorities, but were
rejected for the following reasons: (i) foreign management contract would be extremely costly for a
small Vodocanal such as Atyrau that only generated an annual operating revenue of $2 million; (ii)
the AOA would like to study the various management options being used around the world before
adopting one that they believe would work in a small city setting; (iii) the regional authorities would
like to experiment with using a strict performance oriented contractual methodology with the current
Vodocanal management. It was agreed that a financial and operational performance contract and
performance indicators would be established by the end of the first investment year (December 1999)
to track improvements to the Vodocanal.
(b)  A single project to rehabilitate the entire city water, sewerage and drainage infrastructure.
This proposal, presented by the AOA, was rejected in favor of a phased approach. Rationale for
rejection: (i) priority placed on putting the water company on a better financial and managerial
foundation before embarking on a large investment program; (ii) unfamiliarity with procurement and
disbursement practices of the World Bank; (iii) technical options for drainage and sewage disposal
need to be carefully studied before making physical investment due to a very sensitive environment
surrounding the city (Ural River is rich in bio-diversity and is one of the few remaining spawning
grounds for sturgeon).
(c) Why not demand specific increases in tariffs and revenue collection before commencement of
the Pilot Project. During Project preparation tariffs were adjusted four times (quarterly) based on
Vodocanal's operational costs. Similarly the Vodocanal introduced two new revenue collection
methods suggested by the Bank: (i) door-to-door collection; and (ii) establishment of local payment
kiosks near large apartment complexes in the Project site. It was determined that the cost of the new
scheme was higher than the additional revenues collected and was temporarily suspended.
Subsequent meeting with the condominium associations indicated that unless the service quality
improved drastically, consumers were unlikely to pay their bills (currently no customers above the
third floor of apartment buildings are being provided with water). Based on this experience and
experimentation, it was judged that the ownership and comnmitment to the Project was already evident
and that specific conditions on tariff increase and revenue collection prior to project implementation
were deemed unnecessary.



-9-
(a)  Why the Vodocanal is not managing project implementation. The decision against the Vodocanal
managing project implementation was based on the following factors: (i) the Vodocanal has no
experience in managing internationally financed projects, and there are very few local professionals
that are technically qualified, particularly in finance and accounting, and using foreign consultants for
a small Pilot Project would have been too costly and not acceptable to Ministry of Finance; (ii)
Vodocanal does not yet have accounting set up which would be acceptable to the Bank for managing
Project funds; and (iii) AOA felt that being the owner of the Vodocanal, the responsibility for project
implementation should be within their domain. The Project will be used as a pilot to delegate certain
specified procurement activities to the Vodocanal, with a view to using the opportunity as training in
implementing internationally financed projects. Consideration for whether to eventually move
project implementation responsibilities to the Vodocanal for the full-scale project will be considered
during project implementation.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                        Project                  Latest Supervision Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation Development
Progress (IP)    Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed
Water Supply                    Kazakhstan: Pilot Water         S              S
Supply Project
Water Supply                    Azerbaijan: Baku Water          S              S
Supply
Water Supply, Sanitation and Health  Uzbekistan: Water Supply,  S              S
Sanitation and Health
Water Supply                    Uzbekistan: Pilot Water         U             U
Supply
Other Development Agencies
USAID Water Supply              Rehabilitate Aralsk and
Kazalinsk pumping stations
Degremont (French) Water Supply    Rehabilitate parts of the
water system of the town of
Kzyl-Orda
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory); S (Satisfactory); U (Unsatisfactory)
HU (Highly Unsatisfactory); NK (Not Known)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed Project design:
Kazakhstan's FY98 CPPR highlighted several lessons learned in implementing the Project in the country
including: (a) the challenge of identifying a counterpart team with sufficient authority to move the Project
forward; (b) the difficulty of coordination among key government agencies on critical issues; (c) the
importance of setting up project implementation group early in the Project cycle and the training of their
staff in Bank procurement and disbursement procedures; and (d) the importance of involving local
institutions in Project design and preparation. A review of lessons learned from water supply and sanitation
projects worldwide (FY92 OED report) shows that, despite efforts at capacity-building for the public
institutions concerned, few countries achieved acceptable levels of performance for their public water and
sewerage utilities, and the financial performance of these utilities was dismal. Some of the reasons for these



- 10-
deficiencies include: (a) lack of clear sector policies; (b) lack of management and financial autonomy; (c)
inexperience in project implementation; (d) optimistic assumption; (e) reliance on promises rather than
actions up-front; and (f) lack of participation of users and other stakeholders in the decision-making
process.
The design of the proposed Project has incorporated these lessons: (a) a group of consultants with
significant experience in project implementation has already been engaged (the same group of local
consultants as the ongoing Pilot Water Supply Project and the Irrigation and Drainage Project); (b)
community groups as well as other main customers of Vodocanal are being involved in project design and
implementation; (c) policy and institutional reforms as well as formulation of a sector policy are being
undertaken during the Pilot phase; (d) baseline customer satisfaction indicator will be established and
continuous surveys will be conducted to gauge improvements in Vodocanal's service performance; and (e)
procurement and accounting seminars are being held for all consultant and borrower staff prior to project
appraisal.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
(a)  Undertaking of PPF and inclusion of project into the public investment program;
(b)  Change in tariff setting regulation from that of industrial cross-subsidization of residential
consumption to cost-based tariff setting;
(c)  Cut off of all subsidies to vodocanals;
(d)  Regulatory requirement for all vodocanals to be self-financing enterprises.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank assistance marks the first intervention in the sector since 1993 when Ministry of Communal
Services was dissolved and water supply and wastewater enterprises were decentralized to local
governments. The Project pilots a systematic approach to revitalizing the sector. The main value added of
Bank support are: (a) introducing and piloting a comprehensive approach to making vodocanals a
financially sustainable entity that can be adopted nationwide once proven; (b) providing investment
financing which would otherwise be unavailable; and (c) developing local contractor capacity to carry out
simple water piping works (planned to be undertaken as part of IFC's small business development activity).
E: Summary Project Analyses (Detailed assessments are in the Project file, see Annex 4 and 5)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4)
[x] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$2.1 million; ERR=l 6%1
Economic justification is based on the expected benefits from both the policy reform and capital
investments to be made under the Project.
Benefits: (1) Increased number of apartment customers with operating water connections; (ii) improved
service (increased pressure, reliable service, improved water quality); (iii) connections to
new customers; (iv) improved health of the cormmunity and customer satisfaction (not
quantified); and (vi) improved environment (due to drainage - not quantified).
Costs:   (1) Capital investment



- 11 -
More specifically, the following assumptions have been made in terms of benefits:'
Without Project                                  With Project
No improvement to the 22,000 apartment          22,000 apartment customers receive operating
customers who currently do not receive water in    water connections.
their connections due to low water pressure and
system leakage.
Gradual deterioration of service for existing   Services maintained for the existing 28,000
28,000 apartment customers who currently        apartment customers.
receive direct water service. 10,000 customers to
lose their service over the next five years.
Doubling of bulk water purchase by 2005,        22% reduction in bulk water purchase,
consistent with assumption on increase in water  consistent with assumption on decrease in water
losses and per capita consumption level.       losses and per capita consumption level.
Per capita consumption norm will remain         The consumption norm will be reduced to 165
constant at the current level of 275 I/c/d      lIc/d to reflect actual level of consumption by
(consumers being charged for high levels of system   consumers.
losses).
No new business investment in the City Center.   TengizChevroil (TCO) will establish its regional
headquarters and staff housing in the city center
and will make additional investment to create a
business center where others can locate their
offices. TCO will reimburse municipal authorities
for half of the capital investment cost for City
Center water and sewerage system rehabilitation.
The overall net present value for the total Project is US$2.1 million (using a discount rate of 10%) and ERR
of 16%. Details of the methodology and calculations used for the economic analysis is given in Annex 4.
The sensitivity analysis has shown economic results to be relatively robust when
*  Construction cost increased by 25%
* Water savings are 25% less than expected
*  O&M savings are 25% less than expected
*  TCO capital contribution does not materialize
Sensitivity Analysis (in percent)
ERR
(1) Capital Cost Increase = plus 25%                     11.7
(2) Water savings are 25% less than expected             15.1
(3) O&M savings are 25% less than expected               14.1
(4) TCO capital contribution does not materialize        11.9
It should be noted that the operational and financial data are highly unreliable and subject to modification during project
implementation. For instance, the unaccounted for water estimated by the vodocanal is 40%, the operational data
indicates as much as 50%, and actual delivery of water to consumers indicate much higher losses. The estimates are for
illustrative purposes only and subject to change as more reliable data is generated.



- 12-
2. Financial (see Annex 5)
[x]Summarize issues below         []To be defined             []None
[x1 Financial Rate or Return = 16%]
The financial performance of Atyrau Vodocanal during 1995-97 has been less than satisfactory. Tariffs, set
by Anti-Monopoly Committee (AMC) of Ministry of Finance have been consistently below operating and
maintenance cost (no coverage for depreciation). Vodocanal buys water from Bulk Water Company
(BWC) far in excess of actual demand to keep adequate water pressure in the distribution network, which
has distorted their tariff calculation and cost recovery. The situation has been aggravated by the low
revenue collection rate (57%) owing to consumer resistance to poor quality of service and rapid tariff
increase. Reduced cash flow arising from unsatisfactory bill collection has been compensated by delaying
payments to suppliers, especially BWC and delay of salary payments. Also poor maintenance due to lack
of cash flow resulted in the deterioration of both water and sewerage systems. Unaccounted for water
amounts to almost 50% of purchased water.
Under the project, the following reforms and improvements are envisaged:
(a)  Accounting. The Vodocanal's financial accounts have been converted to meet International
Accounting Standards (LAS) by USAID funded consultants (Carana Corporation) as of January 1,
1998. During this conversion, inadequate cost calculation and tax payments also were corrected. The
consultants will continue its work under the project (second phase) to further review and adjust all
accounting practices and documentation to be consistent with IAS. This phase will also include the
training of accounting staff to maintain proper accounts, and management training on how to utilize
financial data for more efficient management;
(b)  Auditing. In order to improve the accountability and transparency of vodocanal's accounting
practices and financial condition, as a condition of the project, vodocanal accounts will be audited
annually by an independent external auditor acceptable to the Bank;
(c) Tariff policy. Tariffs, set by AMC, have been continuously set lower than actual costs. Currently it
stands at 11.4 tenge($0.14)/m3 for water and 10.0 tenge ($0.13)/m3 for sewerage. Under the Project, it
has been agreed that tariffs will be increased to 17 tenge (($0.19)/m3 to fully cover operation and
maintenance cost, including depreciation and increase to full cost recovery level, including repayment
of investment cost by 2005 (32 tenge(JS$0.36)/m3). It has also been agreed that consumption norrns
would be gradually decreased from the current level of 275 l/c/d to 160 l/c/d in six years;
(d) Billing and Collection. The bill collection rate calculated from collections plus accounts receivable
has been very low. It was 68% in 1995, but further deteriorated to 57% in 1997. Reduced cash flow
arising from unsatisfactory bill collection has been compensated by delaying payments to suppliers,
especially to the BWC. Payables increased by 402% during 1995 to 1997, equaling 55% of total
equity and liabilities in 1997. The amount due to the BWC accumulated to 126 million tenge ($1.66
million) by April 1998, equivalent to 12 months of billings. In the Project, bill collection is assumed
to recover to 80% by 2002. This assumption is based upon the following factors: (i) current low
collection rate is due largely to non-delivery of services (i.e., 25% of non-payment can be accounted
for by residential consumers living on third, fourth and fifth floors of apartments which do not receive
water due to low pressure); and (ii) new collection methods that will be employed by Vodocanal
(including establishment of local payment kiosks, collection through commercial banks, and
employment of collection agency);
(e) Capital contributions. The AOA will pass on the capital investment portion of the Project proceeds
to the Vodocanal as a loan and will require it to pay AOA according to financial provisions spelled
out in a Project Implementation and Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between AOA and
the Vodocanal. Such subsidiary loan agreement, requiring repayment of the capital investment
portion of the loan on Bank loan terms, will be the first experience/experiment within the municipal



- 13 -
water system in Kazakhstan and may be used as a model in the future in other municipalities. The
repayment will be for 20 years including a five year grace period;
(f) Bulk water requirements. It is assumed that bulk water purchase requirements would be reduced by
40% through reduction in water losses and reduced requirement for additional water to maintain
system pressure (both due to improved infrastructure).
The financial forecast was carried out for a combined Pilot ($10.8 million) and full-scale project ($35.0
million) using assumptions presented above (detailed in Annex 5). FRR for the Project over 30 years (equal
to the approximate life of the assets) for Vodocanal is 15.83 %.
Financial Management and Accounting (see Part C.4 and Annex 7)
Fiscal Impact: not applicable
3. Technical:
(a)  Two options for packaging the civil works were considered: (i) a single large contract to increase the
attractiveness of the contract to large international contractors and to reduce the cost of supervision;
(ii) splitting the works into multiple contracts to increase the possibility of using local contractors to
carry out the works. In order not to over-stretch the administrative capacity in Kazakhstan, it was
agreed that a single contractor approach would be used. However it was also agreed that sub-
contracting of local firms would be strongly encouraged in the invitation package;
(b)  Due to high ground water table and aggressive saline ground water, the steel pipes hitherto used in
Atyrau, corrode and deteriorate quickly. It was agreed that PE pipe material would be more
appropriate for such condition and would be specified in the detailed engineering document. Also it
was agreed that there would be a need to develop local capacity to maintain the new materials being
introduced and this would done as part of sub-contracting work under the main contract;
(c)  Ural River that flows through the City of Atyrau is enviromnentally very sensitive and various
technical options for disposal of drainage water and sewage need to be studied before investments can
be made. It was agreed that (i) no drainage and sewage disposal investments would be made under
the Pilot Project; but (ii) a technical study would be started immediately using the PPF funds;
(d)  Sewage treatment is almost non-existent, no treatment is provided for the western part of the city and
only mechanical separation of municipal discharges as part of uncompleted wastewater treatment
plant is provided for the eastern part of the city; also, industrial effluent is mixed with municipal
discharge; need environmentally sound technical alternatives. It was agreed that technical study
would be carried out immediately using PPF funds.
4. Institutional:
Privatization. The options of bringing in a foreign management contractor or full privatization of the
Vodocanal with foreign management were discussed with the regional authorities, but were rejected for the
following reasons: (i) foreign management contract would be extremely costly for a small Vodocanal such
as Atyrau that only generates an annual operating revenue of $2 million; (ii) the regional authorities would
like to study the various management options being used around the world before adopting one that they
believe would work in a small city setting; (iii) the regional authorities would like to experiment with using
a strict performnance oriented contractual methodology with the current Vodocanal management.
It was agreed that before considering a more radical solution, including the possibility of foreign
management contract or full privatization and management by foreign operator, following actions would be
taken to improve the operational and financial performance of Vodocanal: (i) to facilitate the decision on



- 14-
the legal, financial and administrative relationship between the Vodocanal and the Tegional government, as
well as to consider medium-term commercialization of Vodocanal (e.g., privatization, concessions, etc.) a
study tour of a few European and/or American cities will be organized during Project preparation; (ii)
financial and operational performance contract between the AOA/municipality and the Vodocanal will be
established before the end of the first year of investment (December 1999); (iii) adoption of sub-loan
agreement between AOA/municipality and the Vodocanal, obliging the Vodocanal to repay the investment
cost on commercial terms. If these approaches to Vodocanal reform does not bring about sustained
operational and financial improvement within the next two to three years, the full-scale project would
consider the use of foreign management contract or full privatization with foreign management as an
alternative for bringing about sustained improvements in the management of the sector.
Institutional Merger. While recognizing that the current split of ownership/operation between bulk water
treatment and water distribution is not desirable for the long-term, it was considered that the weak financial
status of the Vodocanal made it premature for it to buy out the bulk water treatment facility and expand its
asset base. The water treatment facility is likely to require significant investment in the medium-term. The
Project includes a study of the financial feasibility of merging the bulk water supply and water distribution
companies into a single company.
5. Social:
A social assessment, carried out by local consultants under the direction of the Bank, was used to (i)
confirm whether the sites chosen for the Pilot was indeed the area most affected by poor water supply and
sanitary conditions; (ii) confirm consumers' willingness to pay higher tariffs for a more reliable, cleaner
water supply service, and by how much; and (iii) learn about the opinion of consumers about the
performance of Vodocanal and the specific issues which needs to be addressed in the Project. A summary
of the social assessment is given in Annex 12. Furthermore, based on the recommendation of the social
assessment, the Project includes (i) baseline and follow-up surveys for monitoring the changes in the health
indicators in the Project area; and (ii) bi-annual customer satisfaction survey and periodic public hearings
on provision of water supply and sewerage services in the City.
6. Environment Assessment:  Environmental category:      []A    [x]B   []C
The Project has been rated as environmental category B. The city water and sewerage networks are highly
corroded and in urgent need of replacement. The Project area is one of the most affected neighborhoods
where practically no water reaches the upper floors of apartment buildings and the basements in buildings
are often flooded with sewage due to plumbing systems being in a poor state of repair. As such, the repair
and rehabilitation of existing facilities proposed under the Project are expected to provide a major positive
impact on the health and quality of life of the beneficiaries. In order to mitigate construction phase impacts,
necessary provisions will be included in the contractual documents to ensure that the implementation of
works will be adequately monitored to minimize adverse environmental effects and local construction
companies will be trained on standard environmental specifications for construction of water infrastructure.
The environmental management plan, costed at US$450,000, includes: (i) wastewater and drainage water
disposal options study; (ii) strengthening water quality monitoring facilities in the Vodocanal; (iii)
strengthening the local health and environmental offices for better enforcement of environmental standards;
(iv) institutional strengthening of Vodocanal and city administration to improve operation and maintenance
practices; and (v) strengthening of condominium association for proper exploitation and maintenance of
water and sewerage infrastructure; (vi) training of local construction companies on standard environmental
specifications for construction of water infrastructure.
The International Waterways Issue. The Project will finance rehabilitation of the existing secondary
water supply distribution system which will not increase water abstraction from the river and wastewater



- 15 -
flow to the evaporation ponds which are located in a deserted area far from the city. Because of the fact
that the water supply source is the Ural River, which originates in Russia in the upstream and drains into the
Caspian Sea, the Project has been analyzed to identify any issues concerning international waterways. As a
result, it has been determined that while the water from the Ural River, which is an international waterway
as described in OP 7.50, will be used by the Project, the Project should be exempted from the external
notification requirement based on the provisions of para. 7 (a) of this OP since the Project: (i) involves
rehabilitation of an ongoing scheme and does not cover works and activities that would exceed the original
scheme, nor changes its nature, or alter or expand its scope; (ii) will not adversely change the quality of
water flows to the other riparians; and (iii) will not be adversely affected by the other riparians possible
water use.
7. Participatory Approach [key stakeholders, how involved and what they have influenced; ifparticipatory
approach was not used, describe why not applicable]
(a) Primary beneficiaries and other affected group: Social assessment was carried out by consultants to
determnine and confirm that the identified Pilot sites (Privokzalny and City Center) were most affected
in terms of water supply and water related health problems. Local health officials and environmental
monitoring agency were also consulted in terms of site selection and confirming that water supply
issues were high on the. social agenda;
(b)  Local condominium associations in the Project sites were invited to discuss the particular water
supply and sewerage problems in their homes. On the issue of project design, the association
requested the clean up of apartment basements flooded with leaking sewerage pipe and intrusion of
groundwater. To increase the awareness of residence on rrmaintenance of common areas and
responsibility for making monthly payment for water use, it was agreed to include funding within the
PPF advance for self-help clean-up, and tree-planting in the common areas of the apartment
complexes. The condominium associations are being engaged to implement the sub-project. There
will be an element of competition among the apartment complexes to determine the order in which
the rehabilitation will be carried out.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The main purpose of the Pilot Project is to move Vodocanal to a path of financial and operational
sustainability. Commitment to further investment under the proposed full-scale project depends wholly
upon whether the Vodocanal is able to increase revenue collection, improve service levels, cut operating
cost, and bring about a more stable and sustainable financial condition. Given the institutional and policy
reforms that are to be implemented under the Pilot Project (Section B6), and the high level of commitment
exhibited by the local authorities and the community, the likelihood of successfully stabilizing the financial
condition of Vodocanal is high. As stated earlier, if stability is not achieved, the full-scale project would
consider introduction of foreign management or full privatization with foreign management.



- 16-
2. Critical Risks:
Risk                     Risk Rating   Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Continued strong political interest and support for  M    Up-front agreement on overall
policy and institutional reform, including                strategy and time-bound action
willingness to take tough decisions on tariff             plan.
increase and institutional reorganization.
Improved public awareness of its responsibility to  M     Public awareness campaign,
pay for water and sanitation services.                    public hearings on service
improvements; social surveys.
From Components to Outputs
Timely counterpart funding as budgeted            S       Close dialogue with Ministry of
Finance and appropriate
budgeting at the beginning of
the budget cycle.
Timely implementation of procurement             M        The consultants selected for this
project has a great deal of
experience with project
implementation (currently
supervises two WB projects).
Insufficient financial accounting knowledge by   M        Inclusion of training component
local staff                                              in the project. Accounting
conversion and training have
begun as part of project
preparation activities.
Overall Risk Rating    M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk); S (Substantial Risk); M (Modest Risk); N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects: None
G: Main Loan Conditions
Condition of Board
(a) That the Project Implementation Agreement has been executed by the CEL (on behalf of MOF), CWR,
AOA, and the City of Atyrau (page 5)
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
(a) That a Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed between MOF and AOA (page 6)
(b) That the Project Implementation and Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed between AOA and
the Vodocanal (page 7);
(c) That the independent auditor acceptable to the Bank be appointed to undertake the audit for the first
fiscal year during Project Implementation (page 7);
(d) That (i) the CWR and AOA have engaged qualified financial and procurement consultants under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) established project financial management systems, including



- 17-
internal controls accounting and reporting satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) the AOA and CWR shall
have installed accounting system software satisfactory to the Bank (page 6).
2. Others:
(a) That AOA will submit to the Bank semi-annual performnance review of the Vodocanal by July 31 and
January 31 of each year, and by December 15 of every year (starting December 15, 1999), conclude,
in consultation with the World Bank, a Financial and Operational Performance Agreement between
the Vodocanal, AOA and MOF (pages 7 and 8);
(b) That AOA will submit a quarterly report in a format satisfactory to the Bank, no later than three
weeks after the end of each quarter (page 6);
(c) That AOA will submit annual reports to the Bank no later than January 31 of each year of project
implementation, containing two sections: (i) Annual Progress Report; and (ii) Annual Work Plan for
the project (page 7);
(d)  That a mid-term Review of the project will be undertaken by June 30, 2001 (page 7);
(e)  That an Implementation Completion Report would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months
after the closing date (page 7);
(f) That the accounts of the vodocanal are audited annually by an independent external auditor (page 12).
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation. [ ] Not applicable.
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[XI The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: N/A
[3 ] The project complies with all other applicable Bank policies.



- 18-
Motoo Koni, Program Team Leader, ECSIN
1licardo Halperin, Sector Director, ECSIN
Walter Stottmann, Sector Leader (Water Supply and Sanitation), ECSIN
Kiyoshi Kodera, Country Director, ECC08



- 19 -
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Kazakhstan: Atyrau Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Narrative Summary             Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                               (Goal to Bank Mission)
Reverse the deterioration of  *  Focusing public            *  Formulation of a PIP     *  Improving the provision of
physical infrastructure in       investments on highest     *  ESW reports (e.g. Water     basic service does improve
particular those that affect     priority areas. (formulation  Sector Note)                the environment for private
private sector-led growth and     of PIP, public sector     *  Customer satisfaction        sector investmnent.
improve the living and health     reform).                     surveys; Quarterly report  *  Improvement in water
standards of the general      *  Improvement in the quality    on quality of service and    quality and sewage
population.                       of water supply and          water quality                disposal does improve
sewerage services.           (Vodocanal)                  public health.
*  Inprovement in health     *  Baseline survey and
indicators.                  reports from the local
health services
Project Development                                                                     (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
To strengthen the enterprise in   1.1  Improvements in service    1.1 Financial statements  *  Central government's
the City of Atyrau to provide it  delivery, operational and                                 willingness to borrow (or
with reliable and safe drinking   financial efficiency, and  1.2 Performance contract       guarantee the borrowing)
water and environmentally     customer satisfaction - specific  and monitoring indicators.  for this and other
responsible disposal of sewage   targets to be included as Annex.                          investment projects.
in a financially, operationally,                            1.3 Customer satisfaction   *  Continued economic
and institutionally efficient and   1.2 Reduction in the incidence  surveys; Quarterly report on  growth through expansion
sustainable manner.           of water-borne diseases through  quality of service and water  of oil production in the
improved water quality.      quality (Vodocanal).            Region.
1.4 Baseline survey and
reports from the local health
-services.
Outputs:                                                                                (Outputs to Objective)
1. Improved water supply and  1.1  Complete Pilot-phase    1. Project implementation    *  Continued strong political
sewerage service delivery in  rehabilitation program,       plan; baseline and bi-annual    interest and support for
selected priority areas, and  including clean-up of sewage    customer satisfaction survey;  policy and institutional
improved operational and      from apartnent basements,    mid-term review;                 reforn, including
management efficiency.        restoration of water supply to    performance monitoring      willingness to make tough
upper floors of apartment     indicators.                    decisions on tariff increase
2. Improve financial          buildings, and improved                                       and institutional
management of the enterprise    ambiance (planted trees,    2. Annual financial audit;     reorganization.
with better prospects for     restored walkways, elimination   annual negotiation of    *  Timely payment of
financial viability and more  of standing water) and sanitary   management and              subsidies by central and
transparent accounting        conditions around the         performance contract           regional governments.
practices.                    apartments; increased customer  between the owner and the  *  Improved public awareness
satisfaction, confidence and  water enterprise.              of its responsibility to pay
3. To speed up preparation of a  willingness to pay; reduce                                 for water and sanitation
full-scale project through early   service interruptions.   3. Supervision Reports and      services.
completion of project                                       mid-terrn review
preparation and helping the city  1.2 Establish management
and water authorities to gain  contract and monitoring
experience in project         indicators between the owner
preparation, management and    and the operator.
implementation.                                                                        _



-20 -
2.1 Comprehensive medium-
term financial recovery
program; adopt international
accounting practices by Year
2000.
2.2  Full cost recovery starting
January 1, 2000.
3.1  Completion of technical,
feasibility studies for the
Vodocanal and master plan
study for the city to define the
next phase of investments.
IProiect Cmmpor .nents/sub-                                                                  (Components to Outputs)
j jZe n i. ne -ats 
.a) >Ha~ter Supply and         (a) US$10.7 million            *   Supervision and           *   Timely counterpart funding
h Se.,verzge Reh5ab.:                                              disbursement reports          as budgeted.
Pr-ivokzalny District                                      *  Privokzalny District       *   Timely implementation of
City Center Area                                           *  Annual project work            procurement.
lb) Ez     R-cy Repairs        (b) US$1.2 million                  program                   *   Financing/accounting
mb3 Energe-wv Repairs          (b) US$1.2 million                                                knowledge of local staff
|ft) -17.0tut'n Strengthening:   (c) US$2.9 million                                              can be inproved.
Project supervision
eak and demand
rnagernent study
Wastewater and drainage
!  iatel disposal options
I    Financial TA
I    Drafting of management
2 and performance contract
Institution strengthening
Tochnical and feasibility
studies for Vodocanal
prior-ty investments,
2  City Investment Plan
d) Incremnental Operating      (d) US$0.5 million
ICost
(e) Refinancing PPF:           (e) US$1.0 million
Detailed engineering/bid
documents for Pilot
Stfudy tour
Project implementation
consultants
M2 Frort-End Fee               (f) US$0.2 million



-21 -
Annex 2
Atyrau Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Project Description
Project Component 1 - US$10.7 million: Rehabilitation of the Water Supply and Sewerage Systems
A single contract to cover the following works: (i) Privokzalny District: Water - rehabilitation of
2 km of 800 mm diameter, 1 km of 200 mm diameter and 3 km of smaller mains together with
replacement of pipe work in Section 5 of the Privokzalny housing development. It would also include
leak detection works and construction of a new booster pumping station (third level of pumping).
Sewerage - replacement of sewerage pipe works and pipes in 65 apartment basements in the district,
rehabilitation of selected sections of sewers and renovation of pumping stations. (ii) City Center District
- a new water main (1.2 km of 600 mm and 5 km of 500-mm pipes), a river crossing (1 km) and other
connections. Sewerage System - provide new sewers, pumping mains and stations.
Project Component 2 - US$1.2 million: Emergency Repairs
This component is for small civil works repairs/rehabilitation and urgent replacement of meters, pumps
and other materials identified by Vodocanal during project implementation, which can make immediate
and significant improvements in its operating cost and efficiency.
Project Component 3 - US$2.9 million: Institutional Strengthening and Project Management
e  Institutional Strengthening (Vodocanal). Technical assistance to strengthen operational and
financial management of the Vodocanal, including: (a) leak and demand management study; (b)
wastewater and drainage water disposal options study (c) financial and accounting TA; (d)
preparation of draft management and performance contract.
-  Institutional Strengthening (City). Technical assistance to strengthen the institutional capacity,
financial management and administration of the city of Atyrau, including: (a) preparation of a
medium-term city infrastructure rehabilitation plan; (b) institutional strengthening of the city
administration.
*  Project Supervision and Management. Technical assistance to the CWR and AOA in the
management, implementation and supervision of the project, including (a) project supervision and
management; and (b) design and implementation of system of financial management and accounting,
preparation of the accounts and financial statements, and audit of project accounts and financial
statements, including external auditing services.
Project Component 4 - US$0.5 million: Incremental Operating Cost
Financing of incremental operating cost of project implementation and management of the CWR and
AOA. The component includes financing of administrative support, office equipment, spare parts, and
other operational cost for the two organizations.



-22 -
Project Component 5 - US$1.0 million: Refinancing of PPF
This would refinance the PPF, which was used to finance detailed design and preparation of bid
documents for the Pilot Project, and study tour, and engagement of consultants for project preparation and
implementation.



- 23 -
Annex 3
Atyrau Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                Local         Foreign         Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
A.  Water Supply and Sewerage Rehabilitation           2.10        9.20       11.30
B.  Emergency Repairs                                  0.10        0.90        1.00
C. 1 Institutional Strengthening (Vodocanal)                       1.00        1.00
*  Leak and Demand Management Study                          0.40        0.40
*  Wastewater and Drainage Disposal Study                    0.30        0.30
*  Institutional Strengthening                               0.20        0.20
*  Financial Strengthening                                   0.10        0.10
C.2  Institutional Strengthening (City)                -           0.60        0.60
*  City Investment Study                                     0.20        0.20
*  Institutional Strengthening                               0.30        0.30
*  Drafting of Management Contract                           0.10        0.10
C.3  Project Supervision and Management                -           1.00        1.00
*  Project Supervision                                       0.60        0.60
*  Technical and Financial Consultants                       0.40        0.40
D.  Incremental Operating Cost                         0.50        0.10        0.60
E.  Refinancing of PPF                                 -            1.00       1.00
F.  Front End Fee                                      -           0.165       0.165
Total          2.70        13.965      16.665
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                              0.40         1.882       2.282
Price Contingencies                                 0.10         0.309       0.409
Total Project Cost        3.200       16.156      19.356
USAID funded technical assistance ($1.5 million) excluded from this table.



- 24 -
Annex 4
Atyrau Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation ProjectI
Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Present Value of Flows               Fiscal Impact
Economic        Financial
Analysis        Analysis        Taxes            Subsidies
Benefits
US$16.6 million         US$2.1 million  US$543,584       N/A             N/A
Costs
US$6.7 million
Net Benefits:
US$9.9 million
ERR: 16%
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Benefits: (1) Increased number of apartment customers with operating water connections; (ii)
improved service (increased pressure, reliable service, improved water quality); (iii)
connections to new customers; (iv) improved health of the community and customer
satisfaction (not quantified); and (vi) improved environment (due to drainage - not
quantified).
Costs:   (1) Capital investment
Main Assumptions:
More specifically, following assumptions have been made in terms of benefits: 2
Without Project                                    With Project
No improvement to the 22,000 apartment          22,000 apartment customers receive operating
customers who currently do not receive water in    water connections.
their connection due to low water pressure and
system leakage
Gradual deterioration of service for existing   Services maintained for the existing 28,000
28,000 apartment customers who currently        apartment customers.
receive direct water service. 10,000 customers to
lose their service over the next five years.
Doubling of bulk water purchase by 2005,        22% reduction in bulk water purchase, consistent
consistent with assumption on increase in water  with assumption on decrease in water losses and per
losses and per capita consumption level         capita consumption level.
The economic and sensitivity analyses applies to the water distribution component in the Privokzalny and City Center
project areas for a total investment of $6.7 million.
2 It should be noted that the operational and financial data are highly unreliable and subject to modification during project
implementation. For instance, the unaccounted for water estimated by the vodocanal is 40%, the operational data
indicates as much as 50%, and actual delivery of water to consumers indicate much higher losses. The estimates are for
illustrative purposes only and subject to change as more reliable data is generated.



-25 -
Without Project                                 With Project
Per capita consumption norm will remain      Consumers will reduce the consumption norm to
constant at the current level of 275 I/c/d   165 I/c/d to reflect actual level of consumption.
(consumers being charged for high level of system
losses).
No new business investment in the city center.    TengizChevroil (TCO) will establish its regional
headquarters and staff housing in the city center
and will make additional investment to create a
business center where others can locate their
offices. TCO will reimburse municipal authorities icr
half of the capital investment cost for city center water
and sewerage system rehabilitation.
Net benefits discounted at 10% to yield net present value.
Economic Analysis:
The estimate of consumer benefit generated by the project is calculated based on the difference
between the Net Present Value (NVP) of the cost of additional water produced by the project
investment and the existing cost of water provided to consumers.
NPV of the cost of additional water produced by the project is calculated as follows:
NPVofProiect Investment - NPVof Project Savins =US$0.74 million =   $0.055/I3
NPVofAdditional Water Provided               13,644m3         - --
NPV of Project Investment        I                                    US$5.55 million
NPV of Project Savings            (i) O&M Savings                     US$3.59 million
(ii) Reduction in Water Purchased   US$1.21 million
NPV of Additional Water Produced  (i) For 22,000 consumers currently  1.32 million m3 /year
(over 15 years)                       without water.
(ii) For 10,000 consumers who will  0.6 million m3/year
lose water without the project.
(iii) For new consumers in City Center   0.2 million m3/year
Based on the above, the consumer benefit generated by the project is US$9.74 per consumer per year as
follows:
Cost Per m3         Amount of Water        Cost to Consumers
Consumed
Existing Cost of Water         US$0.135                275 Vc/d               US$13.05
Cost of Water from Project     US$0.055                165 I/c/d              US$ 3.30
Net Benefit per Consumer                                                      US$ 9.74



-26 -
Calculation of Economic Rate of Return:
Project Benefits. Based on the net benefit per consumer generated by the project, ERR is calculated
using the following costs and benefits (please see attached Table for details):
Investment Cost:                                  $6.7 million
Benefit Streams: O&M Savings                     $355,000/annum
Water savings                    Various
Reconnection of existing consumers  22,000 consumers
Protection of existing consumers  10,000 consumers
New consumers                    200,000 m3/year
Capital contribution by TCO      US$2.45 million over 7 years
Based on the above: ERR is equal to 16%; and NPV is equal to US$2.13 million
Sensitivity Analysis:
The sensitive analysis has shown economic results to be relatively robust when
*  Construction cost increased by 25%
* Water savings are 25% less than expected
*  O&M savings are 25% less than expected
*  TCO capital contribution does not materialize
Sensitivity Analysis (in percent)
ERR
(1) Capital Cost Increase = plus 25%                                      11.7
(2) Water savings are 25% less than expected                              15.1
(3) O&M savings are 25% less than expected                                14.1
(4) TCO capital contribution does not materialize                         11.9



- 27 -
Annex 4 (continued)
Atyrau Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
(US$ million)
Year      Capital Cost    O&M           Water        Existing       New           TCO        Net Benefit
Savings      Savings     Customers    Customers   Contribution       Flows
1999         1,340,000                     28,646       29,220                              (1,282,134)
2000         4,020,000                      6,612       131,490        6,010                (3,857,888)
2001         1,340,000      335,000         3,387       224,020       15,025       350,000  ( 412,568)
2002                        335,000        10,482      292,200         15,025      350,000    1,002,707
2003                        335,000       306,986      292,200        15,025       350,000    1,139,425
2004                        335,000       657,180      301,940        15,025       350,000    1,308,951
2005                        335,000       486,471      301,940        15,025       350,000    1,659,145
2006                        335,000       345,391      311,680        15,025       350,000    1,498,176
2007                        335,000       201,597       311,680       15,025       350,000    1,357,096
2008                        335,000        60,518       311,680       15,025                   863,302
2009                        335,000        60,518       311,680       15,025                   722,223
2010                        335,000        60,518       311,680       15,025                   722,223
2011                        335,000        60,518       311,680       15,025                   722,223
2012                        335,000        *60,518      311,680       15,025                   722,223
2013                        335,000        60,518       311,680       15,025                   722,223
2014                        335,000        60,518       311,680       15,025                   722,223
2015      4,690,000 **                     60,518       311,680       15,025                 5,077,023
NPV:    $2,128,378
** = residual capital                               ERR:        15.96%



- 28 -
Annex 5
Atyrau Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities
Years Ending: 1995 through 2004 1
(in millions tenge - current)
1995       1996        1997       1998       2001        2004      Average
Annual
Growth2
Actual                           Forecast
Income Statement Itemns
Unit Volume (000's)           35,963     31,843      18,716     18,716       19,324      19,565     0.7 %
Revenues                     143,423    146,706     176,679    160,121      282,283    538,150     39.3 %
OperatingIncome3              29,142     15,804       1,157    -20,210       68,821    222,316     5.72%
Net Income                    20,703      2,928        -778     -24,410      39,946     20,456
Funds Statement Items
Internal Sources                         26,745      17,758     -3,851       97,799    355,867
Borrowings                                                                  612,955    675,775
Equity Investments                            -           -          -
Total Sources                          47,995     43,868      31,582     733,048   1,012,765
Capital Expenditures                     23,833      85,267     60,000      542,080    642,400
Working Capital Increase                 -2,750     -30,208     -24,567     22,294    -18,877
(Decrease)
Debt Service                                  -           -          -      40,930     253,867
Total Applications                     23,898     92,617      60,000     620,510     896,267
Balance Sheet Items
Current Assets                95,414    148,398    301,769     297,918      420,025    750,997
Less Current Liabilities   30,381      31,245     44,511      40,660     212,356     576,387
NetFixedAssets               152,175    138,188     151,090    186,849      952,438   3,026,130
Total Assets              247,589     286,586    452,859     484,767    1,372,463   3,777,127
Debt                               -          -           -          -      867,680   3,266,642
Equity                       183,006    169,433     195,601    227,509      297,114    335,875
Total Liabilities and Equity   247,589    286,586    452,859  484,767    1,372,463   3,777,127
Financial Ratios
Operating Income as a
% of Revenue                     20.3%       10.8%       0.7%      -12.6%      24.4%       41.30/
Net Income as a
% of Revenue                     14.4%        2.0%      -0.4%      -15.2%       14.2 0/i    3.8 
Current Ratio                        1.5        1.3         1.2        1.2         0.4        0
Debt Service Coverage                0          0           0          0           0.28        0.68
Percent of Total Capital             0          0           0          0           0           0
Expenditures financed by Internal
Sources
Accounts Receivable / Collection                11         15         21.7         5           2.4
Main assumptions: as indicated in the text.
1 1995 - 1997 actual 1998 - 2004 forecast
2 Calculated period: between 1998 and 2004
3 Calculated period: between 1999 and 2004



Atyrau Water Project
Vodakanal
Balance Sheet Projection
(thousand Tenge)
1995     1996      1997       1998       1999      2000       2001 _ _   2002       2003       2004       2005
Fixed Assets                       391,577  387,903   468,983   525,301    525,301   850,901  1,392,981  2,524,661  3,181,141   3,823,541  4,439,541
Accum. Depreciation                239,402  249,715   317,893   338,452    359,464   390,244    440,543    530,212    650,893    797,411    968,833
Net Fixed Assets                   152,175  138,188   151,090   186,849    165,837   460,657    952,438  1,994,449  2,530,248  3,026,130  3,470,708
Inventory                            7,438   13,604    77,191    32,744      32,744    41,180      47,560    35,556     40,495 -0 41,432      41,204
Accounts Receivable                 85,588   134,742   220,716   289,729    221,013   162,002    116,799      75,019    89,690    107,630    114,669
Cash, Bank Baiance                   2,388       52      3,862   (24,556)    46,529   143,128    255,667    398,317  _ 485,438    601,935    704,818
Currert Assets                      95,414  1-448,398   301,769   297,918   -300,287   346,310-O  420,025    508,892    615,622    750,997      860,690
Total Assets                       247,589  286,586   452,859   484,767    466,123   806,967  1,372,463   2,503,341  3,145,870  3,777,127  4,331,398
Legalcp-itCa_ai                    155,577   166,140    173,087   195,601    227,509   225,395 -- 257168    297,114    312,841    315,420    335,875
Retained Earnings                   20,114    1,082       604   (24,410)      (2,113)    31,773    39,946     15,727     2,579     20,456      1,960
Grants                               7,315    2,211     21,910    56,318        - _                   -         -          -          -          -
Total;Ejutl                        183,006   169,433   195,601   227,509    225,395   257,168    297,114    312,841    315,420    335,875    337,836
LT Debt. End Bal. (WB)                                                                 325,600    867,680  1,999,360  2,655,840  3,266,642  3,818,953
Accounts Payable                    64,583   117,153   257,258   257,258    240,728   224,199    207,669    191,140    174,610    174,610    174,610
Current Liabilities                 64,583   117,153   257,258   257,258    240,728   224,199    207,669    191,140    174,610    174,610    174,610
Totai Liabilities                   64,583   117,153   257,258   257,258    240,728   549,799  1,075,349  2,190,500  2,830,450  3,441,252  3,993,563
Total Eauity & Liabilities         247,589  286,586   452,859   484,767   __466,123   806,967  1,372,463  2,503,341i 3,145,870  3,777,127  4,331,398



Atyrau Water Project
Vodakanal
Cash Flow Projection
(thousand Tenge)
1996      1997       1998       1999       2000        2001       2002        2003       2004        2005
Internal Sources
Operating Income (before dep.)     15,804      1,157    (20.210)     7.514     49,497     68.821    112.760    155,311 _ 222,316    235,479
Deprec-iation                      15,046     19,043     20,559     21,012     30,780     50,298      89,670    120,681    146,518    171,422
Less Taxes                         (4,105)    (2,442)    (4,200)    (4,200)   (17,817)   (21,320)   (~10,940)   (J5,305)   _(12,967)    -(5,040.)
Total                              j6,745     1L775      (3,85)    2432        62         97,799    191 .490    270,67    3 55.867    404186
Ext-ernal sources
World Bank Disbursement
*Pilot Project                                                              325,600    542,080    515,680      40,480      26,400
Full-scale Project                                                                        -      616,000    616,000  -616,000    616,000
Government Contribution            24,000     56,318     60,000     37,500     75,000     37,500
TCO C-apital Contribution                                           16,687     33,375     33,375      33,375     33,375      33,375     33,375
Total                              2400       5,1         000       5,8        3,7       612,955   1.165.055    689.855    675.775    649,375
Working Capital                    (2.750)   (30.208)   (24.567)    30,072   1j932        22.294      37,24     (36,139)   (18,877)    (6 .81 0
Total Sources of Funds             47,995     43,868     31,582    108,585    508,367    733,048   1,393,798    924,403   1,012,765   1,044,425
0
Capital Investment                 23,833     85,267     60,000        -      325,600    542,080   1,131,680    656,480    642,400    616,000
Ot her                                 65      7,350
Tax Payment for New Investment                                      37,500     75,000     37,500
To-talI InvMestme nt               23,898     92,6_17    60,000     37,500    400,600    579,580 -1,11311,680   .-65 86,48   6,400       0616,0
World Bank Debt Services (interest + repayment)                                                                                         ---
Pilot Project                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~11,168  40,930  77,211   96,287    127,094    156,513
Full-Scale Project                                                                           -    4,5        8,15        2673       169,030
Deb6t Se rV I ce                      -                     --                 11,168     40,930    119,468    180,802    253,867    325,543
Total Ues ofFund-s               .2.3,9--8    9-.6.1-7   -6------   -3,0      411,768    62,50    1,251,148    83,22        89,6    _941543
S-uro-lu-s B-tfo-re-Sz--si-d-v    24.967  .A(Z48-7419   (28.418)    7108       96.599    112.538    142,650      87,121    116.4       102.882
Surplus Cumrulated                 24,097    (24,62    (53,070)    18015    114,614    227,153    369,03    456,924    573,42          676,304



Aiyrau u Valer l'roject
Vodakanal
Income Statement Projection
I          I                     I         I                                       I        l         
___ -                                               _    _    _    _   .
1995      1996      1997      1998      1999     2000     2001      2002     2003       2004
Total Operating Revenue         143,423   146,706   176,679   160,121   178,351   234,095  282,283  375,096   448,449    538,150
Operating Expenses              114,281   130,902   175,522   180,332   170,837   184,598  213,462  262,336   293,138    315,833
Operating Income                 29,142    15,804     1,157   (20,210)    7,514    49,497   68,821  112,760   155,311    222,316
Other Income                                          ___         ___
TCO (Capital, O&M contribution)                         507               16,687    33,375   33,375   33,375    33,375    33,375
Other Expense
Losses on Receivables                                                    22,115   22,115
Interest Payment (pilot)             57     2,342                                  11,168   40,930   77,211    96,287     95,496
Interest Payment (full-scale)                          .                                             42,258    84,515    126,773
Other Non-Operating Expense         598     8,275
Other Tax Deductions                                            4,200     4,200     4,200    4,200    4,200     4,200      4,200
1   1                _tors   . __                            ,         ,_ ._              .        . I           I
Non-Operating Income               (655)  (10,617)      507    (4,200)   (9,627)   (4,108)  (11,755)  (90,293) (151,627)  (193,094)
I I        I_                                    _                  _   __ _ ___              _,_
Income Before Income Taxes       28,487     5,187     1,664   (24,410)   (2,113)   45,390   57,066   22,467     3,684     29,222
Income Taxes                      7,784     2,259     2,442                        13,617   17,120    6,740     1,105      8,767
Netineome                        20,703     2,928              2                   31,713   39,946   15,127     2,579     20,456
Other Tax Deductions                589     1,846
Retained Earnings                20,114     1,082



- 32 -
Annex 5 (continued)
Atyrau Vodocanal's Financial Performance
I. Introduction
The financial performance of Atyrau Vodocanal during 1995-97 has been less than satisfactory. Tariffs, set by
Anti-Monopoly Committee (AMC) of Ministry of Finance have been consistently below operating and
maintenance cost. Vodocanal has to buy water from Bulk Water Company (BWC) far in excess of actual demand
to keep adequate water pressure in the pipeline, which has distorted their tariff calculation and cost recovery. The
situation has been aggravated by the low tariff collection rate owing to consumer resistance to poor quality of
service and rapid tariff increase. Delaying payments to suppliers, especially BWC and delay of salary payments
has compensated reduced cash flow arising from unsatisfactory bill collection. Also poor maintenance due to lack
of cash flow resulted in the deterioration of both water and sewerage systems. Water losses amount to almost 50%
of purchased water.
Past Financial Performance and Present Financial Position
Vodocanal's recent financial performance has been poor. Revenue does not even cover operating cost much less
investment and adequate maintenance cost. Moreover, the cost calculation is considerably understated due to
inadequate maintenance.
Following are the main factors contributing to unsatisfactory results:
(a)  Poor maintenance and service quality is making consumers less willing to pay which results in the
accumulation of accounts receivable.
(b) Unsatisfactory bill collection due to the lack of measures to force payment, such as disconnection
of services.
(c)  Inadequate tariff setting that is insufficient to cover even operating cost.
(d)  Unreliable cost calculation and weak financial management, which understates cost and
overstates profit. It also leads to overpayment of taxes.
Accounting and Auditing
Basically, Vodocanal is guided by the Republic of Kazakhstan law "On Accounting" and other legislative and
legal documents and regulations of the Republic of Kazakhstan approved by the Ministry of Finance. Within the
framework of its accounting, Vodocanal adheres to accrual basis and going concern principles starting from
July 1, 1997. But all financial statements are manually prepared and calculations are frequently inaccurate.
Because of the inadequate accounting practices, such as low depreciation rate, no accounting of subsidies received
from the government, and no write-off of bad debts, cost has been substantially underestimated which gives an
inaccurate picture of the financial situation of the company.
To adjust the Vodocanal financial statements to meet International Accounting Standards (IAS), conversion of the
financial statements (adjusting entries and reclassification of adjusted account balances) as of January 1, 1998 has
been accomplished by Carana Corporation under a USAID funded program. Also, inadequate cost calculation and
tax payments have been corrected during this conversion.
Carana Corporation will continue working for the second stage project to further adjust their accounting practices
until March 1999. In this second stage, all accounting documentation will be reviewed, organized and classified to
meet minimum standards and to produce a general ledger and subsequent financial statements that can be relied
upon as accurate, reliable, and consistent with IAS. Carana will also train staff so that they can maintain the
accounts properly afterwards. Moreover, comparative cost analysis and sensitivity analysis will be conducted and
discussed with management of the Vodocanal to improve their ability to utilize financial data for more efficient
management with adequate cost recovery.



- 33 -
Fixed Assets
Atyrau Oblast Akimat (AOA) officially owns Atyrau Vodocanal. All capital investment and repairs have been
provided by the AOA since 1994, when the cash flow of Vodocanal significantly deteriorated. The funding for
capital investment and repairs approved and subsidized by AOA has increased from 29 million tenge in 1995 to
56 million tenge in 1997 (equivalent to 39% of total operating expenses or 38% of the total value of the fixed
assets.) but still substantially lower than the amount Vodocanal needs to cover minimum maintenance costs such
as patching of burst pipes. Due to insufficient maintenance, the condition of assets have been very poor and the
level of the service unsatisfactory( the 4th and 5th floor of apartment buildings receive little water and of poor
quality), which leads to low bill collection rate.
Moreover, depreciation rates and periods set by government accounting rules are substantially lower than the
actual life of the assets (3-5% compared to 3-5 years of the actual life of the assets). Consequently, depreciation is
understated which means fixed asset values are overstated, distorting income and cost recovery calculations.
Tariff Structure
Tariffs are calculated by Atyrau Vodocanal to cover operating costs and submitted for approval to AMC. In
practice, the tariffs have being continuously set at lower levels than Vodocanal's proposals. (for 1998 third
quarter, the tariffs proposed by Vodocanal were 42.84 tenge/m3 for water and 13.2 tenge/m3 for sewerage,
compared with the average approved tariff of 10.13 tenge/m3 for water and 8.89 tenge/m3 for sewage.) However,
current tariff levels are far below the sustainable level that would allow Vodocanal to finance its new investment
and cover maintenance costs by itself.
Under current tariff structure, consumers are divided into three groups: population (households), budget
entities, and industries. Almost all industries have water-meters, but households are mostly charged according to
water consumption norms. Price discrimination among these categories was eliminated in May 1997, and a
unified norm was introduced.
To comply with this unified tariff system, the tariff for households rose from 1 to 11.4 tenge/m3 during 1995 to
1997 but reduced for industries from 35 to 9.6 tenge/m3. Despite the severe tariff increase for households, the
revenue of the Vodocanal has been negatively affected by the following two factors at the same time: first, the
norm for the household was reduced by AMC from 330 I/c/day to 220 l/c/day in May 1997, which decreased total
revenue of Vodocanal by 23%; second, 25% of households have canceled their individual supply contracts and
are to be users of the street stand pipes ( norm = 40 I/c/day). This will reduce the revenue of the Vodocanal by
approximately another 8%.
Billing and Collections
Bill collection, especially from the household category which comprises 80% of Vodocanal revenues, has been
negatively affected by the following three reasons: weak economy (falling real incomes, unemployment), rapid
increase of tariffs, and unacceptable quality of services to a large portion of the population. The bill collection rate
calculated from collections plus accounts receivable has been very low. It was 68% in 1995, but further
deteriorated to 57% in 1997. During this period, the account receivable increased by 260% to 221 million tenge,
equivalent to 15 months of billing. However, the Vodocanal ability to cut off water to non-payers is restricted by
the local authorities and no penalty has been assessed, significantly limiting Vodocanal efforts to improve
collections.
Delaying payments to suppliers, especially to BWC has compensated reduced cash flow arising from
unsatisfactory bill collection. Payables increased by 402% during 1995 to 1997, equaling 55% of total equity and
liabilities in 1997. The amount due BWC accumulated to 126 million tenge ($1.66 million) by April 1998,
equivalent to 12 months of billings. Cash flow has seriously deteriorated and maintenance has been deferred
significantly, which could lead to the collapse of the networks.



- 34 -
Cost Recovery and Profitability
While revenue increased 23% during 1995 to 1997 owing to the severe tariff increase, the company's
questionable accounting practices, such as inadequately low depreciation rate and no write-off of bad debts,
seriously understated actual operating cost. Also the Oblast government has subsidized capital investment and
maintenance cost. Overall, Vodocanal is not profitable, and has been operating at a loss.
It might be a difficult option to cut operating cost to achieve cost recovery considering that Vodocanal
expenditures have been strictly limited to even below the amount needed to keep daily operations going at
minimal technical quality standards. During 1995 to 1997, as much as 85% of costs were incurred for primary
inputs, which are raw water (54%), power and fuel (8%), and payroll (24%). One of the reasons for the high
proportion of raw water is that actual usage of water is only 50% of the amount purchased, while the remaining
50% is needed only to maintain the water pressure in the system (which is already inadequate) and generate no
income. The gap between purchased water and billed water has been widening, thus causing further deterioration
of the financial performance of Vodocanal.
To achieve full cost recovery, the Vodocanal will need a tariff policy, which covers the full operation and
maintenance cost, based on adequate cost calculation. Also they will have to cut their operating cost by reducing
unnecessary water purchase through upgrading of networks to increase water pressure in the distribution systems.
ll. Vodocanal's Future Finances
A. Financial Projections and Assumptions
The financial projections of cash flow and income statements provide a rough picture of future improvements in
financial performance with the tariff increase and higher bill collection rate. Both assumptions have to be
accompanied by improved water and sanitation services through adequate investment.
The capital cost for the new investments will be provided to Vodocanal as a subsidiary loan. Therefore, the tariffs
should be set at an adequate level to cover O&M and these new investments. With the assumed tariff increase
and bill collection rate improvement in the projection, Vodocanal will be able to cover its O&M cost (including
depreciation) and investment cost from the first year of the loan.
B. Assumptions for financial proiections
The financial statement projections are in Kazakhstan Tenge. Figures for 1996 and 1997 are actual. Local
inflation rates were 61.37 % for 1995 and 67.76% for 1996, but went down to 11.2 % in 1997. All projections are
prepared in constant basis. Tenge average exchange rate is set at 80 tenge per US$1.00 for 1998, and 88 tenge per
US$1.00 from 1999.
Income Statement
Revenues: Tariffs would be increased from current 1 1.4 tenge to 17 tenge by January 1, 2000 and to
32 tenge in 2004, to cover O&M cost (including depreciation) and debt services for the new investments.
Water Consumption: For households. Population would stay the same, but the registered number of people
would increase to 120,000 by 2005. Per capita consumption would be decreased to 160m3/p/d by 2006
since more people would be charged by meters. "Street stand pipes would be abolished by 2006. For
Government consumption would stay the same. For Industries, consumption would increase by 2% every
year.
For Privokzalnv, 80% of the people would be charged by regular norms (not standpipe norm) by 2002, and
collection rate will be improved to 80% by 2002. Moreover, registered population will be increased to
290,000, which is about twice the current level. The revenue from the area will be increased to 23.4 million
tenge in 2009 (36.2% increase from 1998 level).
Expenditure: Material costs: Purchased water will be decreased to 60% of current level by 2005, but water
tariff will remains same. The fuel, power, and other material cost will stay the same.



- 35 -
Staff costs: The number of staff will be decreased by 35% due to efficiency improvement. Average
salary will be raised to 160 TT/ month from 53 TT/month.
Depreciation rate remains at 4% for old assets since 70% of the them have already depreciated. For new
assets, 3% will be applied considering the longer duration (more than 30 years).
Balance Sheet
Working Canital : Accounts receivable assumed to be non-collectable (approximately 20% of current
account receivables) will be written off in 1999 and 2000. Receivables that have accumulated will be
collected during 1999 to 2003.
Accounts payable that has accumulated will be paid off by 20% each year until 2004.
Bill Collection Rate: These should be accomplished by the improvement of bill collection rate from the
current 51% to 80% in 2002. It will be achieved by higher incentive of the people for the bill payment due
to improved services and through more efficient bill collection systems.
At the moment, collection rate is especially low for households. After the service improvement with the
new investments, bill collection should be strengthened by the following measures. First, Vodocanal needs
to be authorized to disconnect the non-paying households. Second, to make collection more efficient and to
make disconnection feasible, Cooperative of Apartment Owners (KSK) system should be utilized for bill
collection for the apartments. Also economic incentives such as bonuses for higher collection would be
useful.
Cash Flow Statement
Capital contributions. The AOA will pass on the capital investment portion of the project proceeds to the
Vodocanal as a loan and will require it to pay AOA according to financial provisions spelled out in a
Project Implementation and Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between AOA, MOF and the
Vodocanal. Such subsidiary loan agreement, requiring repayment of investment cost on commercial terms
(Bank terms), will be the first experience/experiment within the municipal water system in Kazakhstan and
may be used as a model in the future in other municipalities. The repayment will be for 20 years including
a five-year grace period. Chevron: Chevron will contribute in two parts. First, it will contribute half of the
capital investment for the City Center over 7 years. Second, it will pay the tariffs that would cover total cost
for the water it uses. Though capital contribution will be paid to the City administration, tariff payment will
directly contribute to the profit of the Vodocanal.
Interest: Vodocanal will begin repayment of the loan in 2005. Until that time, the interest portion of the
loan will be capitalized on to the principal.
III. Financial Rates of Return
Based on the assumptions and calculations presented in Annex tables, the financial rate of return for the project
over 30 years (equal to the approximate life of the assets) for Vodocanal is 15.83 %. This in itself is sufficient
justification for the project to take place. Benefit will be much larger when economic rate of return is taken into
account.
Without the project, operation efficiency will significantly deteriorate and operation cost would increase. While
this would be non-linear and discontinuous, a linear approximation of one- percent real annual increase in
operating costs is used in the analysis to reflect the impact of the deterioration. On the other hand, Vodocanal
revenue will be negatively affected due to the decrease in collection rate. Also, a substantial percentage of people
are expected to change their contract status to standpipes, which will decrease their revenue by 10% for the first 3
years and 2% thereafter. The tariff would stay the same since there is no justification for tariff increase. The FRR
are calculated over 30 years and a 10% of salvage value is assumed.



-36 -
IV. Financial Covenants
To make the improvement of financial status more certain, Vodocanal is expected to adhere to the following
financial covenants.
*  The principal amount of $11.8 million will be paid by Vodocanal to the AOA in equal semi-annual
installments over 20 years, including a grace period of five years.
*  Interest shall be charged on the outstanding balance of the subsidiary loan at a rate equal to the rate
payable by the borrower. Any interest payable during the first five years of the agreement will be
capitalized against the principal amount.
* To achieve, and thereafter maintain a satisfactory financial position, the Vodocanal will be expected
to take measures, including but not limited to tariff adjustments, to ensure that beginning in 2000,
collected revenues are sufficient to meet the aggregate of operating expenses and other financial
obligations. To meet this condition, Vodocanal operating revenues would need to cover: (i)
operational and maintenance costs including depreciation; (ii) interest and other charges on debt
services; (iii) the cost to write off bad debt; and (iv) increase in working capital.
*  Achieve overall collection level of not less than 75% for the proceeding three-month period by
June 30, 2000; 80% by December 31, 2000; 85% by June 30, 2001; and 90% by December 31, 2001.
*  Vodocanal shall reduce the per capita consumption norm annually in equal amount from the current
level of 270 VIc/d to 160 VIc/d by 2006.
*  Vodocanal will introduce consumption based billing to the Pilot Project area by June 2002 or by
completion of rehabilitation of the Project area, whichever comes first.
*  By September 2001, AOA to revise the law to enable vodocanals to charge tariffs that cover up to
total cost of operation including all debt service.
*  To prevent Vodocanal from jeopardizing its financial position by incurring additional debt, the
Vodocanal will be required to seek prior Bank approval for any additional debt unless revenue and
expenditure forecasts satisfactory to the Bank demonstrates that Vodocanal internal cash generation
(net income in cash before interest and depreciation) over the next years would at least cover 1.3
times its debt service requirements (interest charges and amortization of principal).
*  By December 15 of every year (starting December 15, 1999), conclude, in consultation with the
World Bank, a financial and operational performance contract between the Vodocanal and the AOA
which would contain, inter alia, financial and operational performance targets for the coming year.



-37-
Annex 6
Atyrau Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The procurement of civil works, goods and services of the Bank-financed components will be in accordance with
the Bank's procurement guidelines. The project components, their estimated cost, and procurement methods are
summarized in Annex 6, Table A. A Procurement Plan detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of the
major procurement actions is presented in Annex 6, Table C. All other procurement information, including the
capability of the implementing agency, estimated dates for publication of GPN and the Bank's review process, is
presented in Annex 6, Table B.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                                 Procurement Method            Total Cost (including
contingencies)
ICB                 Other  N.B.F
Works
A  Water/Sewerage Rehabilitation               13.375                                     13.375
(10.700)                                   (10.700)
B. Emergency Repairs (Works)                                       0.584                   0.584
(0.533)                (0.533)
Goods
B. Emergency Repairs (Goods)                                       0.620                   0.620
(0.620)                (0.620)
Consultant Services
C. 1 Institutional Strengthening (Vodocanal)                       1.112                   1.112
(1.112)                (1.112)
C.2 Institutional Strengthening (City)                             0.675                   0.765
(0.675)                (0.675)
C.3 Project Supervision and Management                            1.150                    1.150
(1.150)                 (1.150)
Miscellaneous
D. Incremental Operating Cost                                      0.675                   0.675
(0.545)                (0.545)
E. Front End Fee                                                   0.165                   0.165
(0.165)                (0.165)
F. Refinancing of PPF Advance                                       1.000                  1.000
(1.000)                (1.000)
Total     13.375              5.981                  19.356
(10.700)            (5.800)               (16.500)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items). The
procurement arrangement for the items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as "N.B.F."
need to be explained in footnotes to the table or in the text.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit.



Annex 6 (continued)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
_77Se                                                   1. Procuremnt. 7e7ie7
Category                       ICB             Small Works              IS                  NS             Other Methods
1. Civil Works
1.1. Procurement Thresholds              >$0.5 million     <$100,000, up to          N/A                 N/A                 N/A
aggregate of
$600,000
1.2. Prior Review                        >$0.5 million        First two              N/A                 N/A                 N/A
2. Goods
2.1. Procurement Thresholds               >$200,000              N/A            <$200,000, up to    <$75,000, up to          N/A
aggregate of       aggregate of
$500,000           $200,000
2.2. Prior Review                         >$200,000              N/A                 >$0               First two             N/A
QCBS                                                         SS              Individuals
3. Consultant Services
3.1. Procurement Thresholds                  N/A                                                    One contract of     <$300,000, up to
$ 100,000 (firm)  aggregate of $1 mil
3.2. Prior Review                            >$0                             __Up to $100,000                               Yes
Ex-post Review                        Will be conducted on 1 in 10 contracts during supervision mission                                  l 
0 0""0"""~-"---S0c tion 2l. Cfapacty fth  nilmutigAec  nPouet    and Tecnqicals istnerqiremen
5. Brief statement: Primary responsibility for overseeing procurement will rest with the Atyrau Oblast Akimat (AOA) and the Committee for Water Resources
(CWR). See Project Implementation Responsibility Matrix for detailed breakdown of responsibilities.
6. Country Procurement Assessment Report is  7. Will the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year be ready by negotiations?
planned to be undertaken next year.          Yes, for major works and engineering.
Section3. Trai in   nformation an  Dvl Jnent on ~Procureen
8. Estimated date of Project  9. Estimated date of General  10. Indicate if there is procurement   11. Domestic  12. Domestic Preference for
Launch Workshop: 09/15/99  Procurement Notice publication:  subject to mandatory SPN in      Preference for    works, if applicable: No
12/16/98                         Development Business: Yes        Goods: No
13. Retroactive financing: No  | 14. Advanced Procurement:    No
15. Brief description of the Procurement Monitoring System and Information System: AOA and CWR will maintain complete procurement files, which will be
reviewed by the Bank's supervision missions. The Procurement Plan will be updated annually. Procurement information will be recorded by AOA and CWR and
submritted to the Bank as part of the quarterly and annual progress reports. This information will include: revised cost estimates for the different contracts; revised
timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award, status of contracts, and completion time for individual contracts; and compliance on
specific methods of procurement. A Management Information System (MIS), with a procurement module, will help AOA and CWR monitor all procurement
information.
S :: :0    ; 0  :     0 :: ;   : ; :X:Secton 4.  trocurement Stffng f        ;j:  ;         Xj:                 S9
16. Name of Procurement Staff Member on the Project Team: Takao Ikegami       Division: ECSIN              Ext. 32334
17. Brief description of the role expected of the Field Office in Procurement: The Field Office will provide back up on procurement issues to the project team.



Annex 6 (continued)
Table C: Procurement Plan
Component                      Type       Contract No. or Est.    Estimated Cost    Procurement       Invitation to  Submission of   Contract Signing      Contract
# of Contracts         US$m              Methods             Bid            Bids                             Completion
1. Civil Works
A.  Water and Sewerage Rehabilitation        CW               I contract             13.4            ICB             June '99        August '99        January '00       January '01
B.  Emergency Repairs                        CW               6 contracts            0.6             Small Works     As needed
2. Goods
B.  Emergency Repairs                       Goods             6 contracts            0.6             IS/NS           As needed
3. Consultant Services
C.l Institutional Strengthening (Vodocanal)
*   Leak and Demand Management Study         Consultant       I contract             0.5             QCBS             October '99    December '99      February '00      July '01
*   Wastewater and Drainage Study            Consultant       I contract             0.3             QCBS             October '99     December '99     February '00      July '01
*   Institutional Strengthening (Vodocanal)  Consultant       I contract             0.2             IC              September '99    November '99     January '01      January '02
*   Financial Technical Assistance (Vodocanal)    Consultant  1 contract             0.1             SS2             May '99         June '99          August '99        February '02
C.2 Institutional Strengthening (City)
*   City Investment Plan                     Consultant       I contract             0.3             QCBS            May '99         June '99          August '99        February '01
*   Institutional Strengthening              Consultant       I contract             0.3             IC              September '99    November '99     January '01       January '02
*   Drafting of Management Performance       Consultant       1 contract             0.1             IC              May '99         June '99          July '99          November '99
Contract
C.3 Project Supervision and Management
*   Project Supervision                      Consultant       I contract             0.7             QCBS            May '99         June '99          August '99        March '02
*   Technical and Financial Consultants      Consultant       5 contracts            0.4             IC              May '99         June '99          August '99        March '02
4. Miscellaneous
D.  Incremental Operating Cost              Services     In accordance with          0.7         In accordance with
agreed plan *                           agreed plan *
* In accordance with annual budget and schedule satisfactory to the Bank
ICB = Intemational Competitive Bidding; IS = Intemational Shopping; NS = National Shopping; QCB = Quality and Cost-Based Selection; IC = Individual Consultants; SS = Sole Source.
I Invitation to prequalify was advertised in Development Business issued on 3/16/99; deadline for submission 4//15/99
2 A firm, which has been carrying out accounting conversion of the Vodocanal financed by USAID, would be retained to continue their work on accounting, financial management and auditing improvement. The consultants
are native Russian/Kazakh speakers and have developed already a great deal of knowledge about the intemal workings of the Vodocanal and their past accounting practices. The consulting firm will be sole-sourced.



-40 -
Annex 6 (continued)
Table D: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category      Amount in US$ million     Financing Percentage
1. Works                           11,180,000        80% of expenditures
2. Goods                             620,000          100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost), and 80% of other
local expenditures
3. Consultant Services              2,500,000         100% of expenditures
4. Incremental Operating Cost         500,000         80% of expenditures
5. Refunding of PPF Advance         1,000,000        Amount due pursuant to Section
2.02 (c) of the Loan Agreement
6. Front End Fee                      165,000         Amount due pursuant to Section
2.04 of the Loan Agreement
7. Unallocated                       535,000
Total    16,500,000



-41 -
Annex 7
Proposed Atyrau Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Financial Management and Disbursements
A financial management assessment of the project concluded that the Projtec,t does not have the capacity to produce
Project Management Reports (PMRs) as set out in the LACI Implementacion Handbook and that the traditional
disbursement procedures will apply until such time as the financial management capacity has been reinforced. An
action plan was designed and agreement reached at negotiations on the elements necessary for PMR based
disbursements.
The key staff for the project will include the Senior Financial Consultant who is expected to be on board well before
the effectiveness deadline. He/she will have overall responsibility for coordinating and reporting on all the financial
affairs of the project and for ensuring that mobilization of the local counterpart funding meets project timetable. It
will also be necessary for all staff to be conversant with the procurement and disbursement procedures of the Bank.
The project will have its financial records audited by a firm of independent auditors to be appointed before the date
of effectiveness. The audit will be conducted in accordance with internationally accepted standards of auditing. The
audit report will be due within six months of the end of the financial year to which it relates. The auditor will also
be required to produce a management letter indicating the extent to which internal control measures are being
implemented and to identify and provide recommendations for any such weaknesses that may exist.
It is expected that the accounts for the project will be computerized. The structure for the chart of accounts and the
budget for the project are included in the draft of Project Implementation Manual. Accounts for the project will be
prepared using generally accepted accounting practices. The reports to be produced are provided in the Action Plan.
Budgeting and planning for the project will be done in conjunction with the annual work plan which will be divided
on a quarterly basis to coincide with the future PMR reporting cycle. Following is the disbursement schedule for
the project:
Disbursement Schedule
Expenditure Category      Amount in US$ million     Financing Percentage
1. Works                           11,180,000         80% of expenditures
2. Goods                              620,000         100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost), and 80% of other
local expenditures
3. Consultant Services              2,500,000         100% of expenditures
4. Incremental Operating Cost         500,000         80% of expenditures
5. Refunding of PPF Advance         1,000,000         Amount due pursuant to Section
2.02 (c) of the Loan Agreement
6. Front End Fee                      165,000         Amount due pursuant to Section
2.04 of the Loan Agreement
7. Unallocated                        535,000
Total    16,500,000



-42 -
The project will open and maintain a Special Account (SA) at a bank acceptable to IBRD. The bank selected for
this purpose should be capable of providing efficient payment and clearing facilities both locally and
internationally. The SA will be maintained by CWR. The authorized allocation for this account is $1,000,000.
However the deposit will be limited to $500,000 initially, until the aggregate disbursements reach $4,000,000.
The project will also maintain a Passthrough Account. This will be used for depositing the local contributions by
the Government and for the payment of goods and services that are required to be paid in local currency. It may
be necessary to make payments in local or other currency using proceeds from the SA. Balances will be
converted only as payments are made in those currencies. Any advances for the payment of eligible project
expenditure is required to be fully liquidated before further advances may be issued. The limit for such advances
has been established at $10,000 equivalent. All bank accounts and advances are required to be reconciled and
replenished at regular intervals but at least on a monthly basis.
Disbursements would be made against Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) for (a) civil works costing less than
US$100,000 equivalent for each contract; (b) goods costing less than US$75,000 equivalent for each contract;
and (c) incremental operating costs. Disbursement against civil works and goods exceeding the above limits will
be made against full documentation and the relevant procurement guidelines. Related documentation in support
of SOEs will not be submitted to the Bank, but will be retained by the implementing unit for at least one year,
after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement is made. This
documentation will be made available for review by the auditors and Bank supervision missions. If ineligible
expenditures, including those not justified by the evidence furnished, or amounts in excess of agreed disbursement
percentages are financed from the (SA), the Bank will have the right to withhold further deposits in the SA. The
Bank may exercise this right until the borrower has: (a) refunded the amounts involved, or (b) (if the Bank agrees)
submitted evidence of other eligible expenditures that the Bank can use to offset the ineligible amounts. The
project will be required to maintain all books and records for post review by the Bank's supervising missions and
for the auditors.



-43 -
Annex 7 (continued)
Proposed Atyrau Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Action Plan
Action                   Operating Guidelines                Start         Due
Date         Date
Recruitment of Senior    Preparation ofjob advertisement, compilation of  03/99    07/99
Financial Consultant   a short list based on the TOR to be provided by
(CWR)                  the Bank. Interview and final selection
Recruitrnent of                                                       03/99        07/99
Administrative Assistant  Same as above
(ARA)
Recruitment of an      TOR to be agreed and to be reviewed and        06/99         9/99
independent firm of    approved by the Bank (TOR is subject to review
Auditors               for each year of implementation)
09199
Preparation of Procedures To be included: job descriptions, chart of  07/99      (first draft)
Manual                 accounts, intemal controls, monthly procedures,             02/00
quarterly procedures leading up to the production           (final)
of simplified PMRs, banking and payments,
reporting arrangements between ARA and CWR,
etc.
Computerization of     Selection criteria will include: cost, software  07/99      08/99
Accounting Operations   support and maintenance, multi currency options,
security, flexibility with chart of accounts,
adaptation for preparing PMRs,
Staff Training         Courses:                                       07/99      Likely to be
General project administration                             ongoing
World Bank Procurement guidelines
Disbursement procedures
Preparation for LACI disbursement
Preparation of PMR     Source and Uses of Funds                       08/99         09/99
Uses of funds by Activity
Cash Withdrawal Statement
Special Account Statement (simplified)
Cash Forecast
Procurement Management Reports
Preparation of first   Using the guidelines in the LACI Implementation    Ongoing  Subject to
withdrawal application for Handbook.                                               review
LACI-type disbursement
The above is based on the project being declared effective on or around September 1999



-44 -
Annex 8
Atyrau Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
300                  260
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     15                    18
First Bank mission (identification)             11/20/1997           11/20/1997
Appraisal mission departure                     12/07/1998           01/20/1999
Negotiations                                   01/19/1998            04/19/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  05/15/1999            09/01/1999
Prepared by: Committee for Water Resources & Atyrau Oblast Akimat
Preparation assistance: PPF ($1.0 million); PHRD Grant ($480,000).
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                 Specialty
Motoo Konishi        Co-PTL, Economist
Piotr Krzyzanowski    Co-PTL, Environmental Engineer
Andrina Ambrose      Financial Management Specialist
Gennady Pilch        Senior Counsel
Mohammad Ashraf    Procurement Management Specialist
Hannah Koilpillai    Disbursement Officer
Takao Ikegami        Procurement Specialist
Mari Kogiso          Financial Analyst
Nirmala Saraswat     Environmental Engineer
Alexander Danilenko   Institutional Specialist
Hank Boldrick        Financial Analyst
Ruslan Mamishev      Economist
Constance Lawrence    Team Assistant



-45 -
Annex 9
Atyrau Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Water Supply and Sewerage in Atyrau: Institutional and Operational Assessment (Full
Report)
* Social Assessment (Full Report)
* Financial Management Assessment (Full Report)
* Financial Analysis (Full Report)
* Economic Analysis and Sensitivity Analysis (Full Report)
C. Other
-  Detailed Engineering Study (ENNET)
*Including electronic files



MOP Schedule D
Annex 10
Status of Bank Group Operations in Kazakstan
Operations Portfolio
As of 10-May-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                 disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 4
Active Projects
KZ-PE-46499     1999   GOVT. OF KAZAKSTAN                HEALTH RESTRUCTURING                     42.50        0.00        0.00              42.50        0.00         0.00
KZ-PE-8499      1999   REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN            ROAD TRANSP. RESTRUC                    100.00        0.00        0.00             100.00        0.00         0.00
KZ-PE-34093     1998   REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN             PUBLIC SEC. RES.MGT.                    230.00        0.00        0.00              75.00       75.00         0.00
KZ-PE-50780     1998   GOVT. OF KAZAKSTAN                PENSION REF. SAL                        300.00        0.00        0.00             200.00      100.00         0.00
KZ-PE-8503      1998   REPUB. OF KAZAKSTAN               AG POST PRIV. ASST.                      15.00        0.00        0.00              14.69          .22        0.00
KZ-PE-37960     1997   REP OF KAZAKSTAN                  TREASURY MODERNIZATI                     15.80        0.00        0.00              13.37       12.32         2.34
KZ-PE-45303     1997   GOVT. OF KAZAKSTAN                PILOT WATER SUPPLY                        7.00        0.00        0.00               6.62        5.36         0.00
KZ-PE-46044     1997   REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN             REAL ESTATE REG PLT.                     10.00        0.00        0.00               7.20        6.87         0.00
KZ-PE-8507      1997   REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN            UZEN OIL FIELD REHAB                    109.00        0.00        0.00             100.41       28.09         0.00
KZ-PE-8510      1996   REPUB. OF KAZAKHSTAN              IRRIG. & DRAINAGE                        80.00        0.00        0.00              67.25        6.80         0.00
KZ-PE-8506      1995   GOVT. OF KAZAKHSTAN               SOCIAL PROTECTION                        41.10        0.00        0.00              21.90        1.30         0.00                   I
KZ-PE-8508      1995   GOVT OF KAZAKHSTAN                FINANCE & ENT. DEVEL                     62.00        0.00        0.00              55.63       55.63          .03                   -
KZ-PE-8501      1994   REP. OF KAZKHSTAN                 PETROLEUM TA                             15.70        0.00        0.00               4.36        4.35         0.00
KZ-PE-8504      1994   REPUB.OF KAZKHSTAN                TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                     38.00        0.00        0.00               4.83        4.82      --33.18
Total                                                                                         1,066.10         0.00        0.00             713.76      300.76      -30.81
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 352.34              578.96               931.30
of which has been repaid:                   1.58                0.00                1.58
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               1,064.51              578.96            1,643.47
Amount sold                                        0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                0.00                0.00                 0.00
Total Undisbursed                :              713.76                 0.00              713.76
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Apr-99.



-47 -
Annex 11
Kazakhstan: Country at a glance
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Central  middle-                -
Kazakhstan      Asia  Income       Development diamond
199
Popuatiorn. mid-year (millions)                     16.3      476     2,285                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                 13,40     2,320     1,230
GNP (Atlas rethod, USS billions)                    21.9     1,106     2,818
Average annual growth. 1991-94
Populabon f%)                                       -0.6       0.2       1,2    GNP                             Gross
Labor forcem %                                      -0.1       0.5      113    per                             priss
per                   pn~~~~~mary
Most recent stUmate (latst year available, 1991 -97)                            capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population bseow national poverty line)
Urban population (% of totat populatln)              60        67        42
Ufe expectancy at birth (years)                      65        69        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live bkths)              24        25        36
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             1                                  Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of populai on)                 .         ..      84
Illiteracy (% atpopulation age 15+)                   ..        ,.       19
Gross priary enrollment (% of school-age populatfon)  g        92       111              Kazakhslan
Male                                                           -      116              Lower-middle-Income group
Femaae                                                                113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    196      1996      1997
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ billins)                                             21.0
Cross domestic InvestmentVGDP                                 23 3                             Ta d2
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                             31.0                              rade
Gross domestc savingslGOtP                                    20.0                                T
Gross national savingslGDP                                    21.8
Current account balancelGOP                            .      -3                Domestic                    Ie n
Interest payments/GDP                                                           SavingsInvestment
Total debtWGDP                                                148.av14.8
Total debt servicelexports                                     4.6       6.5
Present value of debt/GDP                     .               12,9
Present value of debt/exports                                 38.8
indebtedness
197-86  198747    1996        1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                         -8.1     05                                  Kazakhstan
GNP per capita                             -7.8      1.8       2.2                       Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services                       1 Z8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1996      1997     Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                   12 .9
Industry                                                      30 .4              0
Manufacturing                                                6.4               1        S                        97
Services                                                      56.8             -20
Private consumption                                           67.8             -30
General govemment consumption                                 12.3                             GD1    -     GDP
Imports of goods and services                                 34.4
19764i6  198747      1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                                    1.0              20
Industry                                                      -1.2              10
Manufacturing                                                0 0.0
Services                                                      -3.6               o 0
92              es 95  95   97
Private consumption                                            1.7        A.
General government consumption                                10.3
Gross domestic investment                                     -3.8             -20
Imports of goods and services                                 11.9                      -    Exports       lnimports
Gross national product                              -7.8       0.9       1.3
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average, If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



- 48 -
Country at a Glance (continued)                                                                                     Kazakhstan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986       1996      1997       Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                                     28.8                1,00
Implicit GOP deflator                                               38.9        ..    1000
Government finance                                                                    |500
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                       o
Current revenue                                                     13.2         ..              92   93   94   9S   96   97
Current budget balance                                                                                 GDP deflator  -   CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                           ..       ..       -3.2         ..                                    ...  ..........
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                 1976      1986       1996      1997       Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                               ..       ..      5,480         ..     ,00
Oil and gas                                     ..        ..     1,022         ..s ,o
Other metals                                    ..        ..       969                4
Manufactures                                    ..        ..       430         ..
Total imports (cif).                                               5,166                2,000
Food                                            2. 0.                                    0
Fuel and energy                                  ..       ..     2,324                1,000
Capital goods                                    .
91   92   93   94   95  90   97
Export price index (1995=100)                                         98
Import price index (1995=100)                                        105                              Exports       Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                             94         ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                 1976      1986       1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                     ..       ..      6,966     7,611      o
Imports of goods and services                     ..       ..      7,546     8,279      _  91   92   93 |94   90 9    97
Resource balance                                  ..       ..       -580      -668     -2
Net income                                        ..       ..       -220      -315     -3                          _
Net current transfers                             ..       ..         50        75
Current account balance                           ..       ..       -750      -909      5
Financing items (net)                                                773     1,388      -3
Changes in net reserves                                              -23      -480      -7
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                                 0         0
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                                    67.3       75.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                          Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              ..       ..      3,122     4,278
IBRD                                            ..        .       490        648                    G: 349     A: 648
IDA                                             ..       ..          0         0
Total debt service                                                   322       499
IBRD                                                                24        34
IDA                                                                  0         0                                       c: 51i
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                                     44        28    17
Official creditors                                                 332       434    i  F: 1,805                        D 177
Private creditors                               ..       ..        305       786
Foreign direct investment                       ..       ..      1,137     1,321                                  E-788
Portfolio equity                                ..       ..          0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                     ..       ..        385       247     A - IBRD                        E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                   ..       ..        225       202      B - IDA   D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                            ..       ..          0         0      C - IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                       ..       ..        225       202
Interest payments                               ..       ..         24        34
Net transfers                                   ..       ..        201       167
Development Economics                                                                                                       9/28/98



-49 -
Annex 12
Atyrau Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Summary of Social Assessment
A. Purpose and Issues
1.    A Social Assessment (SA) can contribute to the design and implementation of projects and programs. It
brings the voice of stakeholders into the design and implementation process, especially vulnerable and otherwise
overlooked stakeholders, and can help develop mechanisms that enable them to influence critical decisions.
2.    The SA for Atyrau Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project concentrated primarily on issues of the
urgency of the problem and willingness to pay for the improved services in water supply and sanitation; project
affects on household and citywide problems; and health and socioeconomic conditions in Atyrau.
3.    The principal objectives of the assessment were to:
(a) Identify and assess the concerns and responsibilities of population and key actors who have a stake in
the proposed project;
(b) Determine how the population views their inadequate water supply and sanitation conditions in
relation to other environmental problems confronting Atyrau;
(c) Determine the public's willingness and ability to pay for water supply and sanitation improvements;
and
(d) Assess public reactions and expectations with respect to the location of the oil industry headquarters
and related development in Atyrau.
4.    The specific interest of the SA was the Pilot project development area of Atyrau city: Privokzalny and
City Center. The Privokzalny area, being the newest part of the city and accounted as one-fifth of the city
population (30,000), has the worst water supply and sanitary conditions in the city. The City Center, with Project
implementation, will receive additional pressure in the pipes, and will result in the uninterrupted services for this
important part of the city with 20,000 citizens.
B. Methodology and Limitations
5. The purpose of the SA was to evaluate, to the extent possible, the involvement of different social and
stakeholder groups in Atyrau, relative to the process of the project implementation, as well as the reaction of
independent households to prospective institutional and management changes in the sector, and the willingness to
pay for the improved services. Four social research methods were used in the study:
* A socioeconomic survey of 400 households of 10 conventional districts in Atyrau;
*  In-depth interviews with Vodocanal director, chairmen of the condominium associations, and with Atyrau
citizens, with special attention to vulnerable population groups;
*  Focus groups meetings: one with "experts" - condominiums associations chairnen, public health and
mass media representatives - and five with population of Privokzalny, city center and Balykshi districts,
and general population groups.
6.    The Household Survey was conducted in 10 conventional districts of Atyrau city, using a stratified
random sample of independent household. The sample sites were located as follows:
* City Center (Pilot Project district, multi-apartment housing)
* Balykshi (newly adjoined district, private housing)
* Privokzalny (Pilot Project district, multi-apartment housing)
* Avantguard (district badly supplied with water, multi-apartment housing)
* Old Market (district near the city center, private housing)
* SMP-163 (housing for construction company, two-floor housing)



- 50 -
* Zhilgorodok (multi-apartment housing, for construction company)
* Pervyi Uchastok (private housing)
* Munaishi (2-floor housing)
* Masloprom (mixed housing)
The survey samples covered the entire city area. No social group was excluded from the survey samples. The
final sample included 400 households.
7.    In-Depth Interviews were held with Vodocanal director; deputy chief sanitary inspector of Atyrau-city,
chairmen of condominiums (3), and with the chairman of condominium association; one interview with the
owners of a diary factory; and 15 with households in Atyrau.
8.    Focus-Groups. Six focus group discussions were held in the area covered by household survey: five
with population groups (three district specific and two with general population); and one with "experts."
9.    The survey was carried out by Research Group "Central Asia Project" (CAP) under the leadership of
Janis D. Bernstein, Environmental Specialist (ECSSD). The Project manager was Irina Malkova. In-depth
interviews and focus groups were held from 7th to 9th August, 1997. Both activities were conducted in Russian
and Kazakh.
C. Principal Findings
10.   The primary household problem is lack of money. This is followed by unemployment, and delayed salary
payment. Water supply occupies fourth position on the list of the priority problems. Overall, the SA revealed a
high level of dissatisfaction and discontent with water quality and continuity of the water-supply. The majority of
respondents receive inadequate sewage services.
(a) What is the main problem for your household?
other
water supply          14%
10%                           lack of
_          ~~~~~m o n e y
delayed                              44_
salary
paym ents                ue   ly
12 %                     m e n t
20%
Air pollution was given as the principal environmental problem for Atyrau. The problem of poor water quality
was viewed by respondents as the second priority environmental problem. Safety of piped water, and the rusty
and cloudy color were primarily concerns among consumers. In some places of the city (Balykshi) the water
quality was determined as the most important environmental problem. The poor quality of Atyrau water supply
and sanitation also was noted as a contributing factor to the high rate of stomach-intestinal diseases (17% for
adults respondents and 7% for their children).
11.   Willingness to pay for the improved water services and water quality was found to be KZT 200 per
person on average per month. Willingness to pay as one time payment ranged from KZT 750 to 7500
(US$1 0-100), depending on the location. Nearly all respondents are ready to pay for such an improvement,
regardless of the level of income, though the majority are not willing to borrow from external sources to improve
the water supply and sanitation. Sewerage problems are envisioned with much less willingness to pay for the



- 51 -
improvement. More than a quarter of the population responded as expecting to leave Atyrau within the next two
years, if living and environmental conditions have not improved.
12.    Oil business development in Atyrau is regarded very positively. However, respondents are worried with
the possible negative impacts on the environment, growing gap between rich and poor, and depletion of the
country's non-renewable resources.
Water Resources and Quality
13.   In Atyrau city, cold water connections reported are 88%, and central sewerage connections/indoors
plumbing are reported as 88.5% by household respondents. Hot water connection is reported by 76.5% of
respondents. However, the actual availability of water is much lower.
(b) Please, define your water supply (Atyrau City).
60%
40%-              ..
20%-
works    works  does not   no
constantly sometimes  work  connection
|-Cold Water  16%    51%      22%      12%
IC] Hot Water   12%  40%      25%      23%
Respondents reported that there is no cold water delivered to apartments in Masloprom and Pervyi Uchastok. But
if water is delivered to Masloprom, there will be no water in Munaishi and Pervyi Uchastok. Standpipes are
operating well in Munaishi, Pervyi Uchastok and Balykshi, however, this is not the case for Privokzalny and Old
Market. Interruptions were noted by 86.5% respondents. One-third of them reported that interruptions occurred
more than 25 days a month. More than 86% of respondents reported that they can "survive," and manage through
water storage in their apartments.
14.   In the Pilot Project area, the districts of Privokzalny and City Center, water connections reported by more
than 88% and 96% or respondents, respectively. However, the actual water supply is much worse than the
average for Atyrau.
(c) Please, define your water supply (Privokzalny, City Center).
80%-
60%-
40%,         
20%,::
0%       -
works    works   dos not    no
co nstantly sometimes   work  connection
1P riv kzaln C o Id Water   8%  62%       19%      12th
UP rivo kzalnv lo tWater    4%   4%       69%      23%



-52 -
80%
60%V
40%-<.
20%-/
0%   wo rks     wo rks    does no t   no
constantly sometimes   work   connection
|RCity Center CoId Water    8%     5 5%      32%        4%
LIfCity Center Hot Water    10%   69%       15%        6%
1 5.    The problem of water safety was very important for respondents. Poor water quality was the primary
concern of 27.9% of respondents in City Center, and 15.4% in Privokzalny (the district closest to the water intake)
with an av'erage of 24.5% for all of Atyrau. Water is unsafe for drinking (55% of respondents), rusty (46.6%),
and has bad taste (41.4%). Seventy eight per cent of respondents are boiling their water prior to drinking; only
8.5% are drinking directly from the tap.
16.    The quality of services must be greatly improved according to respondents. More than 60% of those
interviewed are dissatisfied with quality of maintenance and speed of Vodocanal emergency works. Almost half
of respondents prefer to repair a defective water pipe on their own, and 20% use private plumbers for the repair
work and pay directly from their own pockets. Indirect evidence of poor maintenance work in Vodocanal is that
spare parts for water-supply networks is a very common conmmodity in flea-market sales.
Sewerage
17.    More than 88.5% of Atyrau citizen have liquid waste disposal connections. This rate is almost 97% in the
Pilot Project area. Because of sewerage specifics, it seems that respondents do not pay much attention to the
cornditions of the sewage operations. However, Privokzany has the worst performance. Inadequate sewerage was
reported as a very important problem by 53.8% of respondents in this district (14.7% in the City Center).
(d) Please defne your sewerage
80%     5
60%-z/d
20/o%/1Z  
o wo rks    wo rks    roi ee no t  no    l
Doenstatl  sometimes    wo rk    caonnectio n
lA tyrau averag e    6 t5%  2 1%       6 %        12 %
n3Privokzalny    50S        4 6%       0 %        4%
MC ity Center    79%        15 %       3%         3%
57.7% of Privokzalny respondents said that sewage pours directly into the basements of the houses.



- 53 -
Willingness to Pay for the Improved Services with Water Supply and Sewerage
18.   Only 61% of those interviewed are paying regularly for water and sewage services. According to focus
groups data, the pensioners are the most reliable payers (they are also getting payments more regularly). The
salaries of other population groups are more random and much less predictable (see paragraph 10 of this annex),
and is most likely the reason for non-regular payments.
(e) Are you paying regularly for your water/waste water services?
100% ;   >,:!-
80% > .     t
60%                                Odo not know/no
40%-                                 answer
20%                                Ono
0%
I.~~~~w    *~~~ 4-yes
CM~~~~C
M ~ ~ ~ ~
19.   The main reason for non-payment was lack of money (57.9%), and absence of water (28.3%). Also,
Vodocanal does not provide the population with the necessary information on service interruption, water quality,
etc.
20.   Almost all respondents are willing to co-pay for improved services (99.5%). The amount of money varies
by location, though it dependents on the income of the Tespondent.
(f) How much are you wiling to co-pay (KZT) for the improved services?
Atyrau average     Privokzalny        City Center
One-time payment          2,984              1,712             3,867
Monthly per person          132               122                129
Borrowing for such improvement is not considered a good option (68%), which is related to the uncertainty of
economic situation in Atyrau and in Kazakhstan in general.
21.   Willingness to pay for sewerage improvement is much less. Only a few respondents have answered this
question and statistical analysis was impossible given the small sample. It is likely that this figure was much less
than for water-supply. Practically nobody could estimate a sum of a credit which he or she is ready to take for the
sewage services improvement.
Attitude to Oil Extraction and Its Impact on the City
22.   The majority of population is informed on the prospective move of the oil-companies headquarters to
Atyrau City Center, and regard it positively. However, responses varied by age. Generally, respondents 60 years
of age and above regarded it more negatively. Younger generation and working-age population reacted more
positively. They expect more and higher paid jobs.



- 54 -
(g) How do you regard the oil business and it impact on the city?
.
39% >                     pospositive
/ 5cMo}   >39%\             D~~~~~13rather positive
Ono impact
0 rather negative
17%             \                     negative
Mdo not know
23.   More than 50% of respondents were concerned about the negative impact of such development. The
primary reasons given were environmental pollution, a growing gap between rich and poor, the depletion of non-
renewable resources, and the increase in prices.
D. Project Implications
24.   The findings of the SA have a number of implications for the design of a project intended to improve
water supply and sanitation in Atyrau city. They can be summarized as six simple directives.
(1)     Water supply and sanitation needs urgent improvement. Lack of fresh water and severely
deteriorated sewerage networks have created unbearable sanitary and public health conditions for Atyrau citizens.
The degradation of the networks has resulted presence of a large amount of mosquitoes, named as one of the
greatest problems for the Atyrau population, together with a high rate of diarrhea and infectious diseases. The
water sector problems is forcing a large portion of Atyrau population to leave the city and Kazakhstan. This
strongly suggests the need to implement the project as soon as possible. It will stop the further degradation of the
infrastructure, and improve or maintain the living standards of the Atyrau population.
(2)     Institutional changes required. Poor sanitary conditions are accounted for by technical and
organizational reasons. Technical reasons, from the respondents' point of view, are based on inability of the city
Vodocanal to properly maintain the infrastructure that it is supposed to manage. Organization problems are based
on a non-regulated system for garbage removal, and water supply/sanitation works in the apartments, and
especially in apartment housing basements. This means that the organization and institutional structure of water
services needs quick and substantial improvement. Focus group interviews have shown that there is no
responsible body in the entire service that is ready to take the risk of a credit or loan to carry out the infrastructure
improvement. The legal status of Cooperatives of Apartment Owners (KSK) is very weak. Their managers do not
have the respect of the population and Vodocanal to conduct basement clean-up or disinfecting work, the
principal steps in service improvement. Implementation of a clear and transparent mechanism for water
supply/sanitation contracts and payment collection are urgent problems to be resolved in Atyrau.
(3)     Pilot Project area needs special attention. Water supply service itself is extraordinarily bad,
especially in the Pilot Project Area. The frequent planned and accidental disconnections for repair work make life
even harder. Nearly 100% of Atyrau citizens have water reserves in their apartments. Upper floors do not get any
water most of the time, because of low pressure in the water mains and distribution networks. The development
of the City Center is impossible without investment in Atyrau water supply/sewerage networks. Conditions in
Privokzalny are so bad, it can result in the abandoning of this district by the population in near future.



- 55 -
(4)     Willingness to pay for the improved services is very high. Practically every respondent is
ready to co-pay for water and sewage services, under conditions of uninterrupted water supply. The average
amount is equal to the existing tariff. The high-income inhabitants of Atyrau are ready to pay relatively large
sums for radical improvement. However, the poor part of the population of Atyrau is fearful that the tariff rise
will leave them without any water services. The attitude toward credits is mostly negative. The lack of credit
mechanisms in the past, the unpredictable economic situation in the country, and the very high interest rates in the
local banks directly impact this mood.
(5)     Positive attitude towards city development. In general respondents are very positive about the
move of oil-companies headquarters to the city center. They expect additional employment, higher salaries and
other benefits. However, people are very concerned about environmental pollution and depletion of non-
renewable resources as the result of such development.
(6)     Monitor transparency and clear mechanisms of institutional changes and the process of
implementation. The Pilot Project requires systematic monitoring in order to maximize learning. The
monitoring program is to be designed to assess the following:
*  Reduction of unaccounted for water, including water losses and development of the improved payment
collection mechanism;
*  Efficiency of institutional changes in Vodocanal and other agencies involved in water sector
development;
*  Health indicators in the Pilot Project Area and Atyrau as a whole.



Annex 13
Atyrau Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Project hnplementation Responsibilities
MOF (CEL)       Atyrau Regional Adnin.             CWR                Atyrau City Adniin.       Vodocanal
First Deputy Akim                                 First Deputy Mayor
LOAN
*  Borrower of Loan                  Signatory
*  Repayment of Loan                 Signatory
FINANCIAL MGM'T
*  Withdrawal Request                Signatory                                     Prepares Doc.(+)
*  Payment Request                   Signatory                                     Prepares Doc.(+)
*  Special Account *                 Signatory                                     Prepares Doc.(+)
*  60-day Advance Account **         Approves           Prepares Doc.(#)           Prepares Doc.(+)
PLANNING AND BUDGETING
*  Annual Budget Plan                 Approves      Approves / Prepares Doc (#)    Prepares Doc.(+)
*  Expenditure Forecast               Approves      Approves / Prepares Doc (#)    Prepares Doc.(+)
PROJ. ACCOUNT AND REPORTS
*  Sources and Uses of Funds         Approves              Approves                Prepares Doc.(+)
*  Uses of Funds by Activity         Approves              Approves                Prepares Doc.(+)
*  Cash Withdrawal Statement         Approves              Approves                Prepares Doc.(+)
*  Cash Forecast                     Approves              Approves                Prepares Doc.(+)
*  Special Accounts Statement        Approves              Approves                Prepares Doc.(+)
*  60-day Adv. Acet. Statement       Approves       Approves / Prepares Doc (#)    Prepares Doc.(+)
AUDITING ***                          Approves      Approves / Prepares Doc(#)     Prepares Doc.(+)
+ = Almaty consultants;              # = Atyrau consultants
MOF (CEL) = Ministry of Finance (Committee for Extemal Loans)
CWR = Committee for Water Resources
* Operation of the Special Account may be delegated by CEL to CWR
** $2,000 limit
*** To be carried out by intemationally accredited auditing firm



Annex 13 (continued)
Atyrau Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Project Inplementation Responsibilities
MOF (CEL)       Atyrau Regional Admin.             CWR                Atyrau City Adnmn.        Vodocanal
First Deputy Akim                                 First Deputy Mayor
LOAN
*  Borrower of Loan                  Signatory
*  Repayment of Loan                 Signatory
FINANCIAL MGM'T
K  Withdrawal Request                Signatory                                     Prepares Doc.(+)
*  Payment Request                   Signatory                                     Prepares Doc.(+)
*  Special Account *                 Signatory                                     Prepares Doc.(+)
*  60-day Advance Account **         Approves           Prepares Doc.(#)           Prepares Doc.(+)
PLANNING AND BUDGETING
*  Annual Budget Plan                Approves      Approves / Prepares Doc (#)     Prepares Doc.(+)
*  Expenditure Forecast              Approves      Approves / Prepares Doc (#)     Prepares Doc.(+)
PROJ. ACCOUNT AND REPORTS
*  Sources and Uses of Funds         Approves              Approves                Prepares Doc.(+)
*  Uses of Funds by Activity         Approves              Approves                Prepares Doc.(+)
*  Cash Withdrawal Statement         Approves              Approves                Prepares Doc.(+)
*  Cash Forecast                     Approves              Approves                Prepares Doc.(+)
*  Special Accounts Statement        Approves              Approves                Prepares Doc.(+)
*  60-day Adv. Acct. Statement       Approves      Approves / Prepares Doc (#)     Prepares Doc.(+)
AUDITING ***                         AppToves      Approves / Prepares Doc (#)     Prepares Doc.(+)
+ = Almaty consultants;              # = Atyrau consultants
MOF (CEL) = Ministry of Finance (Committee for External Loans)
CWR = Committee for Water Resources
* operation of the Special Account may be delegated by CEL to CWR
* $2,000 limit
$** to be carried out by internationally accredited auditing firm



Annex 13 (continued)
Atyrau Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Project Implementation Responsibilities
CEL (MOF)       Atyrau Regional Admiin..           CWR                Atyrau City Admin.        Vodocanal
First Deputy Akim                                 First Deputy Mayor
PROJ. MGMT REPORTS
*  Output Monitoring Report                        Approves / Prepares Doc (#)  Approves / Prepares Doc (+)
*  Procurement Mgmt Report                         Approves / Prepares Doc (#)  Approves / Prepares Doc (+)
PROCUREMENT RESPONSIB.
*  General Procurement Notice                                                 Approves / Prepares Doc (+)
* Civil Works Preparation &
Supervision
>  Tenns of Reference                                                     Approves / Prepares Doc (+)
>  Short List of Consultants                                              Approves / Prepares Doc (+)
>  Request for Proposals          Approves             Approves           Approves Prepares Doc (+)
>  Form Evalu. Committee                               Approves           Approves / Prepares Doc (+)
>  Evaluation Report              Approves             Approves           Approves / Prepares Doc (+)
>  Contract Negotiation                                                   Approves / Prepares Doc (+)
>  Approval for Signing           Approves                                        Approves
>  Sign Contract                                       Signatory               Prepares Doc.(+)
* Main Civil Works Contract
>  Prequalification                                                       Approves / Prepares Doc (+)
>  Fonn Evalu. Committee                               Approves           Approves / Prepares Doc ()
>  Evaluation Report              Approves             Approves           Approves I Prepares Doc (+)
>  Bid Documents                  Approves             Approves           Approves / Prepares Doc (+)
>  Evaluation Report              Approves             Approves           Approves / Prepares Doc (+)
0  Contract Negotiation                                                   Approves I Prepares Doc (+)
P  Approval for Signing          Approves                                         Approves
>  Sign Contract                                       Signatory               Prepares Doc.(+)
+ = Almaty consultants;              # = Atyrau consultants



Annex 13 (continued)
Atyrau Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Project Implementation Responsibilities
CEL (MOF)       Atyrau Regional Admin.             CWR                Atyrau City Admin.        Vodocanal
*  Emergency Repairs (Civil)                            First Deputy Akim                                  First Deputy Mayor
>  Specification/Engineering                           Approves                   Approves                                     Prepares Doc
>  Short List of Contractors                                                      Approves                                     Prepares Doc
>  Bid Documents                 Approves                                 Approves / Prepares Doc (+)
>  Form Evalu. Committee                                                  Approves / Prepares Doc (+)
>  Evaluation Report             Approves                                 Approves / Prepares Doc (+)
>  Contract Negotiation                                                   Approves / Prepares Doc (+)
>  Approval for Signing          Approves                                         Approves
>  Sign Contract                                                                                                                 Signatory
>  Certify Work Completion                                                        Approves                                     Prepares Doc
*  Emergency Repairs (Goods)
>  Specification                                       Approves                   Approves                                     Prepares Doc
>  Short List of Suppliers                                                        Approves                                     Prepares Doc
>  Bid Documents                 Approves                                 Approves / Prepares Doc (+)
>  Form Evalu. Cormmittee                                                 Approves / Prepares Doc (+)
>  Evaluation Report             Approves                                 Approves / Prepares Doc (+)
>  Contract Negotiation                                                   Approves / Prepares Doc (-)
>  Approval for Signing          Approves                                         Approves
>  Sign Contract                                                                                                                 Signatory
>  Certify Work Completion                                                        Approves                                     Prepares Doc
*  Vodocanal Studies
>  Terms of Reference                                                             Approves                                     Prepares Doc
>  Short List of Consultants                                                      Approves                                     Prepares Doc
>  Request for Proposals         Approves                                 Approves / Prepares Doc (-)
>  Form Evalu. Conunittee                                                 Approves / Prepares Doc (+)
>  Evaluation Report              Approves                                Approves J Prepares Doc (+)
>  Contract Negotiation                                                   Approves / Prepares Doc (+)
>  Approval for Signing          Approves                                         Approves
>  Sign Contract                                                                                                                 Signatory
>  Certify Work Completion                                                        Approves                                     Prepares Doc
+ = Alnaty consultants;        = Atyrau consultants



Annex 13 (continued)
Atyrau Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Project hmplementation Responsibilities
CEL (MOF)       Atyrau Regional Admin.             CWR                Atyrau City Admin.        Vodocanal
First Deputy Akim                                    First Deputy
Mayor
*  Studies of the City
Infrastructure Management
P  Terns of Reference                                  Approves                   Approves              Prepares Doc (#)
>  Short List of Consultants                                                      Approves              Prepares Doc (#)
>  Request for Proposals         Approves                                         Approves
>  Form Evalu. Commiittee                                                         Approves
>  Evaluation Report             Approves                                         Approves
>  Contract Negotiation                                                           Approves
>  Approval for Signing          Approves
>  Sign Contract                                                                                           Signatory
>  Certify Work Completion                                                        Approves                                                   ON
*  Policy Implementation
>  Annual Performance Contract                         Approves                                            Approves            Prepares Doc
>  Monthly Performance Report                          Approves                                            Approves            Prepares Doc
>  Consumption Based Billing                                                                                                   Prepares Doc
>  Change Tariff Regulation                            Approves
>  Increase Tariff                                     Approves                                             Approves           Prepares Doc
>  Customer Satisfaction Survey                                                                                                Prepares Doc
>  Local Budget Allocation       Approves           Prepares Doc (#)           Prepares Doc. (+)        Prepares Doc (#)       Prepares Doc
>  Sub-Loan Agreement            Approves           Prepares Doc (#)                                                           Prepares Doc
+ = Almaty consultants;               = Atyrau consultants



- 61 -
Annex 14
Atyrau Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Monitoring Indicators
Following Monitoring Indicators will be used for purposes of tracking the achievements of the project objectives:
1. To achieve and thereafter maintain a satisfactory financial position, the Atyrau Oblast Akimat and the
Vodocanal will be expected to take measures, including but not limited to tariff adjustments, to ensure that
beginning in September 30, 2001, collected revenues are sufficient to meet the aggregate of operating
expenses and other financial obligations. To meet this condition, Vodocanal' s operating revenues would need
to cover: (i) operational and maintenance costs including depreciation; (ii) interest and other charges on debt
services; (iii) the cost to write off bad debt; and (iv) increase in working capital.
2. Achieve overall collection level of not less than 70% for fiscal year 2000, 75% for fiscal year 2001, 80% of
fiscal year 2002, and 85% for fiscal year 2003.
3. Vodocanal will introduce consumption based billing to the Pilot Project area by January 1, 2001 or by
completion of rehabilitation of the Project area, whichever comes first.
4. By September 30, 2001, Atyrau Oblast Akimat to revise the law to enable the Vodocanal to charge tariffs that
cover up to total cost of operation including all debt service.
5. To prevent Vodocanal from jeopardizing its financial position by incurring additional debt, the Vodocanal
will be required to seek prior Bank approval for any additional debt unless revenue and expenditure forecasts
satisfactory to the Bank demonstrates that Vodocanal's internal cash generation (net income in cash before
interest and depreciation) during project implementation would at least cover 1.3 times its debt service
requirements (interest charges and amortization of principle);
6. By December 15 of every year (starting December 15, 1999), conclude, in consultation with the World Bank,
a financial and operational performance contract between the Vodocanal and the Atyrau Oblast Akimat which
would contain, inter alia, Financial and Operational Performance Agreement for the coming year.



IBRD 30042
50'                                          60                                      T   I                                              80'                                               0
KAZAKHSTAN                                RUSSIAN  FEDERATION                                                                                   0      10     20      30      40Ilmtr
ATYRAU  PILOT  WATER  SUPPLY                                T.oCheyiyolos          <0Kna             ''N                    ,m             bGrs                               0             5  i
AND SANITATION PROJECT                                                     ~00                                                                          I                                             0
PROJECT AREA  WATER SUPPLY                                                                                  jra\TO~                                   aro
DISTRIBUTION NETWORK                                   "-                             tkAAe *EJ                                    '
JoN                                                                                                        T o   B - -o l
'44        .           /     C-'               /                      '73            -~~~~~~~~~~~~~zj  EkiMl                                    .-.50
/       k~~~~~~~~A4    it   y                                             -b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
5'   ~~'~ w <  /  ~~         .~'t"t~~   Q~0,          '~~                         '7/  19%"'~~)>                       I               /   v>">                      QOIC EMEN   N,~ A
7>-  /         '"'19.   ~~,~#ORE                             "                     U           I      /                v-'ni       9                'I       .   y>7'                      Ti
Al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'>                                                                                                                                 NA"N
AKEA ~ ~ 5          '-C'7I[A
A  135'n                                                                                                                     -.                >3~~~~~~~~~~~L~D
/  <U" '  7-                   v                                       /        Akohoto                              (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
To ~~~~~~~~~/-  -~~~~~~~~~~~  AT'9U2-.II l RL E                                                                                                                                     POEC EGO
tNT    ~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~-             DSETARA
TURKMENISTAN                                                                                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ooyka h 
*  K  Eeoeu   j                                                                                     Sri>' n/i                     - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ in.-'~~REIN AITL
d- 6 I, ~' U~l T~ Wd -k            U(    ,EKIr  AN'                                                                                                       EECE CTE
-ho-pd-    i    iy  -lh  p -iToi  Wob,  8-' -,"-
j~'g-l- t~ ig.(-,       -d-.-                                                                                                                                         INENTOALBU"RE
'I  /   7'                                                                                                   .L     192~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANAY9



IBRD 30043
9   KAZAKHSTAN                         PRIVOKZALNY PROJECT AREA
ATYRAU PILOT WATER SUPPLY
AND SANITATION PROJECT                                                                              1i_--    r -
ATYRAU CITY                             )1   -------- 
PROJECT LOCATIONS AND DETAIL                               1                                                                              K>
CITY CENTER PROJECT AREA
AS                          - : X               4"a                                 \'
g  0 /      <                        =  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN STRETS AND ROADS          
I      \         -~                                        WATER DISTRIBUTION MAINS
K    i   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----GRAVITY FLOW SEWERAGE
RUSSIAN  FECHFERATION                                                                 PUMPED SEWERAGE
s-a  "ill  -  "-~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~                   - ~~MAIN STREETS AND ROADS
'Al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
aIaaY.        '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~Thi, -tp  p-.pad.rad by theMpO, ig    nta   heWn    ak
>                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TI,. ba-dnie ana, .aanria n nahn nainsra,-
'.t.leitn4lSAn    ~*rn~i'~CHINA                                                    eaep-a.ofs.ihaadr,s.
MAY 1999



