Report No. PID6542
Project Name                     Kazaksthan-Pilot Atyrau Water (+) ...
Supply,SanitationandDrainage Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Rural Development and Environment
Project ID                       KZPE8500
Borrower                         Republic of Kazakhstan
Implementing Agency State Committee
for Water Resources, Ministry of
Agriculture
Director, Smailov Serikbay
Tel. (3272) 623-083/626-259; (3172) 241-428
Atyrau Development Corporation
Director, Mynbaev Gabit, Tel (3122) 540-58
Environment Category             B
Date this PID Prepared           May 11, 1998
Projected  Appraisal Date        October 1998
Projected Board Date             January 1999
Country and Sector Background
The city of Atyrau is situated in the far west of Kazakhstan at the
northern end of the Caspian Sea. It is the capital of Atyrau Oblast (province)
and lies on the Ural River, some 25 km from the sea. Much of Atyrau's commerce
is derived from fishing, processing and exporting sturgeon and its roe,
caviar. It is home to the largest fish processing plant on the Caspian Sea.
Prior to 1991, the city was a transport hub, with a number of industries
dedicated to processing raw materials transported from elsewhere in the USSR
and subsequently redistributed as finished goods. Since the collapse of the
Soviet Union, many of these industries have been forced to close as raw
materials are no longer available and markets have shrunk. Economic activity
has fallen even more precipitously in Atyrau than in other areas of
Kazakhstan.
Recent discoveries of significant quantities of oil offshore in the
northern Caspian Sea and onshore in the Tengiz field have boosted economic
development in the area. Atyrau will benefit significantly from the economic
activity associated with the oil fields. In particular, it is expected that
international oil companies involved in the development of the oil fields will
set up their administrative headquarters in the city. However, the current
infrastructure of the city is in need of rehabilitation and improvement. As in
much of the former Soviet Union, there has been little investment in
maintenance or operation of public utilities due to budget shortfalls.
Improvements are needed in drainage, water, and sewerage before the city can
provide a basic level of service to the new oil industry headquarters.
Atyrau has a population of 150,000 with another 50,000 in contiguous
urban areas recently designated as part of the city. Development parallels the
Ural River, with industrial areas to the east and south of the city and the



main port area on its southern end. Eighty percent of the population live in
apartment blocks, averaging five stories high, which gives the city a compact
layout. The topography of the area is flat and between 23 and 25 m below sea
level. As the Caspian Sea rises, the southern part of the city will become
particularly susceptible to flooding. Drainage in the area needs to be
improved.
There is at present no centralized drainage system in the city. This,
combined with the ground composition (impermeable clay layers) and the high
water table (in much of the city the water table is less than 1 m below ground
level), means that storm water does not readily soak away, but instead lies in
low points on the ground and at road edges. This has a number of adverse
effects on the city and its infrastructure. For example, underground services,
are subject to a highly corrosive environment; roads are easily damaged
because of the pools of standing water in low points. The pools themselves
constitute a public health hazard, providing breeding grounds for mosquitoes
and are often contaminated with sewage or household refuse. The city
authorities have discussed the possibility of combining the sewerage and
drainage systems, but Vodocanal (the city's water supply and sewerage company)
has resisted this. At present there is no single authority responsible for
drainage, and yet this is considered to be one of the most urgent needs of the
city.
Most of the city is served by two separate waterborne sewerage systems.
These collect sewage from the apartment blocks, industrial premises, and other
buildings, then convey it via separate systems of pumping and gravity mains to
evaporation ponds 7 km from the city on the east and west sides of the river.
No treatment is provided at the evaporation ponds, which are unlined. It is
probable that a large proportion of the waste percolates down into the ground
water. Vodocanal is keen to upgrade the ponds, given that the fishing grounds
of the north Caspian Sea are threatened with pollution from sewage and oil
industry discharges, and the survival of the sturgeon industry is still very
important to the city's economy.
The main source or potable water for the city is the Ural River. The
ground water in the region, though close to the surface, is highly mineralized
(total salinity ranges from 12g/l to 120 g/l), and unsuitable for use as
potable water or for irrigation. The river water quality is good and presents
no particular treatment problems although sediment loads are high, with up to
500 g/l during floods. Water is abstracted from the river close to the
northern edge of the city, then treated and pumped into the main distribution
system. A continuous supply (24 hours/day) is provided, although pressures are
often low and unable to reach the upper floors of apartment blocks. There is
no significant storage in the system. The distribution system is generally in
a poor state of repair, with an average of seven bursts or leaks requiring
attention each day.
Project Objectives
The objectives of the project are: (i) to provide a suitable environment
for economic growth in selected parts of the city by improving the present
water and sewerage infrastructure; (ii) to begin phased improvement of the
management, operational capacity and financial viability of the Vodocanal;
(iii) for local authorities and Vodocanal to gain experience in developing
operational methodologies and capabilities in all aspects of project
-2 -



management, international procurement and contracting - all through small-
scale investment operation - for better management of the full-scale project;
and (iv) to prepare a full-scale rehabilitation program of city
infrastructure.
Project Description
This is a pilot project which will finance the capital investments in
two areas of the city:
- Privokzalny district - most densely populated part of the city and the most
difficult area in terms of providing water supply and sewerage;
- City Center area - designated by the authorities as the future business
center of the city, as well as where Tengiz-Chevroil (TCO) plans to construct
their Regional Headquarters building and staff housing.
The project will consist of five components: (a) rehabilitation of the
water supply system; (b) rehabilitation of the sewerage system; (c) detailed
engineering of the full-scale project and institutional strengthening; (d)
emergency repairs; and (e) refinancing of the Project Preparation Facility
(PPF).
(a) Water Supply: (i) Privokzalny District. This component would include
rehabilitation of 2 km of 800 mm diameter, 1 km of 200 mm diameter and 3.0 km
of smaller mains together with replacement of basement pipe work in Section 5
of the Prevokzalny housing development. It would also include construction of
three new booster pumping stations; (ii) City Center area. This component
would include new water mains (1.2 km of 600 mm, and 5 km of 500 mm pipes),
river crossing (1 km) and other connections.
(b) Sewerage: (i) Privokzalny District. This component would comprise
replacement of sewerage pipe work within the basements of 65 apartment blocks
in the Prevokzalnyi development, rehabilitation of selected sections of sewer
and renovation of the sewage pumping station; (ii) City Center area. This is
to provide new sewers (1.4 km), new pumping mains (0.9 km) and new pumping
station.
(c) Detailed Engineering and Institutional Strengthening. This component would
include initial studies, detailed engineering design and preparation of bid
documents for the full-scale project, and project management and supervision
of the pilot. Included are specific technical studies: (i) leak management
study; (ii) demand management study; (iii) drainage options study; and (iv)
wastewater management options study. It would also include studies and
technical assistance on institutional strengthening of the organizations
involved in execution of the project (Vodocanal and the city administration).
(d) Emergency Repairs: This component is for small repairs/rehabilitation
identified by Vodocanal during project implementation which can make immediate
and significant improvements to its operating cost and efficiency.
(e) Refinancing of PPF (US$1 million). This would refinance the PPF used for
design and preparation of bid documents for the pilot project.
Project Financing
-3-



Total project costs are estimated at USUS$17.0 million. Financing will
be from a Bank loan (USUS$14 million) and Government contribution (USUS$3
million). In addition, a bilateral donor agency (USAID) is likely to parallel
finance a project for institutional capacity building of the Oblast and city
administration (US$2 million).
Project Implementation
Overall responsibility for project coordination would rest with a
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) which would be formally established in
Atyrau. Atyrau Development Corporation (ADC) is currently acting as an
informal PIU. ADC was originally set up to assist in the implementation of
various investment projects in Atyrau, but to date its experience is limited.
In addition, the existing PIU at the State Committee for Water Resources will
be nominated by the Government as the central PIU for this project (they
already have significant experience in implementation of investment projects).
This should facilitate the preparation and implementation process. As part of
the pilot project it is proposed to strengthen their capacity to manage and
implement Bank projects.
The implementing agency would be the Vodocanal, assisted by qualified
consultants working with local design institutes for the design of the
project. The consultants would assist the Vodocanal in supervising the
implementation of the project.
Project Sustainability
At present the Atyrau Vodocanal is meeting its O&M requirements out of
current revenue, but recently has faced problems due to non-payment of water
charges, and the Oblast Government has stepped in to provide the necessary
funds. Vodocanal purchases water for 5 T/m3 (US$0.07/m3) from the Water
Production Company. This is sold for 11.4 T/m3 (US$0.15/m3, including sewerage
charges), which is a low tariff for Kazakhstan. As the city develops as a
center of the local oil industry, and general wealth increases, there is scope
for increased tariffs, particularly to new industrial users. The present
organizations have a good grasp of commercial reality, and with the
institutional strengthening and reform and conditionalities to be provided as
part of the project, will be able to minimize their costs and maximize
revenues. A simple set of monitoring indicators (operational, financial) and
performance contract will be adopted to set targets for gradual improvement of
its performance.
Along with the Privokzalny area, the project finances the extension and
increase of the water and sewer services to the new big customer - TCO and
other oil related companies to be located in the newly designated city
business center - thus representing a good cash revenue stream against
Vodocanal bills. Moreover, since TCO's office building and housing area will
only use a quarter of the planned capacity, this will leave a reserve for
future customers.
Lessons Learned from the Past Operations in the Country/Sector
The regional department's FY96 Annual Report on Portfolio Performance in
Russia and Central Asia highlighted several lessons learned in the region
including: (a) the challenge of identifying a counterpart team with sufficient
- 4 -



authority to move the project forward; (b) the difficulty of coordination
among key government agencies on critical issues; (c) the importance of
setting up PIUs early in the project cycle and the training of their staff in
Bank procurement and disbursement procedures; and (d) the importance of
involving local institutions in project design and preparation. A review of
lessons learned from water supply and sanitation projects world-wide shows
that, despite efforts at capacity building for the public institutions
concerned, few countries achieved acceptable levels of performance for their
public water and sewerage utilities, and that the financial performance of
these utilities was dismal. Some of the reasons for these deficiencies
include: (a) lack of clear sector policies; (b) lack of management and
financial autonomy for the utilities; (c) inexperience in project
implementation; and (d) lack of participation of users and other stakeholders
in the decision-making process.
To the extent possible, these lessons have been incorporated into the
preparation and design of the proposed project through: (a) introduction of
the central PIU (at the State Committee for Water Resources) in addition to
Atyrau Development Corporation, to improve project coordination and
implementation; (b) accented training of PIU and local government staff in
municipal management, international procurement, and arrangements for study
tours; (c) knowledge and expertise transfer by international consulting
services; (d) gradual but socially acceptable increase in tariffs; (e)
involvement of community organizations in decisions on city planning,
infrastructure investment priorities, water and sewerage tariff levels and
collections; and (f) adoption of quantitative monitoring indicators and
establishment of a simple performance contract between the Vodocanal and the
city administration to clarify for all parties the expected financial and
operational efficiency improvements that is expected from the project
investments over time.
Poverty Category
The proposed project would be in the Program of Targeted Interventions.
The beneficiaries of the proposed project would be the inhabitants of Atyrau -
one of the poorest regions of Kazakhstan. The proposed project would help meet
the local needs of safe drinking water, adequate sewerage, and basic drainage.
Environmental Aspects
The proposed project is classified as environmental category B. The
project is intended to implement two subprojects to pilot the full-scale
project. The overall impact would be a substantial improvement in quality of
life for the residents of a section of the Prevoksalny housing development.
The project activities involve the rehabilitation of existing pipelines, and
the construction of new pipelines within the development. Impacts on traffic
flows and problems of noise and dust from construction activities would be
temporary and suitable mitigation measures would be taken to minimize these
impacts. Overall the environmental benefits substantially outweigh any adverse
impacts.
Participatory Approach
The scope of work for the pilot project has been agreed with the local
authorities following discussion of a number of options. There is limited
- 5 -



scope for direct participation of the communities in project implementation,
but as part of the project the local residents' associations will carry out
clean-up campaigns of the local environment to enhance the benefits of the
project. Residents will also be required to attend to defects in their private
plumbing systems prior to connection of the new supplies. The scope for
further participation of the residents in the project will be examined by the
consultants responsible for detailed engineering of the pilot project.
Benefits
The main benefit of the project would be safer and more reliable water
supply services for the 30,000 residents of Prevokzalny and an additional
40,000 people in the City Center area. In particular, the project will provide
the majority of residents with a continuous supply of water as the improvement
of the overall pipe work system allows pressures to be increased. The repair
of leaks from the sewerage pipe work in the apartment basements will reduce
the risk of disease from this source.
Rehabilitation of the water main at the river crossing will increase the
water supply to the downstream areas. Improving the water and sewerage
services in the central area of the city will significantly increase it's
value for attracting commercial development.
Contact Point
Motoo Konishi / Piotr Krzyzanowski
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Tel: (202) 473-4278/(202) 473-3638
Fax: (202) 477-3378/(202) 477-3285
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 19, 1998.
- 6 -



ANNEX
Environment
The proposed project is classified as environmental category B. The
project is intended to implement two subprojects to pilot the full-scale
project. The overall impact would be a substantial improvement in quality of
life for the residents of a section of the Prevoksalny housing development.
The project activities involve the rehabilitation of existing pipelines, and
the construction of new pipelines within the development. Impacts on traffic
flows and problems of noise and dust from construction activities would be
temporary and suitable mitigation measures would be taken to minimize these
impacts. Overall the environmental benefits substantially outweigh any adverse
impacts.
7-



