Report No. 1733a-PO                                                                   F "LE  COPY
Appraisal of Lisbon Region
Water Supply Project Portugal
March 1, 1978
Water Supply and Sewerage Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Escudo (Esc.)
US$  1         =  Esc. 38.5
Esc. 1         =  US$ 0.026
Esc. 1,000     =  US$ 26.0
Esc. 1,000,000 =  US$ 26,000
(Floating exchange rates)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
mm             = millimeter (1 millimeter = 0.039 inches)
cm             =  centimeter (1 centimeter = 0.39  inches)
m              = meter (1 meter = 3.28 feet)
km             = kilometer (1 kilomieter   0.62 miles)
km2            =  square kilometer (1 km2 = 247.1 acres)
m3             =  cubic meter (1 m3 = 264.2 US gallons)
m3/sec         =  cubic meter per second (1 m3/second =
22.8 million US gallons per day)
1/sec          =  liter per second (1 1/sec = 0.26 US gallons/sec)
ha             =  hectare (1 hectare = 2.471 acres)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CFAL           =  Lisbon Water Supervisory Commission
DGSB           =  General Directorate of Basic Sanitation
EPAL           =  Lisbon Public Water Enterprise
MOP            =  Ministry of Public Works
SEHRSB         =  State Secretariat for Water Resources
and Basic Sanitation
USAID          =  United States Agency for International
Development
WHO            =  World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PORTUGAL
LISBON REGION WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ........................................               i
I.    INTRODUCTION  ............................. .  .......                           1
II.    THE SECTOR ............................... ....I
A.    General           ...............................1............ 
B.    Population and Water Resources  ...                 .................     2
C.    Service Levels and Public Health .................              ..        2
D.    Tariffs  .......................................... .                     3
E.    Financial Resources  ...............................                      3
F.    Sector Institutions  ............         ...................             4
III.  THE PROJECT AREA ..........................    4
A.   Greater Lisbon and the Lisbon Region  ..............                       4
B.    The Tejo  (Tagus) River  ............................                     5
C.    Existing Water  Supply System  .....             .................        6
D.    New Water Sources  .................................                      7
E.    Existing Sewer System  ..............  .             ...............      8
F.    Regionalization of Sanitary Services in the
Lisbon Area                          .. .    8
IV.    THE PROJECT  ............................................                        8
A.    Objectives  ........................................                      8
B.    Lisbon Region Water  Supply System .....           .............          9
C.    Supplementary Studies and Training  ...............              .        9
D.    Cost Estimates  ....................................                      9
E.    Project Implementation  .....             .......................        11
F.    Procurement  .......................................                     11
G.    Disbursements  .....................................                     12
H.    Monitoring Criteria  ......             .........................        12
I.    Environmental and Health Impacts  ....... ..               .........     12
V.    THE PROJECT ENTITIES  ...................................                      13
A.    Empresa Publica das Aguas de Lisboa  (EPAL)  .... ....                   13
B.    Accounts and Audit  ................................                     14
C.    General Directorate of Basic Sanitation  (DGSB)  ....                    15,
This report was prepared by Marcial Cuellar (Senior Sanitary Engineer), David
C. Jones (Senior Financial Analyst) and Arun Banerjee (Technical Assistant).
This documnent has a festricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                          Page No.
VI.   FINANCE ...... .    .......... ................................  15
A.   General          ...........................................  15
B.   Financial Position of EPAL .       .......................  16
C.   Municipal Finances ......      ..........................  17
D.   Financing Plan ....................................       18
E.   Tariffs   ...........................................     19
F.   Future Financial Performance  .......  . ...............    20
G.   Financial Covenants ................ . .............    21
VII.   JUSTIFICATION          ......................... ..........    22
A.   Public Health ...... ..............   ..................    22
B.   Urban Poor ..... ...................................*     23
C.   Institutional ...................     ..................    23
D.   Economic and Financial ............ .. ..............    24
E.   Risks and Safeguards ............. .. ...............    24
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..................    25
LIST OF ANNEXES
1. Incidence of Waterborne Diseases in Portugal
2. Existing Water Supply Systems
3. Description of the Project
4. Studies for the Regionalization of Sanitary Services in the
Lisbon Area - Tentative Technical Terms of Reference
5. Population and Water Demand Projections
6. Studies for the Water Supply and Sewerage of the Porto and
Algarve Regions - Tentative Technical Terms of Reference
7. Project Costs
8. Construction Schedule
9. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
10.  Key Indicators for Project Monitoring
11.  Organization Chart of Lisbon Public Water Enterprise (EPAL)
12.  Water Tariffs and Meter Rentals
13.  EPAL - Financial Projections
14.  Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
15.  Internal Rate of Return of Water Supply Investment and Average
Incremental Cost of Water (1977 Prices)
16.  Fixed Asset Valuation and EPAL's Financial Performance
IBRD Map 13032(R)



PORTUGAL
LISBON REGION WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        In recent years the water supply systems serving the Lisbon region
have been increasingly incapable of satisfying the water demand. The con-
tinuous water shortages have affected the development of the region and, by
preventing the provision of adequately treated water to a growing proportion
of the population, have made the region highly vulnerable to the spread of
waterborne diseases.
ii.       The Lisbon Public Water Enterprise (EPAL), which is the largest
supplier of potable water to the region, has prepared schemes for developing
the existing Castelo do Bode reservoir as a new source of water supply for
the region and for integrating and expanding the present distribution systems.
These schemes are based on the water demand projected for 1990 and include
the construction of facilities to purify and transmit to Lisbon the waters of
the Castelo do Bode reservoir; to distribute the water throughout the region;
and to extend the distribution networks of the Lisbon municipality.
iii.      The Government of Portugal is aware of the public health improve-
ments inherent in EPAL's schemes and has requested Bank assistance to finance
their implementation. The Government has also requested Bank participation
in institutional and financial studies for converting EPAL into a regional
water supply organization and in feasibility studies for water supply and
sewerage services in the Porto and Algarve regions. The Government is ini-
tiating a reorganization of the sector and intends to use these studies for
developing regional sanitation organizations and for improving national
expertise in the sector.
iv.       Project costs are estimated to total US$153 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$40 million to be covered by the proposed Bank loan.
US$37.8 million of the loan would be on-lent to EPAL, on Bank terms, toward
physical construction costs. The Government would retain the remaining
US$2.2 million toward the cost of the studies and training. Procurement of
items financed from the loan would be in accordance with Bank guidelines.
v.        The project is technically and economically sound.  The Castelo do
Bode scheme is, under present conditions, the least-cost solution for increas-
ing the water supply of the Lisbon region. The studies will contribute toward
the establishment of more rational management of the sector.
vi.       Water tariffs will have to be significantly increased to permit full
long-term cost recovery of the construction and operation of the system, to
provide a reasonable amount of funds for future expansion, and otherwise to
establish EPAL as a financially sound institution.
vii.      Agreement having been reached on the various matters referred to in
the report, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$40 million to the
Government of Portugal for a period of 15 years, including a 3-year grace
period, with the on-lending of US$37.8 million to EPAL.






PORTUGAL
LISBON REGION WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Portugal has requested a Bank loan to help finance
the expansion of the water supply system for the Lisbon region. The Govern-
ment considers this a priority project because the shortage of potable water
has proved to be the main cause for the high incidence of waterborne diseases
and for the rapid spread throughout the region of the 1974 cholera epidemic.
1.02      Also, the Government has requested Bank participation in financial
and institutional studies for the regionalization of sanitary services in
Lisbon and feasibility studies of water supply and sewerage services for the
regions of Algarve and Porto, which were the most affected by the cholera
epidemic. The Government is presently starting a reorganization and a devel-
opment program for the sector and intends to use these studies as pilots for
institutional development of regional sanitation authorities, as well as
vehicles for improving national expertise in the sector.
1.03      The proposed water supply project and related studies are estimated
to cost US$153 million with a foreign exchange component of US$40 million,
which would be covered by the proposed Bank loan. The main beneficiary of the
loan would be the Empresa Publica das Aguas de Lisboa (Lisbon Public Water
Enterprise or EPAL) which will conduct the expansion of the Lisbon water
supply.
1.04      The project was identified in January 1977 and appraised in May/June
1977 by a mission composed of Messrs. M. Cuellar, D. C. Jones and A. Banerjee.
II. THE SECTOR
A.   General
2.01      The water supply and waste disposal sector has been badly neglected
in the past and present levels and quality of services are unusually low for
a European country. The resulting poor sanitary conditions are primarily
responsible for the low health standards prevailing today in Portugal.
2.02      The Government is aware of the backwardness of the sector and is
preparing a massive sanitation program to improve water supply, sewerage and
solid waste disposal throughout the country. Highest priority within this
program has been given to the Lisbon region because it contains almost 30%
of Portugal's population and, as the focus of internal migration, the largest
number of urban poor. Priority has also been given to the Porto and Algarve
regions because of their large growth rates and especially deficient sanitary
conditions.



- 2 -
2.03      The main constraints to the successful implementation of the pro-
posed sanitation program are the lack of local expertise in the organiza-
tional, financial and management aspects of sector development and the short-
age of qualified sanitary engineers. Also, considerable Government financial
assistance will be required during the early years of the program because, at
present, the sector is not self-financing and the sector institutions are
financially weak.
B.   Population and Water Resources
2.04      The present population of continental Portugal is estimated at 9.0
million, of which about 45% are concentrated in Lisbon and Porto. The popula-
tion is expected to grow at an average annual rate of 0.7% reaching 9.8 mil-
lion in 1990. Its present uneven spatial distribution is expected to be
further accentuated by continuous rural migration to the Lisbon and Porto
regions.
2.05      Average annual water resources in continental Portugal are estimated
at 63 billion m3, of which about 26 billion m3 correspond to surface waters
flowing from Spain.  The present annual water usage is estimated at 6.3 bil-
lion m3 of which 0.4 billion m3 corresponds to domestic consumption and the
rest to agricultural and industrial uses.  Quantitatively then, water resources
are adequate for the foreseeable future.  However, the optimum utilization
of these resources will require the construction of significant flow regulari-
zation structures.
2.06      From a qualitative point of view, the situation is more precarious,
since the main rivers are heavily polluted by untreated discharges of indus-
trial and domestic wastewaters, which have already raised the cost of water
utilization, especially for domestic consumption (para 3.05). The Government
is trying to improve the management of the country's water resources and is
aware that this will require not only pollution control within Portugal, but
also new agreements with Spain, since present treaties on international rivers
exclude water quality considerations.
C.   Service Levels and Public Health
2.07      There is no accurate information on present service levels.  The
local consultant's estimates are that 66% (5.9 million) of the population
of continental Portugal is connected to piped water supplies and 20% (1.8
million) to waterborne sewer systems but only about 40% (3.6 million) have a
good water supply and 2% (0.2 million) a good sewerage service. From these
figures emerge a picture of highly deficient sanitary conditions for a European
country, which is further accentuated when considering the high morbidity
indices for waterborne diseases (Annex 1).
2.08      Dramatic evidence of the deficient sanitary conditions in Portugal
was the cholera epidemic of 1974-75, which centered in the southern province
of Algarve but also reached significant proportions in the slums of Lisbon
and Porto (Annex 1). The continuous appearance of vibrium cholera in sewage
samples suggests that cholera might have become endemic in Portugal and that



- 3 -
its spread is being controlled only by the extensive chlorination of all water
supplies which has been carried out since 1975. Chlorine is not, however,
fully effective when applied to turbid waters, so that there is a risk of new
epidemics until all water supplies are provided with adequate filtration and
wastewater disposal has been improved.
D.   Tariffs
2.09      Water tariffs are usually related to water consumption and are
highly progressive for domestic consumers. Traditionally, commercial con-
sumers have paid for their water at the lower rates of the domestic tariff
scale and industrial consumers have enjoyed even lower rates. The general
tariff increase of January 1977 eliminated the preferential industrial rates,
placing industry at the lowest domestic tariff step. Proposals recently under
consideration for Lisbon and Porto, which usually serve as models for the rest
of the country, have recommended further increases for industrial and commer-
cial consumers.
2.10      In constant 1970 terms, the price of water decreased steadily
throughout the 1970s and only in January 1977 were tariffs raised (100%) suf-
ficiently in the main cities to compensate for inflation. However, operating
costs, especially salaries and energy, climbed faster than the general rate
of inflation during the period 1974-76 (annual average = 21%), so that tariffs
have remained inadequate.
2.11      Sewerage service is usually charged through property taxes and only
in a few cases is it based on water consumption. Sewer charges are inadequate,
but increases are presently under study in many areas.
2.12      The erosion of water tariffs and the inadequacy of sewer charges
have created, in recent years, serious cash deficits which have been covered
through Government subsidies. Present Government policy is to allow further
tariff increases to cover not only operating expenses, but also to generate
part of the funds required for the proposed massive sanitation program.
E.   Financial Resources
2.13      Design and construction of water supply and sewerage projects have
been usually financed through Government grants and low interest loans. Until
1975, Government investment was modest, which accounts for the backwardness of
the sector, but it is now gathering considerable momentum as a result of the
initial phase of the sanitation program.
2.14      Substantial funds for the sanitation program are eventually expected
to be obtained through internal cash generation and commercial loans, with a
decreasing reliance on Government grants. During the early years of the pro-
gram, however, Government contributions will need to be significant, because
the water supply and sewerage organizations are financially weak and commer-
cial loans are made on terms relatively short for this type of investment.
Indeed, Government grants represented over 80% of the US$67 million invested
in the sector in 1976 and were expected to exceed 65% of the total sector
investment of US$112 million estimated for 1977.



-4-
F.   Sector Institutions
2.15      Traditionally, water supply and sewerage services have been the
responsiblity of the municipalities, which in some cases have created techni-
cally and managerially autonomous organizations to operate these services.
2.16      The Secretaria do Estado dos Recursos Hidricos e Saneamento Basico
(State Secretariat for Water Resources and Basic Sanitation or SERHSB), a
branch of the Ministry of Public Works (MOP), is the central government agency
that supervises the water supply, sewerage and solid wastes sector. Its tech-
nical arm is the Direccao Geral de Saneamento Basico (General Directorate
of Basic Sanitation or DGSB).
2.17      SERHSB and the DGSB have always been weak and many of their func-
tions have been gradually absorbed by other central government agencies
created or assigned to attend specific sectoral problems. Today, at least
five ministries hold some responsibilities in the sector and this fragmenta-
tion is an important cause of the present disorganization of the sector. The
Government has now concentrated all sector responsibilities under DGSB and is
proceeding to strengthen this organization.
2.18      Water supply and sewerage projects are usually designed by private
consultants and constructed by contractors. Design criteria for water dis-
tribution and wastewater collection are often outdated and there is little
local expertise in wastewater treatment and disposal. Projects are not
subject to financial feasibility or economic analysis and are usually over-
designed. Construction is supervised by the municipalities or by any of the
central government agencies involved in the sector and is generally of good
quality. Seminars are being organized in Portugal by USAID and WHO to assist
in improving the quality of project preparation.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A.   Greater Lisbon and the Lisbon Region
3.01      Greater Lisbon (see IBRD Map No. 13032R) extends on both shores of
the Tejo River estuary, covering an area of about 600 km2 in twelve municipal-
ities. 1/ In addition to being the nation's capital, it is the largest urban,
industrial and commercial center of Portugal with a present population esti-
mated at 2.4 million. Traditional urban slums (barrios degradados) house
about 200,000 people. In recent years, squatter settlements with provisional
dwellings (barrios de lata) have appeared, which house an additional 100,000
urban poor, mainly repatriates from the former African colonies and rural
migrants.
1/   Lisbon, Oeiras, Cascais, Sintra, Loures, Vila Franca de Xira, Almada,
Seixal, Barreiro, Moita, Montijo and Alcochete.



-5-
3.02      The Lisbon region includes Greater Lisbon plus seven rural muni-
cipalities 1/ situated either on the periphery of the urban area or along
the route of the water transmission pipelines. The population of the region
is estimated at 2.6 million and is projected to reach 3.6 million by 1990.
B.  The Tejo (Tagus) River
3.03      The Tejo (Tagus) River is used by EPAL as the main source of water
supply for the Lisbon region. The Tejo is the longest river (900 km) of the
Iberian peninsula with a watershed of about 81,000 km2, of which about 30%
lies within Portugal. Historically, the Tejo has been an important element in
the development of both Spain and Portugal, but its periodic floods and severe
droughts have often affected the economy of the rich Portuguese provinces
along its lower course.
3.04      Total water extraction from the Tejo by both countries is estimated
at 3.4 billion m3/year, but is expected to increase to 7.4 billion m3/year by
the end of the century because of the intensive agricultural and industrial
developments on the river basin. As a result of these developments, the
quality of the Tejo waters has deteriorated rapidly during the last decade,
forcing EPAL to upgrade its treatment facilities.
3.05      At this time, the main pollution threat to the Lisbon water supply
is the town of Santarem, which discharges its untreated wastewaters into the
Tejo, about 12 km upstream from the EPAL intake. This is a significant danger
to public health, which EPAL is thinking to obviate through the use of break-
point chlorination in its Tejo treatment plants. This process is expensive and
its ultimate safety is uncertain because of the possibility of formation of
carcinogens and it should be used only when no other alternatives are avail-
able.
3.06      The Government has already contracted with local consultants for the
preparation of a sewerage project for Santarem and intends to initiate its
construction as soon as designs are completed. The construction of this proj-
ect is estimated to cost about US$1-1.5 million and is expected to reduce the
high bacteriological contamination and NH4 content of the Tejo waters at the
point of the EPAL intake, thus reducing or postponing the need for prechlori-
nation. Agreement has been reached that the construction of the Santarem
sewerage project will be started before July 1, 1979 and that it will include
adequate facilities either to treat the wastewaters or to discharge them down-
stream of the EPAL intake.
3.07      The Government is advancing studies for the construction of a dam in
the lower course of the Tejo, about 40 km upstream from EPAL's intake. Also,
Portugal and Spain have conducted extensive testing of water quality along the
entire length of the Tejo and are contemplating the construction of numerous
1/   Mafra, Sobral de Monte Agraco, Arruda dos Vinhos, Alenquer, Azambuja,
Santarem and Alcanena.



- 6 -
wastewater treatment facilities for the main towns within the river basin and
the establishment of rigorous monitoring of industrial effluents. Through
this joint effort, it is envisaged that a reasonable cleaning of the river and
adequate control of the quality of its waters can be accomplished by the end
of the century. The resulting quantitative and qualitative improvements
should then permit the further expansion of facilities using the Tejo waters
for domestic consumption.
C.   Existing Water Supply System
3.08      EPAL presently operates the water supply system in the Lisbon Muni-
cipality and also sells water wholesale to all the urban municipalities of
the Lisbon region located north of the Tejo estuary. 1/  EPAL also supplies
limited quantities of water to the adjacent rural municipalities (Map IBRD
13032(R)). In total, EPAL provides water to about 1.6 million people.
3.09      The municipalities south of the Tejo estuary have their own water
supply systems, based on the aquifer underlying the Setubal peninsula and
serving over 0.5 million people. A further 0.5 million people throughout the
region do not have public supplies. New well-fields are being developed in
the Setubal peninsula, but decreases in the yields of existing fields and
lowering of the water table indicates that the aquifer might be already over-
drawn. A study of the Setubal aquifer will be started in 1978 under UNDP
auspices.
3.10      Because of the shortage of filtered water, the municipalities also
operate, on a temporary basis, minor sources which provide water treated only
by emergency chlorination (para. 2.08) to about 120,000 slum dwellers by means
of standpipes. Of 386 water samples taken from these sources in 1973, 259
(67%) proved contaminated. Because of this, these sources are considered the
most likely cause for the rapid propagation of the 1974 cholera epidemic in
the Lisbon region, which was largely confined to the region's slums.
3.11      The water sources and the main characteristics of the water supply
systems operated by EPAL and by the various municipalities of the region are
tabulated in Annex 2. Present water production capacity is 780,000 m3/day, of
which 500,000 m3/day (64%) corresponds to EPAL sources. Summer water demand
is estimated at 840,000 m3/day for 1977 and is projected to reach 1,430,000
m3/day in 1990.
3.12      Feeder lines, trunk mains and network storage facilities are gener-
ally inadequate, so that service on the periphery of the distribution systems
is usually intermittent. These deficiencies, coupled with the continuous
water shortages, have prevented the normal expansion of the secondary networks
and the elimination of the temporary supplies (para. 3.10). Indeed, there are
still over 300,000 people served by standpipes, even though many of them could
easily afford house connections.
1/   Oeiras, Cascais, Sintra, Loures & Vila Franca de Xira.



- 7 -
3.13      During 1976, overall unaccounted-for-water exceeded 35% of total
water production due to incomplete metering and leakage. This figure is
expected to decline as a result of the ongoing extension of metering to park
sprinkling and standpipe systems and of the recent establishment by EPAL of a
leak detection department which is to be equipped and trained under the pro-
posed project (Annex 3). Leakage in the transmission pipelines is estimated
to account for about 8% of the unaccounted-for-water and to be concentrated in
the old Alviela aqueduct, which is to be taken out of service when the new
Castelo do Bode aqueduct is completed.
D.   New Water Sources
3.14      EPAL has been increasingly concerned with the rapid deterioration of
the quality of the Tejo water (paras. 3.04-3.06) and with the possibility that
an accidental spillage of toxic industrial wastes into the Tejo could force a
shutdown of its Tejo intake, which already produces almost 50% of EPAL's water.
Consequently, when faced with the expansion of the water supply, EPAL directed
its efforts towards development of new sources of unpolluted waters which
could not only provide the additional capacity needed, but which could also
provide, albeit with severe rationing, the minimum needs of Lisbon in case of
a shutdown of the Tejo intake.
3.15      After studying the minimum yield of the available underground and
surface sources, EPAL concluded that quantitatively the only reliable source
of unpolluted waters was the Zezere River which flows into the Tejo about
45 km upstream from the present EPAL intake. The flows of the Zezere are
regularized by the Bouca Dam in its upper course and the Castelo do Bode Dam
in its lower course. EPAL chose the Castelo do Bode Reservoir because it is
about 90 km closer to Lisbon than the Bouca Reservoir. The Castelo do Bode
Dam was constructed about 25 years ago, and included, at that time, a water
supply intake for possible future use. The sizing of the main structures of
the proposed Castelo do Bode aqueduct has been determined on the basis of
comparative economic studies, using discount rates of up to 14%.
3.16      As an alternative to the proposed Castelo do Bode system, EPAL's
consultants have studied the possibility of constructing storage reservoirs
adjacent to the Tejo River, for use during periods when the water in the river
could be polluted by shock loads beyond the point where treatment would render
it safe. Since the flood plain is quite large, either the walls of the reser-
voir would have to be built to withstand possible flood damage or the site of
the reservoir would have to be about 3 km inland, involving the expense of
large pipelines, pumping stations and continuing operating costs. Either of
these solutions is expensive and even a system with two weeks' storage, con-
sidered the barest minimum necessary to provide the required protection,
would have a capital cost at least equal to those of new alternative sources.
In addition, the treatment necessary for the Tejo River water would be much
more expensive than for the Castelo do Bode water, since it includes pre-
treatment, coagulation, sedimentation, sand filtration and activated carbon
filtration. By contrast, water from the Castelo do Bode Reservoir will
probably require only sand filtration throughout most of the year. Thus,
the pipeline represents the least-cost feasible solution.



-8-
E.   Existing Sewer System
3.17      The existing sewer systems in the Lisbon region have been constructed
haphazardly through the years to attend the needs of the growing population.
Their integration under a regional master plan is long overdue. The combined
length of the sewers is about 1100 km, of which about 760 km (69%) are in the
areas north of the Tejo estuary. The older systems are of the combined types
(waste and storm waters), but the newer ones are usually separated.
3.18      In the entire Lisbon region there are four minor wastewater treat-
ment plants, with a combined capacity of only 30,000 m3/day, so that the bulk
of the wastewaters are discharged untreated, either into the Tejo estuary or
the Atlantic Ocean. Consequently, pollution and especially bacteriological
contamination are high in the coastal waters of the estuary and at the bathing
beaches of the touristically famous Costa do Sol.
F.   Regionalization of Sanitary Services in the Lisbon Area
3.19      The Government has ordered EPAL, the main supplier of potable water
to Lisbon, to proceed with studies for the regionalization of sanitary services
(water supply, sewerage and solid wastes) in the Lisbon area. These studies
are expected to provide specific proposals for the gradual conversion of EPAL
into a regional enterprise for water supply and probably also for sewerage.
In addition, a timetable would be established for the takeover by EPAL of the
water supply and sewerage systems presently operated by the various munici-
palities in the Lisbon region. Solid wastes are also to be considered for
regionalization, but early action seems most unlikely.
3.20      Since EPAL is the major beneficiary of the proposed Bank loan and
the intended regionalization would significantly modify its present organiza-
tion, agreement has been reached that these regionalization studies will be
conducted by experienced consultants and under terms of reference (Annex 4)
acceptable to the Bank. Also, agreement has been reached that the proposals
resulting from these studies will be implemented only after they are reviewed
by the Bank, with due regard to their technical and financial effects on EPAL
and on a time frame which guarantees, to the satisfaction of the Bank, that it
will not adversely affect the proper execution of the project.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives
4.01      A detailed description of the project is given in Annex 3.  The
objectives of the project are twofold:
(a) to increase potable water production to meet the needs of the
Lisbon region until 1990 and to expand the distribution networks,
in order to improve overall water service and provide safe drinking
water to about 300,000 urban poor; and



- 9 -
(b) to assist the Government in implementing the reorganization of
the sector through studies aimed at strengthening the national
capability for planning and design of water supply and sewerage
projects in urban and rural areas.
B.   Lisbon Region Water Supply System
4.02      The projections of total and served population and of water demand,
which served as a basis for designing the expansion of the Lisbon region water
supply systems are shown graphically in Annex 5.
4.03      The proposed expansion includes:
(a) construction of the Castelo do Bode aqueduct with an initial
capacity of 385,000 m3/day. It includes the installation of an
89 km long, 1.80 m diameter, transmission pipeline between the
existing Castelo do Bode reservoir and Lisbon and the construc-
tion of a water treatment plant and of two pumping stations.
(b) expansion and upgrading of the existing distribution system.
It includes installation of nine inter-municipal trunk mains
with a combined length of about 73 km, construction of three
pumping stations and of seven network reservoirs with a com-
bined capacity of 130,000 m3 and expansion of the distribution
networks to areas served by temporary supplies (para. 3.10)
and standpipes (para. 3.12).
C.   Supplementary Studies and Training
4.04      The project also includes:
(a) studies for regionalization of sanitary services in the Lisbon
area (Annex 4);
(b) feasibility studies for water supply and sewerage systems in
the Porto and Algarve regions (Annex 6); and
(c) provision for the training of senior staff of DGSB and EPAL
through short visits to water supply and sewerage organizations
and systems abroad.
D.   Cost Estimates
4.05      Project cost estimates are detailed in Annex 7 and are summarized
below:



- 10 -
Estimated Project Cost
% of
Item                        Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Total
---Million escudos---   =----Millions US$----
Transmission pipeline       1,525      685   2,210    39.6    17.9    57.5   37.5
Water treatment plant         210      140     350      5.5      3.6     9.1    5.9
Pumping stations               80       80     160      2.0      2.1     4.1    2.7
Distribution system           828      225   1,053    21.6       5.8    27.4   17.9
Administration &
engineering                 312      -       312      8.1      -       8.1    5.2
Land                           25       -       25      0.7       -      0.7    0.5
Training of EPAL Staff         -         7        7      -       0.1     0.1    0.1
Sub-Total                   2,980   1,137   4,117    77.5    29.5   107.0   69.8
Physical contingencies        249       89     338      6.5      2.3     8.8    5.8
Price contingencies         1,035      230   1,265    26.9      6.0    32.9   21.5
Total                       4,264   1,456   5,720   110.9    37.8   148.7   97.1
Studies and Training           75       71     146      1.9     1.8      3.7    2.4
Price contingencies         14      14       28     0.4      0.4      0.8    0.5
Total                          89       85     174      2.3     2.2      4.5    2.9
Grand Total                 4,353   1,541   5,894   113.2    40.0   153.2  100.0
4.06      The cost estimates are based on consultants' estimates of detailed
quantities and prices, prepared about 18-24 months ago. These have been up-
dated by the mission on the basis of general cost indices and checked against
current manufacturers' quotes and recent contracts.
4.07      Physical contingencies of 10% have been provided for all items,
with two exceptions:
(a)  5% for the largest portion of the Castelo do Bode pipeline
where detailed final designs are already complete;
(b)  15% for the 5 km long transmission pipeline tunnel, for which
all geological work is already complete.
4.08      The project costs are expressed in the prices estimated to prevail
in December 1977, with provisions for price contingencies as follows:
Foreign                     Local
Equipment                 Civil Works
1978            7.5%                        15.0%
1979            7.5%                       10.0%
1980            7.0%                        10.0%
1981 - 1982         7.0%                         8.0%



- 11 -
E.   Project Implementation
4.09      Agreement has been reached that suitable consultants will be employecl
by EPAL for engineering design and procurement. To prepare the final designs
and tender documents, EPAL has engaged Hidroprojecto, the largest Portuguese
consulting firm. Hidroprojecto is being assisted by Portuguese and foreign
experts in this work. As customary, EPAL will supervise the construction
with its own staff, which is competent and adequate. Agreement has also been
reached that DGSB and EPAL will appoint before June 30, 1978 suitable consul-
tants for conducting the supplementary studies included in the project and
that the appointment will be made and the studies carried out, in accordance
with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
4.10      A tentative construction schedule for the entire project, which was
prepared by the mission in consultation with EPAL, is shown graphically in
Annex 8. A simple bar chart has been used because the Castelo do Bode trans-
mission pipeline is, time-wise, the only critical structure of the entire
project. The project is estimated to be completed by December 31, 1982 and
the closing date for the Bank loan would be June 30, 1983.
4.11      EPAL has determined the lands and rights-of-way required for imple-
mentation of the project and is negotiating their acquisition, but EPAL may
need to request some expropriation by the Government. Agreement has been
reached that the Government will facilitate the timely acquisition of these
lands and rights-of-way so as to prevent delays in the construction of the
project.
F.   Procurement
4.12      Materials and equipment contracts estimated to cost more than
US$100,000 per contract will be procured after international competitive bid-
ding in accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines. Other materials and
equipment contracts, estimated to have a combined cost of less than US$500,000
would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with
EPAL's procedures, which are acceptable. For awarding materials and equipment
contracts, it is proposed that qualified domestic manufacturers will be given
a margin of preference of 15% or customs duties whichever is lower. Most of
these contracts are, however, expected to be awarded to foreign suppliers.
4.13      Civil works contracts expected to cost more than US$500,000 will be
awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank
Group's guidelines. Other civil works contracts, estimated to have a combined
cost of less than US$16.0 million would be awarded on the basis of local com-
petitive bidding in accordance with EPAL's procedures, which are acceptable.
Minor works, such as replacement of secondary networks, estimated to cost no
more than $50,000 in any particular case may be carried out by EPAL through
force account, under arrangements acceptable to the Bank, up to a total value
of US$1.0 million. The construction contracts for the Castelo do Bode Aqueduct
(transmission pipeline, water treatment plant and main pumping stations) will
include related material and equipment and are expected to be awarded to joint
ventures of foreign and Portuguese contractors. The civil works contracts for
the expansion of the distribution systems are expected to be won by Portuguese
firms.



- 12 -
4.14      The supplementary studies will require about 400 man-months of tech-
nical staff and 350 man-months of supporting personnel. The average foreign
exchange cost for technical staff would amount to about US$5,000 per man-month
including the overhead and profit of the consulting firms.  Advance contrs-q
is envisaged for some of this work. Therefore, retroactive financing of up to
US$50,000 is recommended for expenditures incurred on these studies after
September 30, 1977.
G.   Disbursements
4.15      The proposed loan would be disbursed over a five-year period as
follows:
(a)  30% of total expenditures required for the construction of
the Castelo do Bode Aqueduct, which represents the estimated
foreign exchange component of these works;
(b)  15% of total expenditures on civil works contracts and 100%
of foreign expenditures (if locally manufactured, 100% ex-
factory) on material and equipment contracts required for the
expansion of the distribution system;
(c)  50% of total expenditures for the consulting services required
to carry out the supplementary studies, which corresponds to
the estimated foreign exchange component for this work; and
(d)  100% of foreign expenditures for training of staff.
4.16      US$37.8 million of the US$40 million Bank loan would be on-lent to
EPAL, on Bank terms, toward physical construction costs and training of EPAL
staff. The Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and EPAL is to
include an undertaking that the Government deal expeditiously with disburse-
ment requests by EPAL and promptly place the proceeds at EPAL's disposal.
4.17      An estimated quarterly disbursement schedule is given in Annex 9.
H.   Monitoring Criteria
4.18      Annex 10 shows the indicators which should be monitored by EPAL to
measure the achievement of the technical, financial and administrative goals
set for the project. Agreement has been reached that EPAL, in consultation
with the Bank, will use these criteria to establish every year, suitable
targets and that EPAL will report its progress to the Government and the Bank,
every quarter, throughout the construction period. Among these targets will
be the percentage of unaccounted-for-water and the number of EPAL staff per
1,000 connections.
I.   Environmental and Health Impacts
4.19      The incidence of waterborne diseases in Portugal is very high (Annex
1), due to the use of untreated water for domestic consumption and to the lack
of adequate procedures for collection and disposal of liquid and solid wastes.



- 13 -
The project will eliminate the need for using untreated waters in the Lisbon
region and consequently, should significantly improve public health. Negative
effects from the construction itself are considered negligible.
4.20      The supplementary studies should provide adequate solutions for the
water supply and sewerage problems of the Porto and Algarve regions, which
were centers of the recent cholera epidemic, thus paving the way for eliminat-
ing the basic causes for the rapid spread of future epidemics. Furthermore,
these studies would improve local expertise on sanitary and environmental
engineering needed for the successful implementation of the proposed country-
wide sanitation program.
V. THE PROJECT ENTITIES
A.   Empresa Publica das Aguas de Lisboa (EPAL)
5.01      EPAL is a public company under the supervision of SERHSB.  It was
created in 1974 to take over the management of the Lisbon water supply from
the Companhia das Aguas de Lisboa (Lisbon Water Company or CAL), a former
concessionnaire.
5.02      The legislation creating EPAL (Decree Law No. 533-A/74) was prepared
mainly to ease the takeover of responsibilities from CAL. The Government has
delayed the introduction of more comprehensive legislation, awaiting the
studies for the proposed regionalization of water supply service in the Lisbon
region.
5.03      EPAL is a financially autonomous enterprise, responsible for the
water supply system in the area of Lisbon Municipality and for supplying bulk
water to various adjacent municipalities. EPAL can raise loans from local or
foreign sources to finance expansions of its facilities and can set, subject
to Government approval, tariffs sufficient to cover operation, financial and
expansion costs.
5.04      EPAL has now just over 1,500 employees including about 1,000 techni-
cal and manual workers. It is managed by a Board (Lisbon Water Supervisory
Commission or CFAL) the chairman of which is EPAL's general manager. EPAL's
organization chart is shown in Annex 11.
5.05      EPAL has a modern organization; it is well-managed and it is carry-
ing out its responsibilities effectively. However, it still has to overcome a
number of serious problems, mainly in the financial, labor and planning fields.
5.06      Trade unions established in EPAL following the 1974 revolution have
been steadily pressing for needed increases in salaries and worker benefits
and improvements in working conditions. Large salary increases coupled with
low staff productivity have resulted in abnormally high operating costs. Con-
sequently, EPAL intends to severely limit staff increases and to concentrate
its efforts upon a gradual improvement of productivity. Indeed, EPAL expects



- 14 -
to expand its planning department (para 5.07) and supervise the construction
of the project by reassigning existing staff and hiring new staff only for two
or three key posts.
5.07      All planning for expansion of distribution networks within EPAL's
service area is presently carried out independently by the respective munici-
palities. This uncoordinated planning has impeded the rational development of
the distribution system, and the lack of inter-connection among the municipal
networks contributes to inadequate pressures along municipal boundaries.
Agreement has been reached that the Government will take all action within
its power so as to give EPAL sole responsibility for all planning within its
service area by December 31, 1978 and that, by the same date, EPAL will have
established and staffed, in consultation with the Bank, a suitably expanded
planning department.
5.08      To allow EPAL to improve its staff productivity and handle its
expanded responsibilities, agreement has been reached that, by June 30, 1978,
and as a condition of loan effectiveness, EPAL will have filled with expe-
rienced staff its recently created posts of Financial and Commercial Directors.
Agreement has also been reached that, by June 30, 1979, EPAL will incorporate,
in consultation with the Bank, an organization and methods capability within
its planning department.
B.   Accounts and Audit
5.09      EPAL operates a fully integrated accounting system based on a cen-
tralized computer. Some of its computer functions are carried out by outside
agencies under contract. Budgetary controls are integrated into the periodical
financial reports prepared by the computer, but these are of a rudimentary
nature at present and require refinement.
5.10      Meters are read every two months on a continuous program.  Bills are
prepared by computer and hand-delivered by meter readers at the time of the
subsequent reading. Cash is collected by the readers and deposited at local
banks or at EPAL's central cash office. Customers who do not pay the meter-
readers may pay their bills at EPAL's offices.
5.11      The central cash office is responsible for both receipts and payments
of cash, including make-up of pay envelopes, payment of suppliers by cash and
by check and the banking of surplus cash.
5.12      Measured against classical requirements, the above arrangements
show serious potential weaknesses in internal financial control, due to a lack
of satisfactory division of duties. These weaknesses are alleviated to some
extent by the use of the computer as a centralized system monitor.
5.13      EPAL, like all corporations, is required to have its financial
statements certified by a "Revisor Official de Contas", a public official
with responsibilities similar to those of a French "Commissaire aux Comptes".
While these officials are independent of the companies whose accounts they
certify, there is no obligation for them to be experienced or professionally
qualified auditors.



- 15 -
5.14      Agreement has been reached that EPAL will submit to the Bank, within
four months of the end of each fiscal year, financial statements audited in a
manner acceptable to the Bank, by qualified, experienced and independent
auditors. In addition, agreement has been reached that as part of the audit
work for FY 77, EPAL's auditors will be asked to determine the extent to which
the present system of internal financial control (para 5.12) needs improvement
and to make appropriate recommendations, following which, EPAL has agreed to
take adequate steps to suitably strengthen its system of internal control by
September 30, 1978.
C.   General Directorate of Basic Sanitation (DGSB)
5.15      DGSB is the main technical branch of SERHSB.  It has regional offices
throughout Portugal and, at present, has a staff of about 300, including 78
engineers.
5.16      The Government has assigned to DGSB the main responsibility for the
technical and organizational aspects of the proposed country-wide sanitation
program.  Accordingly, DGSB is now expanding its organization and engaging
additional staff. DGSB lacks, however, experience in sector planning as well
as expertise in financial analysis and on wastewater treatment and disposal,
and has assigned the preliminary planning to local engineering consultants.
5.17      The 1977 WHO/IBRD Sector Report already indicated DGSB's shortcomings
and accurately concluded that the upgrading of technical expertise should be
the goal of any external assistance and that it should be accomplished through
the financing of specific projects. The supplementary studies included in the
project cover a mix of urban and rural water supply and sewerage projects and
are designed to transfer expertise in the fields of financial and economic
analysis, wastewater treatment and disposal, physical oceanography, industrial
wastewater surveys and pollution control.
VI. FINANCE
A.   General
6.01      The borrower would be the Government of Portugal, but most of th-
loan would be on-lent to EPAL toward construction costs.  Execution of a
able on-lending agreement would be a condition of loan effectiveness. The
proceeds of the loan would be allocated as follows:
US$ Million
Expansion of the Lisbon water supply system,
and training of EPAL staff                                 37.8
Supplementary studies and training of
DGBS staff                                                  2.2
Total               40.0



- 16 -
The Government has agreed to provide counterpart funds for the supplementary
studies and make available capital finance, in the form of loans or equity
contributions, to cover the balance of EPAL's project costs, including cost
over-runs, to the extent not covered from other sources. A major source of
loan finance for EPAL's investment program is expected to be a Government
savings bank, Caixa Geral de Depositos.
B.   Financial Position of EPAL
6.02      Since its establishment in 1974, EPAL's financial condition has been
precarious. In FY 75 it incurred a net loss after interest of Esc. 110 million
(US$2.9 million). In FY 76 a potential net loss of Esc. 250 million (US$6.5
million) was converted into a profit of Esc. 210 million (US$5.5 million) by a
Government allocation of Esc. 460 million (US$12.0 million), granted as a com-
pensation for the postponement of a proposed tariff increase. In FY 77 it was
expected that EPAL would earn a net income before interest of Esc. 94 million
(US$2.4 million), but incur a net loss after interest of about Esc. 62 million
(US$1.6 million) despite the drastic tariff increase which took place in
January of that year (para. 6.06).
6.03      EPAL took over from the former concessionnaire at the peak of the
cholera epidemic and in the wake of the revolution, with a clear mandate to
improve water supply services quickly without sparing expenses. It received
from CAL facilities which were not only insufficient to attend the water
demand, but which had also been badly neglected and it had to start imme-
diately a large program of studies, repairs and expansions.
6.04      The financial effects of this program have been compounded by severe
inflation, large salary increases in a situation of low labor productivity
and increased energy costs. Loan financing has added to EPAL's difficulties
because of high interest rates and relatively short amortization periods.
6.05      To help finance its investment program, in November 1975 EPAL
arranged a short-term loan (1 year) of Esc. 800 million (US$20.8 million)
from the Caixa Geral de Depositos. In November 1976 repayment was extended
for an additional year and by January 1977, EPAL had withdrawn about Esc. 235
million (US$6.1 million). It was expected that the remaining Esc. 565 million
(US$14.7 million) would be disbursed to EPAL during FY 77 and it is understood
that the Caixa Geral de Depositos has now converted this loan to a 12 years
repayment period.
6.06     'Until December 1976, EPAL's tariffs for domestic and industrial
consumption were insufficient to cover even operation and maintenance costs.
Furthermore, it had to supply water free-of-charge to central and municipal
government premises, including standpipe and park sprinkling systems. In
January 1977, retail tariffs in all the municipalities presently supplied by
EPAL were nearly doubled, to the levels currently in force (Annex 12) and a
sliding scale was introduced for domestic consumption with progressively
higher unit charges for larger consumers. In addition, charges were levied
upon consumption by central and municipal governments. The tariffs charged
to surrounding municipalities for bulk water were also nearly doubled.



- 17 -
C.   Municipal Finances
6.07      Intimately bound to the financial fortunes of EPAL are those of the
municipalities to which EPAL supplies bulk water because:
(a) the municipalities must pay EPAL for bulk water;
(b) extensions to distribution systems must be provided and
financed by the municipalities; and
(c) in the event of shortcomings in the service provided by the
municipalities, as it was the case during the 1974 cholera
outbreak, EPAL may be asked to provide emergency assistance.
6.08      The financial problems of the municipal water and sewerage enter-
prises vary somewhat among them, but several common difficulties can be dis-
cerned.
6.09      Typically, municipal services (in addition to water and sewerage)
include town planning and construction of basic infrastructure, maintenance of
roads and municipal property, garbage collection, cemeteries, parks, markets
and building regulations. These services have, in the past, been largely
financed by a form of revenue-sharing, whereby the central Government has col-
lected, together with income taxes, a tax on income accruing (or deemed to
accrue, for owner-occupiers) from property rentals. These taxes had earlier
been regularly remitted to the municipalities for their exclusive use, but
since 1974 remittances have become erratic.
6.10      The municipal water and sewerage enterprises sell water on the
basis of metered consumption and receive a special share of property taxes for
sewerage. Most municipalities in the Lisbon area have recently been permitted
to increase their sewer charges about six-fold, but in some cases these new
charges have not yet been fully implemented. Little capital has been made
available for expansion of water and sewerage services and operating surpluses
can be legally appropriated for other municipal uses. The enterprises seem
therefore to have been persuaded, on health grounds, to appropriate current
revenues for system expansion, in preference to meeting current obligations
to EPAL.
6.11      On December 31, 1977, the sums owed to EPAL by the various muni-
cipalities amounted to Esc. 247.4 million (US$6.4 million) and some of the
pending bills dated as far back as December 1974. EPAL had earlier informed
the Government that if the arrears were not settled soon, it might be forced
to default on its debt payments to the Caixa Geral de Depositos, a partic-
ularly embarrassing admission in view of EPAL's wish to borrow further funds
from this institution. Since then, EPAL has had to raise temporary loans in
order to stay solvent.
6.12      Following intervention by the Government measures acceptable to
the Bank have now been taken which are soon expected to result in substantial
settlement of these arrears. Agreement has been reached that the Government
will take all action necessary to ensure that future amounts owed to EPAL for



- 18 -
the sale of water to any municipality will be paid to EPAL within three
months of billing.
D.   Financing Plan
6.13      Pro-forma financial statements are given in Annex 13 and explained
in Annex 14. The following table summarizes EPAL's estimated funds require-
ments during the period of project construction and shows the sources from
which they would be met.
1978-1982 Amount
Escudos              US$
--------Millions -------           %
Funds Requirements
Construction:
Project                              5,720              148.7         82.3
Other Contruction                      630               16.3           9.0
Acquisition of Meters
and Mechanical Plant                  -255                6.6           3.7
Total Capital Expenditure              6,605              171.6          95.0
Increase in Working Capital              349                9.0           5.0
Total Requirements                     6,954              180.6         100.0
Funds Sources
Internal Funds                         3,498               90.9         50.3
Less:  Debt Service                   (3,352)             (87.1)        (48.2)
Net Internal Funds                       146                3.8           2.1
IBRD Loan                              1,456 /1            37.8 /1       20.9
Other Loans                            3,040               79.0          43.7
Government Equity                      2,312               60.0          33.3
Total Sources                          6,954              180.6         100.0
/1   Esc. 110 million (US$2.9 million) is estimated to be disbursed during
FY83.
6.14      Although internal funds are expected to provide about 50% of EPAL's
total funds requirements, most of these funds will be absorbed by growing
debt service obligations until the later years of the program, when a modest
contribution can be expected towards construction costs (Annex 13).
6.15      The Bank loan is assumed to be US$40.0 million.  The portion of the
loan to be made available to EPAL is expected to provide Esc. 1,456 million



- 19 -
(US$37.8 million) representing about 26% of its project costs or about 21% of
EPAL's overall funds requirements. The loan is expected to be repaid over
12 years by equal half-yearly instalments of principal, after a 3-year grace
period, with interest at the appropriate Bank lending rate.
6.16      The Government is expected to provide about 35% of the total cost of
EPAL's investment program for the years 1977-82 in the form of equity. The
Ministry of Finance has given a written undertaking to EPAL of Government's
intention to make contributions to EPAL's statutory capital to ensure that by
the end of 1982 its authorized capital will not be less than Esc. 2,500 million.
The Caixa Geral de Depositos has indicated to EPAL, in a letter of intent,
that it is prepared to make loans to cover the remaining funds requirements,
after allowing for funds from the other sources referred to above. These loans
are expected to be repaid by half-yearly level payments of combined principal
and interest (annuity method) over 12 years, after a 2-year grace period.
Interest is assumed to be 13.5% per annum. Execution of a suitable financing
agreement between EPAL and an appropriate lender or lenders, securing these
loan funds for EPAL's investment program, to the satisfaction of the Bank, is
to be a condition of loan effectiveness. The minimum amount to be provided
for is $80 million equivalent.
6.17      Not included in the above financing plan is provision for the con-
struction of extensions to the distribution systems within the areas of the
municipalities. These extensions, which are expected to be, at least ini-
tially, the responsibility of the municipal water and sewerage enterprises,
are estimated to cost Esc. 1,089 million (US$28.3 million) for the period
1978-82 and a further Esc. 823 million (US$21.4 million) for the period
1983-87 (Annex 7).
6.18      The Government has agreed to provide or arrange financing of all of
EPAL's investment program, together with the related investment program of the
municipalities. Agreement has been reached that EPAL will submit annually to
Government, and to principal lenders (para. 6.16) by a date to be determined
by Government, its investment program for the next ensuing fiscal year, to-
gether with a forecast of sources and applications of funds related to its
operations for the same year and an indication of when funds to be provided by
the Government and principal lenders will be required for the timely execution
of the investment program. Agreement has also been reached that the Govern-
ment will, during the period of project construction, take all administrative
action, including the submission of proposals to parliament on all matters
requiring legislative action, necessary to ensure that EPAL and the municipal-
ities will be provided with the funds required to undertake their investment
programs in a timely manner, and also to enable EPAL to meet its obligations
to set and maintain adequate tariffs.
E.   Tariffs
6.19      EPAL's present poor financial position must be improved by further
tariff increases during the next few years. Even if the Government contri-
butes 35% of EPAL's investment program, as indicated in the financial plan



- 20 -
(para. 6.16), anticipated additional borrowing requirements will cause EPAL
to incur steadily increasing interest charges which, at current rates, are
estimated to rise from about Esc. 156 million (US$4.1 million) in FY 77 to a
peak of about Esc. 645 million (US$16.8 million) by FY 82.
6.20      EPAL's average retail tariff for 1977 of about Esc. 7.0/m3 is only
about 58% of the average incremental cost of water (Annex 15), which supports
the evidence of the financial forecasts that tariffs must be raised. The
necessary tariff increases are to be implemented gradually between 1978 and
1983 (the expected first full year of project operation). By 1983, tariffs
would approximate the average incremental cost and would be adequate for
financial purposes.
6.21      To implement this policy, it has, therefore, been recommended that
average tariffs be immediately increased by a minimum of 30%, while further
annual increases of about 17.5% from 1979 to 1983 are expected to be required
to meet the debt service covenant (para. 6.26). Since these tariff increases
will include increases in bulk water charges to the Municipal enterprises,
their own retail tariffs will need to be raised correspondingly. Government
has already established the principle of common retail tariffs throughout the
Lisbon region, so this should not prove a major difficulty. Tentative calcu-
lations show that the initial 30% increase could be obtained by raising
commercial, industrial and governmental tariffs by a little over 50% (to reach
about 80% of average incremental costs) and maintaining domestic tariffs
substantially unchanged. Government has recently notified the Bank of
its approval of an initial 30% tariff increase to be effective from April 1,
1978. Implementation of this tariff increase will be a condition of loan
effectiveness.
6.22      The present structure of retail tariffs levied by EPAL and by the
municipal enterprises is shown in Annex 12. Whilst the unit tariffs for
domestic consumption are increased progressively for consumers using larger
quantities, the scale seems to have an unnecessarily large number of steps.
Furthermore, all industrial, commercial, municipal and governmental consump-
tion is at about the lowest tariff level. Agreement has been reached that, as
par't of its regionalization studies (para 3.20), EPAL and the Government will
cause a review of the tariff structure to be undertaken, in consultation with
the Bank. Draft terms of reference (Annex 4) provide for the tariff review to
ensure greater simplicity, consistent with equity among different classes of
consumers and, as early as possible, to charge consumers able to afford it,
tariffs approximating average incremental costs.
F.   Future Financial Performance
6.23      An analysis of EPAL's present financial position as a basis for
future performance expectations requires a recognition that its fixed assets
(stated virtually at cost in its books) are significantly undervalued. This
creates a very distorted picture of the revenue requirements necessary (through
adequate depreciation) to cover system renewal and (by a reasonable rate of
return) to cover interest charges on debt and to provide for reasonable system
expansion. Also seriously misrepresented is EPAL's capital structure, which
has caused EPAL to place undue emphasis upon demands for equity contributions
to restore a satisfactory debt/equity ratio (Annex 16).



- 21 -
6.24      Restoration of credibility to EPAL's financial statement demands
that its fixed assets be revalued. This cannot be done without adequate
study, but is, nevertheless, especially important in view of the proposed
amalgamation of EPAL with other enterprises. Agreement has therefore been
reached that as part of the regionalization studies and the establishment of
a suitable timetable for the takeover by EPAL of the systems of the surround-
ing municipalities, studies be made to evaluate the technical and financial
effects of such takeovers. These studies will include an up-to-date assess-
ment of fixed asset values of the enterprises concerned, including EPAL.
G.   Financial Covenants
6.25      In general, financial covenants should be designed to be simple
and effective in assisting the project entity to deal with its most important
financial risks. These principles are especially applicable to EPAL. In
the immediate future, EPAL's greatest difficulty will be in meeting its debt
service obligations, particularly since a large share of its debt will likely
be incurred under arrangements entitling the lender (principally expected to be
the Caixa Geral de Depositos) to adjust its interest rates (including those on
loans already contracted) in line with changing market conditions. During the
project construction period, EPAL's annual debt service is expected to increase
almost fourfold and although the proposed tariff increases will ensure coverage
of this increase, little scope will remain for provision of funds towards con-
struction costs. However, once the new source of supply comes into operation,
the revenues expected to accrue therefrom should enable EPAL to generate suf-
ficient internal funds, after meeting debt service, to contribute towards
future capital investment requirements.
6.26      The uncertainty surrounding proposals for reorganization, especially
the timetable for taking over responsibilities for sewerage, makes it virtually
impossible to meaningfully formulate estimates of EPAL's investment program
after project completion, apart from water distribution system extensions in
the areas presently served by the municipalities, but which by then are ex-
pected to have come under the jurisdiction of EPAL. However, by the end of
project construction it would be reasonable to expect EPAL to provide intern-
ally about one quarter to one third of its investment requirements. This
should represent no particular difficulty, since its debt service obligations
should, by then, have begun to decline, or at least to have levelled off.
6.27      Agreement has been reached that, commencing in FY78, the Government
will facilitate that EPAL sets and maintains tariffs so as to ensure that
revenues will be sufficient to cover all expenses of operations, maintenance
and administration (but not depreciation) and, in addition, to provide for:
(a) all debt service obligations; and
(b)  no later than FY83 a minimum percentage contribution towards
the average cost of its investment program for the current and
succeeding financial years, to be determined in consultation
with the Bank.



- 22 -
Apart from the advantages of simplicity, certainty and effectiveness, a cove-
nant based on debt service coverage has the advantage of being also relevant
to the needs of, and having the support of, the Caixa Geral de Depositos,
EPAL's expected principal lender. Following a review of the studies referred
to in paragraph 6.24, and in any event not later than December 31, 1980, EPAL
will adjust its tariffs and tariff structures and take any other action
necessary to achieve the objectives of these policies.
6.28      Agreement has also been reached, and EPAL has so confirmed, that it
is EPAL's established policy that charges to consumers able to afford it will
not be less than incremental costs, that its earnings will be sufficient to
provide a reasonable rate of return on capital investment (in real terms) and
that its internally generated funds cover a reasonable proportion of capital
investment requirements.
6.29      Whilst rate of return analysis is made difficult by the present
under-valuation of EPAL's fixed assets, tentative calculations suggest that
EPAL would achieve a rate of return on its fixed assets in operation (as
annually revalued) and its working capital, in the range of 3%-5% by about
1983 and about 4.5%-7% by about 1987 (Annex 16).
6.30      Agreement has also been reached that EPAL (or its successor) will
raise loans only with the consent of the Bank, unless its net cash earnings
before depreciation and interest exceed 1.5 times its expected debt service in
any future year, including debt service on the amount to be borrowed. The
financial forecasts indicate that, until FY82 the debt service coverage will
barely exceed 1, but from FY83 onwards, is likely to rise from 1.5 times to
beyond 2.5 times, with all interest charged to operations.
VII. JUSTIFICATION
A.   Public Health
7.01      Permanent water shortages and inadequate distribution networks today
characterize the water supply systems of the Lisbon region. These deficien-
cies have led to the extensive use of inadequately treated waters. Further-
more, the inability of the water authorities to maintain constant supplies at
adequate pressure has resulted in intermittent service, severe summer water
rationing and contamination of waters in the peripheral distribution networks.
The inevitable sequelae has been the highest incidence of waterborne disease
in any large European city. By providing sufficient water and integrating
the various municipal distribution systems, the project should greatly improve
sanitary conditions in the Lisbon region and make safe water available to the
entire population.
7.02      The supplementary studies are addressed to the Porto and Algarve
regions, which were the main centers of the recent cholera epidemic and where
heavy investment in both water and sewerage systems is necessary and inevit-
able in the near future. Well-designed studies should result in better tech-
nical, economic and institutional decisions regarding the planning of future



- 23 -
projects throughout the country. The studies are expected to help establish
adequate procedures for the treatment of drinking and wastewaters and for
pollution control, thus minimizing the possibility of recurrence of water-
borne epidemics.
B.   Urban Poor
7.03      Project benefits to the urban poor should be far greater than those
normally associated with expansions of existing water supply systems in Euro-
pean cities, because:
(a)  The new Castelo do Bode aqueduct will enable potable water
to be supplied to a total of about 300,000 people not now
adequately supplied, including about 120,000 (40%) slum
dwellers who are presently supplied with waters that have
proved contaminated and are treated only by emergency
chlorination (para. 3.10). In addition, about 135,000
urban poor presently supplied with potable water from
standpipes will be enabled to have house connections.
(b)  As in many seaside touristic cities, the wealthier live on
the low coastal areas or on the lower hills overlooking the
sea and the poorer groups of the population are scattered
along the periphery of the urban area, on the higher inland
hills. Consequently, the poorer areas are the most affected
by intermittent service and low pressures. These deficiencies
facilitate the entrance of contaminated waters into the pipes
through infiltration and siphoning, thus magnifying the risks
of spread of waterborne epidemics. The construction of addi-
tional inter-municipal mains and of treated water resevoirs on
the periphery of the region will eliminate these deficiencies
by allowing the establishment of suitable pressure service
zones.
C.   Institutional
7.04      The project represents the largest, best planned and most compre-
hensive Portuguese undertaking in water supply to date. Its implementation
should reinforce EPAL's position as the foremost water supply agency in
Portugal and provide valuable lessons for planning, designing, financing
and constructing water supply systems in other parts of the country.
7.05      The regionalization studies will analyze the advantages of separate
and combined water supply and sewerage agencies, examine the political and
financial aspects of regional agencies and propose suitable domestic and
industrial tariffs for water and sewer services. They should then greatly
assist the Government in implementing its sanitation program.



- 24 -
D.   Economic and Financial
7.06      The construction of the Castelo do Bode aqueduct is, under present
conditions, the least-cost solution to meeting the next stage of expansion of
Lisbon's water supply, at any reasonable discount rates. It will also provide
the time required for the study and implementation of the measures needed to
clean and regulate the flow of the Tejo river, which must inevitably remain a
major water source for the region.
7.07      The main benefits of the construction project, though difficult to
quantify, will be public health improvements. Further benefits would result
from the elimination of costly maintenance and replacement of roof storage
tanks, pumps and other devices presently used by the population to alleviate
the effects of intermittent water service.
7.08      The cholera outbreak of 1974 was followed by a drastic reduction in
foreign tourism but, since it coincided with the Portuguese revolution, it is
difficult to evaluate its true impact upon tourism. The possibility of new
epidemics remains high and should one occur, its effect upon tourism could be
disastrous.
7.09      Financially, the tariff increases to be associated with the project
and the related capital restructuring should transform EPAL's present preca-
rious financial situation, so that by the end of project construction it would
be in a position to adequately cover its debt service obligations, and to pro-
vide funds for a significant proportion of its post-1982 investment program.
This, in turn, would release funds which would otherwise be used by Government
to support EPAL's operations, to be made available for other parts of the Gov-
ernment's investment program of which, as we have seen, the proposed sanitation
program could form a significant component.
7.10      Revenues derived from present retail tariffs in the Greater Lisbon
Region would give an internal financial return on the total investment program
of about 2%, which confirms the evidence of the financial forecasts that these
tariffs are too low. An increase of about 70% (in constant prices) would be
necessary to match average incremental costs and the attainment of this level
by the end of project construction, as assumed in the financial forecasts,
would by definition yield an internal financial return of about 10% (Annex 15).
E.   Risks and Safeguards
7.11      In view of the heavy demands upon Government financial resources,
(and those of the nationalized Caixa Geral de Depositos) caused by the over-
all construction program (paras. 6.13 and 6.16), to be made at a time of
exceptional economic strain for Portugal, there is a risk that construction
might be curtailed or extended in time. However, the high priority accorded
by the Government to the project, coupled with the almost obsessive fear of
another cholera outbreak, is expected to provide adequate motivation for the
timely provision of funds. Agreement has been reached (paras. 6.16 and 6.18)
upon appropriate administrative procedures to encumber the necessary funds.
The proposed Government contribution towards the project and towards related



- 25 -
woUis by the municipalities (which together will serve about 30% of Portugal's
population) is estimated to average about US$18 million annually.
7.12      Uncertainties exist regarding the timely implementation of tariff
increases. However, the program of gradual increases, linked to a tariff
covenant (debt service coverage) which is straightforward, consistent with
Government policy and easily understood, should help to mitigate this problem
(see paras. 6.21 and 6.27).
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Agreement having been reached on the issues referred to in Chapters
III through VII of this report and subject to the conditions of effectiveness
set forth in paras. 5.08, 6.01, 6.16 and 6.21, the proposed project is suit-
able for a Bank loan of US$40 million to the Government of Portugal for a term
of 15 years including a 3 year grace period.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
PORTUGAL
LISBON REGION WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Incidence of Waterborne Diseases in Portugal
(Reported Cases per 1O5 Inhabitants)
A. Typhoid Fever
1971        1972         1973         1974
Lisbon                            28.2        18.9         11.0          5.3
Porto                              4.4          3.6         4.0          2.3
Algarve                           17.2        14.0         11.3         11.5
Portugal                          17.1        13.7          9.5          6.8
B. Hepatitis
1971        1972         1973         1974
Lisbon                           19.5         13.9         11.4          8.8
Porto                              6.1         4.1          6.o         12.2
Algarve                           11.8          3.4         3.5          1.9
Portugal                           8.6         7.3          6.9          8.4
C. Cholera
1974        1975
Lisbon                                        39.6          1.7
Porto                                         79.059.8
Algarve                                      113.0          1.1
Portugal                                      29.4         12.0
During the period 1971-1974, annual incidence for all
waterborne diseases in the United States averaged 2.1
cases per 105 inhabitants.



ANNEX 1
Continued:                                                                Page 2
Incidence of Waterborne Diseases in Portugal
D. Cholera in the Lisbon Region - 1974
Municipality                        No. of Reported Cases       Reported Cases per 1o5
Inhabitants
North of Tejo River:
Lisbon                                  312                          36.7
Oeiras                                 102                           56.6
Cascais                                  25                          26.2
Sintra                                   41                          33.0
Loures                                   81                          48.8
V. Franca de Xira                        50                          85.5
South of Tejo River:
Almada                                   31                          28.8
Seixal                                   12                          31.5
Barreiro                                 21                          35.6
Moita                                     6                          15.5
Montijo                                   6                          14.2
Alcochete                                 1                           7.6



PORTUGAL                            ANNEX 2
Page 1
TTSBON REGION WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Existing Water Supply Systems
A. Sources of Water
Operated by           Types of Source           Safe Yield    Types of Treatment
m3/d (000)
EPAL                  Springs                        50        Chlorination
Inland wells                  47         Chlorination
Wells North of Tejo          103         Fe and Mn Removal
Wells Setubal peninsula       60         Chlorination
Tejo River                   240         Full treatment
Municipalities:
North of Tejo River Wells                           14        Chlorination
South of Tejo River Wells                         264         Chlorination & pl Control
Total safe yield m3/d (000)                       778
B. Transmission Pipelines
Operated by                                      Length - Km
EPAL                                                  317
Municipalities North of Tejo River                    170
Municipalities South of Tejo River                    149
Total                                                 636
C. Pumping Stations
Operated by                      Number             Installed Capacity Kw
EPAL                              11                     13,100
Municipalities North of Tejo       39                     2,580
Municipalities South of Tejo       54                     3,580
Total                            104                     19,260



ANNEX 2
Page 2
LISBON REGION WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Existing Water Supply Systems
D. Distribution Networks
Operated by               Length Km  No. of House Connections   No. of Standpipes
EPAL                       1,044               271                     900
Municipalities:
North of Tejo River       1,410               237                     590
South of Tejo River         620                81                     90
Total                      3,074               589                   1,580
E. Distribution System Reservoirs
Operated by                      Number             Capacity - M  (000)
EPAL                                 17                    312
Municipalities:
North of Tejo River               166                     131
South of Tejo River                70                      39
Total                               253                    482



ANNEX 3
Page 1
PORTUGAL
LISBON REGION WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Description of the Project
A.   General
1.        The proposed project includes:
(a) construction of the Castelo do Bode aqueduct;
(b)  expansion of the regional water supply distribution system;
(c) supplementary studies; and
(d) training of EPAL and DGSB staffs.
B.   Castelo do Bode Aqueduct
2.        The Castelo do Bode aqueduct has been designed for an initial capac-
ity of 385,000 m3/day which is to be increased in the future up to 515,000 m3/
day through the addition of booster stations. The intake on the Castelo do
Bode reservoir was constructed, together with the dam, about 25 years ago and
it was expanded by EPAL in 1976.
3.        The Castelo do Bode aqueduct includes:
(a) A 4.9 km long tunnel between the intake and Portela.
Geological studies and borings are already complete and
the final design is underway;
(b) Portela pumping station to lift the raw waters to the
treatment plant. It is a low head station with a 3.8 km
long, 1.80 m. diameter force main;
(c) Asseiceira water treatment plant. In early 1977, EPAL
completed a pilot treatment plant by the side of the
Castelo do Bode reservoir to carry out the testing
required for accurate design of the treatment facilities.
The plant is expected to include:
(i)  microstrainers;
(ii) pre-chlorination or pre-ozonization;
(iii) chemical coagulation and sedimentation;



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(iv) rapid sand filters;
(v) disinfection with chlorine.
(d) Asseiceira-Varzea des Chamines transmission pipeline with
a length of 68 km and a diameter of 1.80 m. Final detailed
designs are already complete.
(e) V. des Chamines-V. Franca de Xira transmission pipeline. It
includes two sectors of 2.50 m. diameter with a combined
length of 7.5 km and a 4.5 km long, 1.50 m. diameter siphon.
This line parallels the existing Tejo pipeline.
(f) Carregado booster pumping station to allow the inter-connection
of the Castelo do Bode and Tejo aqueducts.
C.   Expansion of the Distribution System
4.        It includes:
(a) installation of 9 regional trunk mains with a combined length
of about 73 km;
(b) construction of 5 new reservoirs with a combined capacity of
100,000 m3;
(c) expansion of two existing reservoirs to provide an additional
storage capacity of 30,000 m3;
(d) construction of three pumping stations; and
(e) installation of about 100 km of secondary networks.
5.        During 1976, unaccounted-for-water exceeded 35% of total water pro-
duction due to incomplete metering, leakage and illegal connections. Of the
365 municipal parks within the metropolitan area, about 100 were served until
this year by unmetered sprinkling systems. Leakage in the transmission lines
is estimated to account for about 8% of the unaccounted-for-water, and to be
concentrated in the Alviela aqueduct.
6.        The tariffs approved in January 1977 eliminated the free water
previously supplied to the municipalities and, during the first quarter of
this year, EPAL installed meters in all park sprinkling systems. The Alviela
aqueduct, which is almost 100 years old, provides about 10% of EPAL's water.
Its rehabilitation is not considered economically justifiable and, therefore,
EPAL intends to take it out of operation once the Castelo do Bode aqueduct
is completed.
7.        EPAL is aware that the above measures are not sufficient to tighten
the system and, in 1976, it established a leak detection department. With
part of the funds to be provided by the Bank loan, EPAL intends to acquire



ANNEX 3
Page 3
pitot tubes, geophones and other instruments to adequately equip this new
department. It also intends that the suppliers will provide experienced
personnel for training EPAL staff in the use of these instruments.
D.   Supplementary Studies
8.        They include:
(a) studies for the regionalization of sanitary services in the
Lisbon area; and
(b) feasibility studies for water supply and sewerage services
in the Porto and Algarve regions.
Tentative technical terms of reference for these studies are provided in
Annexes 4 and 6.
E.   Training of EPAL and DGSB Staffs
9.        Training for senior staff of EPAL and DGSB would be provided
through short visits to water supply and sewerage organizations and systems
abroad.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
PORTUGAL
LISBON REGION WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Studies for the Regionalization of Sanitary Services in the Lisbon Area
Tentative Technical Terms of Reference
A.   Objectives
1.        The objectives of these studies are four-fold:
(a) To analyze the socio-economic characteristics of the Lisbon
region in order to identify the number, location and compara-
tive income levels of the population groups who are most
affected by the deficiencies of present sanitary services;
(h). To evaluate the present levels of sanitary services in the
Lisbon region in order to determine the studies and mea-
sures needed for their improvement and to estimate the
future demand for sanitary services;
(c) To prepare timetables and present recommendations for the
conversion of EPAL into a regional water supply authority
and for the gradual regionalization of sewerage and solids
waste services; and
(d) To review the tariff structure for water supply in accor-
dance with the costs of supply and the ability to pay of
the various consumer groups and of industrial and commercial
users.
B.   Scope
2.        Preparation of present and future (year 2000) general land use maps
of the entire region and detailed land use maps of the urban area. The maps
showing present conditions should indicate the areas inhabited by the region's
urban poor. I/
1/   Urban poor will be defined as those with an income lower than one-third
of the average national per capita income. If the data for applying this
definition cannot be ascertained satisfactorily, then the urban poor
will be identified through the combined application of pertinent socio-
economic indicators, such as access to water, sewer, electricity and
surface drainage; employment; population density, types of dwellings
and living space per capita, etc.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
3.        Preliminary socio-economic analysis of the region (sources and type
of employment, minimum and average wages, number of unemployed and under-
employed, etc.) with the purpose of determining the number of the population
below the poverty level and within other significant income levels.
4.        Determination of present and estimate of future population, water
supply demand, waste water flows, and solid waste volumes for the various
areas of the region.
5.        Preparation of a map of the existing water supply facilities show-
ing location and capacity of water intakes; location, length, diameter and
capacity of transmission pipelines; location and capacity of treatment plants,
pumping stations and treated water reservoirs, and areas served by distribu-
tion networks. The facilities owned by EPAL and by the other various water
supply authorities should be clearly identified. The map should also indicate
the areas to be served in the future, up to the year 2000.
6.        Preparation of a map of the existing sewer system showing location,
length, diameter and capacity of the interceptors and main collectors; loca-
tion and capacity of pumping stations, wastewater treatment plants and dis-
posal facilities and the areas served by secondary collection networks. The
facilities owned by the various sewerage authorities should be clearly iden-
tified. The map should also indicate the areas to be sewered in the future,
up to the year 2000.
7.        Preparation of a map showing the service areas of the various solid
wastes authorities, the areas to be served in the future up to the year 2000
and the location and capacity of existing solid waste disposal facilities.
8.        Determination, through adequate sampling, of the levels of sanitary
services presently provided to the urban poor (average number of households:
(i) served by house connections, (ii) served by stand pipes, and (iii) not
served by the distribution system; number of sanitary appurtenances in the
average household; per capita water consumption; average number of households
connected to the municipal sewers; frequency of garbage collection, etc.)
and presentation of specific proposals for their improvement.
9.        Sampling of domestic sewage and garbage to determine pollutant
loadings of the domestic waste waters and composition of domestic solid
wastes.
10.       Preliminary survey of existing industries and testing of their
effluents to determine present and project future industrial wastewater flows
and pollutant loadings and to identify the major polluting industries. 1/
1/   Major polluting industry is one that:  (a) has a wastewater flow of
200 m3 or more per average work day, or (b) has in its waste pollutant
concentrations which require special consideration during the design
of collection, treatment and/or disposal facilities.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
11.       Based on 10 above, preparation of terms of reference for conducting
an in-depth survey of main polluting industries aimed at determining the pro-
cesses required for eliminating or reducing concentration of toxics 1/ and
of incompatible pollutants 2/; establishing suitable industrial wastewater
management procedures and adequate monitoring of industrial effluents; setting
industrial wastewater tariffs based on flows and pollutant loadings; and,
determining the techno-economic feasibility of industrial wastewater recycling.
12.       Preparation of terms of reference for conducting oceanographic
studies of the Tejo estuary and coastal ocean waters aimed at determining
the absorption capacity of these bodies of water and locating sites and depth
for wastewater disposal.
13.       Preparation of terms of reference for an in-depth study of solid
waste collection and disposal. It will consider the techno-economic feasi-
bility of resource recovery and of joint disposal of solid wastes and waste-
water sludges.
14.       Review of present institutional procedures for the planning and
operation of water supply, sewerage and solid waste services. Recommenda-
tions for improvements in organizational responsibility for sewerage and
solids waste disposal operations. Review of alternative procedures for
regionalizing sanitary services under one or more autonomous authorities, and
preliminary timetables for regionalizing sewerage and solid wastes services.
15.       Time tables for the conversion of EPAL into a regional water supply
organization. Preparation of terms of reference to conduct institutional
studies and financial projections needed to implement these changes.
16.       Review of existing water tariffs and recommendations for improving
the existing tariff structure so as to attain greater simplicity and better
equity among the different groups of consumers. Consideration should be
given to:
(a) a reduction in the present number of tariff steps for
domestic consumers;
(b)  an increase in the quantity of water supplied at the lowest
domestic tariff step so as to allow higher consumption by
the lower economic groups; and
1/   Toxics - substances which are present in concentrations that are
considered to be a threat to life processes.
2/   Incompatible pollutants - substances which cannot be handled or
will interfere with usual treatment and/or disposal procedures.
For example, substances which will inhibit biological processes
if biological treatment plants were to be used.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
(c) commercial and industrial consumption and the higher tariff
steps for domestic consumers should be charged at rates not
less than the incremental cost of water.



ANNEX 5
PORTUGAL
LISBON REGION WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
POPULATION AND WATER DEMAND PROJECTIONS
.________ I______     _ !1000
=_________  _______                                                  500
400
Total Water Demand of Region 
-(Right Scat :_ _         C     =;                                                300
_ ~~~~~Su pplied from Epal Sources_
__ _                            -_(Rig_ht Sca         le)                                        200
o                  __
0.6
0000                       4__    __                                                                        100
-r1 __ __   _.____                                                                                   80 
40
-                                                                                   60
Total Population Served by Epal               20    '
4000                                                                                                        4 0   Z
2000                                _ f   ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~(Left Scale)   l                           E
Act u_al                    _ _              Projections   o
1975         1977        1979        1981         1983        1985         1987              1990
Year
VVorld Bank-i 7742



ANNEX 6
Page 1
PORTUGAL
LISBON REGION WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STUDIES FOR WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE OF THE PORTO AND ALGARVE REGIONS
Tentative Technical Terms of Reference
A.   Introduction
1.        The Government of Portugal intends to retain the services of con-
sultants to conduct feasibility studies of water supply and sewerage for
the Porto and Algarve Regions and, on the basis of such studies, to prepare
high-priority first-stage projects covering the water supply and sewerage
facilities which should be constructed in the immediate future in each region.
B.   ObJectives
2.        The objectives of the studies are:
(a) To establish the basis for implementing the Government goals
of providing, by 1990, potable water and adequate sewerage
facilities to all communities with a present population over
500;
(b) To improve the existing procedures for wastewater disposal;
(c) To project and stage the future development of the water
supply and sewer system;
(d) To prepare a high-priority first-stage project which can be
constructed during a period not to exceed five years and which
can be presented to international financing organizations;
(e) To present specific recommendations regarding the organization
of the entities to be responsible for operating the water
supply and sewerage systems.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
C.   Feasibility Studies - The feasibility studies will include:
3.        Preparation of present and future (year 200C) general land use maps
of the Porto and Algarve regions showing the location of all communities with
a present population over 500 and of detailed land use maps of the Porto urban
area showing the zones inhabited by the urban poor. 1/
4.        Preliminary socio-economic analysis of the Porto and Algarve regions
(main sources of income and employment; expected degree of industrialization;
demographic trends; number of working force and percentages employed in agri-
culture, manufacturing and service industries and unemployed; minimum and
average wages, median per capita income, housing type, etc.) with the purpose
of determining the socio-economic characteristics of the regions and their
potential for development and the number of the population below the poverty
level.
5.        Preparation of maps of the existing water supply facilities in both
regions showing main water sources; location and capacity of water intakes;
location, length, diameter, and capacity of transmission pipelines; location
and capacity of water treatment plants, pumping stations and treated water
reservoirs; and areas presently served and to be served in the future up to
the year 2000.
6.        Preparation of maps of the existing sewer systems in both regions
showing location, length, diameter and capacity of interceptors; location and
capacity of pumping stations, wastewater treatment plants and disposal facili-
ties; areas served by sewers and by other types of disposal systems (septic
tanks, percolation pits, etc.) and areas to be sewered in the future up to
year 2000.
7.        Determination of the levels of water supply and sewerage services
presently provided to the poor: average number of urban poor served by house
connections, stand pipes and private wells; per capita water consumption;
average number of urban poor served by municipal sewers, septic tanks and
percolation pits; number of sanitary appurtenances in the average household,
etc.
8.        Analysis of both regions under the viewpoint of water supply and
sewerage services: levels of service, yield of existing and potential water
sources, quality of water sources and drinking waters, pollution of surface
waters, incidence of waterborne diseases, etc. Water quality will be deter-
mined through suitable testing.
1/   Urban poor will be defined as those with an income lower than one-third
of the average national per capita income. If the data for applying
this definition cannot be ascertained satisfactoriy, then the urban
poor will be identified through the combined application of pertinent
socio-economic indicators, such as access to water, sewer, electricity
and surface drainage; employment; population density, types of dwellings
and living space per capita, etc.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
9.        Projections of population, water consumption, and wastewater flows
for all the communities with a present population over 500 and for the various
sectors of the Porto urban area, at 5 year intervals, up to the year 2000.
10.       Review of existing water supply projects, techno-economic com-
parisons of viable alternative solutions for providing potable water to the
various communities and preparation of water supply master plans for both
regions. These plans will indicate the possibilities of implementation by
stages related to demand and will include: water sources; preliminary sizing
of transmission pipelines, water treatment plants and main pumping stations;
and areas and populations to be served. General construction cost estimates
for the entire master plans.
11.       Preliminary industrial survey of the City of Porto including in-
ventory of existing industries and of their present wastewater treatment
facilities and testing of the main industrial effluents in order to project
industrial wastewater flows and pollutant loadings.
12.       Review of wastewater treatment and disposal processes which could
be used. For the City of Porto and for all coastal communities, preference
will be given to wastewater disposal through submarine outfalls. Accordingly,
preliminary oceanographic surveys (bathimetry, ocean currents, prevalent winds,
etc.) will be made at the sites of possible outfall location to estimate the
degrees of treatment required for marine disposal. For the inland communi-
ties, preference will be given to simple processes such as ponds, Imhoff tanks
and land disposal. Accordingly, testing will be carried out of the potential
receiving bodies (water and land) to estimate their absorption capacities.
Also, the possibility of wastewater reclamation for agriculture will be
studied: minimum standards of water quality for various types of crops,
seasonal demand for irrigation, usable flows, potential users, cost of
reclaimed water as compared with water from traditional sources, etc.
13.       Preparation of sewerage master plans for both regions indicating
the possibilities of implementation by stages related to demand and includ-
ing disposal sites; preliminary sizing of interceptors, wastewater treatment
facilities and main pumping stations; and areas and populations to be sewered.
General construction cost estimates for the entire master plans.
14.       Determination of the master plans (paragraphs 10 and 13) structures
which are most urgently required and which can be constructed during a period
not to exceed five years. These structures will make up the first-stage water
supply and sewerage projects for each region.
15.       Preparation of maps showing the structures to be constructed and
areas to be served by the proposed first-stage projects. Preliminary con-
struction cost estimates including costs of final design, construction
supervision and physical and price contingencies.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
D.   First-Stage Projects - The preparation of the first-stage projects will
include:
16.       Preliminary design of the first-stage water supply projects for both
regions, including location and yield of water sources; location and capacity
of intakes, water treatment plants, pumping stations and treated water reser-
voirs; location, length and diameter of transmission pipelines; and estimated
lengths of the distribution networks.
17.       Preliminary design of the first-stage sewerage projects for both
regions, including type and location of disposal sites; location, capacity
and type of wastewater treatment facilities and pumping stations; location,
diameter, capacity and preliminary profiles of submarine outfalls and inter-
ceptors; and estimated length of the collection networks. Additonal oceano-
graphic surveys will be carried out at the submarine outfall sites: detailed
bathimetry, borings of the submarine subsoil, stratification of the water
column, ocean currents at various water depth, dispersion patterns by means
of drift cards and fluorescent dyes, etc.
18.       Detailed estimate of construction costs for all the structures
covered in paragraphs 16 and 17 above, including soil borings and other tests
which may be required for accurate cost determination. Local and foreign
cost components will be indicated in each case. Preparation of a detailed
construction program per quarter.
19.       Projections of population to be connected to the water supply and
sewer systems, water sales to sewered and to unsewered premises and costs of
operation and maintenance of the water supply and sewer systems during each
year throughout the construction period and five years thereafter. Projec-
tions of annual expenses to be incurred for expansion of the water supply
and sewer systems during the five years following the completion of the
first-stage projects.
20.       Determination of the level of water and sewer tariffs required
to cover operation and maintenance costs, service of debt and to provide a
surplus to attend the normal expansion of the systems.
21.       Review of the organization, staffing and operation of the existing
water supply and sewerage agencies and preparation of specific recommenda-
tions and training programs for implementing the institutional changes
envisaged by Government.
22.       Preparation of detailed terms of reference for conducting a base
line study which will be used to establish a monitoring program of ocean
water quality in the vicinity of the submarine outfalls.
23.       Preparation of terms of reference for conducting an in-depth
industrial survey in the City of Porto with the following objectives:



ANNEX 6
Page 5
(a) to determine the in-plant measures which could be taken by
industry to reduce their wastewater flows and pollutant
concentrations to levels compatible with the proposed
treatment processes;
(b)  to establish a program for monitoring industrial discharges
and regulations for industrial effluent;
(c) to determine reasonable sewer charges for the collection,
treatment and disposal of industrial effluents.



PORTUGAL
LISBON REGION WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                ANNEX 7
Page 1
ESTIMATED PROJECT COST
Local    Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign    Total   % of
ITEM                                         ---Millions of Escudos----      ---Millions of US $-----    Total
Castelo do Bode Aqueduct
Tunnel-Caste:lo do Bode to Portela           175         75        250         4.5      2.0        6.5       4.:'
Portela Pumping Station                       40         40         80         1.0      1.1        2.1       1.4
Pipeline-Portela to V. Chamines             1190        560      1750         30.9     14.6       45.5      29.7
Asseiciera Treatment Plant                   210        140        350         5.5      3.6        9.1       5.9
Pipeline-V. Chamines to V. F. de Xira        160         50       210          4.2      1.3        5.5       3.6
Carregado Booster Pumping Station             40         40         80         1.0      1.0        2.0       1.3
Distribution System
Trunk Mains                                  510         90        600       13.3       2.3       15.6      10.2
Pumping Stations                             132         88        220         3.4       2.3       5.7       3.7
Reservoirs                                   130         23        153         3.4      0.6        4.0       2.6
Network Expansion                             56         24         80         1.5      0.6        2.1       1.4
Sub Total                                  2643       1130      3773        68.7      29.4       98.1      64.0
Administrationi                              172          -        172         4.5      -          4.5       2.9
Engineering                                  140          -        140         3.6      -          3.6       2.3
Land                                          25          -         25        0.7       -          0.7       0.-
Training of EPAL Staff                       __           7-         7                  0.1        0.1       0.1
Sub Total                                  2980      1137       4117        77.5      29.5      107.0      69.8
Physical Contingencies                       249         89       338         6.5       2.3        8.8       5.8
Price Contingencies                         1035        230      1265        26.9       6.0       32.9      21.5
Total                                       4264       1456      5720       110.9      37.8      148.7      97.1
Studies   1/
Regionalization Studies                       20         16         36        0.5       0.4        0.9      0.6
Feasibility Studies for Porto                 37         30        67         0.9       0.8        1.7      1.1
Feasibility Studies for Algarve               18         17        35         0.5       0.4       ,0.9      0.6
Training of DGSB Staff                         -          8         8          -        0.2        0.2      0.1
Sub Total                                    75         71       146         1.9       1.8       3.7       74
Price Contingencies                           14         14        28         0.4       0.4        0.8      0.i
Total                                         89        85        174         2.3       2.2       4.5       2.9
GRAND TOTAL                                 4353       1541       5894      113.2    40.0        153.2    100.0
_/ Include physical contingencies.



PORTUGAL                                            ANNEX 7
Page 2
LISBON REGION WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Estimated Annual Project Expenditure
ITEM                                                  1978    1979    1980    1981    1982          Total
-----------Millions of Escudos-----------------
Castelo do Bode Reservoir
Tunnel - Castelo do Bode to Portela                              90       90       40      30         250
Portela Pumping Station                                 -        -        10       50      20           80
Pipeline-Portela to V. Chamines                        350      400      400      400     200        1750
Asseiciera Treatment Plant                              -        50      140      100      60   -    350
Pipeline-V. Chamines to V. Franca de Xira               80       80       50       -       -          210
Carregado Booster Pumping Station                       -        10       50       20      -           80
Distribution System
Trunk Mains                                            127      127      127      127      92         600
Pumping Station                                         40       55       55       35      35         220
Reservoirs                                              30       30       31       32      30         153
Network Expansion                                       17       16       16       16      15          80
Sub Total                                             644      858      969     820      482
Administration                                          29       40       44       37      22         172
Engineering                                             70       56       14       -       -          140
Land                                                    18        7       -        -       -           25
Training of EPAL Staff                                   3        2        2      -
Sub Total                                             764      963    1029      857      504        4112
Physical Contingencies                                  60       81       87       68      42       -33f
Price Contingencies                                     57      203      331      381     293        1265
Total                                                 881    1247    1447    1306        8          5720
Studies 1/
Regionalization Studies                                 17       19       -       -         -          36
Feasibility Studies for Porto                           16       38       13      -         -          67
Feasibility Studies for Algarve                          6       20        9      -         -          35
Training of DGSB Staff                                   4        2        2      -         -           8
Sub Total                                              43       79      24       -         -         146
Price Contingencies                                      4       16      _8       -         -          28
Total                                                  47       95      32       -         -         174
GRAND TOTAL                                            928    1342    1479    1306        839        5894
1/ Include physical contingencies



ANNEX 7
Page 3
PORTUGAL
LISBON REGION WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Non-Project Investment Programs
ITEM                               1978      1979      1980      1981      1982     Total
----------- Millions of Escudos---------------
(A) by EPAL
Wells and intakes                    11.5     21.0      13.0       1.0       1.0       47.5
Treatment plants                     18.8     10.0       -          -         -        28.8
Trunk mains                         169.5     21.0      11.0      11.0      11.0      223.5
Pumping stations                     44.8       6.2      0.2       0.2       0.2       51.6
Reservoris                           40.0     10.0       -          -         -        50.0
Miscellaneous                        28.2     23.8       1.8       1.8       1.8       57.4
Sub Total                         312.8      92.0      26.0      14.0      14.0     458.8
Physical contingencies               31.3      9.2       2.6       1.4       1.4       45.9
Engineering and Adminis-             27.1     13.8       3.6       0.7       0.7       45.9
tration
Sub Total                         371.2    115.0       32.2      16.1      16.1     550.6
Price contingencies                  27.8     24.5      10.8       7.4       9.2       79.7
TOTAL                              399.0    139.5       43.0      23.5      25.3      630.3
(B)  by the Municipalities
New Networks
Urban-North of Tejo                  27.0     25.4      26.1      32.0      32.8      143.3
Rural-North of Tejo                   3.0       3.1      3.1       3.2       2.8       15.2
South of Tejo                       24.5      25.2      25.7      26.0      26.6     128.0
Sub Total                          54.5      53.7      54.9      61.2      62.2     286.5
Physical contingencies                5.5      5.4       5.5       6.1       6.2       28.7
Engineering and Adminis-              9.9      8.4       4.2       3.1       3.1       28.7
tration
Sub Total                          69.9      67.5      64.6      70.4      71.5      343.9
Price contingencies                   5.2     14.4      21.6      32.6      41.0      114.4
TOTAL                                75.1     81.9      86.2    102.6    112.5        458.3
GRAND TOTAL                         474.1    221.4    129.2    126.1    137.8    1088.6



ANNEX 7
Page 4
PORTUGAL
LISBON REGION WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Future Expansion of the Regional Distribution Network
ITEM                            1983       1984       1985       1986       1987       Total
------Millions of Escudos-----------------------
Municipalities
Lisbon                           4.4        4.4        4.4        4.4        4.4        22.0
Urban-North of Tejo             33.8       34.5       35.5       46.2       47.2       197.2
Rural-North of Tejo              2.8        2.7        2.8        2.8        2.8        1:3.9
South of Tejo                   19.6       21.9       22.2       22.6       22.8       109.1
Sub Total                      60.6       63.5       64.9       76.0       77.2       342.2
Physical contingencies           6.0        6.4        6.5        7.6        7.7        34.2
Engineering and Adminis-        11.6       10.0        5.0        3.8        3.8        34.2
tration
Sub-Total                      78.2       79.9       76.4       87.4       88.7       410.6
Price contingencies             54.7       67.1       74.9       99.6      116.2       412.5
TOTAL                         132.9      147.0      151.3      187.0      204.9       823.1



ANNEX 7
Page 5
PORTUGAL
LISBON REGION WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Suaplementary Studies
Cost Estimates
Local        Foreign         Total
-------- Escudos ('000) ---------
A. Regionalization Studies
Local Personnel:
Sanitary Engineers   - 18 m/m at Esc. 150,000        2,700            -           2,700
- 36 m/m at Esc. 120,000      4,320            -            4,320
Planner and Economist- 18 m/m at Esc. 120,000        2,160            -           2,160
Technicians           - 90 m/m at Esc.  75,000      6,750             -           6,750
Foreign Personnel:
Sanitary Engineers   - 18 m/m at Esc. 300,000          900           4,500        5,4oo
Planner and Economist- 18 m/m at Esc. 300,000          900           4,500        5,4oo
Experts               - 16 m/m at Esc. 360,000         800           4,960        5,760
General:
Sewage and solid waste testing                         100             500          600
International Travel                                 -              1,200         1,200
Local transportation                                1,200              320        1,520
Reports and Miscellaneous                              100             400           500
Total - Regionalization Studies                    19,930          16,380        36,310
B. Feasibility Studies for Porto
Local Persormel:
Sanitary Engineers   - 24 m/m at Esc. 150,000       3,600            -            3,600
- 72 m/m at Esc. 120,000      8,640            -            8,640
Financial Analyst    - 24 m/m at Esc. 120,000       2,880            -            2,880
Economist and Experts- 12 m/m at Esc. 120,000       1,440            -            1,440
Technicians           -192 m/m at Esc.  75,000    14,400             -           14,400
Foreign Personnel:
Sanitary Engineers   - 24 m/m at Esc. 300,000       1,200           6,ooo         7,200
Financial Analyst    -  6 m/m at Esc. 300,000          300          1,500         1,800
Experts               - 24 m/m at Esc. 360,000      1,200           7,440         8,640
Oceanographic Survey                                 _              3,000         3,000
General:
Water, sewage and soil testing                        100             900         1,000
Equipment for oceanography                                          8,ooo         8,000
International travel                                 -              1,400         1,400
Local transportation                                3,100             820         3,920
Reports and Miscellaneous                             100             500           60o
Total - Porto Feasibility Studies                  36,960          29,560        66,520



ANNEX 7
Page 6
Supplementary Studies
Cost Estimates
Continued:
Local         Foreign         Total
Escudos ('000)               -----------
C. Feasibility Studies for Algarve
Local Personnel:
Sanitary Engineers -   18 m/m at Esc. 150,000        2,700             -            2,700
-   36 m/m at Esc. 120,000       4,320                         1 4,320
Financial Analyst  -   12 m/m at Esc. 120,000        1,440             -            1,440
Technicians         -   72 m/m at Esc.  75,000       5,400             -            5,400
Foreign Personnel:
Sanitary Engineers -   18 ra/m at Esc. 300,000          900           4,500         5,400
Financial Analyst  -    4 m/m at Esc. 300,000           200           1,000         1,200
Experts             -   16 m/m at Ese. 360,000          800           4,960         5,760
Oceanographic Survey                                  -4,ooo                        4,000
General:
Water, sewage and soil testing                          100             500           600
International travel                                  -                 800           800
Local transportation                                 2,300              820         3,120
Reportsand Miscellaneous                               100              4oo           500
Total - Algarve Feasibility Studies                 18,260          16,980        35,240
Notes:
(a)  m/m  =  man-month.
(b) Costs per man-month include the overhead and profit of the
consulting firms and physical contingencies.
(c) Costs for oceanographic surveys exclude the cost of a fully
manned vessel to be provided by the Navy's Hydrographic Office , but
include physical contingencies.



PORTUGAL
LISBON REGION WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
Year            1978                    1979                    1980                    1981                    1982
Item
Quarter   I    I I   IIV - I    II    it   IV              I    II   III   IV      I    I-I   II   IV       I  --      III   IV
Tunnel - Castelo do Bode to Portela                            f 11111                        __                                        
Portela Pumping Station                                                      _j log         _  _r_
Pipeline - Partela to Chamines                              III                       mm
Asseiceira Treatment Plant                                 U          oin ___ 
Pipeline - Chamines to Vila F. de Xira             jig  me r_
Carregado Booster Pumping Station                  t_1 ___
South Tejo Pumping Station and Force Main                                                        ol _-nt _ln __
Expansion of Lisbon distribution system                             l
World Bank - 17743
111_ 111   Final design & bid documents
musmmiovi Bidding and Bid Evaluation
C r:
_Construction
Ico



ANNEX 9
PORTUGAL
LISBON REGION WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Years and                           Cumulative Disbursements at
Quarter Ending                                   end of Quarter
(US$ million)
1978-1979
September 30, 1978                                    1.3
December 31, 1978                                     2.8
March 31, 1979                                        4.5
June 30, 1979                                         6.3
1979-1980
September 30, 1979                                    8.3
December 31, 1979                                    10.5
March 31, 1980                                       12.9
June 30, 1980                                        15.0
1980-1981
September 30, 1980                                   17.9
December 31, 1980                                    20.7
March 31, 1981                                       23.3
June 30, 1981                                        26.0
1981-1982
September 30, 1981                                   28.5
December 31, 1981                                    30.9
March 31, 1982                                       33.2
June 30, 1982                                        35.4
1982-1983
September 30, 1982                                   36.7
December 31, 1982                                    37.8
March 31, 1983                                       38.9
June 30, 1983                                        40.0



ANNEX 10
Page 1
PORTUGAL
LISBON REGION WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Key Indicators for Project Monitoring
The following key indicators will be monitored during and after
project execution to measure the achievement of project objectives and the
technical and financial performance of EPAL.  The various parameters will
be reported quarterly. Accumulated figures at the end of each quarter will
be provided where appropriate.
Although it is inappropriate to set rigid targets, valid for the
whole 10-year monitoring period, such targets should be set from time to time
by the management of EPAL for many of the indicators shown. This is expected
to be done annually in consultation with the Bank.
1.   Staffing and Training
(a) Number of employees by category; i.e. engineers,
administrative personnel, laborers, etc.
(b) Number of employees of each category undergoing training.
(c) Number of employees in construction supervision by category;
i.e. engineers, topographers, technicians, etc.
(d) Maximum and average number of contractor's employees
by type of work; i.e. pipe factory, pipe installation,
construction of treatment plant, etc.
2.   System Operation
(a) M3 of water produced.
(b) Peak day production.
(c) M3 of water sold.
(d) Percentage of unaccounted-for water =
water produced - water billed
water produced
(e) Number of connections by category; i.e. residential,
industrial, etc.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
(f) Number of people served by house connections.
(g) Number of standpipes.
(h) Number of people served by standpipes.
(i) Number of meters repaired.
(j) Number of meters replaced.
(k) Number and length of periods of no pressure or
reduced pressure.
(1) Number of water leaks repaired.
(m) Number of bacteriological tests of treated water,
including number of samples found to be contaminated.
(n) Number of determinations of chlorine residual in the
distribution system, including number of samples found
to contain no chlorine residual.
3.   Financial
(a) Rate of return.
(b) Debt:equity ratio.
(c) Debt service coverage.
(d) Net plant investment per average M3 produced.
(e) Average revenue per M3 of water sold.
(f) Total operating expenses per M3 of water sold.
(g) Total employment cost per employee (salaries, wages, benefits).



PORTUGAL
LISBON REGION WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF LISBON PUBLIC WATER ENTERPRISE (EPAL)
I              
MANAGEMENT BOARD OF
EPAL ICFALI
CHAIRMAN-
BOARD MEMBER                                      BOARD MEMBER -/
(FINANCE)                                         (TECHNICAL)
FINANCE -    |           COMMERCE-  |         DIRECTOR OF      l
DIRECTOR                 D DIRECTOR           HUMAN RESOURCES              DIRECTOR
L___T___S   ~~L__   --- __u                                                   I 
BUDGETARY                CUSTOMERSTUDIES AND
CONTROL                   SERVICES                  E                      STUDIEWORKS A
| BILLING AND  |      l  COMPUTING             l SOCIAL
COLLECTING  l       1   ACTIVITIES                  SERVICES                FRODUCTION
MATERIALS AND             INFORMATION             DOCUMENTS AND              DISTRIBUTION
STORE                     AND ANALYSIS         4  INFORMATION                SYSTEM
ACCOUNTS                                                                      ENANCE
PAYABLE                                                                   ANTEANSPORT
E LECTR ICA L
_AN
1/ Members of CFAL Board
2/ These are newly established posts and it is expected that
formal responsibility for fin,acial functions will be
allocated appropriately between them.
World Bank- 17957



ANNEX L2
-PORTUGAL
LISBON REGION WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER TARIFFS AND METER RENTALS
(As of January 1, 1977)
TARIFFS
CONSUMER CATEGORY                                            PRICE (Esc./m3)
Private
Domestic:
O m3 -  5 m3                                               6.o
5 m3 - 15 m3                                               7.0
15 m3 - 25 m3                                               9.5
25 m3 - 50 m3                                              14.5
Over 50 m                                                  18.0
Commercial and Industrial                                      6.5
Charitable, Cultural and
Non-Profit Institutions                                     6.5
State
Commercial and Manufacturing                                   6.5
Other Bodies and Departments                                   7.5
Lisbon Municipal Council                                       6.5
Councils of Adjoining Municipalities (Wholesale)               3.5
METER RENTS
METER SIZE                                                   MONTHLY RENTAL (Escudos)
Open Air                                                             6.5
12 - 15 mm                                                          10.0
20  mm                                                              15.0
25  mm                                                              22.0
30  mm                                                              45.0
4o  mm                                                              65.0
50  mm                                                              90.0
75  mm                                                             100.0
80  mm                                                             120.0
100 mm                                                             140.0
125 mm                                                             160.0
150 mm                                                             200.0
200 mm                                                             280.0
300 mm                                                             700.0
These tariffs and meter rentals apply to the municipalities of Lisbon, Cascais, Oeiras,
Loures, Vila Franca de Xira and Sintra.



PORTUGAL
LISBON BBG70N WAT8R SUPPLY PROJECT
LISbON PUBLIC WATER ENTEBPRISE (EPAL)
INCOME STATEMENTS FOR TIC YEARS 1975 - 1987
1975      1976      1977       1978      1979       1980      1981       1982      1983       1984      1985       1986      1987
--- ACTUAL ED                                  --                      E         ----------------------------------------------
Cons_stias no6 .3/vear)
Direct to Con.s. ere                           35.9       60.7      61.8       62.8      63.9       65.0      66.0       67.1      68.2       69.2      70.3       71.5      72.6
Bulk Supplies:
A - Urbaniesn                               42.6       45.1      48.3       51.7      54.9      58.3       62.3       66.6      70.9       75.5      80.3       86.3      92.5
S - Rural Areas                              2.0        2.3       2.5        2.7       3.0        3.3       3.6        3.8       4.1        4.4       4.7        5.0       5.2
C - South of Tejo                             -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -       20.6       24.6      29.6       32.7      36.8
Goenection, - Direct Cone..ere (000)
Nev Connections during year                      -         2.0       2.1        2.2       2.1        2.1       2.0        2.0       2.0        2.0       2.0        2.0       2.1
Total Coenectione at year end                 269.0      271.0     273.1      275.3     277.4      279.5     281.5      283.5     285.5      287.5     289.5      291.5     293.6
Diraet tre Cso                               3 3        3.3       6.9        9.0      10.5      12.5       14.5       17.0      20.0       21.5      23.5       25.0      27.0
Bulk Suppli.e: A + C                         1.9        1.9       3.5        4.5       5.4       6.3        7.3        8.5      10.0       10.8      11.8       12.5      13.5
B                    ~~~~~~1.8   1.8       1.8        2.3       2.8        3.2       3.7        4.3       5.0        5.4       5.9        6.3       6.8
Average Mater Rant (Eac./year)                 93.3       99.3     127.2      16530     194.0      227.0     266.0      313.0     367.0      396.0     428.0      462.0     499.0
--------------------------------_---------------- (Escudos Million) --------------------------------------
Operation R.venuae
Water Sales:
DirW et to Cn-rs                           182.2      196.8     426.4      565.2L/   671.0      812.5     957.0    1140.7    1364.0    1487.8    1652.1    1787.5    1960.2
Bulk Suppliec                               84.9       91.5     173.6      238.9 LI  304.9     377.9      468.1      582.4     935.5    1104.9    1324.5    1519.0    1781.0
Meter Sents                                     25.1      26.9      34.7       45.4 LI   53.8       63.4      74.9       88.7     104.8      113.9     123.9      134.7      146.5
Rechargeable Works                              17.0      23.8      30.5       35.3      38.3       43.4      47.2       51.3      56.0       60.5      66.0       71.7      78.2
Other Revenues                                 21.2       27.6      34.2       39.7      45.3       47.7      52.9       58.8      65.2       72.4      80.4       89.2      99.0
State Subsidy                                    -      460.0         -         _          -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -
Total Operatin Rvenues                            4       266      699.4      924.5    1114.5    1344.9    1600.1    1921.9    2525.5    2839.5    3246.9    3602.1    4064.9
Operation opneness
Salaries and Wagee                            244.0      287.6     357.4     414.1      461.4     496.9      551.6      612.2     679.6      754.3     837.3      929.4    1031.6
Power and Fuel                                 45.8       54.4      55.3       69.3      78.4       90.3     103.5      100.4     110.0      120.6     144.4      170.1      200.9
ChenioalS                                      12.4       21.1      22.5       28.8      34.5       38.9      43.4       48.3      54.6       61.7       69.3      77.7       87.3
Materials & Sarvics for
Maintenance                    64.3      90.8      109.0      71.7       83.9      95.1      105.4     116.3      152.7      166.3     181.0      197.4     214.8
Adsinistratisn, Taoes &
Miacellanos-                    6.4      17.2 /2  11.4        13.2       14.7      15.8       17.5       19.5      21.6       24.0      26.6       29.6      32.8
Depreciatitn                                   22.5       75.0      81.4      114.9     148.0      189.3     221.1      247.8     273.8      463.9     481.0      500.4      521.7
Less:  Capitalised Eapenoes                    (16.6)    (33.3)    (l3.9)    (64.0)    (69.3)    (74.5)    (66.5)    (43.2)         (6.6)     (7.43      (7.6)     (9.4)    (10.25
Total Operating Epnanses                       378.8     512.8     605.1      648.0     751.6      851.8     976.0    1101.3    1285.7    1583.4    1732.0    1895.2    2078.9
Operation Intone
Net Ibone Before Interest                     (48.4)    313.8       94.3      276.5     362.9      493.1     624.1      820.6    1239.8    1256.1    1514.9    1706.9    1986.0
Less: Net Interest                              61.5     104.2     156.2      279.7     389.6      492.7      587.0     643.4      641.7     601.1      553.2     502.8      447.1
Net Oserotine 'nooe                           (109.9)    209.6      (6.)       (3.2)    (26.7)       5.4       37.1     177.2      598.1     655.0      961.7    1204.1    1538.9
Operating Ratio (7.)                                  115        62         86        70         67        63         61         57        51         56        53         53        51  D
Rate of Return /3                                                -         7.2      15.4       14.3      17.1       20.0      24.4       21.6       15.5      17.9       18.9      20.2     t
Rate of Retur  (Fixed Assets Revalued) LA              _         -          _         -          -        1.1        1.7       3.2        5.3        4.0       5.0        5.5       5.7
Ll    About Eec. 49 cillion (U03 1.3 million) of these amouots to be paid to EPAL by the
Goveroncnt as a ,hort-tern interest free loan to cover the rash shortfall due to the
delay in in-rsasing the tariffs from January 1 to April 1, 1978.
L2 Includes s one tine proisien for bad debt of For. 7.7 tillion.
/3 BDsed on aver-ge ner fi.ed a,,at. in operation and average net working capital.



PORTUGAL
LISBON REGTDN WATER SUPPLY PROJECI
LISEON PUBLIC WATER ENTERPRISE (EPAL)
STATEMENT OF SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS (1976 - 1987)
1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982       1983        1984       1985       1986       1987
--- ACTUAL        -     -     ---------------------------- ESTIMATED ------------------------------------_ ------- _  _
SOURCES OF FUNDS          --(EcdsMlon)
------ --------------------------------------- (E.c.dos Millions) ------------------------------------------------
Internal Funds Generation
Net Income Before Interest                            313.8       94.3      276.5      362.9      493.1      624.1      820.6    1239.8    1256.1    1514.9    1706.9    1986.0
Depreciation                                           75.0       81.4      114.9      148.0      189.3      221.1      247.8      273.8      463.9      481.0       500.4      521.7
Net Internal Funds                                    388.8      175.7      391.4      510.9      682.4      845.2    1068.4    1513.6    1720.0    1995.9    2207.3    2507.7
Loans Raised
Foreign - Proposed IBRD                                  -          -       110.0      262.0      337.0      356.0      281.0       110.0         -          -          -          -
Local   - Bank Loans                                  340.8      656.8      800.0      700.0      675.0      650.0      325.0          -         _          _           _          _
Total Loans Raised                                    340.8      656.8      910.0      962.0    1012.0    1006.0        606.0       110.0
Equity
Government Equity Content                                -         _        460.7      500.3      539.2      485.7       325.6        _          _           _         -          -
Total Equity                                            _          _        460.7      500.3      539.2      485.7      325.6
TOTAL SOURCES OP FUNDS                                729.6      832.5    1762.1    1973.2    2233.6    2336.9    2000.0    1623.6    1720.0    1995.9    2207.3    2507.7
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Construction Renuiremnts
Project                                                  -          -       881.0    1247.0    1447.0    1306.0         839.0                     -                -
Other Construction                                    352.2      667.6      435.3      182.5        93.7       81.8       91.2      208.5      233.2      249.2      300.0       333.2
Total Construction                                    352.2      667.6    1316.3    1429.5    1540.7    1387.8           930.2      208.5      233.2      249.2      300.0       333.2
Debt Service
Amortization                                           45.7       69.5       76.8       85.9       138.9      306.6      352.2      386.4      433.6      436.1      473.6       520.1
Interest                                              104.2      156.2      279.7      389.6      492.7      587.0      643.4       641.7      601.1      553.2      502.8      447.1
Total Debt Service                                    149.9      225.7      356.5      475.5      631.6      893.6       995.6    1028.1    1034.7        989.3      976.4       967.2
Financial Investments                                        (0.4)        -(3.9)                                                                                               -          -
Working Canital Changes
Non-cash                                              103.8      (22.8)      70.0       53.5       51.6        47.1       64.2      106.2        53.1       67.4       56.6       74.8
Cash                                                  124.1      (38.0)      19.3       14.7        9.7         8.4       10.0      280.8      399.0      693.9       874.3    1132.5
Total Norking Ceaiitl Changes                         227.9      (60.8)      89.3       68.2        61.3       55.5       74.2      387.0      452.1       761.3      930.9    1207.3
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                            729.6      832.5    T762.1    1973.2    2233.6    2336.9    2000.0    1623.6    1720.0    1995.9    2207.3    2507.7  a
=====      =====    ==_==       ======    ======    ___===         --__      ======      ====       ___    ==-==          _e==   ,s,
Debt Service Cover                                            2.6        0.8        1.1        1.1        1.1        1.0         1.1        1.5        1.7        2.0        2.3         2.6
Debt Service Cover
(Construction Interest deemed capitalised)                    -        0.9         1.5        1.6        1.7        1.4        1.6         1.5        1.7        2.0        2.3        2.6



PORTUIAL
LISBON REGION WATER SUPPLY. PROJECT
LISBON PUILIC WATER E61RhPRISE (EPAL)
BALANCE SHEET AT AT DE2EMER 31. 1975 - 1987
1975        1976        1977       1978        1979        1980        1981       1982        1983        1984        1985       1986        1987
--- ACTUAL -----        -----                            -    -     -          ESTATEPD ---------------------------------------------------
ASSETS                                                           - - - - - -               -   -         -        -         (E-d-e Millions) -----------------------------------------------------------
Fixed Assets
Gross .Fixd Assets in Operation                          1405.8     1449.1      1955.2      2614.6     3414.8      3944.0      4401.5     4826,9      9342.8      9561.9      9806.8    10071.1    10386.4
Le.-: Aerne-letnd Depre-ialtoa                            380.9       453.8      535.2       650.1      798.1       987.4      1208.5     1456.3      1730.1      2194.0      2675.0      3175.4     3697.1
Se.  Pined Assets .. . pssntien                          1024.9       995.3     142080      1964.5     2616.7      2956.6      3193.0      3370.6     7612.7      7367.9      7131.8     6895.7      6689.3
Add: Fixed Assets under C-nstruetitn                      239.2       546.0      707.5      1364.4     1993.7      3005,2      3935.5      4440.3      132.9       147.0       151.3       187.0      204.9
Total Fixed Assets                                       1264.1      1541.3     2127.5      3328.9     4610.4      5961.8      7128.5      7810.9     7745.6      7514.9      7283.1      7082.7     6894.2
FEnesial Invoenente                                              6.5        6.1         6.1        6.1         6.1         6.1        6.1         6.1         6.1         6.1        2.2         2.2         2.2
Current A4eets
Inventories                                                29.9        40.4       48.5        58.2       69.8        83.8       100.5       128.6      144.8       159.2       175.2       192.7      211.9
Cene n        -rs:  -eil                                   46.7        40.4       96.8       128.2      152.2       183.9       216.7       258.2      308.4       336.4       373.0       403.7      442.4
1,tk                                           39.5        87.8        28.9 /1    39.8        51.0        63.0       78.0        97.1       155.9       194.2      220.8       253.2       296.8
Other ReeEivahblee  nd Accruals                            13.5        62.9       29.5        35.4       42.5        51.0        61.2        73.4        88.1       96.9       106.6       117.2       129.0
Cash end bnk                                                8.9       133.0       95.0       114.3       129.0      138.7       147.1       157.1       437.9      836.9      1530,8      2405.1      3537.6
Total C-trrsn  Ass.te                                     138.5       364.5      298.7       375.9      444.5       528.4       603.5       706.4      1135.1     1513.6      2406.4      3371.0      4613.7
TOTAL ASSETS                                             1489.1      1911.9     2432.3      3710.9     5061 0      6488.3      7738.1      8523.4      8886.8     9134.6      9691.7    10436.8    11514.1
L7A37L7TIRS ANB EQUITY
Egsity
State of Derees1                                           50.0        50.0       50.0       510.7     1011.0      1550.2      2035.9      2361.5      2361.5     2361.5      2361.5      2361.5      2361.5
Other Etuity                                              327.6       327.6      327.6       327.6       327.6      327.6       327.6       327.6       327.6      327.6       327.6       327.6       327.6
Restined  aegi.s                                         (126.9)       82.7        20.8       17.6        (9.1)       (8.7)      28.4       205.6       803.7      1458.7     2420.4      3624.5      5163.4
Tetel Eonity                                              250.7       460.3      398.4       855.9     1329.5      1869.1      2391.9      2894.7      3492.8     4147.8,    5109.5       6313.6      7852.5
Ieee Teen- Liabilities
Enitting Loans: Bonds                                     207.0       186.8      165.4       142.7       118.6       93.2        66.0        37.4        19.1         3.9         -           -           -
BRnk loans                               783.1      1098.4      1617.1     1563.0     1501.2      1391.0      1266.2      1127.5       978.1       815.9      670.5       506.9       322.8
rnp.es.d future Lo.e": 78RD                                  -           -           -       110.0      372.0       709.0       943.6      1103.2      1091.8      970.4       849.0       727.6       606.2
CaiE GOe-l de
Depo.itWs                                -         90.0      890.0      1590.8     2261.7      2878.5      3140.0      3042.7      2907.9      2742.5     ZA53,       2339.3
Tetl Long Term Liabilities                               990.1      1285.2      1872.5     2705.7      3581.8     4454.9      5154.3      5408.1      5131.7      4698.1     4262.0      3788.4      3268.3
Less:  Cnrrent Matsritise                                  45.7        70.8        76.8       85.9       138.9       306.6      352.2       386.4       433.6       436.L       473.6      520.1       517.5
Net Lone Teen LiEbilitiae                                 944.4      1214.4     1795.7      2619.8     3442.9      4148.3      4802.1      5021.7      4698.1     4262.0      3788.4      3268,3      2750.8
Current Lthbilitite
Sipplire.                                                  65.0        62.8        70.6       55.2        52.2       49.3        55.4        58.5        69.6        76.6        86.6       97.6       110.1
Persennel                                                   2.8         4.3        5.3         6.2         6.9         7.4         8.2         9.2       10.2        11.3        12.5       13.9        15.4
State of Pertugel                                           7.6         5.7        7.1         8.2         9.1         9.8       10.9        12.1        13.5        14.9        16.6       18.4        20.4
Other P.y bl-e end An-resls                                64.7        71.8        56.6       67.9        81.5        97.8      117.4       140.8       169.0       185.9       204.5      224.9       247.4
PrerEsise for Tlaes                                        28.2        21.8        21.8       11.8          -           -           -           -          -           -           -           -
Current Mat-ritine                                         45.7        70.8        76.8       85.9       1389        106.6      32.2        386.4       433.6       436.1       473.6       520.1      517.5
Total Current Lihbilities                                 214.0       237.2       238.2      235.2       288.6      470.9       544.1       607.0       695.9       724.8       793.8       874.9      910.8
TOTAL L7A8ILrLIES AND EOTE                               1409.1      1911.9      2432.3     3710.9      5061.0      6488.3     7738 1      8523.4      8886.8      9134.6      9691.7    10456.8    11514.1
Current RatEe                                                    0.6         1.5        1.3         1.6         1.5         1.1         1.1        1.2         1.6         2.2         3.0         3.9          |1     d
Dnbt:Eu1ity Ratio                                              79:21      73:27       82:18       75:25      72:28       69:31       67:33       64:36      58:42       51:49       43:57       34:66       26:74
Debt:EqSity Rltit   (Fixed Assets Revaloed)                      -          -         31:69       35:65      38:62       38:62       40:60       38:62       33:67      28:72       24:76       20:80       15:85
/1 See Asnex 14 p-ragraph 16.



ANNEX 14
Page 1
PORTUGAL
LISBON REGION WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LISBON PUBLIC WATER ENTERPRISE (EPAL)
Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
A.   GENERAL
1.        It is implicit in the report that a regional water authority, based
on EPAL, will be established upon the completion of ongoing studies. The
regional authority is expected to take over all water supply responsibilities
(and perhaps sewerage responsibilities) for the municipalities in the Lisbon
Region. However, the timing and manner of the expected reorganization is
dependent upon the outcome of the studies and anticipation of this would be
highly speculative. Consequently, the financial forecasts are based on the
assumption that EPAL will continue to supply bulk water to the municipalities,
and will not be responsible for extensions to their local distribution systems
until 1983, after the completion of the project. As EPAL takes over respon-
sibilities from the municipalities, the resultant additional operating costs
will be offset by EPAL's changing its tariffs from a wholesale to retail
basis. Because of the much greater uncertainty regarding its future status,
sewerage has been excluded altogether.
B.   INCO= E STATEMENTS
(a) Revenues
2.        Tariffs in operation in FY77 are shown in Annex 11.  The forecasts
assume an increase in average retail and bulk water and in meter rents of 30%
from early 1978 and of about 17.5% in each subsequent year until 1983, there-
after adjusted only for inflation. Income is assumed to be derived from sales
of water to areas South of the Tejo after completion of the project in 1983.
3.        Rechargeable works income is assumed to increase in proportion
to numbers of connections, with allowance for inflation.
4.        Other revenues, which are dominated by staff canteen and super-
market sales, are assumed to increase in proportion to salaries and wages.
(b) Operating Expenses
5.        Operating expenses for FY77 are based upon the budget of EPAL,
adjusted as a result of discussions between EPAL and the mission. Operating
expenses for subsequent years have been projected by the mission. Unless
otherwise stated, estimates have assumed inflationary price increases of 15%
for 1978, 10% for 1979 and 1980 and 8% thereafter.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
6.        Because of significant over-staffing, no allowance has been made
for staff increases, beyond an implicit annual increase of about 3% to cover
increments, merit awards and re-grading. In addition, 1l1owance has been
made for a cost-of-living salary increase of 15% every 18 months (i.e. about
10% per annum) in line with the currently prevailing attitude regarding labor
negotiations and inflationary trends. After 1980 the inflation rate has been
assumed to fall to about 8% per annum.
7.        Expenses for power, fuel and chemicals have been based upon the
mission's estimates of consumption, with allowances for inflationary price
increases. Expenses for materials and services for maintenance have been
increased in proportion to the growth of the system as reflected by the
incremental gross values of fixed assets. However, allowance has been made
for expected increased capitalization of minor extensions and improvements
previously charged as operating costs. Administration, taxes and miscel-
laneous expenses have been increased in proportion to salaries and wages.
The 1976 accounts include a provision for bad debts related to items under
litigation. No specific provision has been made for subsequent years because
the percentage relative to sales is estimated to be insignificant.
8.        Depreciation expense has been based upon a detailed analysis of all
annual depreciation rates and their reclassification, for forecast purposes,
into a small number of broad headings, as follows:
Assets taken over from CAL                            5%
Net Assets:
Hydraulic Works                                  4%
Distribution Systems                             5%
Meters                                          10%
Other - (including Equipment)                 12-1/2%
(c) Interest
9.        Consistent with current practice in EPAL all interest has been
charged to operations. Interest on the IBRD loan has been assumed at 7.45%.
Interest rates on loans from the Caixa Geral de Depositos fluctuate from time
to time and changes are imposed on loans already contracted, as well as on new
loans. In the attached projections, interest from the Caixa Geral de Depositos
and other prospective lending institutions has been assumed at 13.5% per annum
throughout, with future possible fluctuations ignored. This was the ruling
rate for public sector organizations, such as EPAL, in mid-1977. Following a
recent rise to about 17.25%, the Government has indicated to EPAL its willing-
ness to consider a request for relief of up to 4% of the prevailing rate.
C. FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT
(a) Construction Program
10.       In addition to the estimated project costs, the construction program
includes other anticipated work to be carried out by EPAL during the project



ANNEX 14
Page 3
construction period, together with routine replacement of meters, vehicles and
equipment. The program assumes that EPAL will be responsible for the construc-
tion of all main distribution works to deliver bulk water to the municipal
systems but not for the extensions of municipal distributions systems to serve
retail customers until after 1982. Beyond this date, EPAL (or its successor)
is assumed to be responsible for all construction but its investment program
is not yet formulated in detail.
(b) Equity Contribution
11.       The Government is assumed to make equity contributions equivalent to
35% of EPAL's total 1978-1982 investment program estimated to total approxi-
mately Esc. 2,300 million (US$60.0 million).
(c) Loans
12. (a) IBRD Loan - Esc. 1,456 million (US$37.8 million) for 15 years
to be repaid by 24 equal half-yearly instalments of principal
after a 3-year grace period, with interest at 7.45% per annum.
(b) Caixa Geral de Depositors Loans - amounts as shown in funds
flow statement assumed to be drawn down in annual tranches,
each to be repaid half-yearly over 12 years after a 2-year
grace period by the annuity method, with interest at 13.5%
per annum.
(d) Financial Investments
13.       Financial investments represent bonds which could be redeemed at
any time by lot. Redemption in the statements is assumed on the final repay-
ment date (1985).
D. BALANCE SHEET
(a) Fixed Assets
14.       As explained in the text, fixed assets are shown at historical costs
without revaluation. Additional ratios have been added to show the possible
effects of revaluation.
(b) Current Assets
15.       Inventory requirements have been assumed to grow in proportion to
system size as reflected in gross fixed asset value. Receivables for retail
supplies are assumed at 2-1/2 months sales and for bulk water supplies at 2
months sales. Other receivables assume settlement of Esc. 38.3 million as the
balance of the 1976 State subsidy, with the remainder increased annually in
proportion to gross fixed asset values.
16.       Municipal arrears assumed at December 31, 1977 are based on normal
working conditions. Actual arrears, pending substantial settlement early in
1978, totalled Esc. 247.4 million, covered by temporary loans.



ANNEX 14
Page 4
17.       Minimum cash requirements have been generally based upon 2 months
cash operating expenses, but minor fluctuations have been assumed from year
to year to allow for the adjustment of long-term borrowings to reasonable
round sums. The increasingly large increases in cash balances shown after
completion of the project are expected, in practice, to be absorbed by new
capital investments, but the program for these cannot now be formulated.
Tariff increases beyond 1983 would be adjusted to meet actual cash require-
ments in line with the proposed rate covenant.
(c) Current Liabilities
18.       Payables for supplies (based on information for FY76) allow for 130
days credit for power, chemicals, materials and administration in 1977, reduc-
ing steadily to 75 days by 1980. Payables for personnel and to the State of
Portugal (mostly payroll deductions) have been increased in proportion to
salaries and wages. Other payables and accruals assume payment of Esc. 24.6
million to the shareholders of CAL for residual dividends held over during
the immediate post-revolutionary period but expected to be released in FY77.
The remainder is assumed to increase in proportion to fixed asset growth.
19.       Provision for taxes relates to final taxation of the activities
of CAL, expected to be settled within the next two years with no further
liability.



PORTUGAL
LISBON REGION WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Internal Rate of Return of Water Supply Investment and Average Incremental Cost of Water (1977 Prices)
Year         Incremental      Capital Investment           Incremental      Total         Incremental Revenues at Different
Water Sales   Pro.ect    Non-Pro.Aect        Operational      Cost                   Tariff Rates
Million m3     EPAL      EPAL   Munici-         Cost                                     1m
,           ~~~palities                              7 Esc./m3 2/ 10 Esc./m3  12 Esc./m3
----------------------------------- Millions of Escudos ------------------------------------
1978               3.9        820       371      39             6           1236            27              39           47
1979               7.8       1042       115      36            21           1214            55              78           94
1980              11.8       1114        32      34            34           1214            83             118          142
1981              16.2        925        16      40            47           1028           113             162          194
1982              21.0        546        16      41            57            660           147             210          252
1983              49.3        -          -       78           286            364           345             493          592
1984              58.0        -          -       80           307            387           406             580          696
1985              67.0        -          -       76           336            412           469             670          804
1986              77.2        -          -       87           364            451           540             772          926
1987              87.5        -          -       89           395            484           613             875         1050
1988             98.4         -          40      89           424            553           689             984         1181
1989            109.7         -          40      89           455            584           768            1097         1316
1990-2007       121.6         -          -        -           486            486           851            1216         1459
Average Incremental Cost of Water                                    Internal Rate of Return
Discount Rate (%)        Esc./m3
At  7 Esc./m3   =   2%
8                    10
10                   12                                        At 10 Esc./m3   =   8%
12                   13                                                                                   m
14                   15                                        At 12 Esc./m3   =  10%                        X 
i'
1/   Consists of salaries, power and chemical costs and cost of materials for maintenance
2/   Existing Tariff



ANNEX 15
Page 2
1.        Retail water tariffs in the Greater Lisbon Region average Esc.
7.0/m3. Revenues derived from these tariffs would give an internal financial
return on the total investment program of the region of about 2%. This con-
firms the evidence of the financial forecasts that present tariffs are too
low. An increase in average tariffs of about Esc. 5.0/m3 (70%) in constant
prices, would be necessary to match average incremental costs.
2.        Based on EPAL's investment program for 1977-82 the related invest-
ment programs of municipal enterprises, related operating costs (for EPAL and
the municipalities) and all incremental retail sales resulting therefrom, the
average incremental cost of water at a discount rate of 10% is estimated at
Esc. 12.0/m3. (Sensitivity tests, at discount rates ranging from 6% to 14%
give incremental costs ranging from Esc. 9.0/m3 to Esc. 15.0/m3.)
3.        The region-wide retail tariffs implicit in the financial forecasts
are estimated to reach Esc. 20.0/m3 (Esc. 12.0/m3 in 1977 constant prices)
by 1983 bringing them into line with present estimates of average incremental
cost, at a 10% discount rate. Expressed another way, the economic rate of
return for the investment program, using the incremental revenues derived
from these tariffs as a measure of benefits, would be a minimum of 10%. 1/
4.        In theory, this analysis lacks refinement, because, strictly speak-
ing, the tariff goal to be achieved in 1983 should be matched against the
expected incremental cost at that time. However, the increasing costliness
of supplying water to the Lisbon area, as explained in paragraphs 3.03 and
3.12 of the report, strongly indicates that incremental costs in 1983 will be
at least as high as they are today, and probably higher. At the same time,
because of the need to review tariff structures, average tariffs have been
used in the analysis, instead of the more correct, incremental use (i.e.,
highest block) tariffs. An important objective of the proposed tariff review
is to achieve recovery of incremental costs for a significant proportion of
consumption, consistent with ability to pay. Comparison, therefore, of
average tariffs with incremental costs implies a higher than average tariff
for the incremental consumption.
1/   Because the tariffs assumed in the financial forecasts are to be raised
progressively from 1978-83, the revenues for these years will be some-
what lower than those shown in the last column of the table on page 1,
but the differences are insignificant for the rate of return calculation.



ANNEX 16
Page 1
PORTUGAL
LISBON REGION WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Fixed Asset Valuation and EPAL's Financial Performance
1.        An examination of EPAL's present financial position shows that
its fixed assets are grossly undervalued (para 6.23) which in turn creates
a distorted picture of its capital structure and of the revenue requirements
necessary to cover system renewal and extension.
2.        In an attempt to present a more realistic situation, the mission
made a very rough revaluation of fixed assets while in the field. This gives
a figure of about Esc. 5,000 million (US$130.0 million) for gross fixed assets
in operation at the end of 1976 instead of the Esc. 1,450 million (US$38.0
million) shown in the books - an increase of about three and one half times.
Allowance for a 25% margin of error either way, would give a range of about
Esc. 3,750-6,250 million (US$97-162 million).
3.        Using book values for fixed assets, the rate of return 1/ for 1977
is estimated at 7.2%, which, with tariffs increasing annually in accordance
with the recommendations of paragraphs 6.25 and 6.26 would reach approximately
24% by 1982, and thereafter fluctuate between about 15%-20% for the next sev-
eral years. If fixed assets were to be revalued as described (with subsequent
annual revaluation to allow for further inflation and new fixed assets), and
if depreciation were to be charged upon the revalued assets, a positive rate
of return could well not materialize (at the upper end of the range of fixed
asset revaluation) until around 1981, even with the proposed annual tariff
increases. The rate of return would be within the range of about 3%-5% by
1983 or 1984, reaching about 4.5%-7% by 1987.
4.        Using book values for fixed assets and the recommended equity con-
tributions and tariff increases, shows EPAL with a debt/equity ratio of about
80:20 in 1977 falling to only about 70:30 by 1981. Thereafter, the ratio
improves more rapidly to about 40:60 by 1985, if probable new borrowings for
ir          the investment program beyond 1982 are ignored.  Comparable analysis using
revalued assets (at the middle of the range) gives a 1977 debt/equity ratio
of only about 30:70 reaching about 40:60 in 1982 and thereafter improving
to about 25:75 in 1985.
5.        With fixed assets shown at present book values, the implementation
of the proposed tariff increases will bring about gradual increases in rates
of return, but the annual increases in interest charges will cause EPAL to
make net losses after interest until 1980. However, this situation is not
1/   Unless otherwise indicated, rates of return are based on average
net fixed assets in operation, plus average net working capital.



ANNEX 16
Page 2
quite as serious as it appears. Although not current accounting practice for
EPAL, part of these annual interest charges could be regarded as interest
charged to construction costs. Calculations suggest that, viewed in this
way, EPAL would begin to earn a positive net income after interest from about
1978 onwards and debt service coverage would be at least 1.5 times.
6.        While useful for analysis purpose, it is not recommended that the
capitalization of interest be applied by EPAL, since this might mislead EPAL
into deferring interim gradual tariff adjustments until a sudden and possibly               i
unattainable increase became necessary. Furthermore, charging all interest
to operations would be financially prudent and would avoid the introduction
of unnecessary complications into EPAL's accounting system at a time when it
will have enough to cope with in dealing with its expansion and the eventual
take-over of other systems.



__ _-0;                     -C '       40Q  IBRD  13032R
Z,~~~~~-o
/                                       Q               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OMADRID
ATLNTI                                                                                                                                                                                   S                             P AI 
OCEAN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
ALCANLM EvA  X ,'  -j-   tv    '  '  ; ENA
WIXA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b
|  +   S  i   l   \   >   2                                                      U  r Ez . r  A   --s    p  *-  >  r  r  V    ;-  1  l  sd  by  S  PA   L  A tm  n   ^   D^  5'a   t   \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'C sn a. ,   t 
E :    S I M B                                                                                                                =i A  r                                               n ;lns                     Y   / 
P A L MLA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~        A        atngSjia,  
Urbec Area preteoly topplred by EPAL                                                             <5~
R- atI Areas pre-atly se-d by EPAL     I           0          0           sot
M,,n cp .tie  a lbe servd by EPAL                    KILOMETERS
City of LisboC.
an~~~~~~~ ~~JANUARY 1978



