n fnflV                      Document of
FILE  C JU'                            The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2161a-PO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR A
LISBON REGION WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
March 10, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =  Escudo (Esc)
$1                =  Esc 38.5
Esc 1             =  $0.026
Esc 1,000         =  $26
Esc 1,000,000     =  $26,000
(Floating exchange rate)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
DGSB          - General Directorate of Basic Sanitation
of the Ministry of Public Works
EC            - European Communities
EFTA          - European Free Trade Association
EIB           - European Investment Bank
EPAL          - Lisbon Public Water Enterprise
IMF           - International Monetary Fund
SERHSB        - State Secretariat for Water Resources
and Basic Sanitation in Ministry of
Public Works
USAID         - United States Agency for International
Development
WHO           - World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PORTUGAL - LISBON REGION WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Portugal.
Beneficiary:         Government and Lisbon Public Water Enterprise:
Empresa Publica das Aguas de Lisboa (EPAL).
Amount:              $40 million equivalent.
Terms:               15 years including 3 years of grace, with interest at
7.45 percent per annum.
Relendina Terms:    $37.8 million to be on-lent to EPAL on Bank terms.
Project              The project would increase the production of potable water
Description:        and improve the water distribution system of the Lisbon
region. It would also assist the Government in water
sector reorganisation and in design and planning capa-
bility. It consists of: (a) construction of a pipe-
line from the Castelo de Bode reservoir to the Lisbon
region and related pumping and treatment facilities; (b)
expansion of the Lisbon region water distribution system
and (c) studies for the regionalization of sanitary
services in the Lisbon area and water supply and sewerage
feasibility studies in the Porto and Algarve regions;
and short period training abroad for DGSB and EPAL senior
staff. The beneficiaries would be 2.6 million people in
the Lisbon region, currently including some 300,000 urban
poor. The project would face risks if EPAL is not able to
achieve the tariff increases required for redressing its
financial situation. In that case it could not generate
funds for the financing of part of its investment program,
nor could it operate as a financially viable enterprise.
Construction might be curtailed or extended in time if
Government or local banks cannot meet the financing
requirements of EPAL. Measures to avoid these risks would
be adopted by the Government and EPAL (paragraphs 51, 53
and 62); therefore risks should not affect project imple-
mentation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Cost:
--   $ Millions            ----         % of
Item                              Local        Foreign       Total        Total
Transmission pipeline            39.6          17.9         57.5         37.5
Water treatment plant             5.5           3.6           9.1         5.9
Pumping stations                  2.0           2.1          4.1          2.7
Distribution system              21.6           5.8          27.4        17.9
Administration & engineering      8.1            -            8.1         5.2
Land                              0.7            -           0.7          0.5
Training of EPAL Staff             -            0.1          0.1          0.1
Sub-total                          77.5          29.5         107.0        69.8
Physical contingencies            6.5           2.3           8.8         5.8
Price contingencies              26.9           6.0         32.9         21.5
Total                             110.9          37.8         148.7        97.1
Studies and Training                1.9           1.8           3.7         2.4
Price contingencies               0.4           0.4          0.8          0.5
Total                               2.3           2.2           4.5         2.9
Grand Total                       113.2          40.0         153.2       100.0
Financing Plan:      EPAL's financing needs for the period 1978-82 (including
the proposed project) amount to $180.6 million and would
be financed as follows:
Funds Sources                         $ Millions
Internal Funds                          90.9
Less:  Debt Service                    (87.1)
Net Internal Funds                       3.8
IBRD Loan                               37.8 /1
Caixa Geral de Depositos or
Other Local Lenders                    79.0
Government Equity                       60.0
Total Sources                        180.6
/1   Of the $40 million proposed loan the Government will retain $2.2 million
for studies and for management training.



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:       -------------------- $ Millions -----------------------
Bank FY               79       80      81       82     83
Annual                6.3      8.7    11.0      9.4    4.6
Cumulative            6.3    15.0    26.0    35.4   40.0
Appraisal Report:    No. 1733a-PO, dated March 1, 1978.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR A LISBON REGION WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Portugal, for the equivalent of $40 million to help
finance a Lisbon Region Water Supply Project. The loan would have a term
of 15 years, including 3 years grace period, with interest at 7.45 percent
per annum. The Government would relend $37.8 million of the loan proceeds
to Empresa Publica das Aguas de Lisboa (EPAL) on Bank terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Portugal:  An Economy in Transition"
(No. 1408a-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 16, 1977.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Past Performance
3.        The five years preceding the revolution of April 1974 were years
of rapid economic growth for Portugal. GDP increased at an average rate of
7 percent per annum, with industry and construction growing at 10 percent
and 12.5 percent, respectively. Investment levels were high--21 percent
of GDP on average. The rapid growth in Western Europe contributed to an
increase of 9 percent per annum in Portugal's exports (though nearly 20 per-
cent of the total went to the colonies), while the balance of payments also
benefited from large numbers of tourists and remittances from the huge migrant
labor force (over one million, equivalent to about one-third of Portugal's
labor force). As a result, the balance of payments showed substantial sur-
pluses, with accumulated foreign exchange reserves reaching the high level
of $1.65 billion at the end of 1973, in addition to a stock of gold of about
860 metric tons.
4.        The rapid growth, however, concealed a number of fundamental weak-
nesses. Agricultural output in 1973 was 3.4 percent below the 1968 level,
partly as a result of the emphasis given to industrialization and the exodus
of the rural labor force. By 1973, the bottom 50 percent of households were
receiving only 14 percent of total income, while the top 5 percent received
40 percent. The social services remained underdeveloped. Economic power
was concentrated in the hands of a small number of powerful companies and
individuals. The distribution of land ownership was characterized by large
estates, especially in the south of the country. The low unemployment level
(3 percent) was a consequence of massive emigration (about 550,000 during
1970-73) and a growing colonial army.



-2-
Recent Developments
5.        Between the revolution of April 1974 and September 1975, a substan-
tial transformation of the institutional framework and ownership pattern of
the Portuguese economy took place. The most important changes were (a) the
nationalization of banking, insurance, power, transportation and major indus-
trial groups; (b) comprehensive land reform legislation affecting most of
the land in the central and southern parts of the country; and, (c) direct
measures to redistribute income in favor of workers, through the establishment
of a minimum wage (which has been increased several times), restraints on
upper salary levels and price controls. The overall effect of these changes
was to establish a new and different relationship between management and
labor, which at first resulted in indiscipline, absenteeism and reduced
productivity.
6.        The social unrest and political uncertainties in Portugal resulted
in a GDP decline of 4 percent in 1975. However, during the past two years,
the economy has shown some sign of recovery (significant increase in indus-
trial production and revival of construction activity) and GDP is estimated
to have increased by 5.4 percent in 1976, and by an estimated 6 percent in
1977. One of the main sources of domestic demand expansion was the sharp
increase in consumption. This reduced domestic savings to a negative level
in 1975 and to an estimated 7 percent of GDP in 1976. In 1977, however,
there was no increase in consumption, and domestic savings increased to an
estimated 14 percent of GDP. Investment by the private sector stopped almost
completely. However, after a sharp decline of 45 percent in 1975, investment
in 1976 increased by 25 percent, due to a strong recovery in construction and
to a largely speculative buildup of inventories of raw materials and interme-
diate goods. This recovery continued during 1977 and investment is estimated
to have increased by about 44 percent.
7.        During 1974-76, there was also a deterioration of the fiscal
situation as a result of the subsidies, price controls, higher salaries
for civil servants, expenditure on returnees, increases in social security
benefits and the attempt by the Government to take up some of the slack caused
by the shortfall in private investment. The overall budget deficit rose from
$400 million in 1974 to about $1.5 billion, or 9.5 percent of GDP, in 1976.
The overall deficit in 1977 is estimated to be reduced to about $1.4 billion
or 8.2 percent of GDP and the current account deficit of the public sector is
expected to be two-thirds of the 1976 level because of an increase in taxes, a
reduction in subsidies as a result of the increases in prices, and because the
deficit of the social security system was reduced by increases in premiums.
The rate of inflation also became a serious problem during this period--about
20 percent per annum in 1974-76, and despite the moderating trend in wages in
1976 and 1977, an estimated 28-30 percent in 1977,
8.        Portugal's balance of payments has deteriorated sharply since 1974;
the balance of payments current account dropped, as a result of the unstable
situation in Portugal but also of recession in the EC and EFTA countries and
of the loss of colonial markets, from a surplus of about $300 million in 1973
to deficits of about $800 million in 1975, $1.2 billion in 1976, and is
again expected to be about $1.2 billion in 1977. Exports declined sharply.
In constant escudo prices, exports declined by 4 percent in 1974, 16 percent



in 1975, and increased by 4.3 percent in 1976. Despite the devaluation of the
escudo in February 1977 and other measures to boost exports (see paragraph 13),
an increase of only 4-5 percent is expected for 1977. This is mainly because
the buoyancy in domestic demand diverted goods away from the export market,
and capacity constraints of industries turned out to be far more important.
On the other hand, imports in constant escudo prices increased by 8.4 percent
in 1974 and, following a decline of about 26 percent in 1975, they increased
by 13 percent in 1976 and are estimated to have increased by 10 percent in
1977, due to speculative imports and significant increases in inventories.
In addition, the receipts from tourism declined at a rate of 15 percent per
annum in nominal dollar terms during 1973-76, and workers' remittances in 1976
were about 12 percent below the 1973 level. However, tourism and workers'
remittances have recently shown signs of recovery; tourist earnings are
estimated to have increased by 44 percent in 1977, and workers' remittances
by 35 percent.
9.        During this period, Portugal lost almost all of its liquid foreign
exchange reserves. At the end of June 1977, the liquid reserves were down
to $65 million (equivalent to less than one week's imports). However, there
still remains a gold stock of about 768 metric tons valued at $4.4 billion
at market prices ($160 per ounce in November 1977), serving as a safety net,
which Portugal has used as collateral for short-term borrowing; so far, about
one-half has been pledged for this purpose.
10.       The most serious feature of the current economic situation is the
high level of unemployment--12.7 percent of the labor force at the end of
1976 (in total about 450,000 unemployed). High unemployment is a result of
the influx of 500,000 returnees from Angola and Mozambique, a sharp reduction
in emigration abroad, a slowdown in the economic activity in Portugal and
Western Europe, and demobilization of the armed forces. The Government's
intervention during 1974-76 to support many enterprises facing financial
difficulties, together with trade union pressures and legislation against
dismissals, prevented open unemployment from rising to even higher levels but
created widespread underemployment. Such a high rate of unemployment presents
problems to which there may be no quick solutions and which can be improved
upon only in the medium to long-term.
The Government's Response
11.       There are no easy solutions to Portugal's economic problems--a
perilous balance of payments position, large budgetary deficits, severe infla-
tion, and high levels of unemployment. The Government is faced with a dilemma.
Reducing the rate of unemployment will require rapid growth and a substantial
increase in the level of investment but this, unless carefully planned, will
lead to increased inflationary pressures and will worsen the balance of pay-
ments deficit. The Government has taken a number of austerity measures but
so far these have not succeeded in putting the economy on the right course.
Several austerity measures were introduced in late 1975 and early 1976, and
the Soares Government, which came to power in July 1976, immediately com-
mitted itself to further measures. It announced a wide-range austerity
program on February 26, 1977, which was reinforced by a new package on
August 25, 1977. The new Government, which came to power in January 1978
is preparing a new austerity program.



- 4 -
12.       The main thrust of the economic measures taken by the Government
so far has been to reduce the balance of payments deficit by containing con-
sumption and imports, and to stimulate investment and exports. The Government
has tried to shift resources from consumption to investment by raising the
controlled maximum prices, charging higher prices for public utilities,
reducing subsidies, increasing indirect taxes and social security contri-
butions, and by limiting payroll increases to 15 percent per annum in 1977,
which, when compared to the estimated rate of inflation of 28-30 percent in
1977, implies a substantial decline in real wages and, therefore, in the
purchasing power of workers. A national council to develop a price and
income policy was established in early 1977. On August 25, 1977, the Govern-
ment announced a cut of 10-20 percent in public expenditures and limitations
on new credit, except for exports and export-oriented investments, housing,
and agriculture. To stimulate private savings, interest rates on deposits
in banks were raised to a maximum of about 17 percent. Government efforts to
revive private housing construction will also induce more individual savings,
and decontrolling prices should lead to higher business profits. Although
private and public consumption has not increased in real terms in 1977,
compared with an estimated 6 percent increase in GDP, the level of overall
consumption is still high and the share of savings in GDP is low. The chal-
lenge now facing the Government is to reduce consumption especially where
it competes with exports, to reduce budget deficits, and to control the rate
of inflation (beyond the unavoidable and corrective impact of the increases
in import prices, due to devaluation of the escudo, in indirect taxes and
in utility rates, and of the adjustments in regulated prices).
13.       The measures to contain consumption were an important element
of the strategy to reduce the balance of payments deficit. The Government
has also taken a number of direct measures. To cut imports, import tariffs
were increased in May 1975, surcharges on imports were imposed which have
since been increased, an advanced deposit requirement was introduced, quanti-
tative restrictions on certain consumer goods were imposed, and credit for
imports was restricted. The most important measure, however, was the depre-
ciation of the escudo by about 20 percent between December 1975 and February
1977 and the 15 percent devaluation of February 26, 1977. As of August 25,
1977, the escudo was allowed to float against other currencies, with the
Central Bank announcing periodic adjustments (about one percent downwards
per month) in the exchange rate to reflect price changes in Portugal, and
its main trading partners. This depreciation and the devaluation of the
escudo were important steps in restoring some of the price competitiveness
of Portuguese exports. A series of other measures have been taken recently
to encourage exports. These include special credit facilities for exports
at concessionary interest rates, various fiscal incentives to exporters, a
modification in the export insurance scheme to make it more effective, and
the creation of a National Council of Foreign Trade in April 1977. These
measures, together with the Government's efforts to dampen domestic demand,
the return of stable production conditions, the various measures to improve
the financial position of enterprises, and the moderation in wage increases,
should assist in the recovery of Portuguese exports by improving the competi-
tive position of exporters. The Government has also negotiated some trade
concessions for Portuguese exports with the EC and EFTA. For the longer term,
the Portuguese Government formally applied on March 28, 1977, for membership
in the European Economic Community.



14.       From a policy point of view, reducing the rate of unemployment has
been, and will remain, the most difficult of Portugal's objectives to achieve.
Although the Government is still following selectively its earlier approach
of stopping open unemployment from rising to higher levels through direct
assistance in the form of subsidies, loans and guarantees to those enterprises
which are in financial difficulties, but can recover, it is now focussing more
on raising productivity and increasing the level of new investment. To fur-
ther encourage investment from abroad, the Government, in August 1977, revised
and improved the April 1976 Foreign Investment Code. A law defining the role
of public and private sectors has also been passed. The Government has an-
nounced that no further nationalizations are envisaged. In August 1977, the
legislation on compensation for nationalized assets was passed. Three im-
portant laws on labor relations, governing workers' committees, workers' dis-
missals and strikes were also enacted. Furthermore, to direct investment to
the labor-intensive activities, rebates in interest rates for labor-intensive
and export-oriented projects have been introduced. These measures to stimu-
late private investment are encouraging, and should help remove uncertainty
and revive investor confidence. Strenuous efforts are also being undertaken
to strengthen the institutional and managerial capability of the public sector
and to prepare suitable investment programs. Major sources of employment
creation in the immediate future, however, will be in housing, construction
and services.
Tasks Ahead
15.       Although there are clear indications of economic recovery, Portugal's
economy is still adjusting to the vast post-1974 turbulence. Despite a con-
siderable medium- and long-term potential, the economic situation at the end
of 1977 remains serious. The policy measures so far adopted have been in the
right direction and often politically difficult to take, but taken together,
they have not attained the desired reduction in the rate of inflation, the
balance of payments deficit and unemployment, nor the hoped for increase in
the level of savings and investment. More is therefore needed.
16.       The revival of growth in the Portuguese economy is by no means an
easy task. The process of reconstruction and reform will only be completed
over a period of several years, and the prospects for the medium and long-
term will largely hinge on the success of short-term stabilization measures.
Achievement of these objectives would only be possible in the context of a
substantial reduction in consumption and a substantial increase in savings and
investment. The public sector budget deficit would have to be cut to reduce
inflationary pressures and to free resources for private sector investment.
Portugal's situation calls for a growth strategy based on labor-intensive,
export-oriented investment, particularly in the manufacturing industry.
Government policies must restore Portugal's competitive position to take
advantage of the upswing in the world economy. Most of the growth in domestic
output should be aimed at increasing exports, and domestic consumption needs
to be restrained where it competes with exports for goods. Immediate measures
are needed to get the "price signals" right for exports--a general reduction
in export costs, elimination of the import substitution bias of the incentive
system, consideration of additional export subsidies on a temporary basis,



- 6 -
and raising interest rates which are deeply negative, even after the signi-
ficant increases in August 1977. Progressive adjustments in interest rates
to positive real levels would encourage industrial investment over the longer
term and provide incentives for more efficient resource allocation and, in
particular, employment-intensive production. Meanwhile, housing, construction
and services will have to serve as a means of absorbing the unemployed. The
attitude of the private sector toward new investment has so far generally been
cautious due to poor financial results and uncertainties about Government
policies and legislation affecting such critical areas as labor, compensation,
the role of the private sector and foreign investment. Now that a number of
laws have been enacted in these areas, the Government can favorably influence
investment decisions by effective implementation and the maintenance of stable
policies, particularly those affecting price incentives. Decisions on invest-
ment projects need to be based on calculations of economic profitability that
involve more sophisticated methodologies than are presently employed.
17.       The overall growth during 1978 and 1979 will largely be determined
by the new Government's policies. With appropriate economic management and
external assistance, Portugal should be capable of achieving a growth rate
of 3.5-4.0 percent per annum in these two years. If a significant growth in
exports (8-10 percent) and fixed investment (15 percent) is achieved, and
consumption and imports are reduced further, the economy would have weathered
the worst and could look forward to some increase in per capita consumption
in the following years. Over the longer period 1978-85, Portugal should be
able to achieve an income growth rate of about 5-5.5 percent per annum. This
projected GDP growth is realistic and would largely be achieved through exports
of manufactured goods and the revitalization of the agricultural sector.
Portugal, having achieved growth rates of 9 percent per annum during 1968-73,
is capable of reaching these targets and increasing its exports provided
adequate policy measures are taken in time.
18.       The new Government recognizes the urgency of the situation, and
there are fair prospects of improvements in these directions because first,
the Government seems committed to introduce the tough measures that are
required, and, second, the country has shed the euphoric and unrealistic
expectations which followed the revolution of April 1974. We propose to
continue to monitor the economic situation closely and to pursue our discus-
sions with the Government with a view to encouraging adequate action in
various areas. The former Government, while focussing on the short-term
economic management, also turned its attention to sectoral policies to lay
the basis for longer-term development and the new Government can now build
upon these efforts (paras. 25-29)
External Assistance
19.        Since the last economic report in March 1977, the Bank has continued
to improve its understanding of the various sectors of the economy. It will
continue to assist the Government in its efforts for restructuring the economy,



- 7 -
and for bringing about the long overdue institutional reforms and the rational-
ization of sectors, which will be necessary preconditions to rapid and more
balanced development in the future.
20.       Multilateral and bilateral agencies have responded well to Portugal's
need for external assistance, both for balance of payments support and long-
term project loans. With gold as collateral, Portugal has obtained about
$1 billion as of August 10, 1977, in short-term loans for balance of payments
support from the Bank for International Settlement and European central banks
(mainly the Deutsche Bundesbank). The IMF has so far extended about $290
million as gold tranches, oil facilities, compensatory financing, and the
first credit tranche. The Bank has approved $110 million equivalent in loans
to the power, transport and DFC sectors during FY76 and FY77. In addition,
the EC, EIB, EFTA, as well as USAID and other bilateral agencies have committed
significant funds to Portugal in emergency concessionary aid and for long-term
projects. In total, therefore, aid commitments in 1975 equaled $400 million,
and in 1976 over $1 billion. In early 1977 the Portuguese Government obtained
from the US Government a short-term loan of $300 million. In addition, in
the late spring of 1977, under the leadership of the United States, Portugal
obtained a commitment of $750 million in the form of a multi-country aid
package for medium-term financial assistance linked to the negotiations with
the IMF on the second standby credit. Portugal will continue to require
sizeable external capital inflows in the years ahead, and, therefore, the
Bank's assistance can play a very important role, not only in providing the
urgently-needed foreign exchange for important projects and the technical
assistance needed for the restructuring of the economy, but also because it
can act as a catalyst to help mobilize other sources of financing.
Creditworthiness
21.       It is estimated that public and publicly guaranteed medium- and
long-term debt (outstanding and disbursed) was of the order of $1,120 million
at the end of 1976. The debt service ratio for medium- and long-term debt was
6.8 percent in 1976, and is estimated to be about 8 percent in 1977. As has
been mentioned before (para. 9), Portugal is using its gold stock as security
for short-term borrowing purposes. Based on reasonable assumptions concerning
export growth, a substantial scale of borrowing, and credit terms, Portugal's
debt service ratio is not likely to go much beyond 18-20 percent by the early
1980s. In the light of these facts, the efforts made by the Government, and
the prospects for growth, and on the assumption that the new Government will
continue financial stabilization policies, Portugal can be considered credit-
worthy for Bank lending.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
22.       The first phase of Bank lending to Portugal was during the period
1963-66 and lending was concentrated in the power sector, in line with Govern-
ment priorities which reflected the power needs of a rapidly developing indus-
try. Five loans totaling $57.5 million helped finance three thermal and two
hydropower projects, which were successfully completed to meet the country's
increasing power requirements.



- 8 -
23.       The turbulent events of the more recent past and the ensuing disloca-
tion and exodus of managerial talent, high-level technicians and capital, have
deprived Portugal's economy of some of its most vital elements. Moreover the
transition into an open political system has revealed social and economic
weaknesses which are unusual for a high-income developing country. The former
Government has been aware of these weaknesses, and after some degree of social
and political peace and stability was achieved, it addressed itself to restruc-
turing the economy and the social services, and to carrying out the wide
institutional reforms required for that purpose. The dual task of facing the
inherited short-term problems and restructuring the country for economic
integration within Europe will require far-reaching efforts from the Govern-
ment and the people of Portugal. Meanwhile, to overcome pressing short-term
economic problems and to eliminate the structural deficiencies without post-
poning developmental efforts, Portugal will continue to require sizeable
external assistance, both financial and technical, in the years ahead.
24.       The Bank has responded to Portugal's needs by supporting projects in
rapid succession, and has been assisting the Government in economic and sector
work. The proposed loan, which would be the first for water supply in Portugal,
would finance the Bank's ninth project in that country, the fourth since the
resumption of lending in 1976. At that time, demand for power had outstripped
supply once again and a power project was selected as the Bank's first new oper-
ation in this familiar sector. A loan to finance a portion of Electricidade
de Portugal's investment program for 1976-86 was approved on June 24, 1976.
Two further operations followed: a loan for a highway project, involving
maintenance and construction, preparation of a transport master plan, a
railway rehabilitation plan and a road investment plan, and a loan to Banco de
Fomento Nacional for industrial finance were approved on October 19, 1976 and
May 24, 1977, respectively. Total Bank loans now amount to $167.5 million.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of January 31, 1978 and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
25.       In an intensive parallel effort at the macroeconomic and sectoral
levels, the Bank assisted the Government in reviewing policy and management
issues. Reviews of the water supply (together with WHO) and the education
sectors were carried out and were discussed with the Government in March 1977.
Agriculture and manufacturing export industries were also studied, and were
reviewed with the Government in November 1977. The report entitled "Manufac-
turing Export Industries in Portugal" (No. 1695a-PO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on January 13, 1978.
26.       In agriculture, there are major problems, but there is also con-
siderable scope for stepping up growth, and the Government has placed a high
priority on developing the sector. A revised Land Reform Law was passed in
August 1977 and needs to be implemented quickly so as to remove uncertainties,
and make a positive contribution to production. Improvement in the agrarian
structure of the small-farm sector will require studying and adopting land
consolidation measures to enable younger farmers to acquire land to expand
presently unviable farms. To reverse the trend of a very low level of
investment in agriculture, consolidation of Government credit agencies and
of their functions is urgently needed, and the recent creation of the Finan-
cial Institute for Agriculture and Fisheries Development (IFADAP), to channel



- 9 -
credit for agriculture, is a step in the right direction. Portugal, in the
past, has followed a very complex system of agricultural price and subsidy
policies, and this needs a complete overhaul to get the "price-signals" right
and to correct distortions in resource allocation. Most importantly, the
Government has begun to reorganize the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries.
27.       Portugal's industrial structure, at present, is weak.  Its tradi-
tional export industries, such as textiles and clothing, are of very small
size, have poor management and low productivity. If these industries are
to maintain their importance in Portugal's exports, they will have to go
through a complete overhaul--closing down the many uneconomic enterprises,
merging small firms to achieve economic-size plants, modernizing equipment,
improving productivity, and strengthening the financial situation of enter-
prises. Furthermore, there is urgency in getting new investment underway.
Portugal has applied for membership in the EC and, therefore, in addition to
expanding its labor-intensive traditional exports, it will have to put its
industrial base on a sound footing and modernize its industries. However,
Portugal should develop only those industries in which it is cost competitive
over the long-term vis-a-vis its European partners in order to survive under
the free trade regime. Strengthening the project preparation capability of
both the public and private sectors is also of very high priority at present.
The Governent has sought, and has been provided, Bank technical assistance
in reviewing its plans for an industrial complex in Sines, situated on the
Atlantic coast south of Lisbon.
28.       In education, a sector in which Portugal has lagged badly behind
the rest of Europe, policies to reflect the new socio-political objectives,
to eliminate skill shortages in certain categories of labor, to meet the man-
power needs of the economy and to help to reduce unemployment are among the
main preoccupations of the Government. Measures will need to be taken to
reduce regional imbalances and to lessen disparities in the quality and range
of educational opportunity available as between the rural and urban areas, and
to remedy overcrowded facilities catering to the needs of the poorer sections
in urban areas.
29.       In the water supply and sewerage sector, Portugal is the most
deficient of Western European countries, and the threat of cholera and other
waterborne diseases is ever present (Part III). The proposed project would
help to remedy this situation.
30.       In the light of the sector discussions mentioned above (para. 25),
we intend to direct FY78 lending to education and agriculture, in addition to
the proposed water supply project. In education, our main objectives at this
time are management and technician training to serve industry's future needs,
and better teacher training to improve the quality of education. In agricul-
ture, we intend to assist Government's efforts in revitalizing fisheries
and to back its major thrust for stimulating on-farm and livestock develop-
ment. In industry, where our next operation is scheduled for FY79, the focus
will be on direct lending to selected industries that are expected to play a
major role in Portugal's development programs, and to the extent possible, to
small and medium-size enterprises, as they resurface after difficult years.



- 10 -
Employment creation, export promotion, and structural reform have been identi-
fied as key objectives of Bank assistance to the industrial sector. The Bank's
involvement in these major sectors is intended to assist the Government in
strengthening its project selection and evaluation techniques, and in linking
sector policies closely with the overall economic objectives of the country.
31.       Thus, essentially through its involvement in agriculture, industry,
education, highways, and water supply, the Bank has mounted a substantial
effort aimed at:
(i) easing the immediate foreign exchange constraint;
(ii) improving the longer-term balance of payments situation
by supporting projects aimed at export expansion and
selected import substitution;
(iii) assisting public investment especially in previously
neglected social areas; and
(iv) supporting Government efforts toward institutional and
policy reform needed to restructure the economy.
32.       Sizeable and timely long-term external assistance is essential if
Portugal is to be able to deal successfully with the many problems that con-
front its economy. It is the Bank's objective to contribute to this effort
while providing advice on developing the new institutions and reforming
old ones, an institutional effort which is indispensable if Portugal is
to achieve its overall long-term economic objectives.
PART III - WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE IN PORTUGAL
33.       Water supply and waste disposal have been badly neglected in the
past, and the services and infrastructure available in urban and rural areas
are very deficient by European standards. About 66 percent (5.9 million) of
the population of mainland Portugal is connected to piped water supplies and
20 percent (1.8 million) to waterborne sewer systems but only about 40 percent
(3.6 million) have good water supply, and only 2 percent (0.2 million), good
sewerage service. The resulting poor sanitary conditions are a confirmed
hazard for public health, in particular among the poor of the main urban
concentration areas. These are mainly the Lisbon, and Porto regions
which account for nearly 45 percent of the total population of mainland
Portugal, and the touristic Algarve region.
34.       A cholera epidemic which broke out in Algarve, in 1974-75, spread
to the slum areas of Lisbon and Porto before it could be controlled at high
human and material cost; cholera may now have become endemic in Portugal, and
this confirms that urgent measures must be taken to introduce modern sanita-
tion systems. Other prevalent waterborne diseases are hepatitis and typhoid.
At present, further outbreaks of waterborne epidemics are probably being



- 11 -
prevented by, among other measures, heavy emergency chlorination of water.
Though unsatisfactory, because it involves health hazards of its own, this
is the best that can be done in the prevailing circumstances.
35.       The Government is preoccupied with the dangers inherent in this
backward sector and is preparing a massive sanitation program to improve water
supply, sewerage and solid waste disposal throughout the country. It will
also introduce long-term regional planning. Highest priority within this
program has been given to the Lisbon region, because it contains almost 30
percent of mainland Portugal's population and, as the focus of internal migra-
tion, the largest number of urban poor. Priority has also been given to Porto
and Algarve regions because of their large growth rates and especially defi-
cient sanitary conditions. A rapid improvement of the sanitary conditions
in these regions, including availability of treated water for the urban poor,
is a pressing issue in view of the latent health hazards. It is also very
important for the ongoing recovery of the tourism industry, a major foreign
exchange earner.
36.       The main constraints to the successful implementation of the Govern-
ment's proposed program are poor sector management due to fragmentation of
responsibility, lack of organizational and financial know-how, and shortage
of qualified sanitary engineers. Another problem is the financial weakness
of sector institutions which places a heavy demand on Government resources.
Tariffs
37.       Water tariffs are usually related to water consumption and are highly
progressive for domestic consumers. Traditionally, commercial consumers have
paid less for their water than domestic consumers and industrial consumers
have enjoyed even lower rates. The January 1977 tariff increase (100 percent)
eliminated the preferential industrial rates, placing industry and commerce at
the lowest domestic tariff step. It is expected that there will be further
increases for industrial and commercial consumers.
38.       In constant 1970 terms, the price of water decreased steadily
throughout the 1970s but in January 1977 tariffs were raised sufficiently
to compensate for inflation. However, operating costs, especially salaries
and energy, had climbed faster than the general rate of inflation during the
period 1974-76 (21 percent p.a.), so that tariffs have remained inadequate.
39.       Sewerage service is charged through property taxes and only in a
few cases is it based on water consumption. Sewer charges are inadequate
but increases are presently under study in many areas.
Financial Requirements
40.       The erosion of water tariffs and the inadequacy of sewer charges
have created serious cash deficits which have been covered through Government
subsidies. Present Government policy is to allow further tariff increases to
cover not only operating expenses, but also to generate part of the funds re-
quired for new investment. Discussions with the Government during the sector



- 12 -
review and during the preparation of the proposed project have culminated in
the understanding that substantial tariff increases would be required if sector
institutions were to become financially viable entities. The large tariff
increase of 1977 would be followed with another sizeable increase in 1978 and
additional increases in future years. Studies included under the proposed
project, at Government request, would examine the tariff structures and
recommend measures to help sector institutions acquire sound financial
positions.
41.       Design and construction of water supply and sewerage projects have
been financed through Government grants and low interest loans.  Until 1975
Government investment was modest--which accounts for the backwardness of the
sector--but is now gathering considerable momentum as a result of the initial
phase of the Government's sanitation program. Substantial funds for this pro-
gram are expected to be obtained through internal cash generation and commer-
cial loans, with a decreasing reliance on Government grants. During the early
years of the program, however, Government contributions will need to be sig-
nificant because the water supply and sewerage organizations are financially
weak, and commercial loans are made on terms relatively short for this type of
investment. Indeed, Government grants represented over 80 percent of the $67
million invested in the sector in 1976, and are expected to exceed 65 percent
of the total sector investment of $112 million estimated for 1977.
Institutional Framework
42.       Traditionally, local water supply and sewerage services have been
the responsibility of the municipalities, which in some cases have created
autonomous entities to operate these services. There is now consensus that
some regionalization of services is necessary in large urban areas, partic-
ularly Lisbon and Porto. The Government has directed the Lisbon Public Water
Enterprise (EPAL), the main water supplier in the Lisbon region, to proceed
with studies for the regionalization of sanitary services (water supply,
sewerage and solid wastes) in the area. Overall supervision of the sector is
the responsibility of the State Secretariat for Water Resources and Basic
Sanitation (SERHSB), a branch of the Ministry of Public Works. Its technical
arm is the General Directorate of Basic Sanitation (DGSB) which has regional
offices throughout Portugal and, at present employs about 300 people including
78 engineers. Both SERHSB and DGSB are weak institutions and many of their
functions have been gradually absorbed by other central Government agencies
created or assigned to attend to specific sectoral problems. Today, at least
five ministries hold some responsibilities in the sector and, as indicated by
the WHO/World Bank sector mission, this fragmentation is an important cause of
the present disorganization of the sector. Recognizing the deficiencies in
the institutional framework of the sector, the Government has recently an-
nounced its intention to strengthen DGSB and to give it all the central
supervision responsibility. The Government has also made known its intention
to seek, in the light of appropriate studies, regional concentration of
responsibility in single regional entities in certain large urban areas (EPAL
is an example). Consequently the Government faces the dual task of reinforcing
DGSB and of establishing sound regional entities with no precedent to build
upon. To accomplish these tasks, the Government has asked the Bank to provide
training and technical assistance under the proposed loan to help the Ministry



- 13 -
of Public Works achieve its targets. The transfer of know-how from abroad
through staff training and studies has therefore been included in the proposed
assistance package. Some of the important points thus covered are:
(i) Preparation of timetables and recommendations for the conver-
sion of EPAL into a regional water supply authority and for the
gradual regionalization of sewerage and solids waste services;
(ii) Review of the organization, staffing and operation of the
existing water supply and sewerage agencies in Porto and
Algarve and preparation of specific recommendations on
institution building and training programs;
(iii) Determination of the level of water and sewer tariffs required
to cover operation and maintenance costs, debt service and
to provide a surplus to contribute to the normal expansion of
the systems.
43.       Water supply and sewerage projects are usually designed by private
consultants and constructed by contractors. Design criteria for water distri-
bution and wastewater collection are often outdated and there is little local
expertise in wastewater treatment and disposal. Projects are not subject to
financial feasibility or economic analysis, and are usually over-designed.
Construction is supervised by the municipalities or by central Government
agencies involved in the sector, and is generally of good quality. Seminars
are being organized in Portugal by USAID and WHO to assist in improving the
quality of project preparation.
The Lisbon Region
44.       Greater Lisbon extends on both shores of the Tagus (Tejo) River
estuary and covers an area of about 600 km2, spread over many municipalities.
The Lisbon region includes greater Lisbon plus rural municipalities situated
on the periphery of the urban area or along the route of the water transmis-
sion pipelines (see map). The population of the region is estimated at 2.6
million and is projected to reach 3.6 million by 1990.
45.       The Tagus River is used by EPAL as the main source of water supply
for the Lisbon region. It is the longest river (900 km) in the Iberian
peninsula; it originates in Spain and crosses Portugal from east to west.
The Tagus has been an important element in the development of both Spain and
Portugal. However, intensive agricultural and industrial development in
the river basin has caused rapid deterioration in the quality of river waters,
forcing EPAL, which uses the river as its main water source, to upgrade its
treatment facilities. This deterioration has also made further use of the
river, for additional water, unsafe. The Government is taking steps towards
eliminating the most dangerous sources of pollution. One of these sources,
the city of Santarem, directly affects water quality at the main water intake
of EPAL, contributing to the need for special water treatment arrangements
at high cost. To control this pollution source the Government will start



- 14 -
construction of an adequate sewerage system before July 1979 (Section 3.06 of
the Loan Agreement). The Castelo do Bode reservoir, to be developed under the
proposed project, will provide an alternative unpolluted water source for the
Lisbon region.
46.       EPAL presently operates the water supply system in the Lisbon munic-
ipality and also sells water wholesale to municipalities of the Lisbon region
located north of the Tagus estuary. In total, EPAL provides water to about
1.6 million people. The municipalities south of the Tagus estuary have their
own water supply systems, based on the aquifer underlying the Setubal Peninsula.
New well fields are being developed in that peninsula but decreases in the
yields of existing fields and lowering of the water table indicate that the
aquifer might already be overdrawn. Consequently EPAL will provide additional
water to these municipalities in the coming years. Feeder lines, trunk mains
and network storage facilities are generally inadequate, so that service on
the periphery of the distribution systems is usually intermittent. These
deficiencies, coupled with the continuous water shortages, have prevented the
normal expansion of the secondary networks and the elimination of temporary
supplies. Indeed, there are still many people served by standpipes even
though they could afford house connections.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.       The Government of Portugal has requested Bank assistance for finan-
cing the investment program of the Lisbon Public Water Enterprise (EPAL), which
is designed to increase water supply in the Lisbon region, to meet demand up
to 1990. Through the expansion of the distribution network in low income areas
this would also permit provision of safe drinking water to 300,000 urban poor.
It has also asked for assistance in reorganizing the sector and strengthening
urban and rural planning and project design capability in the country. The
proposed project responds to these needs and would create over 20,000 manyears
of employment at a time Portugal faces a serious unemployment problem. It was
identified in January 1977 following the WHO/World Bank sector review, and ap-
praised in May/June 1977; negotiations took place in Washington, January 9 to
13, 1978. The Portuguese delegation was led by Dr. Antonio dos Santos Labisa,
Advisor, Bank of Portugal, and included representatives of the Ministry of
Finance and EPAL. A report entitled "Portugal - Lisbon Region Water Supply
Project" (No. 1733a-PO), dated March 1, 1978 is being circulated separately
to the Executive Directors. The main features of the Loan and project are
listed in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
Project Description
48.       The project comprises the major part of EPAL's investment program
for the 1978 to 1982 period, namely, developing the Castelo do Bode Reservoir
(see map) to supply the Lisbon region, and involves:



- 15 -
(i) Construction of the Castelo do Bode aqueduct with an initial
capacity of 385,000 m3/day, including the installation of an
89 km long transmission pipeline between the existing Castelo
do Bode Reservoir and Lisbon, and the construction of a water
treatment plant and two pumping stations.
(ii) Expansion and upgrading of the existing distribution system,
including installation of nine inter-municipal trunk mains,
with a combined length of about 73 km, construction of three
pumping stations and seven network reservoirs with a combined
capacity of 130,000 m3, and expansion of the distribution
networks to areas currently served by temporary supplies and
standpipes.
(iii) Studies for regionalization of sanitary services in the Lisbon
area, and feasibility studies for water supply and sewerage sys-
tems in the Porto and Algarve regions.
(iv) Provision for the training of senior staff of General Directorate
of Basic Sanitation (DGSB) and EPAL through short visits to water
supply and sewerage organizations and systems abroad.
49.       The project is technically and economically sound.  The Castelo do
Bode scheme is, under present conditions, the least-cost solution for increas-
ing the water supply of the Lisbon region, and the studies and training will
contribute toward better management of the sector.
Project Cost and Financing
50.       The total project cost is estimated at $153.2 million, net of taxes,
with a foreign exchange component of $40.0 million or 26 percent. Construc-
tion costs, including transmission pipeline, water treatment plant, pumping
stations and distribution system, would amount to $148.7 million, including
physical and price contingencies. The studies and training component would
cost about $4.5 million, including price contingencies. Prices for foreign
equipment are assumed to increase by 7.5 percent in 1978 and 1979, and by
7 percent thereafter, and prices for construction by 15 percent in 1978, 10
percent in 1979 and 1980 and 8 percent thereafter.
51.       The project would be financed by the proposed $40 million Bank loan,
covering the foreign exchange cost, a $60 million equivalent Government equity
contribution and by local bank loans, the main provider of which is expected
to be the Caixa Geral de Depositos. The Government would retain $2.2 million
of the Bank loan to finance the studies and training, and would onlend $37.8
million to EPAL towards construction costs. The local bank loans and Govern-
ment equity contributions for the proposed project constitute part of the
funding of EPAL's financing requirements up to 1982. EPAL's requirements
and sources of financing would be as follows:



- 16 -
Amount
($ millions)    Percent
Funds Requirements
Construction:
Project                                            148.7          82.3
Other construction                                  16.3           9.0
Acquisition of meters and mechanical plant            6.6           3.7
Total capital expenditure                           171.6          95.0
Increase in working capital                           9.0           5.0
Total Requirements                             180.6         100.0
Funds Sources
Internal funds                                       90.9          50.3
Less:  Debt service                                 (87.1)        (48.2)
Net internal funds                                    3.8           2.1
IBRD loan                                            37.8          20.9
Caixa Geral de Depositos or other lenders            79.0          43.7
Government equity                                    60.0          33.3
Total Sources                                   180.6         100.0
The Government and the Caixa Geral de Depositos have indicated in letters of
intent their willingness to provide in equity and in loans respectively, the
funds required for EPAL's investment program. EPAL's entering into a financing
agreement or agreements with the Caixa or other lenders is a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan. For timely execution of financing arrange-
ments, EPAL will submit annual investment programs in advance to the Government
and other financing sources to indicate its lending requirements in the period
ahead.
Project Implementation
52.       The project will be implemented by EPAL except for the feasibility
studies for water supply and sewerage in Porto and Algarve regions and train-
ing of senior staff for the General Directorate of Basic Sanitation which will
be executed by the Government. EPAL is a financially autonomous public com-
pany created in 1974. It is the largest supplier of water to the Lisbon
region and can set tariffs, subject to Government approval, to cover all costs.
It functions under a management board; EPAL's three top executives (general
manager, and executive directors for financial and technical services) are the
chairman and members of this board.  The company has just over 1,500 employees,
including about 1,000 technical and manual workers. EPAL is well managed and
it is carrying out its responsibilities effectively. However, it still has to
overcome a number of problems, mainly involving finance, labor relations and
planning. The proposed project will help EPAL deal with these problems
through staff training and institution building measures. EPAL has agreed



- 17 -
to establish and to pursue yearly staffing, training, system operation and
financial targets in consultation with the Bank (Section 3.02 of the Project
Agreement). It has also agreed to set up a planning department which will
examine and propose improvements in EPAL's organizational arrangements and
productivity (Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement).
53.       EPAL took over from the former concessionnaire at the peak of the
cholera epidemic and in the wake of the revolution, with a clear mandate to
improve water supply services quickly and without sparing expenses. It re-
ceived badly maintained facilities, which were insufficient to satisfy the
water demand. It had to launch a large program of studies, repairs and
expansions. The financial effects of this program have been compounded by
severe inflation, large salary increases despite low labor productivity,
and increased energy costs. Loan financing has added to EPAL's difficulties
because of high interest rates and rplatively short amortization periods.
Until the January 1977 doubling of tariffs, EPAL was not allowed to put up
tariffs to cover costs. In 1974 and 1975 it incurred large net losses and,
in 1976, it was assisted by a $12.0 million equivalent Government grant as
compensation for deferred tariff increases. The doubling of average tariffs
in 1977 helped EPAL to redress its finances to a significant degree, enabling
it both to service higher interest charges in 1977 (on loans for financing
its investment program) and to reduce its net loss after interest by about
75 percent compared with the potential loss of the previous year. The pro-
posed project would help EPAL to substantially and progressively improve
its financial situation so that already as of 1978 EPAL would break even
despite further large increases in interest payments. EPAL is expected to
make steadily increasing net profits starting in 1981 with an important
acceleration in 1983, following project completion. This improvement would
be achieved by an average tariff increase of 30 percent and a small repayable
Government contribution in 1978, and by subsequent yearly tariff adjustments.
The Government has authorized the 1978 tariff increase. Implementation of
these higher tariffs would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loan. Agreement has been reached that in the future EPAL will set and main-
tain tariffs to cover all expenses (other than depreciation) and debt service
and, beginning 1983, contribute towards the cost of its future investment
program (Section 4.04(a) of the Project Agreement, Section 3.01 of the Loan
Agreement). It is EPAL's confirmed policy to charge incremental costs of
service to consumers who can afford it and to keep earnings at such levels
as to provide a reasonable return on capital investment. EPAL has agreed
to take effective action to achieve these objectives after the completion of
the regionalization study but no later than the end of 1980 (Section 4.04(b)
of the Project Agreement).
54.       Currently EPAL's net cash earnings do not adequately cover debt
service. EPAL would therefore not raise further loans without the consent of
the Bank, unless its net cash earnings before depreciation and all interest
exceed 1.5 times its expected debt service in any future year (Section 4.05
of the Project Agreement). From 1983 onwards, EPAL is expected to achieve a
debt service coverage which will satisfy this ratio. Intimately bound to
the financial prospects of EPAL are those of the municipalities to which EPAL
supplies bulk water. I4unicipal services are financed through taxes on property



- 18 -
rental income, collected by the Government and remitted to mun:icipalities for
their exclusive use; since 1974, remittances have been erratic., Municipali-
ties have been in financial difficulty and they have not been paying EPAL
their water bills; at the end of 1977 arrears amounted to $6.4 million equiv-
alent and some pending bills dated as far back as 1974. This problem has
received Government attention and is now settled. The Government has agreed
to ensure that future billings to municipalities will be paid within three
months of EPAL's billing date (Section 4.02 of the Loan Agreement).
Procurement
55.       Materials and equipment contracts estimated to cost more than
US$100,000 per contract will be procured after international competitive
bidding in accordance with the World Bank guidelines. Other materials
and equipment contracts, estimated to have a combined cost of less than
US$500,000 would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in
accordance with EPAL's procedures, which are acceptable. In determining the
award of materials and equipment contracts, it is proposed that qualified
domestic manufacturers will be given a margin of preference of 15 percent or
customs duties whichever is lower. Most of these contracts are, however,
expected to be awarded to foreign suppliers. Civil works contracts expected
to cost more than US$500,000 will be awarded after international competitive
bidding in accordance with the World Bank guidelines. Other civil works
contracts, estimated to have a combined cost of less than US$16.0 million,
would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with
EPAL's procedures, which are acceptable.  Minor works, such as replacement of
secondary networks estimated to cost no more than $50,000 in any particular
case may be carried out by EPAL through force account, under arrangements
acceptable to the Bank, up to a total value of US$1.0 million. The construc-
tion contracts for the Castelo do Bode Aqueduct (transmission pipe line, water
treatment plant and main pumping stations) will include related material and
equipment and are expected to be awarded to joint ventures of foreign and
Portuguese contractors. The civil works contracts for the expansion of the
distribution systems are expected to be won by Portuguese firms. The supple-
mentary studies will require about 400 man-months of technical staff and 350
man-months of supporting personnel. The average foreign exchange cost for
technical staff would amount to about $5,000 per man-month including the over-
head and profit of the consulting firms. Advance contracting is envisaged
for some of this work to permit an early start of implementatioln.  There-
fore, retroactive financing of up to $50,000 is recommended for expenditures
incurred on these studies after September 30, 1977.
Disbursements
56.       The proposed loan would be disbursed over a five-year period as
follows: 30 percent of total expenditures required for the construction of
the Castelo do Bode Aqueduct, which represents the estimated foreign exchange
component of these works; 15 percent of total expenditures on civil works
contracts, and 100 percent of foreign expenditures (if locally manufactured,
100 percent ex-factory) on material and equipment contracts requiired for the



- 19 -
expansion of the distribution system; 50 percent of total expenditures for the
consulting services required to carry out the supplementary studies, which
correspond to the estimated foreign exchange component for this work; and 100
percent of foreign expenditures for training of staff.
Environmental Impact
57.       The studies to be financed under the proposed loan should provide
adequate solutions to the immediate water supply and sewerage problems of
Lisbon, Porto and Algarve regions. Both the studies and the training compo-
nent should improve local expertise on sanitary and environmental engineering
for the successful implementation of the proposed countrywide sanitation
program. Negative environmental effects of construction under the project
should be negligible.
Justification
58.       Permanent water shortages and inadequate distribution networks today
characterize the water supply systems of the Lisbon region. These deficien-
cies have led to the extensive use of inadequately treated waters. Further-
more, the inability of the water authorities to maintain constant supplies
at adequate pressure has resulted in intermittent service, severe summer
water rationing, and contamination of waters in the peripheral distribution
networks. The inevitable consequence has been the highest incidence of water-
borne diseases in any large European city. By providing sufficient water, and
by integrating the various municipal distribution systems, the project should
greatly improve sanitary conditions in the Lisbon region and would make safe
water available to all inhabitants. Among them are about 300,000 urban poor
at present inadequately supplied, including slum dwellers who now receive
water from contaminated sources, treated only by emergency chlorination.
About 135,000 people at present supplied with potable water from standpipes,
will have access to house connections.
59.       The project is expected to have a major institution-building impact,
since it would be the largest, best planned and most comprehensive Portuguese
undertaking in water supply. The project's implementation should reinforce
EPAL's position as the foremost water supply agency in Portugal and should
provide valuable lessons for planning, designing, financing and constructing
water supply systems in other parts of the country. Under the project, EPAL
would set up a planning office with organization and methods capability to
better organize its operations and future expansion. The regionalization
studies will analyze the advantages of separate and combined water supply and
sewerage agencies, and will examine the domestic and industrial tariffs for
water and sewer services. They should greatly assist the Government in
implementing its sanitation program.
60.       Savings in public health expenditures (i.e., curative medical
costs), because of the project's preventive contribution to public health,
constitute economic and financial benefits of the project which, however, are
difficult to quantify. The development of the Castelo do Bode source is the



- 20 -
least-cost solution for increasing water supply to the Lisbon region. A
further benefit of the project would be the creation of about 1,500 permanent
and 22,000 man-years of temporary skilled and non-skilled jobs, at a time when
Portugal faces a severe unemployment problem.
61.       Revenues derived by EPAL from present retail tariffs in the Lisbon
region would give an internal financial return on the total investment pro-
gram of about 2 percent, which confirms the evidence of the financial fore-
casts that tariffs are too low. An increase of about 70 percent (in constant
prices) would be necessary to match average incremental costs and the attain-
ment of this level by the end of project construction would yield an internal
financial return of about 10 percent.
Risks and Safeguards
62.       In view of the heavy demands upon Government financial resources
(and those of the Caixa Geral de Depositos) caused by the overall construction
program to be implemented at a time of exceptional economic strain for Portugal,
there is a risk that construction might be curtailed or phased in time. How-
ever, the high priority accorded by the Government to the project, coupled
with the fear of another cholera outbreak with its immediate consequences on
tourism revenues, is expected to provide adequate motivation for the timely
provision of funds. Agreement was reached on appropriate administrative pro-
cedures to ensure availability of the necessary funds (Schedule 2, paragraph
III of the Loan Agreement). The proposed Government contribution towards the
project and towards related works by the municipalities (which together will
serve about 30 percent of Portugal's population) is estimated to average about
$18 million annually during 1978-82. In view of the very difficult economic
conditions prevailing in the country, in particular the high inflation, uncer-
tainties exist regarding the timely implementation of tariff increases. How-
ever, the program of gradual increases (paragraph 53) is consistent with
Government policy and should help to mitigate this problem.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Portugal and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Empresa Publica das
Aguas de Lisboa, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
64.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Execution on behalf of the Government and EPAL of a subsidiary loan
agreement, an increase in EPAL's tariffs, financing agreements with appro-
priate lenders providing at least $80 million for EPAL's investment program,
and appointment of financial and commercial directors by EPAL are special
conditions of effectiveness.



- 21 -
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March  10, 1978
Washington, D.C.






- 22 -
ANIZX I
TABLE 3A                                             Pa4 -1 of 4
PORTUGAL            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)
_______________                                  PORTUGAL                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       92.1                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      41.7                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE           GREECE         ITALY          SPAIN *0*
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    360.00   950.0*  1690.00 La             1360.0*    1910.04    1580.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            9.0        9.1        9.7 /              8.8        53.7        33.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       98.0       99.0     105.0 La             67.0       178.0        67.0
PER S). KM1. AGRICULTURAL LAND      186.0      211.0     233.0 j              96.0       266.0       105.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         24.0       21.1       19.2               18.1        18.6        21.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)          10.8       10.4       10.5                8.0         9.7         8.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        77.5       58.0      37.9                29.6        29.6        27.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       82.3       66.1      68.7                70.9        71.9        70.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.6        1.5        1.5                1.0         1.3         1.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 0.7**      0.1       0.9                 O.S         0.8         1.1
URBAN                                 1.4        1.8         ..                1.5         0.8         2.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          22.7       26.9         ..               62.6        51.5        59.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       29.2       28.5       27.3               24.9        24.4        27.8
15 TO 64 YEARS                       62.8       61.8  ,  62.5                 64.0        65.2        62.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                     8.0        9.7       10.2               11.1        10.4         9.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.6        0.6        0.6                0.6         0.5         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0 /a    1.1  j    1.0  b                ..        0.9 L       1.1 La
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)            ..        ..         ..                 ..
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..        ..         ..                 ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         3400.0    3300.0   3600,0                    **    19600.0    11900.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)         42.6       29.2 L    23.4    c             ..        19.0        25.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)             ..       2.6      12.7 j                 .-        3.1         1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..        ..         ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..        ..         ..
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..        ..         ..
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..        ..         ..
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..        ..         ..                  ..
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..        ..         ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             1180.0/b,C1120.0 /C 900.0 /d              620.0       550.0       740.0 /b
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        1430.0/bd1090.0 5   870.0 L              1140.0       470.0 ..
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           190.0 Z    170.0      170.0              160.0        90.0       220.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)        107.0      118.0      118.0 L.fI         116.0       126.0       107.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              77.0       85.0       85.0 /j            99.0       100.0        81.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         33.0       40.0         ..               52.0/a      42.0        40.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              5.2 /e    3.4        .2.2                 ..         1.0        0.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      131.0       98.0    116.0                110.0       110.0       123.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     20.0       57.0      49.o L              70.0        6o.o        57.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             13.0       13.0      11.0                12.0        13.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     46.0       32.0      40.0                20.0        26.0        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 62.0        ..       70.0                82.0       97.0        94.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 1.0       O.B         ..                  ..
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                      71.0 I    65.5          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 40.5       64.2         ..
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                   27.4         ..         ..                  ..
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          95.0     i45.o    174,0                 111.0       218.0       214.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           17.0      54.0      98.0                 26.0       190.0        71.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          362.0      824.0    1236.0               1072.0      2262.0      1634.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                2.5        5.1          .                1.6         5.3         5.8
-----------------------------------------------      -- - _- - -   - -  -   - -  -  -  ---__   - -------__ _ _--- ----
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



- 23     -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
unlec oher,!rnot d, dta for 1960 refet tO ,any year batWaan 1959 .nd 1961, for 1970 b.tvea   1968 and 1970, and for Moat Ra....t E.tia,ate between
1973  n  1975.
0GNP per oapita dat. are based oo tha Wolod Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basia).
Doe to onIg-ti-O pop.lation growth rate . to Iar than rate of natural inerease
.. Sp.ir b.. beco -vi-ted asoan objective country because of its topology and it eseaa likely that, shoul.d Protuga1 manage to attain the level of
per -apL.ica  ucoc  of Spain, th.atruoOotra of the Portuguese                 .-Ia oud ahow aiilaritisa with that of Spain.
PORTUGAL,    1960    I   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;                 /b  1962;    /c  Regisetred, including physiciane
__p-taing dentistry;         /d  Including assistant nurses;    /a  1965;   7Lf  Inside on~ly.
1970     /   Ratio of population under 13 and 65 and over to total labor force;               lb  E.cludlng unenployed;         I   Regiutered, Including
phyalci..a practicing dantietry;         /d  Including assistant nurseso; -7e  Total, urban and rural.
m    .osTRECENT ESTOMATt,:   Ia  1976;    /b  Ratio of population undet 15 and 65 and ove r to total labor force;                  cfE..l.ding unemployed,
/dt  Inclu_ding phyaicians practicing dentiatry;    L!e  Hospital perecunne1, i~dding of nid.ivee  and aaeiatant
nursees;     /f  1969-71 average;    /A  Diarupted enrollment due to political unreat.
GREECE?       1970    Ia1967.
ITALY        1970      I   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;               lb  Hospital peraonnel.
SPAIN         1970     /a   pt,opoy,et office -aticeate;    /b  Rogiatcrd, eot all practioing in the country,
Rll, January 30. 1976
OgyDIIrIOIU OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Area (thou ka2)                                                                           Population par nursing, person - Populatiost dividod by n,obor of practicing
Total -Total  -uf.ce atu  -prising land area and inland wat.rs,                                    ale and f-walgraduata nus,trained" ar `certified` nurs., and
Mgi.-Oost reteot estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or patia-                   a,eiliary Paraonnel With training or eaperiance.
nently for crope, patur-a, earkac & kitchen gardeao  or to Itis fallow.                      Pap,latien pEr hos bialbd - Papulation divided by n,mber of hospital hada
aalbein public  n  private gan.r.  an .d apcialieed hospital and
GNP? per .apita (us$) - GNP per tapica .ati-etea at current -aket pricta,                        rehbilitation esntsr;  aciod.as n.rsig baosea and eatabliaboo.nt. for
.calculatd by a-m    --veain method ae World Bank Atlee (1973-75 basis);                       custodial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                    Per capita supply of sglaries (% of r*eOuir esnt:) -tCepot.,d fro  energy
equivalent or nat toad .uppilaa a_ailaba in counry par cpita par day:
Ppoplation and vital ettiatic.                                                                   available supplies emepris. dossatic production , beporta lasa e.port., and
Population (mid-ya  milo) A. of July fi-at:  if not avilabie. average                            changes in atock; oat supplies eatld. animal feed, seeda, quantities used
aftw   ndyuretiates   16,190ad  95  aa                                                 in faod proceaaing and louses in distribution; rsquiromeets wera eatimarcad
by FAO ba..ed on phyeiolgioai ns.do for mernl activity and health nonid-
Population d...aity - par suoare kou - MId-year population. par aquare kilestar                  acing   nviroamonta1 temperature, body weights, age and see distributiona of
(110 hectaree  of total  rer.                                                                 population, end allowing 10% for waste at household leve...
1ponlation dams ity - par  ouar. .w of aari.. land - Conputed aa  babve for                    Pet capita supply of prtotei  fars per day) - Protein onteet af per capita
o      Iiclorl  ad omly.                                                                nettsupply of fand par day; net supply of food is defined aa above; rqi
-etafor all countries eatabliab.d by USDA Economic Rceseatch Servicee
Vital atatistios.                                                                                Provide for a minimuan alaneof 60 gross of total protein per day, and
Crode birth rate Prt thousn, ad er"T"  - Annual live birtho par thousand of                       20 grosa of animal and pule. protein, of which 10 groea should be animal
mid-your population; ta-year arithmetic sysrages ending in 1960 and 1970,                      protein; thea. atandards are losr than thus. of 71  ores of total protein
and five-year  vavrago  -ding in 1975 for mast re...centstinate,                               and 23 groma of animal protein as an avaraga for the world, propoaed by FA0
Crude death rate par thousand, average - Annual deaths per thoueaand of odid-year                 in the Third World Food Survey.
population; tan-year arithastic averagee ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                   Per capita protein supply fre  animal and pulse - Prtotin supply of fond
yer average anding in 1975 for moat recent ea1timt.                                           derived fr- animals and pulses in graies per day.
.otect untlt   ae(tol-Annual deaths of infants under one year of age                           Death rate (Ithmu) esee0 1-4 - Annual deaths par thouasnd in ags group 1-4
per thousn  lie iths.                                                                          yeara, to children in thia as. group; suggested as an indicator of
Life .noactranoYlat bilrth fyrs) - Average n,ecr of years of lif. emaining at                     malutition.
birth; .auaily five-year avrags. ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing cntise.                                                                                  Educ.mtion
GtOso reproduti.n rate - Average onmber of live daughtera a woean Will bear                     Adiusted enrolletyratio -Ermryshal.gro11ast of all ages as par-
inhe .ora  roprodtctive period if she aexperiences present age-specific                    Petgao  prmay  cholag   pauac ;incue   hlrn    d61   er
fertility rataa; ugually five-year aeyrages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                      but adjuated for different lengtha of primary education; for coutrisa with
for develping countries.                                                                       univara1 education, enoletmy aecead 100% since am   pupils are below
,poplation1growth ratse7.   total - Conpood annual growth rate" of eid-year                       or above the official school age.
popuatio  for195060,  96070 ad 1971.5.                                               Adjustad anlmtratioe   ecn at scool - Computed aa above; secondary
Population  rowth rate6 (i)-6 orhn    Clspu.ted like growth rate of total                         education rquire  atlet  four years of approved primary Instruction;
population; diffsrent definitiosa of urban aree. may affect C-sparability of                    providas general, vo.ctional or teacher training inetroutiona for pupila
daeaogcountries,                                                                         of 12 ta 17 years of age; correpondeno   --6se  are gene.rally ...lId.d.
Olrba   ouain(   fttl      ai   fubnt  taa  population; different                              Years of schooling proided ifiret an   eedlses       otlyaso
definitiono of orb-o ar.s my affect conparabil1ity of data soang oputrims.                      schoolig; at seon.dary level, vacetional Instruction may be partially or
aompletely aeladed.
esrcue(1percent) - C"hildr.n  (0-14 years),  -Okies-ais (15-64 yerar),                  V9ocqatinal serelmaet  %af          "reeayl - Rotational imatitutian   include
andretred(  . ere and over) aa porceotages of mid-year population,                       tehia,Industrial or other programs which operate independently or a
Age dp-mdeoty rai          ai   fpplation under 15 and 65 and ovr to thea.                        deparutneots of secondary inetituti.na.
o.f agee 15 through 64.                                                                        Adul.t!lite1racy rate (%) - Literate adults (able to read and write) ae per-
ic ri dependecy ratio - Rlatfo of population under 15 and 65 and over to                      Istg  a   oa  adult population aged 15 years and ovar.
the labor fror in age group of 15-64 yeare.
Family Elsncinu-a.c.p-ot   ic-nl.ttva. thou) - CuoIltive neber of acce Ptora                    jjnjg.gR
of bir th- control dovi-e  rodor a.. picas of ntoa  fanily pl.miog program                    Pareon  par rae  furban) - Average ntshr of person  par rom  in occupied
a or  oocpcion                                                                              conventional. dwelling  in urban or...a; dwellings eaclude  on-paes a..nt
tiIy  lning - users Cl of married    anen  - Pertentgags af maried ws,sa of                  structurea and unonoupied parts.
child-hearing age (15-44, ys..r.) who us  birth-control devios, to all maried                Occupied d luello  without piped water i   - Ocupid covntoa  dwellings
wone   tonn  age group.                                                                      in uban ad ruralI areas without inaide or outsidea pi~ped wa1ter fanilitisa
tmplov,oett                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Atcasto electricity  (7ofa'ldl deel=ine  - Conventional dwelling. With
Total labor force (thousand) - Eoonmeic11y active persons, including armd                         elec tricity in living quarters as pertent of total dwellinp  in urban and
fornes and unoployd hut eacludieg ha u.e.ivee, students, etc.; definitions                      rural areas.
in ..ari..a eounrtetarer  not ceparable.                                                     mural dwelling  . cenoRd to electricity  Ml  - Computed as above for rural
Labor force inagriculture (%) - Agricultural labor force (in faming, foreatry,                    dwellings only.
hooting and fIahig) aa  erntage of total labor farce.
t)sonplayed (I ofibor force)r  f- splaysd.are usly.defined as preoa" who                        Coapeoption
are able ,and Willing to tekn   job, out ofa job on   given day, reained out                  gadie receivers (per thou pool - All tYPe of receivera  for radio broadcas.ts
of   J a   b  ad aeeking work for a epecified minImum period sot exceeding one                 to general public per thousand of populetje; exclude. uninaneed remeivera
seeb; may not he reparable between coutries due to different definitions                        in countria  and in years when regietrati.n,of radio sets  -ae in  ffsct;
of unployed and sourte of data, e.g., amploymat office statistics, sample                       data for recent yere may not b     - he .rparbe since mast .motrise abolished
survey., compulsory uneaploymt I auranc...                                                      licensing.
Passeneroars I par thou imp) - Passenge.r cara comprise mstecarC.se aeting
Inc=s dis.tribu.tion  - Parceocatge of privateisteeo (both in cash end kind)la  tn eight P-reosa; enclude. ssbul.amase  hearses and military
recIve  by rich-a  5%, richest 20%, pooret 20%, and poorest 40Y% of house-                      vehicles.
holds.                                                                                        Electricity (khb/yr per cap) -  emual oowa"tie, of imdustriel, cril
public -ad Privaet electricity in kilowatt beur  per capit.,' neal
Die tribotion of load  -.rerhip - Parc...toea  of lend ownd by wealthtest 10%Z                    baed en preduetien data, without allowanc  for Iwo"s in grida but allow
and poorest 10% of loand oenera.                                                                ins for Imparts end exports of electricity.
Newsprint(h/yr per cap) - per capita annual eanaprie  in kilogres
P,lk  an.h,,d  ut,r.1itio                                                                          eaitdfr   doeestie preductiw  plus net Importe of neweprint.
populatin oa  ehy.liia   - Popu lation divided by n,ber of practicing
physirians qualified fin a me-dical school at university level.



- 24 -                                      ANNEX I
COUNTRY DATA - PORTUGAL                                   Page 3 of 4
AREA                                   POPULATION                                       DENSITY   2
92,072 km2                             9.7 million (mid 1976)                           105 per km
Rate of growth: 0.9% (1970-1975)
GNP PER CAPITA (1976) $1690
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS (between 1973 and 1975)              HEALTH (1974)
Crude birth rate (per 1000):                          19.2      Population per physician:               900
Crude death rate (per 1000):                          10.5      Population per hospital bed:            170
Infant Mortality (per 1000 live births):              37.9
NUTRITION (between 1973 and 1975)                               EDUCATION (1973)
Per capita caloric intake as % of requirements: 118             Adult literacy rate %:                   70
Per capita protein intake (grams per day):            85        Primary school enrollment %:            116
LAND OWNERSHIP (1968)
(in % of total)              Up to 4 ha        4 to 50 ha        Over 50 ha
Number of farms:              78               21                   1
Area:                         15               34                 51
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1977 /e                                ANNUAL RATES OF GROWTH (% constant prices)
(current prices and current exchange rate)
$ million       %           1968-73   1973    1975        1976 /e   1977 /e
GDP at market prices                  16,971       100.0           6.7      10.5      -3.7       5.4       6.0
Private and public consumption         14,569       85.8           6.1      10.8       1.8       2.6       0.0
Gross domestic savings                 2,402        14.2          12.0       8.0   -114.2                121.8
Gross domestic investment              4,595        27.1          11.7      11.9    -45.7       25.3      43.6
Current account deficit                 1,152        6.8            .         .
Exports of goods and NFS               2,898        17.1           8.5       8.4    -15.6        0.9       7.3
Imports of goods and NFS               5,091        30.0           9.2      10.6    -25.2        2.9       5.0
GDP at factor cost                     15,431      100.0           6.9      11.1      -4.0       5.4       6.0
of which:
Agricu].ture                       2,253       14.6          -0.8        5.9     -2.7        0.0      -5.0
Industry                           6,645       43.1          10.2       13.9    -10.0        6.8       8.5
Services                           6,527       42.3           6.6       9.6        2.5       5.8       6.0
LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Labor Force                 V.A. Per Worker /e
1000        %                  $            %
Agriculture                                          832        27               2,680         57.8
Industry                                           1,128        36               5,426        117.0
Services                                           1,142        37               5,289        114.0
Total/Average                                   3,102        100               4,639        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
(billion escudos)                                                   Revised         % of
budget         GDP
1976         1977          1976
Current receipts                                          68.2          94.4         (14.4)
Current expenditures                                      87.7         119.6         (18.5)
Current surplus/deficit (-)                              -19.5         -25.2          (-4.1)
of the state
Balance of autonomous funds and                             3.2         10.4           (0.7)
services and local administration
Balance of social security system                         -9.9           0.0          (-2.1)
Current surplus/deficit (-) of                           -26.2         -14.8          (-5.5)
public sector
Capital expenditures                                       20.6         35.4           (4.3)
Overall deficit                                          -45.2         -53.6          (-9.5)



- 25 -                                     ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
COUNTRY DATA - PORTUGAL (continued)
Billion Esc.
End      End                 Annual Percentage Increase
MONEY, CREDIT, WAGES AND PRICES               1976      1977 /e    1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977 /e
Money and quasi-money                          458       578        20.6   23.4   13.6   12.6   19.0   26.2
of which: currency                           110        ..        13.1    6.0   82.5   57.1    0.0
sight deposits                    135        ..        19.5   35.3  -11.0    4.1   15.4
time deposits                     213        ..        25.2   15.9   17.7   nil    34.8
Bank credit                                    487       647        24.0   30.1   21.8   19.0   35.3   32.8
of which: private sector                     411       518        23.0   32.6   17.7    7.6   26.1   26.0
public sector                       76      129        49.1  -23.6   nil   137.0  127.5   69.7
Wages (Lisbon and Oporto)                        .        .         11.0    9.5   32.3   25.9   14.0   15.0
Consumer prices (Lisbon and Oporto)              .        .         11.8   12.1   25.9   16.5   19.3   28.0
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1973      1974       1975       1976       1977 /e    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS, 1976 /e
---------(current prices, $ million)---------
$ million %
Exports, fob               1,740.2   2,192.1   1,944.0   1,827.1   1,938
Imports, fob              2,672.1   4,175.5   3,621.3   3,937.1   4,372             Agriculture           315    17
of which: oil             (154.7)   (531.3)   (572.5)   (662.5)                    (incl. wine)
Trade deficit               -931.9  -1,983.4  -1,677.3  -2,110.0  -2,434            Textiles and          537    30
footwear
Tourism, receipts            550.5      513.2     361.8      334.1      481         Machinery and         232    13
Other NFS, net              -483.2    -587.6    -531.4    -305.7    -229              equipment
Factor income, net         1,182.4   1,243.2   1,026.6       846.0   1,030          Chemical               33      2
Wood, cork and        354    19
Current balance              317.8    -814.6    -820.3  -1,235.6  -1,152               furniture
Others                356    19
Direct foreign               110.5      108.8      121.7       74.8     ..                              1,827   100
investment
EXTERNAL DEBT END-1977 /e
Public MlT loans              32.8       40.9     -39.8      127.9       ..          (outstanding and disbursed)
Disbursements              106.6      108.4      44.3      208.3
Amortization               -73.8     -67.5      -84.1      -80.4       .                            $ million  %
Subtotal                      32.8       40.9     -39.8      127.9      ..          Public debt         1,437
ST capital and errors        135.3     -82.1      -89.6      244.7      *-          Debt service          155
and omissions                                                                       payments
Capital grants                --         --         --         36.0     *-          Debt service                   8
ratio
Other capital (nei)         -214.4      231.0       93.0      528.2
IBRD LENDING, December 31, 1977
Changes in reserves         -382.0      516.0      735.0     224.0
(- = increase)                                                                                          $ million
Official reserves,         2,839.0   2,354.0   1,534.0   1,302.0
gross end of year /b                                                              Outstanding and            32.3
of which: Gold           1,163.0   1,193.0   1,136.0   1,126.0        .-             disbursed
Foreign       1,641.0   1,125.0       390.0      166.0      *-          Undisbursed              109.9
exchange                                                              Outstanding,              142.2
including
RATES OF EXCHANGE                                                                      undisbursed
1973             $1.00 = Esc. 24.67                             1977 (February)  $1.00 = Esc. 38.73
1974             $1.00 = Esc. 25.41                             1977 (August)    $1.00 = Esc. 38.79
1975             $1.00 = Esc. 25.44                             1977 (December)  $1.00 = Esc. 40.08
1976             $1.00 = Esc. 30.00                             1978 (January)   $1.00 = Esc. 40.30
/e estimated
/p provisional
/n includes claims on non-monetary financial institutions
/b  IFS.  Gold is valued at official prices.                                          February 17, 1978
Not available                                                                     EMENA Region
Not applicable



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of January 31, 1978)
Amount (less cancellation)
Loan No.   Year          Borrower        Purpose         Bank            Undisbursed
Five loans for power development fully disbursed    57.5                        -
1301        1976    Electricidade de
Portugal            Power           36.0                 35.9
1334        1976    Republic of
Portugal            Highways        24.0                 24.0
1432        1977    Banco de Fomento
Nacional /a         DFC             50.0                 50.0
TOTAL                                       167.5               109.9
of which has been repaid                   25.4
TOTAL now outstanding                       142.1
Amount sold                          2.2
of which has been repaid            2.1       .1
TOTAL now held by Bank /b                   142.2
TOTAL undisbursed                                               109.9
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of January 31, 1978)
None.
/a   Not effective.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 27 -                          ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Loan No. 1301 - Sixth Power Project; $36.0 Million Loan of September 24, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: December 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The Project is likely to be delayed one year because of organiza-
tional changes in the Power Authority (EDP) and revisions in the Project
scope. The Project cost is presently estimated at $786 million equivalent,
a decrease of about 30 percent over the appraisal estimates due mainly to
the postponement of the nuclear program and devaluation of the Escudo. Owing
to the Government's decision to restrict bidding for the turbo-generator for
the Setubal thermal plant to local manufacturers, mainly to protect the local
industry, a possibility foreseen during negotiations, and to changes in the
design of the Crestuma hydropower Project, about $15 million of the loan
proceeds are being reallocated among the other categories. All these factors
have delayed procurement under the loan, and the start of significant dis-
bursements. The Power Authority is being reorganized with emphasis on decen-
tralizing management and merging municipal and small private electricity
undertakings with the Power Authority. After a poor year in 1976 owing to
the bad hydrological conditions, the Power Authority's earnings in 1977
were satisfactory, with a self-financing level of 20 percent, because of
better conditions and an average tariff increase of 25 percent effective
February 1, 1977.
Loan No. 1334 - Highways I; $24.0 Million Loan of March 3, 1977; Effective-
ness Date: July 8, 1977; Closing Date: July 31, 1980.
While road rehabilitation is on schedule, other projects items are
some 10 months behind schedule. The Government's decision to postpone bidding
until the effectiveness of the loan resulted in a 9-month delay in purchasing
highway maintenance and workshop equipment. Delays in land acquisition may
cause a 10-month delay in the construction of the Covilha bypass road. The
rehabilitation plan for railways will also be 9 months behind schedule due to
delays in selection of consultants.
Loan No. 1432 - Development Finance Company Project; $50.0 Million Loan of
December 19, 1977; Effectiveness Date: (expected March 28, 1978); Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
While loan signing was delayed due to legal problems raised by the
Attorney General's office and the Loan is not yet effective, project imple-
mentation is expected to catch up with appraisal estimates. The Borrower,
National Development Bank (BFN), has submitted an initial list of six
appraised projects which could require up to $2.0 million in IBRD sub-loans.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PORTUGAL - WATER SUPPLY FOR THE LISBON REGION
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare
the project:                                2 years
(b)  The agency which has prepared the           Lisbon Public Water Enterprise
project:                                     (EPAL) with the help of
Portuguese consultants Hidro-
projecto
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank    December 26, 1976 and
and date of first Bank Mission to con-    January 19, 1977
sider the project:
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission:   May 23, 1977
(e)  Date of completion of Negotiations:         January 13, 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:              June 30, 1978
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Action
No special action necessary.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   Conditions of effectiveness are:
(a) Execution of a subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and EPAL (paragraph 64). (Section 6.01(a)
of the Loan Agreement.)
(b) Increase in tariffs to raise gross revenues from water
sales (paragraphs 53 and 64).
(c) Securing of funds from Caixa Geral de Depositos or other
lenders for EPAL's investment program (paragraphs 51 and 64).
(d) Appointment of EPAL's financial and commercial directors
(paragraph 64).
2.   Measures to be taken by EPAL include:
(a) Establishing a suitable planning department and incor-
porating an organization and methods capability within
this department by December 31, 1978 (paragraph 52).



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) Setting and maintaining tariffs to achieve adequate
earnings (paragraph 53).
(c) Raising new loans only with the Bank's consent unless net
cash earnings before depreciation and interest exceeds 1.5
times expected debt service (paragraph 54).
3.   Measures to be taken by the Government include:
(a) Ensuring that all future billings for bulk water sold
by EPAL will be settled by the municipalities not later
than three months after receiving the bills (paragraph
54).
(b) Taking the steps necessary to enable EPAL to set its
tariffs to meet appropriate debt service and cash
generation criteria (paragraph 53).
(c) Ensuring that the construction of the Santarem sewerage
project is started before July 1, 1979 and that it
includes adequate disposal facilities (paragraph 45).



IBRD 13032R
(    S  a  ,(S  M A F R A  )                                                                    Q          OMADRIDL
A ,4sV7bL  iW  X P                  r ~~~ v   X   >    \/                    , \                              , SPA
_~~~~CI 6S   INTX                                RASZBNTRM                                      <vta S;utAtdl
<U B A LA N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S P  A 0I l\A    ttU  NTJ' 
RAL._~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iT~A~A
( \ : \ >EA) t s :s:--Vi.           APRUP31 Are l)rAs eotIv seryed by AL                     o  b0                      20 s0 40
4   f   <    7  L t |                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -   MuOciCp3I Botindarles                   JNAY?7
ADA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9                                                                JANUAY U97



