CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1541 PO
Loan Agreement
(Lisbon Region Water Supply Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 6, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1541 PO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 6, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) Parts A and B of the Project will be carried out by
Empresa Publica das Aguas de Lisboa (hereinafter called EPAL)
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to EPAL a portion of the proceeds
of the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Bank and EPAL;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and EPAL of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes the schedule to the Project
Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project Agree-
ment;


﻿- 2 -
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"   means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and EPAL pursuant to Schedule 2
to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(c) "Organic Laws of EPAL" means Decree No. 22-181 of
February 11, 1933, as amended; Decree-Law No. 553-A/74 of October
29; and Decree-Law No. 260/76 of April 8; and
(d) "Other Financing Agreement(s)" means the financing
agreement(s) described in Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement and
"Other Lender(s)" means the Lenders party to the Other Financing
Agreement(s).
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend 'tc the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty million
dollars ($40,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for Parts A and
B of the Project shall be governed by the provisions of Section
2.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and forty-five hundredths per cent (7.45%) per annum
on the pJincipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause EPAL to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein
set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action (including
without limitation the prompt and adequate provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources specified in Schedule 2
to this Agreement and approving any adjustments of EPAL's tariffs
required to enable EPAL to comply with Section 4.04 of the Project
Agreement) necessary or appropriate to enable EPAL to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out Part C of the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and in
accordance with the applicable provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to
record (a) the progress of, and (b) in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices, expenditures
made on account of Part C of the Project.


﻿-4-
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, copies of the reports of consul-
tants employed, related reports, reviews thereof and proposals
produced in connection with Part B (2) of the Project and reports
of the consultants employed for Part C of the Project, shall
inform the Bank of any recommendations made by the Borrower or any
of its agencies or political subdivisions on the basis of or in
connection with any such report, review or proposal and shall
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on such
recommendations before steps are taken that could lead to their
definitive adoption or their implementation.
Section 3.05. No action shall be taken to expand the juris-
diction or geographic scope of operations of EPAL (whether arising
out of proposals resulting from the studies included in Part B (2)
of the Project or otherwise) except (i) with due regard to their
technical and financial effects on EPAL and (ii) in a time frame
that will ensure that such implementation will not adversely
affect the execution of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that before July 1,
1979 construction will start of facilities designed to treat
adequately the waste waters produced in the town of Santarem or to
discharge such waste waters into the Tagus river downstream from
EPAL's water intake.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all such action as is
within its power to procure that EPAL is effectively and defini-
tively charged with the exclusive responsibility for all water
supply planning within EPAL's service area by December 31, 1978.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all action necessary
on its part, including the timely and adequate provision of funds,
to ensure that the water distribution facilities to be constructed
by the municipalities in the greater Lisbon region in order to
achieve the full benefits of the Project shall be constructed in
accordance with appropriate engineering and water supply practices
and in a timely fashion. For the purposes of this Section, the
term "greater Lisbon region" shall be defined as the areas which
are, at the date of this Agreement, within the jurisdiction of
the municipalities of Lisbon, Oeiras, Loures, Cascais, Sintra,
Vila Franca de Xira, Mafra, Alcanena, Alenquer, Arruda dos
Vinhos, Azambuja, Santarem, Sobral de Monte Agraco, Almada,
Seixal, Barreiro, Moita, Montijo, Alcochete, Palmela, Sesimbra
and Setubal.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including assets held by any institution performing
the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or
similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all action necessary
to ensure at all times that the amounts owed to EPAL for the sale
of water to any municipality or municipal enterprise are paid to


﻿- 6 -
EPAL within three months from the date of EPAL's bill covering
such sale or within such other period as may be agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) EPAL shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that EPAL will be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
(c) The Organic Laws of EPAL shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to materially
and adversely affect the ability of EPAL to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of EPAL or for the suspension of its operations without the
Bank's consent.
(e) EPAL shall have become unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by EPAL
or by a creditor of EPAL wheq4, any of the assets of EPAL shall
or may be distributed among EPAL's creditors.
(f) The right of EPAL to withdraw the proceeds of the
financing made available under any Other Financing Agreement
shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part pursuant to the terms of that Agreement; unless adequate
funds for the Project are available to EPAL from other sources
on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of EPAL
under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿-7-
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and EPAL; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c), (d) or (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and EPAL;
(b) EPAL's tariffs have been increased, with effect frnm not
later than April 1, 1978, to produce on the basis of EPAL's water
sales during 1977 an increase of EPAL's gross revenues from water
sales during the twelve-month period ending March 31, 1979 of at
least 30%;
(c) EPAL has entered into a financing agreement or agree-
ments with an appropriate Lender or Lenders providing EPAL with a
loan of at least $80,000,000 equivalent on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(d) EPAL has appointed a financial director and a commercial
director in accordance with Section 3.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by EPAL, and is legally binding upon EPAL in accordance
with its terms;
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and EPAL and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and EPAL in accordance with its terms;


﻿-8-
(c) that the tariff increase referred to in Section 6.01 (b)
is in full force and effect and is valid for an indefinite period
of time under the laws of the Borrower; and
(d) that the Other Financing Agreement(s) has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Other Lender(s) and EPAL and is
legally binding upon the parties thereto.
Section 6.03. The date September 6, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time being
responsible for finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio das Finangas
Rua da Alfandega
Lisbon
Portugal
Cable address:                    Telex:
Ministerio das Finanqas        12143 MINFIN P
Lisbon
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-9-
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
By /s/ Vitor Constancio
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Martijn Paijmans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Items financed under
the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement:
(a) Civil works and          28,100,000     30%
materials and
equipment required
for Part A(l) of
the Project
(b) Civil works               5,000,000     15%
required for
Part A(2) of
the Project
(c) Equipment,                1,900,000     100% of foreign
materials and                           expenditures and
supplies for                           100% of local
Part A(2) of                            expenditures
the Project                             (ex-factory)
(d) Staff training             100,000      100% of foreign
for Part B(1)                          expenditures
of the Project
(e) Unallocated               2,700,000


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated        % of
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(2) Items not financed
under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement:
(a) Consulting               2,000,000      50%
services for
Parts B(2) and
C(1) of the
Project
(b) Staff training             200,000      100% of foreign
for Part C(2)                          expenditures
of the Project
TOTAL             40,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
L;an shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.


﻿- 12 -
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $50,000 may be made on account of expenditures included in
Category 2 (a) and made after September 30, 1977.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
The Project
The purpose of the Project, which forms part of EPAL's 1978-
1982 investment program, is to expand the production and distribu-
tion of potable water to meet the projected needs of the Lisbon
region until 1990 and to assist in the reorganization of Portu-
gal's water supply and waste disposal sector through studies aimed
at strengthening the national capability for planning and design
of water supply and sewerage projects in urban and rural areas.
I.   Project Description
The Project consists of the following:
Part A.    Expansion of the Lisbon region's water supply and
distribution systems, including:
(1) Construction of a new water supply system with
an initial capacity of 385,000 m3 per day, includ-
ing an 89 km long transmission pipeline, linking
the Castelo do Bode Reservoir with Lisbon's water
distribution networks, a water treatment plant at
Asseiceira and pumping stations at Portela and
Carregado; and
(2) Expansion and upgrading of Lisbon's existing
water distribution network, including installation
of nine intermunicipal trunk mains with a combined
length of about 73 km, construction of three
pumping stations, construction of seven network
reservoirs with a combined capacity of about
130,000 m3 and installation of about 100 km of
secondary networks.
Part B:
(1) Training of senior staff of EPAL through short
visits to water supply and sewerage organizations
and systems outside Portugal.
(2) Studies aimed at the regionalization of the water
supply, sewerage and solid wastes services in the


﻿- 14 -
Lisbon region, including the technical, adminis-
trative and financial implications thereof and a
review of EPAL's water tariff structure.
Part C:
(1) Feasibility studies for water supply and sewerage
systems in the Porto and Algarve regions.
(2) Training of senior staff of the Borrower's General
Directorate of Basic Sanitation (DGSB) through
short visits to water supply and sewerage organiza-
tions and systems outside Portugal.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.
II. Project Execution
1.   Part A of the Project shall be carried out by EPAL.
For purposes of assisting EPAL in the final design
engineering and procurement for Part A of the Project, EPAL shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment are acceptable to the Bank. The
Borrower and EPAL shall each take such action as shall be required
on its part for EPAL to acquire, as and when needed for the
diligent and efficient execution of Part A of the Project, all
such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
by EPAL for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in Part A of the Project.
2.   Part B of the Project shall be carried out by EPAL.
For the purpose of assisting EPAL in carrying out the
studies included in Part B (2) of the Project, EPAL shall employ,
from not later than June 30, 1978 onwards, consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
are acceptable to the Bank.
3.   Part C of the Project shall be carried out by the Bor-
rower through DGSB. For the purpose of assisting the Borrower in


﻿- 15 -
carrying out the studies included in Part C (1) of the Project,
the Borrower shall employ, from not later than June 30, 1978
onwards, consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment are acceptable to the Bank.
III. Project Financing
The Borrower shall relend to EPAL the proceeds of the Loan
withdrawn on account of expenditures of EPAL for Parts A and B
(1) of the Project, under a subsidiary loan agreement concluded
between the Borrower and EPAL on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank; such terms and conditions shall include that EPAL
will pay to the Borrower such amounts in various currencies as the
Borrower will require for subsequent payment to the Bank of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the amount of the
Loan so withdrawn. It is expected that the costs of EPAL's 1978-
1982 investment program (including Parts A and B (1) of the
Project) that will not be covered by said withdrawals will be
financed partly from contributions made by the Borrower to EPAL's
statutory capital, partly from EPAL's own resources and partly
from the loan(s) to EPAL under the Other Financing Agreement(s).
On the basis of present projections, it is estimated that said
statutory capital contributions and loans will amount to the
equivalent of at least $60 million and $80 million, respectively,
and that the total cost of Parts A and B (1) of the Project will
amount to the equivalent of at least $150 million.
The Borrower shall furnish to EPAL the proceeds of the Loan
withdrawn on account of expenditures of EPAL for Part B (2) of the
Project as part of the statutory capital referred to in the
preceding paragraph.
EPAL shall submit annually to the Borrower and the Other
Lender(s), by a date to be determined by the Borrower, its invest-
ment program for the next following fiscal year together with a
forecast of sources and applications of funds related to its
operations for that fiscal year and an indication of when funds to
be provided by the Borrower and the Other Lender(s) will be
required by EPAL for the timely execution of such program and the
Project.
The cost of Part C of the Project that will not be covered by
the Loan will be financed from the Borrower's budget.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1981
through   November 1, 1992                   1,665,000
On May 1, 1993                                     1,705,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.50%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                    3.00%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             5.45%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                             6.45%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                             7.45%


