CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1541 PO
Project Agreement
(Lisbon Region Water Supply Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
EMPRESA PUBLICA DAS AGUAS
DE LISBOA
Dated June 6, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1541 PO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 6, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank) and
EMPRESA PUBLICA DAS AGUAS DE LISBOA (hereinafter called EPAL).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Portugal (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to forty million dollars
($40,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that EPAL agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and
EPAL, most of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement will be made available to EPAL on the terms and condi-
tions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS EPAL, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined in the Loan Agreement) have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. EPAL shall carry out Parts A and B of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admin-
istrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices and
in accordance with the applicable provisions of Schedule 2 to the
Loan Agreement.


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of goods required for Part A or Part B of the Project and
civil works required for Part A of the Project, to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) EPAL undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemniiy shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by EPAL to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, EPAL shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 2.04. (a) EPAL shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contracts documents and construction and procurement schedules
for Parts A and B of the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b) EPAL: (1) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Parts A and B of the Project
(including its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower, and
to disclose their use in Part A or Part B of the Project; (ii)
shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of
this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in Part A or Part B of
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning Part A or Part B of the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so
relent to it and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.


﻿- 3 -
(c) EPAL shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of EPAL and any relevant records and documents.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between EPAL and the
Bank, EPAL shall prepare aud furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
EPAL and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
Section 2.05. EPAL shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Other Financing
Agreement(s). Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EPAL shall
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or the Other Financing Agreement(s) or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) EPAL shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts
A and B of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the
Other Financing Agreement(s) and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Loan.
(b) EPAL shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress
of Part A or Part B of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by EPAL of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement, under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
and under the Other Financing Agreement(s).
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EPAL
Section 3.01. EPAL shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿Section 3.02. EPAL shall at all times manage its affairs,
improve its financial position, maintain adequate levels of work-
ing capital, plan its future expansion and carry on its opera-
tions in accordance with appropriate financial, administrative,
engineering and public utility practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff.
Not less than once each year, by a date to be determined in con-
sultation between the Borrower and the Bank and notified to EPAL,
EPAL shall establish staffing, training, system operation and
financial targets for performance acceptable to the Bank for the
next ensuing year and shall report to the Borrower and the Bank
quarterly during such year on its performance against such targets
and on such other matters as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.03. EPAL shall by December 31, 1978 establish and
staff in consultation with the Bank a suitable planning department
that shall be charged, to the extent EPAL is permitted by law,
with the exclusive responsibility for all water supply planning in
EPAL's service area. By June 30, 1979, EPAL shall establish to
the satisfaction of the Bank that its planning department has
developed an adequate capability to examine, and to propose
improvements in, EPAL's organizational airangements and produc-
tivity.
Section 3.04. EPAL shall fill its staff positions of finan-
cial director and commercial director with, and thereafter
maintain in such positions, qualified and experienced persons.
Section 3.05. EPAL shall maintain its existence and right to
carry on its operations, and shall take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and renew all interests in land and other pro-
perties and all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which
are necessary or useful in the carrying out of Parts A and B of
the Project or in the conduct of its business.
Section 3.06. (a) EPAL shall at all times operate and main-
tain its plants, facilities, equipment and other property, and
promptly as required make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, in accordance with appropriate engineering and public
utility practices.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EPAL shall not
sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property
or assets which shall be required for the efficient operation of
its business and undertaking.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. EPAL shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. EPAL shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of EPAL and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. By September 30, 1978, EPAL shall have taken
adequate steps to strengthen its system of internal financial
control following the recommendations relating thereto made by the
auditors of its accounts for fiscal year 1977.
Section 4.04. (a) EPAL shall take all steps necessary on its
part (including without limitation adjustment of the levels and
structure of its tariffs) to ensure that for each of its fiscal
years its gross revenues shall be at least sufficient to cover:
(i) all EPAL's expenses of operation, administration
(including adequate maintenance and taxes, if any,
but excluding provision for depreciation) and debt
service; and
(ii) not later than its fiscal year 1983, in addition, a
reasonable contribution towards the cost of EPAL's
capital investments as determined from time to time
in consultation with the Bank.
(b) EPAL hereby confirms that it is its duly established
policy that (i) charges    to consumers able to afford it shall
be not less than the incremental costs of service, (ii) EPAL's


﻿-6-
earnings shall be sufficient to provide a reasonable return on
the capital investment (in real terms) devoted to providing its
services and (iii) EPAL's net internally generated funds after
provision for debt service shall cover a reasonable proportion of
its capital investment requirements. EPAL shall, within a reason-
able time after completion of the studies included in Part B
(2) of the Project, but in any event not later than December 31,
1980, take effective actions, including but not limited to the
restructuring and increasing of its tariffs for water and, if
under its control, sewerage services, to achieve the objectives
of these policies and to ensure compliance with paragraph (a)
of this Section.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, EPAL
shall not incur any debt unless EPAL's net revenues for the
fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for a later twelve-
month period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever amount is
greater, shall be at least 1.5 times the maximum debt service for
any succeeding fiscal year on all debt, including the debt to be
incurred.
For the purposes of this Section and Section 4.04:
(a) The term "debt" shall mean all indebtedness of EPAL,
and all guarantees issued by EPAL in respect of indebtedness,
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of a contract, loan agreement, guarantee
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt.
(c) The term "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues from
all sources, adjusted to take account of EPAL's tariffs in effect
at the time of the incurrence of debt even though such tariffs
were not in effect during the fiscal year or twelve-month period
to which such revenues related, less all operating and admin-
istrative expenses (including adequate maintenance and taxes,
if any) but before provision covering depreciation and interest
and other charges on debt.
(d) The term "debt service" shall mean the aggregate amount
of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any),
interest and other charges on debt.


﻿-7-
(e) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt
payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt or, in the absence of such
rate of exchange, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable
to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of EPAL thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement
between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by
mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which
it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as
such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving
such notice or making such request. The addresses so specified
are:


﻿-8-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For EPAL:
Empresa Publica das Aguas de Lisboa
Avenida da Liberdad 22
Lisbon 2, Portugal
Cable address:
Empresa Publica das Aguas de Lisboa
Avenida da Liberdad 22
Lisbon 2, Portugal
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of EPAL may be taken or executed by
the President of the Lisbon Water Supervisory Commission or such
other person or persons as the President shall designate in
writing, and EPAL shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this


﻿- 9 -
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Martijn Paijmans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
EMPRESA PUBLICA DAS AGUAS DE LISBOA
By /s/ Joao Hall Themido
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B of this Schedule, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding under the Project, the Borrower shall
prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to
the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request; and Bank will arrange for
the publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifi-
cation to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
goods and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   (a) Contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $500,000 or less, and (b) contracts for equipment and
materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less,
but iJmited to $500,000 in the aggregate; may be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the
Bank, which shall permit the participation of foreign firms on an
equal basis with Portuguese firms.
2.   Minor works such as replacement of secondary networks, esti-
mated to cost no more than $50,000 in any particular case, may
be carried out by EPAL, under arrangements acceptable to the Bank,
provided that the cost of works to be so carried out shall not
exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of $1,000,000.


﻿- 11 -
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to EPAL of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Portugal may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Portugal if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of EPAL and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Portugal equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Portugal.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.


﻿- 12 -
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C which
as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest
evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   With respect to all contracts for civil works, equipment
and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or
more:
(a) Before bids are invited, EPAL shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, EPAL shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of
the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, by EPAL's consultants referred to in Section II
(1) of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendations
for award of the said consultants and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform EPAL and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 13 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
EPAL shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform EPAL and state the reasons for such determination.


