Report No. 307-IND                                                             FILE   (A P
Appraisal of                                                                   FOPY
Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension Project
Indonesia
May 31, 1974
Asia Project Department
Irrigation and Area Development Division I
Not for Public Use
U
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared tor official use only by the Bank Group. It mav not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



-CURRONCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00             Rupiahs (Rp) 415
Rp 100              US$0.241
Rp 1 million   2    US$2,409.64
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 millimeter (mm)              =    0.039 inches
I meter (m)                    =    39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)       2       =    0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km )            0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)  3              =    2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (m )             -    35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (Mm )  -    810.6 acre feet
1 liter (1)                    =    0.264 gallons (USA)
1 liter/second (1/sec)         =    0.035 cubic feet per second
1 kilogram (kg)                =    2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)             =    2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
BIMAS     -    A farm input package and credit program
INMAS     -    A program to encourage use of agricultural inputs
outside BIMAS
BRI       -    People's Bank of Indonesia (Bank Rakyat Indonesia)
BULOG     -    Government agency for purchase and distribution
of nine essential commdities
GOI       -    The Government of Indonesia
MOA       -    The Ministry of Agriculture
MPWEP     -    The Ministry of Public Works and Electric Power
MEFI      -    The Minister of State for Economy, Finance and Industry
PROSIDA   -    The organization within DGWRD responsible for IDA
Irrigation and Rehabilitation Projects
DGWRD     -    Directorate General of Water Resources Development
CRIA      -    The Central Research Institute for Agriculture
PPL       -    Field Extension workers for agricultural services
at village level
MPK       -    Extension program workers at sub-district level
PTD       -    Agricultural service workers at village level
HYV       -    High yielding variety
0 & M     -    Operation and Maintenance
IPEDA     -    Land tax based on potential productivity
NVP       -    Net Value of Production
CONVERSION FACTORS FOR RICE
1 ton "dry stalk paddy"        -    830 kg paddy ("paddy gabah")
=    520 kg milled rice
INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ................................    i-ii
1.   INTRODUCTION ...         ........................................       1
II. BACKGROUND....                                                            1
General                          ....1
The Agricultural Sector. .                                        2
Irrigation Development in Indoresia            .....             3
The Existing Jatiluhur Project                                    4
III.   THE PROJECT AREA ..................           . .   ......     ..       5
Gweneral ......................                                   5
Climate       .        ...............                            5
Topography, Soils and Drainage.                                   5
Farm Size and Land Tenure            .          .                 6
Existing Irrigation Facilities                     .    .6
Agricultural Production                         ..7
Transportation...................                                 7
IV.   THE PROJECT .                                                           7
Project Works.....    7
Water Demand, Supply and Quality...                               9
Engineering Design .... ...                                      10
Construction Schedule               ....10
C'ost Estimates ...................                             10
Financing                     ...12
Procurement and Contracts                                        12
Disbursement..                                                   13
Accounts and Audit ......           . ......         ...         13
Environmental Effects              . . .13
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .....               . . .14
Project Management        .       .. O   .................       14
Implementation of Project Works            ....                  16
Pilot On-Farm Development Areas .16
Agricultural Development and Supporting Services                 16
Training .18
Consulting Services .18
Operation and Maintenance .................1  .......            19
Recovery of Costs.                                               20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising
Messrs. K. Pranich, H.M. Kim, R.C. Manning, R.R. Morton and S. Okabe (IDA).



-2-
Page No.
VI.  E'RODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM
INCOME ..............................! ...    21
Production   ........... ............................  21
Market  Prospects   ............. ....................  22
Prices        ...........................................  22
Fam Income .....................................    . 23
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....   ........................    24
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....  ............    26
ANNEXES
1.  Climatic Data
2.  Agriculture
3.  Project Works
4.  Water Supply and Demand
Appendix A - GOI Policy Statement on the Operation of
Jatiluhur Reservoir
5.  Construction Schedule
6.  Cost Estimates
7.  Equipment List
8.  Schedules of Expenditures and Disbursements
9.  Training
10.  Draft Terms of Reference of Consultants
Appendix A - Drafts Terms of Reference of Specialists
11.  Operation and Maintenance
12.  Yields and Production of Crops
13.  Marketing and Prices
14.  Crop and Farm Budgets
15.  Farm Labor Analysis
16.  Economic Analysis
CHARTS
Design and Construction Schedule No. 7910
0 & M Organization (Irrigation) of Jatiluhur Authority No. 7851
MAPS
General Map No. 10524
Irrigation and Drainage System No. 10525
Roads and Agricultural Zones No. 10526



INDONESIE                307-IND
PROJET DE DEV LOPPEMENT DU RESEAU DIIRRIGATION DE JATILUHUR
Le gouvernement indon6sien a demande l'assistance financiere de
ltIDA pour l'aider a financer un projet dtirrigation. Liagriculture, qui
est le secteur predominant dans ce pays, entre pour plus de la moitie dans
le PIB, fournit les deux-tiers des emplois et presque la totalite -
des exportations non p6trolieres.  Le riz constitue un tiers de la valeur
de la production agricole, mais l'Indon6sie n'en produit pas suffisamment
pour satisfaire la demande de cet aliment essentiel. Les importations
ont oscillg entre 500.000 et plus de un million de tonnes ces dernieres
annees. Le premier Plan quinquennal 1969/73 a donn6 la priorit6 a laug-
mentation de la production de riz par ltutilisation de facteurs de produc-
tion modernes (semences ameliorees, engrais et pesticides) ainsi que par
la remise en 4tat des systames dtirrigation.  Le Deuxieme Plan quinquenmal
1974/78 maintiont la priorite attachee a la risiculture mais prgvoit egale-
nent une augmentation substantielle des autres cultures vivrieres.
LiAssociation a accord6 quatre credits pour la remise en 6tat
dea systemes dtirrigation.  Ce projet serait le cinquieme et utiliserait
le reservoir existant ainsi que les principales installations situ6es sur
le canal. Ces dernieres sont actuellement r6parees dans le cadre du
deuxi4me projet de remise en etat des reseaux dlirrigation, financ6 par
1IDAL au titre du credit 195-IND.
Sont inscrits dans le projet la luttre contre les inondations,des
installations dtirrigation et de drainage, ltassechement de marais, la cons-
truction de routes de desserte et l'am6lioration des services agricoles
aux exploitants. Ces mesures visent l'augmentation du rendement et la
realisation de recoltes doubles pour les cultures vivrieres, principalement
le riz, dans une zone de 51.000 ha. Le projet serait ex6cutS par ltadminis-
tration de Jatiluhur, organisme semi autonome cre6 par l'Etat en 1970.
Des consultants seraient recrutes pour aider A ltexecution du projet.  Le
coat de ce dernier atteindrait, selon les estimations, 68 millions de dollars,
dont 22 millions correspondraient aux depenses en devises et le solde aux
d6penses en monnaie nationale. Les travaux de g6nie civil seuls atteindraient
27 millions de dollars. Tous les march6s relatifs aux travaux de g6nie civil
et au mat6riel seraient adjug6s apres appel A la concurrence internationale.
Les travaux de construction st'tendraient sur six ans.
Le projet aurait pour principal avantage de faire quadrupler la
production de riz, ce qui permettrait d'accroitre le revenu de quelque
36.000 familes agricoles dont la plupart sont de tout petits exploitants;
en effet, 30 % cultivent moins de un demi ha, 50 % entre un demi et 2 ha
et les 20 % restants entre 2 et 5 ha. Quelque 300.000 personnes, ben6fici-
aires indirects compris, tireraient profit du projet. La production passerait






-2-
du chiffre actuel de 93.000 tonnes de paddy et 7.000 tonnes de cultures
de plein champ ainsi que de legumes a 360.000 tonnes et 34.000 tonnes res-
pectivement lorsque le projet aurait atteint son plein rendement. L'econo-
mie nette en devises attribuable 'a l augmentation dans le cadre du projet
de la production de riz et des cultures de plein champ se situerait autour
de 34 millions de dollars par an. Avec un cours mondial du riz usine caf
Djakarta, de 225 dollars la tonne, et un prix au depart de l'exploitation
de 180 dollars la tonne pour les engrais, le taux de rentabilit6 economique
atteindrait environ 42 %. Comme la plupart des exploitations dans la zone
du projet sont petites (moins de 2,5 ha), la plus grande partie des avantages
reviendrait aux petits exploitants dont les revenus actuels sont bien
en dessous des revenus moyens en Indon6sie.
Le projet justifie l'octroi par l'IDA dlun credit de 30 millions
de dollars. L'Euprunteur serait la Republique indon6sienne.
31 mai 1974






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Agriculture, the dominant sector in Indonesia, accounts for over
half of GNP, two-thirds of employuient and almost all of non-petroleum exports.
Although rice represents about one-third the value of agricultural production,
Indonesia is not self-sufficient in rice, the staple food. Imports from
abroad have ranged from one half to over one million tons in recent years.
The First Five-Year Plan (1969-73) gave priority to increasing rice production
through promotion of modern inputs (improved seeds, fertilizers and pesticides)
and rehabilitation of irrigation systems. For the Second Five-Year Plan
(1974-78), the priority placed on rice production will be maintained, though
a substantial increase in other food crops is also planned.
ii.       The Association has made four credits for rehabilitation of
irrigation systems. This report appraises a fifth irrigation project
which would take advantage of the existing reservoir and of the main canal
facilities being rehabilitated under the Second Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project (Rehab II) assisted by IDA Credit 195-IND.
iii.      The proposed project would provide flood control, irrigation and
drainage facilities, swamp reclamation, feeder roads and improved agricultural
supporting services to farmers, for increasing yields and double cropping of
food crops, mainly rice, in an area of 51,000 ha. The project would be imple-
mented by the Jatiluhur Authority, a semi-autonomous organization established
by the Government in 1970. Consultants would be engaged to assist in project
implementation. The estimated cost of the project is US$68 million equivalent,
of which US$22 million would be foreign exchange and the remainder local
currency. Civil works alone would cost about US$27 million equivalent. All
contracts for civil works and equipment would be awarded after international
competitive bidding. Construction of project works would take six years.
iv.       The primary benefit from the project would be a four-fold increase
in rice production which would lead to an increased income for some 36,000
farm families, most of whom are very small farmers; 30% cultivate less than
0.5 ha, 50%, between 0.5 and 2 ha, and the remaining 20%, between 2 and 5 ha.
Some 300,000 people, including indirect beneficiaries, would benefit from
the project. Production would increase from the present 93,000 tons of paddy
and 7,000 tons of field crops and vegetables, to about 360,000 tons and 34,000
tons respectively at full development. The net foreign exchange saving from
incremental rice and field crop production under the project would be around
US$34 million per year. At the projected world market price for milled rice
cif Jakarta of $225 per ton and a farmgate price of US$180 per ton for



- ii -
fertilizer, the project's economic rate of return would be about 42%. Since
most of the farms in the project area are small (less than 2.5 ha), most of
the benefits would accrue to small farmers whose present incomes are well
below average Indonesian incomes.
v.        The proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$30 million
equivalent. The borrower would be the Republic of Indonesia.



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested an IDA Credit of
US$30 million to assist in financing the construction of the Jatiluhur Irri-
gation Extension Project. This would be the fifth IDA project to promote
irrigated agriculture in Indonesia, the four preceding projects being
rehabilitation of existing irrigation schemes.
1.02      IDA strategy for irrigated agriculture in Indonesia has been to
assist in projects which can be quickly implemented and can yield quick
results.  The rehabilitation of existing irrigation projects which have
deteriorated over the past 30 years due to lack of maintenance, fits in
well with this strategy. Such projects are mostly located in densely
populated Java and their improvement benefits mostly small paddy farmers.
1.03      The Second Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Credit 195-IND)
provided for rehabilitation of main canals, including the West Tarum, which
would be the main canal of this project, and 186,000 ha of irrigated land
in the Jatiluhur area. It also provided for a study of the feasibility of
the Jatiluhur Extension Project.  This project extends the Jatiluhur command
area by taking advantage of existing storage, rehabilitated main canal
facilities and related sunk costs.
1.04      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission,
comprising Messrs. K. Pranich, H. M. Kim, R. C. Manning, R. R. Morton and
S. Okabe, which visited Indonesia in April - May 1973. The report was
prepared by the mission assisted by Mr. R. L. P. Harris. The feasibility
study, completed by consultants (a joint venture of Coyne et Bellier and
SOGREAH, France) in March 1973, provided the basis for appraisal of the
project.
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Indonesia consists of about 3,000 islands, scattered alon§ the
equator for some 5,000 km, with a total area of nearly 2 million km . The
five largest islands - Kalimantan, Sumatra, Irian Jaya, Sulawesi and Java
- comprise about 90%' of the total area. Over 25% of the area, about 60 mil-
lion ha, is estimated to be potentially suitable for agricultural development.



-2-
Of this potential, only 16 million ha are presently cultivated, with another
24 million ha under forests, leaving about 20 million ha of land available
for future agricultural development. However, Indonesia has yet to build
up the institutions and the infrastructure required to promote land develop-
ment in the outer islands on a major scale. For this reason the island of
Java, where the proposed project would be located, presents an urgent devel-
opment problem. Tnough representing only 7% of the land, Java supports about
65% of the national population of about 121 million (1972) which is growing
at about 2.0% per year. Practically all suitable land on Java is now under
cultivation. Typical land holdings are very small, there is no room for area
expansion and agriculture intensification largely depends on improved water
control and distribution.
The Agricultural Sector
2.02      Agriculture accounts for more than half of GNP, about two-thirds
of employment and almost all non-petroleum exports. Rice, the staple food,
amounts to about one-third the value of total agricultural production. In the
First Five-Year Plan (1969-73), the GOI gave priority to increasing rice
production, which had stagnated for more than a decade. Measures to achieve
this included rehabilitation of existing irrigation systems, price support
programs, and provision of improved seed, fertilizer, pesticides and credit.
These Government programs contributed to the increase in rice production
from 10.2 million tons of milled rice (16.5 million tons of paddy) in 1968
to 12.8 million tons (20.6 million tons of paddy) in 1971. Despite these
gains, Indonesia must still import from one half to one million tons of rice
a year. The 1972 drought had a severe impact on rice output, highlighting
the vulnerability of the Indonesian rice economy to weather fluctuations.
In light of this, it is unlikely that Indonesia will achieve self-sufficiency
in rice production within this decade.
2.03      Increased rice production will require continued improvement of
existing irrigation facilities, expansion of irrigated areas, continued
efforts to disseminate high yielding rice varieties, and the promotion of
modern inputs use by strengthening agricultural extension services. On
Java, the major emphasis must be placed on intensification and increasing
yields. These are the objectives of the proposed project.
2.04      Other food crops such as maize, groundnut, soybean, cassava and
vegetables have not made significant progress in recent years. The principal
field crops are maize and cassava, occupying about 2.7 and 1.5 million ha
respectively in 1971. Yields are generally very low as these crops are
mainly grown 'under rainfed conditions or on residual moisture after a first
paddy crop. Traditional agricultural exports such as rubber, tea, pepper,
coffee, copra and tobacco represent about half of non-oil export earnings
while lumber has accounted for another 25% in recent years.



_3_
Irrigation Development in Indonesia
2.05      Irrigated rice cultivation is a long practiced and generally well
understood technique in Indonesia. Irrigation by canal systems began in the
middle of the 18th century and is best developed in Java, Madura and Bali,
w.th additional minor areas in South Sumatra and Sulawesi.  At present there
are about 4 million ha under irrigation in Indonesia, accounting for nearly
50% of the country's riceland and comprising 1.7 million ha of "technical"
irrigation systems, 1.0 million la of "semi-technical" systems and 1.3 million
ha of "village" systems. 1/ In Java'. alone, out of 3.4 million ha under rice,
about 2.8 million ha have some form of irrigation and these areas account
for over 90% of the island's rice production. However, as a result of three
decades of neglect in maintaining the systems, about 1.9 million ha in Java
required rehabilitation by the mid 1960s. In addition, massive deforestation
in watershed areas altered the runoff patterns of the streams and thereby
increased the problems of maintenance and operation for downstream systems.
2.06      Rehabilitation of the irrigated systems was given high priority
in the First Five-Year Development Plan, with about 60% of the agricultural
development budget allocated to irrigation. IDA has provided four credits
to assist in rehabilitating 820,000 ha, mainly in Java, but including some
80,000 ha in South Sumatra and Sulawesi (Map IBRD 10524). The First Irrigation
Rehabilitation Credit (127-IND: US$5 million: September 1968) financed
purchase and operation of equipment for rehabilitation of the Rentang, Cisedane
and Glapan-Sedadi irrigation systems in Java and completion of a new system,
Way Seputih, in South Sumatra. The Second Credit (195-IND: USS18.5 million:
June 1970) provided assistance for rehabilitation of the Jatiluhur irrigation
project in West Java. The Third Credit (220-IND: US$14.5 million: November
1970) helped in the rehabilitation of Ciudjung and Pemali-Comal projects in
Central Java and Sadang project in South Sulawisi.  The Fourth Credit (289-IND:
US$12.5 million: March 9, 1972) assisted in financing the rehabilitation and
improvement of Pekalan-Sampean irrigation systems in East Java and groundwater
investigation in the Upper Solo and Madiun Valleys.
2.07      The First, Third and Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation projects
(Rehab I, III and IV) are administered by Projek Irigasi IDA (PROSIDA), a unit
of the Directorate General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD), Ministry
of Public Works and Electric Power (MPWEP). A semi-autonomous Jatiluhur
Authority (Perum Otorita Jatiluhur) was created in 1970 to administer the
rehabilitation and development of the Jatiluhur irrigation project (Rehab IT).
1/  "Technical" and "semi-technical" irrigation systems are owned, operated
and maintained by GOI. "Technical" irrigation systems have permanent
control structures on all :neadworks and canals. "Semi-technical" systems
do not have permanent control structures on the canals and water distribu-
tion is unreliable. "Village" systems are owned, operated and maintained
solely by villages. These consist of minor works with temporary or no
headworks, constructed by farmers.



- 4 -
2.08      Rehabilitation and improvement of the main and secondary canals
and control systems are only the first, though essential, steps towards
intensifying rice production in Java. Except for the Jatiluhur Irrigation
Project most of the irrigation systems in Java can irrigate on:Ly 15 to 25%
of the project area during the dry season because of the small flows in the
rivers and the lack of storage reservoirs.  There are only a few (mostly
small) reservoirs in the country, of which Jatiluhur reservoir is by far
the largest. The next logical step is the construction of storage reservoirs
in the headreaches of the irrigation systems together with effective irriga-
tion and drainage networks at the farm level for the expansion of dry season
crops, introduction of new high yielding rice varieties and crop diversification.
Accordingly the Association has assisted in financing feasibility studies of
storage reservoirs in the Pemali-Comal Irrigatio:i Project (Credit 275-IND)
and the Cimanuk Project (Credit 289-IND).
The Existing Jatiluhur Project
2.09      The Jatiluhur dam on the Citarum River was completed in 1965.
The storage reservoir has an effective capacity of 2,600 Mm3. Water
released from the reservoir is distributed to the East and West Tarum main
canals (completed in 1967) by pumping stations at Curug Barrage on the
Citarum 10 miles downstream of the dam, and to the North Tarum Canal by
an older barrage on the river at Walahar (Map IBRD 10525). There is a
hydro-power station at the dam with five generating units, each rated at
23.5 MW. Irrigation water is normally released through the turbines,
with two discharge valves available for additional or low water level
releases. The current firm monthly output is 40 M kWh with an average
annual production of 600 M kWh.
2.10   3  The West Tarum main canal, 70 km long with a design capacity
of 85 m /sec at its head, is fed by 17 hydraulically driven pumps at Curug
and by diversion barrages on the Cibeet, Cikarang and Bekasi rivers3  The
canal terminates in a tunnel which has a maximum capacity of 10.8 m /sec,
discharging into the Ciliwung River. This discharge is utilized by the city
of Jakarta for water supply and flushing of canals. Secondary canals from
the West Tarum provide irrigation to 18,000 ha north of the main canal,
classified as "technical irrigation" (Map IBRD 10525).



III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project area is located in the fertile "Jakarta Plain", one
of the most important rice producing areas of Java. It covers the final
51,000 ha under the command of the Jatiluhur reservoir. The area is
bounded in the east and the north by the Citarum River, on the west by
fish pond ani swamp areas adjacent to the coast and by Jakarta's proposed
Eastward Extension, and on the south by the existing "technical" irrigation
area and the West Tarum main canal (Map IBRD 10524). The project is in Bekasi
district (Kabupaten) and extends over nine sub-districts (Kecamatan) with
47 villages (Desa).
3.02      The population in the project area is about 300,000.  The national
capital, Jakarta (population 4.9 million), is located at its western boundary.
Three towns with population of more than 20,000 - Cilincing, Bekasi and
Karawang - are located at the northwest, southwest and southeast coners,
just outside the project area. Several smaller towns are located along
three spur roads leading into the area from the Trans-Java Highway (Map
IBRD 10526). Other than these roads, mobility within the project area is
by foot, bicycle or motorcycle along small paths or tracks.
Climate
3.03      The climate is tropical and temperatures vary only a few degrees
aroundl the annual average of 26C. Day lengths are almost constant through-
out the year. Rainfall is monsoonal with about 80% of the annual precipi-
tation of 1,500 - 2,000 mm occurring in the wet season between November and
May. Maximum rainfall generally occurs in January with August being the
driest month (Annex 1). Even in the wet season, rainfall is erratic and
supplementary irrigation would greatly improve crop yields. Irrigation is
essential for dry season cropping.
Topography, Soils and Drainage
3.04      The relief of the area varies from gently sloping to flat.  It
slopes down from south to north, at about 1:1,000 near the Trans-Java Highway
to less than 1:5,000 near the coast. Nine rivers cut across the project area
from south to north.  The Bekasi, Cikarang, Cibee  and Citarum are the major
rivers, with annual peak discharges of over 200 m /sec. Recurrent floods
have raised natural river levees and adjacent land above the surrounding
areas; however, in spite of extensive flood embankments these rivers still
overspill their banks in the wet season. This, together with monsoon rain
and poor internal drainage, causes flooding over a minimum of 10,000 ha in
the northern part of the area for periods ranging from a few days to a few
weeks in an average year. Flooding can extend over 30,000 ha in a wet year.
These floods cause major damage to crops and create problems for agricultural
development.



3.05      Soils in the area are of volcanic origin and alluvial, very
suitable for rice growing. They contain a high percentage of clay (50-85%)
and are low Ln permeability. They are generally slightly acidic with good
exchangeable potassium content and respond well to nitrogenous and phosphatic
fertilizers. Some 4,000 ha of uncultivated swamp land in the project area
would be reclaimed for agriculture. The swamp soils are slightly saline and
alkaline; however, once drained, they could be readily developed as good
agricultural land.
3.06      The project area can be divided into four distinct agricultural
zones on the basis of topography, suscBptibility to flooding, natural
drainage efficiency and dry-season water availability. The main distinction,
however, is between the very low-lying land in the northern part of the project
area and the higher southern area (Annex 2 and Map IBRD 10526).
Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.07      As in most of Java, the farm size in the project area is very
small. The average farm covers only 1.4 ha of cultivable land; median
farm sizes are even smaller, ranging between 1.3 ha in the north and 0.8 ha
in the south. Sample surveys indicate that about half the project area is
cultivated by 20% of the farmers on land parcels between 2 ha and 5 ha;
43% of the area is cultivated by 50% of the farmers on parcels between 0.5
ha and 2 ha; with the remaining 5% of the area being cultivated by 30% of
the farmers on parcels under 0.5 ha. Based on a sample survey conducted in
1971, about 36,000 farm families averaging 6.8 members per family or a total
farm population of about 245,000, live in the project area.
3.08      There is little fragmentation of land in the area.  Only about a
quarter of the farmers, farming about 43% of the land, are owner-operators.
Another 10% of the farmers are tenants renting their land from the Forestry
Department or from village administration, and the balance are sharecroppers
cultivating about half the project area, mainly in the less productive northern
part of the area. The tenure system of owner/sharecropper is usually based
on a 50-50 sharing of the crop with expenses shared on a variable basis between
the landowners and the sharecroppers.
Existing Irrigation Facilities
3.09      Within the project area there is no "technical" irrigation.  A
pre-World War II "semi-technical" irrigation system serves about 12,000 ha
mostly in the southern part of the project area. The irrigation water
generally comes from offtakes in the banks of the major rivers. Poorly
maintained distribution canals and outfalls are managed by village cooperatives.
Other supplies come from unreliable surplus water from the tail end of secondary
canals in the "technical" irrigation areas to the south, supplied from the
West Tarum main canal.



-7-
Agricultural Production
3.10      Rice, which is the main crop, is grown throughout the project
area in the wet season and wherever there is sufficient water during the
dry season. The overall annual cropping intensity is about 130%, with a
small area (6% of the total) under field crops in the dry season. These
include maize, cassava, legumes and vegetables which are grown on higher
ground with lighter soil, generally along the river banks, with a combined
production of less than 7,000 tons per year. The present annual production
of paddy is about 93,000 tons, cf which 72,000 tons is wet season crop.
3.11      The average paddy yield in the project area is currently 1.6 tons
per ha, with yields ranging from 1.2 tons per ha in the northern area to
2.0 tons in the south. The current farming practices, crop intensity and
average yields are detailed in Annexes 2 and 12.
Transportation
3.12      The national railway and highway, which link the area with Jakarta
and other main cities on the northern coast of Java, pass along the southern
extremity of the project. Traffic on the highway is heavy. Upgrading and
new links between Jakarta and Bekasi to relieve the current congestion are
scheduled for construction in the Second Five Year Plan. Of the three spur
roads from the main highway into the project area, only the road to Sukatani
is asphalted; the roads to Babelan and Cabangbungin are gravel and dirt roads
in very poor condition, usable only during the dry season.
3.13      Paddy and other produce are moved from the farms to village markets
and rice mills by carry-pole, bicycle and buffalo carts. It is not unusual
for farmers to carry their paddy by carry-pole or bicycle 6-8 km to the market.
During the rainy season small boats are also used for transport to villages
close to rivers. Rice mills are located in villages on the spur roads or on
the main highway. Transportation between mills and consuming centers is
generally by truck.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The proposed project would provide flood control, irrigation and
drainage facilities, swamp reclamation and improved agricultural supporting
services to farmers in an area of about 51,000 ha under the command of the
existing Jatiluhur dam and West Tarum main canal, to permit increases in
cropping intensity and yields.
Project Works
4.02      The main components of the pro3act, details of which are given
in Annex 3, are as follows:



(a)  Rehabiitation of 115 km of existing flood embank-
ments on both banks of the Citarum river;
(b)  Major flood diversion channel to evacuate flood waters
from the Cikarang and Bekasi rivers directly to the
sea. The channel would be J6 km long with a normal
discharge capacity of 320 m /sec and a maximum
capacity of about 900 m /sec;
(c)  Secondary irrigation canals (about 270 km) and
drains (about 300 km) to serve 51,000 ha;
(d) Tertiary irrigation and drainage networks, with some
500 km each of canals and drains, with each tertiary
unit covering an area of 150-200 ha;
(e) Reclamation of about 4,000 ha of uninhabited swamp
land for agricultural uses;
(f) Construction of road system comprising 170 km of new
feeder roads (Indonesia Class III) to connect farms
in the area with the large marketing centers;
(g) Construction of office buildings, stores, houses
for project management staff and si> rural
agricultural extension centers;
(h) Procurement of vehicles and equipment for construction
supervision and agricultural extension services;
(i) Engagement of consultants to carry out planning, design,
detailed engineering, preparation of contract tender
documents and supervision of construction of the project
works, to train Indonesian counterparts and to provide
technical assistance to the Jatiluhur Authority and PROSIDA
in planning, design and implementing the pilot on-farm
development areas;
(j) Engagement of two specialists - one to assist the
Authority and GOI in development of agricultural
extension services and the other to assist the Authority
in implementation of operation and maintenance procedures
developed under Credit 195-IND;
(k) Training in the count:ry and overseas of the Authority's
staff, agriculturists and agricultural extension officers,
and training in the country of "'key farmers";
(1)  Upgrading and expans-ton of agricultural extension
services in the whole Jatiluhur project area (236,000
ha); and



(m) Construction of a number of pilot areas with varying
levels of on-farm development works (land levelling,
boundary realignment, water control and farm access)
covering a total area of about 1,000 ha in the project
area and about 4,000 ha in the four irrigation rehabi-
litation projects (Rehab. I, II, III and IV) under the
preceding IDA credits; each pilot area would consist
of a fully rehabilitatedl tertiary unit of 150-200 ha.
Water Demand, Supply and Quality
4.03      Water Demand.  The consumptive water requirements for the proposed
cropping patterns were determined using the Modified Blaney-Criddle Formula,
which has proved to be close to the actual field requirements in Indonesia.
Taking into account effective rainfall, averaging 1,230 xm per year, an
estimated overall project efficiency of 55%, and the projected cropping
intensity of 195%, the annual diversion requirement from the West 3Tarum
canal would average 15,500 m /ha of cropped land, or about 780 Mm per annum.
The projected average annual water demand on the Jatiluhur reservoir for the
whole JatilNhur project area of 236,000 ha is 3,000 Im per annum, ranging
from 100 Mm in Ngvember and January to about 500 Mm in August (Annex 4). An
additional 200 Mm per annum is required for supply of water to JakarSa
(Appendix A of Annex 4), with a potential additional demand of 200 Mm per
annum for the future eastward extension of Jakarva in the next 12-15 years.
4.04      Water Supply.  Water for crop production in the project area would
come from rainfall and from water distributed from the West Tarum main canal.
Water is supplied to the canal from the Jatiluhur reservoir, via the Curug
pumping station, and from three diversion structures on the Cibeet, Cikaraeg
and Bekasi rivers. Regulation of water supply is provided by the 2,600 Mm
storage capacity of she Jatiluhur reservoir. 3The annual flow in the Citarum
at Curug is 6,000 Mm on average and 4,500 Mm in a dry year. The average
annual fiows in the three secondary rivers with diversions to the canal total
2,000 Mm . Water management studies carried out by the Jatiluhur Authority
and their consultants (joint venture of Coyne et Bellier and SOGREAH, France)
indicate that, with the Citarum inflow regulated by the Jatiluhur dam together
with the inflow available to the main canal from the three river diversions,
there is enough water to meet requirements of irrigation development of the
whole Jatiluhur project area 236,000 ha) as well as to sugply water to Jakarta
and its future eastward extension to the extent of 400 Mm per year (para 4.03).
The studies also indicate that, with the project, the electric energy produced
from irrigation water release at the hydro-power plant at the dam would still
be around 600 M kWh, which is a'out the same as the current production (Annex
4). The pondage between Jatiluhur dam and Curug Barrage is large enough to
act as a reregulation reservoir to allow the power plant to generate peak
power, if required, without affecting3irrigation operation.  If, however,
Jakarta would demand more than 400 Mm per year, other sources of supply such
as from Saguling Reservoir upstream of Jatiluhur dam, currently under study



- 10 -
in connection with the West Java Thermal Power Project (Credit 399-IND) or from
the nearby Cisedane River, would have to be sought. Annex 4 describes GOI's
pclicv (of Yay 17, 1973) for the operation of Jatiluhur reservoir to meet
the various demands - water supply, irrigation and electric power. Assurances
have been obtained that GOI would consult and agree with the Association on
any proposed change to this policy before making the change.
4.05      Water Quality.  Tests of water samples from rivers and canals
indicate that the water is excellent for sustained irrigation and no problems
of salinity or of any adverse effects on irrigation are expected.
Engineering Design
4.06      The feasibility study carried out by the consultants under Credit
195-IND effectively covers the planning and design of the engineering works
and the agricultural development plan. However, these engineering designs
are preliminary and were limited by the scale and accuracy of available
topographical mapping. For detailed designs, maps to a scale of 1:5,000 with
0.5 m contour intervals would be required. Such mapping was completed in
May 1974 with financial assistance from IDA Credit 275-IND. These maps would
be used for detailed designs and preparation of tender documents.
Construction Schedule
4.07      The project works would be completed in six years.  The proposed
construction schedule is described in Annex 5 and Chart No. 7910. Provided
consultants (para 5.14) are appointed by July-August 1974 so that they would
have about six months to prepare final design and tender documents, construction
would commence in the 1975 dry season with completion of contract works scheduled
for end 1979. The cadastral mapping of the 4,000 ha of swamp lands would be
carried out as soon as each swamp is drained. These reclaimed swamp lands
would be used for settlement of farmers by GOI. Assurances have been obtained
that cadastral maps of each swamp area would be completed six months after the
swamp is drained, and that the criteria for selection of farmers to be settled
on the reclaimed land and the settlement time schedule would be submitted by
GOI for the Association's comments before December 31, 1976.
Cost Estimates
4.08      Total project costs are estimated at US$68 million equivalent
(Rp 28,000 million). The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$22
million or 32% of total project cost. Estimates are based on acceptable
preliminary design and on unit costs c,f similar recent work and contract bids
in West Java adjusted to end 1973 p       levels.  Physical contingencies of
10% are allowed on all items to cover unforeseen increases in quantities.
Expected cost increase due to i:aflatioz for civil and on-farm development works,
falling from 18% in the first year to 122. -zn the third year and thereafter,
for equipment, falling from 147 in the first year to 7.5% in the third year,



- 11 -
and for all other items falling from 12% in the first year to 6% in the third
year and thereafter, have been included for both local and foreign cost items,
in~c.luding physical contingencies.
4.09      A breakdown of project costs is given in Annex 6 and is summarized
below:
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total/i
(Rupiah Million)        (US$ Million)
Lanc Acquisition                 1,620      -     1,620   3.9       -      3.9
Civil Works
Flood Control                  1,130      870   2,000   2.7      2.1     4.8
Irrigation & Drainage          4,525   2,735   7,260  10.9       6.6    17.5
Reclamation of Swamps            100       70     170   0.2      0.2     0.4
Roads                          1,025      575   1,600   2.5      1.4     3.9
Buildings, Stores,
Houses & Rural Agr.
Extension Centers               170      -       170   0.4       -      0.4
Sub-Total                 6,950   4,250  11,200  16.7    10.3    27.0
Equipment & Vehicles                25      165     190   0.1      0.4     0.5
Consultants' Services              355      825   1,180   0.9      2.0     2.9
Specialists & Training              85      185     270   0.2      0.4     0.6
Pilot On-Farm Development          415       -      415   1.0       -      1.0
Agricultural Extension Serv.       575       -      575   1.4       -      1.4
Operation & Maintenance
during Construction              340       -      340   0.8       -      0.8
Administration & Overheads         915       -      915   2.2       -      2.2
Physical Contingencies           1,120      540   1,660   2.7      1.3     4.0
Sub-Total Project Cost    12,400   5,965  18,365  29.9    14.4    44.3
Expected Cost Increase due to
Inflation                       6,680   3,155   9,835  16.1       7.6    23.7
Total Project Cost              19,080   9,120  28,200  46.0    22.0    68.0
/1   Discrepancies in currency conversions due to rounding.



-  2-
4.10      The implementation of full on-farm development in the extension
project area is estimated to cost US$6.0 million equivalent. Much of this
gould be in the form of donated land and volunta-y labor from farmers.
No provision is made in the capital cost estimate for this cost, but it is
incorporated in the economic analysis.
Financing
4.11      The proposed IDA credit of US$30 million would finance the full
foreign exchange costs and about 17% of the estimated local costs of the pro-
ject. It would cover 44% of the estimated total project costs. GOI would
contribute a total of US$38 million equivalent, through annual budget appropria-
tions, to Jatiluhur Authority and to PROSIDA for pilot on-farm development
works on the Rehab I, III and IV project areas (para 5.07). Assurances have
been obtained that GOI would ensure that sufficient funds to cover the budgeted
expenditures estimated quarterly by the Authority would be made available
to the Authority not later than 15 days after the first day of each quarter.
Procurement and Contracts
4.12      Vehicles and equipment for construction supervision and agricultural
extension services, costing about US$400,000 (Annex 7) would be procured after
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.
A preference limited to 15% of the cif price of imported goods or the actual
custom duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to qualified local manu-
facturers in the evaluation of bids. Small off-the-shelf items costing less
than US$5,000 each, which are not suitable for international tendering, would
be purchased through normal Government procurement procedures. Such purchases
would be limited to a total of US$50,000. There are sufficient suppliers of
such goods to ensure adequate competition.
4.13      All civil works except for US$0.4 million worth of office buildings,
stores, houses and rural extension centers, would be subject to international
competitive bidding. They would be grouped into about four contracts, each
sufficiently large to attract interest from experienced contractors. A preference
limited to 7 1/2% would be extended to qualified local contractors in the
evaluation of bids. To ensure in advance of bidding that the works would be
carried out by capable contractors, all bidders would be pre-qualified. Pre-
qualification would take into account the experience and past performance of
each firm on similar work, its zapabilities with respect to personnel, equip-
ment and plant, and its financial position. The value of the contracts would
range from US$5 million to US$15 million. There are several local firms who
could compete successfully on these works. Nevertheless, in order to promote
and uplift the capability of the other local firms and that of managers,
engir.eers and technicians, foreign consulting and contracting firms invited
to submit proposals or tenders would be encouraged to associate themselves
with Indonesian firms. As the works would recuire many large items of
con.struction equipment, especially earth moving equipment, provisions would



- 13 -
be made in the tender documents for the Authority to authorize advances to
contractors up to 20% of the contract value for the purchase of imported
construction equipment and spare parts. There are no preferential import
duties in Indonesia that may affect international contractors or suppliers.
Disbursement
4.14      Disbursements from the proposed credit would be made at the rate
of 100% against the cif cost of directly imported vehicles and equipment;
at 95% of the ex-factory price of vehicles and equipment manufactured locally;
and at 65% of the off-the-shelf price. For consultants' and specialists
services and overseas training, disbursement would cover the actual foreign
exchange costs. Disbursement for civiL works would be at 55% of certified
monthly progress payments or expenditures. Disbursement would not be made
against the costs of land acquisition, pilot on-farm development works, local
costs of agricultural extension services, operation and maintenance during
construction, and administration and overhead costs. The estimated schedules
of expenditures and disbursements of the proposed credit are shown in Annex 8.
Accounts and Audit
4.15      Auditing by an independent external auditor - Drs. SIE & Co.,
approved by the Association - started in August 1972. The firm has audited
the Authority's accounts for the years ending March 31, 1971 and 1972. Work
is in progress on the 1972/73 audit. Assurances have been obtained that the
Authority would maintain a separate account for this project, with the 0 & M
allocation (contribution from IPEDA - para 5.18-5.20) and expenditures clearly
identified as separate items, and that copies of the independent external
audit of the project accounts would be sent to the Association within four
months of the close of each fiscal year.
Environmental Effects
4.16      There is no schistosomiasis in Java.  Malaria is almost non-
existent, but there are still a few reported cases near Cikarang and Sukatani
in the project area and in the hilly areas of Cibarusah and Lemahabang south
of the project. The malaria eradication program is being well enforced by
GOI. Though DDT will be banned for agricultural use in 1974, its continued
use for public health will be allowed.
4.17      The major health problem in the project area is malnutrition, which
is responsible for high infant mortality and low adult labor productivity.
GOI is aware of the problem and has set up pediatric units in most existing
health centers in the project area. Increased production of rice and field
crops from the project would help aileviata malnutrition. By providing water
through irrigation canals sprez.ding over the area, the project would also
have a beneficial effect on public healt:h.  Communicable diseases wnich are
prevalent in the project area, such as s'icin diseases, diarrhea, cholera and
tuberculosis, should decrease with the year-round availability of water. The



-  4-
flood control, improved drainage and swamp reclamation aspects of the project
would also improve environmental and public health conditions in the area.
Yertilizers and chemicals are already in use in and around the project area;
people are well aware of their toxic hazards and no adverse effects are
envisaged.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Management
5.01      The Jatiluhur Authority would be responsible for the construction
and operation of the project. The Authority is a semi-autonomous public
agency established by the Government in 1970 to manage the multipurpose
development of the Jatiluhur region and to implement Rehab II. It is governed
by the Minister of Economy, Finance and Industry (MEFI) and its operations
are managed by a Board of Directors. The MEFI, in guiding the Authority
and setting its policies for Jatiluhur development is assisted by a Ministerial
Council comprising the Ministers of Public Works and the Electric Power (MPWEP),
Home Affairs, Finance and Agriculture.
5.02      The Authority's Board of Directors consists of a President
Director (Project Manager) and three Department Directors who have separate
responsibilities for Irrigation, Electric Power, and Administration. The
Irrigation Department Director's responsibilities include the Authority's
agricultural support, coordinating and programming activities. An Agri-
culture Advisory committee, comprising the Ministry of Agriculture's
Director of Extension Services, three technical specialists and the head
of the Irrigation Department Agriculture Section, counsels the Board
on agricultural matters. Assurances have been obtained that the positions
of President Director and Director of the Authority would at all times be
filled by qualified and experienced persons and, before an appointment
is made to any such position, GCI would afford the Association a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views with it on the qualifications and experience
of the persons considered for the appointment.
5.03      Experience since 1970 has pointed out a number of desirable
changes in the Authority's organization and operating procedures. The
Government is currently considering the reorganization of the Authority.
Final details, including the specific duties, responsibilities and authority
of the various officials must still be spelled out, but the outlines are
clear and are presented in Chart No. 785%. '7nder the Irrigation Department
Director, who would be assisted by office sz^-2 and project consultants, would
be three divisions.  The Development and Cons:ruction Division, headed by
a Deputy Director, would be responsible for aLL remaining rehabilitation work
as well as ndw construction in the entire Jatiluhur project area.  The
Operation and Maintenance Division, also headed by a Deputy Director, would
be responsible for all 0 & M i: the entire Jatiluhur area, down through the



- 15 -
tertiary networks. The area would be divided into four Engineering Districts,
each headed by a District 0 & M Engineer. These'would cover the West
District (West Tarum System including the extensxon project area) Middle
District (North Tarum System), East District (Eart Tarum and Cipunegara Systems)
and the Curug District (Curug Barrage and pumping plants and overall regula-
tion and distribution of water supply to the irrigation districts). The
Agriculture Section, which is now a responsibility of the Deputy Director
for 0 & M, would be upgraded to become Agricultural Development Division
headed by a Division Chief. The Authority, through this new Division, would
assume a larger role than it has at present in planning and assisting in the
implementation of agricultural development in the entire Jatiluhur project
area.
5.04      An important objective of the reorganization would be to improve
the Authority's cohesiveness, the coordination among the three departments,
the budget and finance procedures, and to strengthen its overall administration.
The two operating Departments - the Irrigation Department and the Electric
Power Department - are being rtu largely as independent units with little
coordination between them. Each has its own finance, administration and
logistics section operating independently of the Administration Department,
which deals mainly with legal matters, external affairs and public relations.
Funds for irrigation development are channeled through the budget of the
Directorate General of Water Resources Development (DGWED) of NPWEP. Funds
for 0 & M of the electric power plant come from the sale of electricity to
the State Electricity Corporation. Funds to run the Administration Department,
mainly for salaries, come from the two operating departments.
5.05      The successful reorganization of the Jatiluhur Authority would be
essential to the success of the proposed extension project and continued
progress under Rehab II. GOI would consider the following points in formulating
a reorganization plan:
(a) Any revenues of the Authority should be collected
by the Administration Department and managed
under the direction of the Board of Directors;
(b) The Administration Department should be strengthened;
(c) The Irrigation Department should be reorganized along
the lines indicated in para 5.03 above;
(d) A study for improving the Electric Power Department
should be carried out; and
(e) The coordination and cooperation among the three
departments should be improved.
Assurances have been obtained _hat by June 30, 1975 the Jatiluhur Authority
would be reorganized according to a plan agreed\between O01 and the Associa-
tion.



- 16 -
Implementation of Project Works
5.06      The Authority's Irrigation Department would be responsible for
construction, oneration and maintenance of project works. It would also
promote, plan and coordinate agricultural development and supporting activities
in the whole Jatiluhur project area. Generally GOI, through its agencies,
constructs, operates and maintains only primary and secondary irrigation
canals, including headworks and canal structures. All tertiary irrigation
canals and structures have been traditionally constructed by farmers on
lands donated by them. There are only few drainage canals in Indonesia, all
of which have been built by the Government. Drainage is usually effected
through natural drains, streams and rivers. These traditional procedures
for providing irrigation and drainage have not been entirely satisfactory.
Farmers have not been able to construct tertiary canals to appropriate
standards or in a timely manner, and in most places drainage has been
inadequate. In this project, construction of the proposed tertiary irrigation
and drainage system by the Government would be an innovation. Assurances
have been be obtained that GOI, through the Authority, would construct the entire
tertiary networks (para 4.02 (d)) and would purchase required land from land-
owners.
Pilot On-Farm Development Areas
50C7      Traditionally, farmers in Indonesia have been responsible for
carry7ng out on-farm development works themselves. Experience with the four
IDA financed irrigation rehabilitation projects indicates that on-farm devel-
opment has not been adequately done following this procedure. More information
is required concerning the appropriate level of on-farm development, how much
of the work the farmers can do themselves, and how much assistance they would
need for more complicated taslz such as boundary realignment, land levelling
and construction of water control structures. The project would include
pilot schemes designed to evolve a phased approach to further long term improve-
ments in water control through on-farm development and to determine the appro-
priate degree of farmer participation. To that end, pilot areas would be
uLLablished on 5,000 ha: 1,000 ha in the project area and 1,000 ha under
_ehab II by the Authority's Irrigation Department; and 3,000 ha in the areas
R Rehab I, III and IV by PROSIDA. Technical assistance in planning, imple-
ientir.  and studying the results of these areas would be provided by the
project consultants. Results from the pilot area studies would be available
by 1976/77. Assurances have been obtained from GOI that by December 31, 1977,
it would complete the pilot area studies and discuss the results with the
Association, and that the agreed level of on-farm development works would be
carried out and completed in the project area within four years after the
compl:tion of project works.
Agricultural Development and Supporting Services
5.CE,     The Authority, Ministry of Agriculture, West Java Provincial Govern-
mern- and its agricultural agencies down to village level would all participate
'he development of agriculture and provision of agricultural supporting



- 17 -
services in the whole Jatiluhur project area. The Authority would coordinate
the work of all these agencies. To improve coordination and cooperation,
especially with provincial and local government agencies, the Authority
proposes to replace its Agricultural Advisory Committee with an Agricultural
Consultative Committee. 1/ This Committee would be given a larger role to
play in planning, programming and guiding agricultural development in the area.
The Committee's first task would be to establish a comprehensive agricultural
development program for the whole Jatiluhur project area, including the number
of agricultural extension officer3 and subject matter specialists required
to implement such program. A draft pr)gram prepared by the consultants under
Credit 195-IND, which was submitted to the Authority in early 1973, could be
used as a basis for the Committee's work. Assurances have been obtained that
GOI would submit a comprehensive agricultural development program for the
entire Jatiluhur project area to the Association not later than September 30,
1975 for the Association's review and comments, and that the program would
thereafter be implemented.
5.09      The most important GOI agricultural support programs have been
the BIMAS credit program for improved seeds, fertilizers and pesticides
and the INMAS agricultural extension program (Annex 2). Because farmers did
not have an assured water supply, during the 1972/73 wet season only 16%
and 30% of the whole Jatiluhur project area were under BIMAS and INMAS
respectively. After the completion of Rehab II and this project, irrigation
water supply would be assured and farmers would need increasingly more credit
and inputs. Assurance have been obtained that GOI would supply adequate
credit and agricultural inputs to farmers in each tertiary unit of the project
area as soon as irrigation works down to tertiary irrigation canal and drain
in that unit are completed.
5.10      Agricultural extension in the whole Jatiluhur project area is still
not adequate. There are 180 extension officers and workers in the area, or
one extension worker for about 1,000 farm families. Extension work is hampered
by lack of funds and transport vehicles, inaccessibility of the area and the
low standard of extension workers. There are three Rural Extension Centers
in the area and GOI is setting up three additional Centers. A training pro-
gram for key farmers has recently been started at the three existing Centers,
in which these farmers receive classroom instruction and practice modern
techniques on demonstration farms. Though this is considered a very good
program, only a small number of farmers have been trained so far, due to lack
of funds and shortage of instructors and facilities.
5.11      To strengthen extension services in the area, the project would
finance construction of six new Rural Extension Centers, equipped with
audio-visual aid equipment and necessary farm machinery such as power tillers,
sprayers, paddy threshers, soil testing kits etc. (Annex 7). Both old and
1/   Consisting of the President Director of the Authority, Director of
Irrigation and Chief of the Authority's Agriculture Section, Representa-
tive of the Governor and Coordinator of Agricultural Section of the West
Java province, District Officers (Bupati) of the area's five districts
(Kabupaten) Director of Extension Services of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture and two or three selected agriculture specialists.



- is -
new Centers would be used for conducting refresher courses, seminars and
vork shops for extension personnel as well as for training key farmers.
7he nur-ber of extension personnel would have to be increased gradually. By
early 1978, the number of new agriculturists, extension officers and subject
matter specialists determined in the agricultural development program (para
5.08) would be added to the existing extension service in the area. The
proJect includes funds for an internationally recruited agriculture extension
specialist to assist in improving and implementing extension services for
a period of at least three years, (para 5.14), and funds to cover operating
costs of the agricultural development and extension program in the whole
Jatiluhur project area from 1974 through the end of 1979. The project would
also provide bicycles, motor cycles and inspection vehicles to improve
mobility.
5.12      With assistance from IDA Credit 246-IND, GOI has established
a modern seed industry which is expected to produce 22,000 tons a year of
certified high-yielding rice seed. Recently IDA Credit 288-IND has been
extended to rehabilitate, expand and equip agricultural training institutes
and to improve the facilities of 14 national agricultural senior secondary
schools. Through these projects, it can be expected that improved seeds
and more and better agricultural extension workers would become available to
serve not only the Jatiluhur project area but the whole country.
Training
5.13      To help overcome the shortage of trained and experienced irrigation
officers and sub-officers, the project includes funds for training about
100 water masters at the Bandung Technical Academy and Surabaya Training
Institute and about 25 administrative personnel at the Institute for Management
Research and Education and the University of Indonesia in Jakarta. Funds
have also been provided for overseas training and study tours for 15 senior
engineers, and scholarships for sending 15 students to local colleges for
3-year formal academic courses in civil, mechanical and electrical engineering.
After graduation these students would be obliged to work for the Authority
as provided in GOI regulations (Annex 9). Arrangements would also be made
under the project for a three month overseas training and observation tour
for 15 agriculturists and agricultural extension officers and workers (Annex 9).
Consulting Services
5.14      Although the Jatiluhur Authority has gained valuable experience
in rehabilitating the existing irrigation systems in the Jatiluhur area,
it has had no experience in planning and designing a major irrigation project.
It would therefore engage an experienced and qualified consulting firm to
carry out, with the assistance of local firms or staff, the planning, design
and construction supervision of the project. The consultants would also
provide assistance in planning, designing and implementing the pilot on-farm
development works and preparing a comprehensive program for the introduction



- 19 -
of such works throughout the whole Jatiluhur project area, and would train
indonesian counterparts. Two individual specialists would also be directly
engaged by the Authority - an 0 & M engineer to assist in establishing an
O & M organization and an extension service specialist to help improve and
implement the agricultural extension program. Draft terms of reference of
the consulting firm and the specialists are presented in Annex 10. About 90
man-years of consultants' services and 6 man-years of specialist services
would be required at a cost of about US$3 million. Assurances have been
obtained that the two qualified specialists would be engaged by the Authority
under contracts approved by the Association, each for a period of not less
than three years. A condition of credit effectiveness would be that consultants
acceptable to the Association had been appointed on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Operation and Maintenance
5.15      The Irrigation Department's 0 & M Section presently has responsi-
bility for operating and maintaining the irrigation works in the whole
Jatiluhur project area. Under the proposed reorganization (para 5.03) an
o & M division, with subdivisions to cover four districts each headed by
a district 0 & M engineer, would be established (Annex 11). The operation
section would be responsible for water management from the main canal down
to the tertiary canal offtakes and for determining and transmitting water
reqrirements throughout the irrigation area to a control center at Curug.
The West Tarum sub-division would be responsible for the extension project
area. The maintenance section would be responsible for the upkeep of the
irrigation canals, drainage channels, control structures and embankments.
It would have a small plant fleet and be capable of carrying out all but major
repairs in the area. Major repairs would be carried out by contracts. The
0 & M costs of the completed works during the construction period have been
included in the project costs. Assurances have been obtained that the Authority
would properly maintain all project works both during and after the construction
period, and that GOI would provide the Authority with adequate and timely
funds as required for the purpose.
5.16      As has been the traditional practice, the 0 & M of the irrigation
and drainage works at farm level would be the responsibility of the farmers.
In other areas in Central and West Java, Water IJser Associations have been
successfully developed and the Authority and the Provincial Government
would be encouraged to initiate such associations within the project area,
prior to completion of construction in each teTtiary unit.
5.17      The major investment of over US$2 million to establish the Authority's
0 & M division is provided for under Credit 195-IND. An additional US$100,000
is provided in the proposed credit for offices, buildings and workshops in
the extension area. The annual cost of 0 & M for the entire Jati1uhur irrigation
area is estimated to be Rp 760 million or Rp 3,200 (IJS$7.7) per ha of irrigated
area. 0 & M of roads in the project area would be the responsibility of the
Provincial Government and is estimated to cost Rp 500 per ha per annnum.



- 20 -
Assurances have been obtained from GOI that the Provincial Government of West
Java would maintait roads in the project area, including those constructed
under the project in satisfactory condition.
Recovery of Costs
5.18      Taxes.  Although a legal basis exists for levying water charges,
farmers in Indonesia at present pay only i land tax (IPEDA) collected by the
village heads and turned over to the local and provincial administration for
management of public services. Government has recently tied the disbursement
of INPRES, a local infrastructure development program financed by the central
government, to IPEDA collection performance. Under this incentive program,
additional disbursements for local development are made when the IPEDA collec-
tion exceeds a mutually agreed target. As a result, there were marked improve-
ments in the collection of IPEDA in the last two years and this trend is
expected to continue. In addition to IPEDA, farmers pay village taxes and
other contributions for road maintenance, school, public building and mosque
construction. In the project area these taxes generally amount to about the
same as IPEDA (see Annex 14).
5.19      Since June 1972, a GOI interministerial committee has been studying
methods of collecting a portion of the increase in farm income from irrigation
development to cover 0 & M costs and a portion of the investment costs. The
committee's preliminary recommendaticn is that irrigation charges should be
collected by means of increases in IPEDA and that IPEDA should be assessed
at 5% of net value of production (NVP) of the land. This method of collecting
irrigation charges is the most appropriate and practicable in the Indonesian
context. Currently, the average annual IPEDA in the project area is about
Rp 2,000 per ha. However, under the 5% of NVP concept, this figure is likely
to go up to about Rp 4,000 per ha by 1985, even without the project. With
the project it is estimated that, by land reclassification, the average
IPEDA in the project area would rise to about Rp 15,000 per ha. The average
M costs under the "with" project conditions are estimated to be about
e,p 3,200 per ha.
5.20      Project Revenues - After completion of the project, the increases
in IPEDA would lead to a net annual contribution of about Rp 400 million to
the project revenues. In addition the Authority would earn about Rp 80 mil-
lion from the sale of water to the special District of Jakarta, of which about
Rp 30 million would be credited to the project. Rental of the 4,000 ha of
project land reclaimed from swamps would provide another Rp 42 million in
revenue. At an annual discount rate of 10%, the present worth of the project
revenues would amount to about Rp 2,200 million. The present worth of the
project cost at the same interest rate is about Rp 13,000 million, indicating
a cost recovery ratio of about 17%. On the other hand, if interest rate is not
considered, the project costs would be fully recovered within 40 years. In
view of the small farm sizes and relatively low income even at full development,
this is considered to be reasonable. Assurances have been obtained from GOI
that (i) as each tertiary network under the project is completed, it would



- 21 -
collect IPEDA from land owners at such level required to recover full 0 & M
costs of the project and a reasonable portion of the capital costs of the
project, and (ii) it would submit to the Association not less than once every
two years a report on the sample surveys and methodology used in determining
NVP of the project lands, which would be the basis for the IPEDA rates.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FAPM INCOME
Production
6.01      Rice would continue to be the dominant crop after completion of
the project. Other crops to be grown in the area, which together would
account for less than 10% of the cropped land, include maize, soybeans,
groundnuts and vegetables.
6.02      The command area would increase from 47,000 ha at present to
51,000 ha, with the reclamation of some 4,000 ha of swamp lands. Following
completion of the project works, land in the project area would receive an
assured water supply for two crops per year as well as protection from
floods and an effective drainage system. With completion of the on-farm
works, farmers would also enjoy a greater degree of water control at the
farm level, although even then some irrigation would still follow the
field-to-field practice. The cropped area is expected to increase from
around 61,000 ha per year at present to 99,000 ha at full development,
which would represent an increase in the cropping intensity from about
130% to about 195%. Important improvements in cultivation practice in the
project area would include a substantial increase in the area planted to
high yielding rice varieties, an increase in the use of fertilizers,
pesticides and other inputs, and the replacement of manual labor, where it
is still used for plowing, by buffaloes. The change from manual labor
to buffalo power to reduce the time required for plowing would be necessary
to achieve the proposed higher cropping intensity. The strengthening of
extension services provided under the project would help to realize these
improvements.
6.03      Projected yields differ between the northern and southern parts
of the project area because of differences in topographic and soil fertil-
ity conditions. It is further assumed that land tenure arrangements would
affect expected yields. About half the project lands are cultivated by
landowners (43%) and tenants (7%), and the other half, mainly in the less
productive northern part of the area, by sharecroppers (para 3.08). Because
sharecroppers have less incentive to modernize cultural practices, their
average yields at full project development are projected to be somewhat
lower than those on landowner fields. Furthermore, to reflect the
uncertainty in predicting the rate at which sharecroppers would participate
in the project (para 6.09), full development yields on sharecropper fields
are assumed to be realized nine years after the introduction of irrigation,



- 22 -
,-ereas those onr landowner fields are assumed after four years. At full
cevelcoment, average paddy yields would thus vary between 3.5 and 4.6 ton/ha
_epending upon location and land tenure situation. The average yield for
the entire area would be about  .0 ton/ha. Total paddy production would be
over 360,000 tons at full develcpment, compared with 93,000 tons presently
and an estimated 110,000 tons in future without the project. Field crop
production would also increase from about 7,000 tons presently to 35,000 tons
at fu'Ll development. Details about present and future yields and production
of the project area are given 'n Annex 12.
Market Prospects
6.04      With rising incomes and standards of living, per capita consump-
tion of rice in Indonesia is projected to increase from around 110 kg per
year presently to 120 kg in the mid-1980s. Assuming a population growth rate of
2.4%' per year, and making a 10% allowance for seeds and waste, total demand
for rice in 1985 would be about 22 million tons per year. To meet this
demand internally, domestic production would have to increase by about 3.8%
per year. Until improved rainfed rice production technologies are developed,
much of this increase will have to come through higher yields on existing
irrigated areas and new systems such as this project. Because most
irrigation projects require a long development period to attain high yield
levels, there is doubt whether production can close the import gap over the
next 10-15 years. Thus the 230,000 tons of rice to be produced in the project
area at full development should find a ready market in Indonesia. The
quantities of all other crops to be produced in the area would be very small
relative to demand, and there should be no difficulties in marketing them in
neighboring Jakarta or other nearby towns.
6.05      Rice mills and hullers in Indonesia usually have some storage
capacity and almost all have sun-drying floors. With 16 large mills and
over 240 hullers in and around the project area, many of which have been
stablished only in recent years stimulated by the increase in rice pro-
duction, the project area presently has substantial excess milling capacity
(Annex 13). Nearly all large mills also have mechanical dryers acquired
in recent years. Most mills are privately owned and can readily obtain
funds to expand their capacity. It is therefore reasonable to expect that
the private sector would expand the milling and drying facilities in the
area as production increases.
Prices
6.06      The estimated future farm-gate price for paddy was derived from
the Bank's forecast for the world market price of milled rice in 1985 in
terms of 1974 constant prices. In converting to a farm-gate equivalent price,
it has been assumed that about 10% of rice production from the project would
be milled into high grade (5% broken), 60% into medium grade (20% broken)
30% into lower grade (42% broken), so that the equivalent average world
-arket price would be $225 per ton of milled rice cif Jakarta.  After making
allowance for transport and handling charges, the equivalent farm-gate price
of paddy would be about Rp 66 per kg. A somewhat lower price (Rp 55 per kg)



- 23 -
was used in the farm budget analysis to reflect marketing imperfections under
which farmers are often forced to sell their produce at low prices at or even
before harvest time in order to pay back 'heir loans (Annex 14).
Farm Income
6.07      Farming in the project area is presently subsistence in nature,
with rice being grown primarily for family consumption. Family cash income
is derived from the sale of surplus rice and, in small part, other crops such
as vegetables and maize, as well as some earnings from fishing, trading
and other off-farm employment. Separate farm models have been prepared for
the northern and southern parts of the project area. In the northern part,
where uncontrolled irrigation and rainfed paddy predominate, the average
farm size is 1.9 ha. In the southern area, which has a rudimentary "semi-
technical" irrigation system, the average farm size is 1.1 ha. Yields,
cropping intensity and farm income are generally higher in the southern area
than in the northern area. Sharecropping is common in the northern area.
Under the traditional sharecropping arrangement, the landowner pays for the
seed, transplanting costs and half the cash inputs, taxes and harvesting
costs. In return he receives half the gross value of production.
6.08      Crops other than rice are of minor importance in the area and
therefore only rice production has been considered in the farm budget
analysis. The estimated present income and that projected at full develop-
ment for seven different farm models, including the estimated income from
off-farm employment, are presented in detail in Annex 14 and summarized
below:
Farm                                   Farm Income
Area      Size         Farm System           Present      Future
(ha)                                    (Rp '000)
South      0.5        Owner Farming             94           224
South      1.0        Owner Farming             147          403
Sharecropping             76           188
North      1.0        Owner Farming              79          315
Sharecropping             46           150
North      2.5        Owner Farming             161          680
Sharecropping             79           310
6.09      Compared with farm incomes under present conditions of between
Rp 46,000 and Rp 161,000 (US$110 to 390), net farm incomes at full develop-
ment, after deducting taxes and operation and maintenance costs would be
between Rp 150,000 and Rp 680,000 (US$360 to 1,640). These income levels
may be slightly understated since they exclude the value of crops other than
rice. Nevertheless, they point out several important factors. First, with



- 24 -
:xerage fanily s..ze of 6.8 persons in the project area, average per capita
tcone for eve-i the best-off families is presently much below the national
average of about US$85 (1973). Secondly, because of typically very small
land holdings (para 3.07), even with the project at full development per
capita income levels would still be low compared to the national average,
which would be about US$180 in 1988 (at constant 1973 prices) at 4% annual
growth rate.  Only owner-farmers with 2.5 ha farms in the northern part of
the project area, who represent a small minority of project beneficiaries
would be above th>e average.  Thirdly, the income disparity between sharecroppers
an, owner-farmers wouid increase with the project as compared with the present
sltuation.  Fourthly, the projected incremental incomes of both small farm
owners and sharecroppers would still be small in absolute terms, and additional
incentives, beyond the provision of irrigation, drainage, and access to inputs
might be required to ensure their full participation in the project. There-
fore, assurances have been obtained that GOI would carry out a detailed
survey and evaluation of the small farmers', sharecroppers' and landlords'
"present" and "with the project" production and financial situation and
discuss its findings with the Association.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      Upon completion, the project would provide perennial irrigation
to some 51,000 ha, including 4,000 ha of reclaimed swamp lands, which presently
are dependent upon rainfall and small, poorly constructed run-of-the river
diversion schemes. Project benefits would accrue largely from the improved
irrigation system along with flood protection works and an expanded drainage
system. Rice would continue to be the main produce of the area although a
number of other crops would account for about 10% of the cropped land. At
full agricultural development, which is expected in 1988 or about nine years
after construction of the project works has been completed, paddy production
_rom the area is expected to have increased from 93,000 tons per year at
present to 363,000 tons. The incremental net value of production at full
development would be Rp 14,400 million. Since Indonesia is presently importing
up to one million tons of rice per year, and imports are likely to continue
into the 1980s, incremental rice production from the project would represent
a gross foreign exchange saving of some US$37 million annually. After
deducting the cost of imported fertilizers and chemicals attributable to the
project, the net foreign exchange saving from rice production with the project
would be around US$33 million per year. in addition, incremental field crop
prodtvtion would save about US$1 million of foreign exchange annually at full
deve_opment. Assurances have been obtained that GOI would maintain an adequate
program for monitoring the economic benefits of the project and determining
the effectiveness of the credit, agricultural inputs and extension services
>.cv: ced.



- 25 -
7.02      With about 36,000 families in the project area presently engaged
in agriculture, the available farm labor supply is estimated to be about
22 million man-days per year. Based on recent trends, the labor supply
in the area is expected to grow to 29 million man-days by the time of full
project development (Annex 15). Under present cropping conditions, only 13
million man-days are needed for farm work, including cultivation of field
crops. Even after the projected improvements in farm practice under "without
project" conditions, there would be need for only slightly over 13 million
man-days. The severity of underemployment in the area is accentuated by
the seasonal nature of the existing farm labor requirement - at present the
demand for farm labor during the dry season is only a small fraction of
the requirement for the main wet season paddy crop. At full development
there would be a doubling of employment opportunities to 25 million man-
days, spread more evenly throughout the year. Although the project would
not fully utilize the labor force projected to be in the area at full development,
it would provide an additional source of income to a large number of otherwise
unemployed small farmers and sharecroppers, and would tend to discourage
emigration to the already crowded urban areas, particularly neighboring
Jakarta. In view of the labor situation, unskilled labor was evaluated at a
shadow wage rate which varies seasonally and is equal to its opportunity
cost in the economic analysis (para 7.03). This is equivalent to pricing
all incremental labor due to the project at Rp 70 per man-day or 58% of the
market wage rate of Rp 120 per man-day (Annex 15).
7.03      The economic rate of return on the project is estimated to be
about 42% (Annex 16) based on the following assumptions: (a) a 30-year
evaluation period and residual value of civil works equal to 33% of original
cost after 30 years; (b) a 6-year construction schedule; tc) 4-years after
construction to complete on-farm development works (Year 10); (d) full benefits
concurrently with completion of on-farm development works on owners' fields
(Year 10) and five years later on sharecroppers' fields (Year 15); (e) 1985
projected world market prices (at 1974 constant prices) for rice (US$225 per
ton) and fertilizer (urea and TSP - US$150 per ton) cif Jakarta; and (f)
pricing of farm labor at its opportunity cost and construction labor at the
market wage rate. Other important benefits, such as increased employment
opportunities in trade and industry based on the increased production and
incomes in the project area, and the secondary benefits of facilities such
as roads created under the project have not been accounted for in the economic
analysis.
7.04      The economic rate of return is not very sensitive to any of the
important assumptions made in formulating and evaluating the project. The
rate of return amounts to 41% if a full employment market wage rate of Rp 120
per man-day is used for all farm labor. If present worldwide fertilizer
shortages persist and fertilizer use is reduced by 25% over the life of the
project, leading to a 25% reduction in projected future yields with the project,
the rate of return would be about 28%. To test the project's sensitivity
to the rate at which on-farm development works would be carried out, it was
assumed that, instead of the expected four years, the period required to



- 26 -
complete these works would be 9 years, 14 years, and finally that no on-farm
works would be constructed. The corresponding rates of return were 37%, 34%
and 31%, showing that although the project would have a higher return with
these works, it would be viable even without them. The rate of return is
not sensitive to the ability and incentives of sharecroppers to make full use
of the potentials provided by the project. It has already been assumed in
the basic analysis that rice yields on sharecroppers' fields would be lower
than those on owners' fields, and that ten years instead of five would be
required after the introduction of irrigation for them to obtain these yields.
If the overall cropping intensity is reduced from 195% to 175% and most of
this reduction takes place on sharecroppers' fields, the economic rate of
return would still be 37%. Finally, sensitivity to variation in construction
period and costs was tested. If the construction period is extended by two
years and costs are increased by 25%, the rate of return would be 27%.
7.05      The project would have a favorable impact on income distribution.
Slightly more than half the incremental income generated by the project at
full development would accrue to small farmers (0.5-2.5 ha) who own their
own land and tenants who rent lands from the Forestry Department and village
administration. Their average income is now about half the national average,
and at full project development it would still be less than the projected
national average. About a quarter of the incremental income would go to very
poor sharecroppers whose average incomes would increase from about one-fourth
the national average presently to about one-third the projected national
average at full project development. The remaining quarter would represent
the net earnings of landlords who do not farm, but provide part of the cash
inputs and receive payment from the sharecroppers.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Agreements have been reached with GOI on the following principal
points:
(a) not later than June 30, 1975, the Jatiluhur Authority
would be reorganized according to a plan agreed between
GOI and the Association (para 5.05);
(b) the Jatiluhur Authority would construct tertiary irrigation
and drainage networks in the project area and would purchase
lands required for such purpose from landowners (para 5.06);
(c)  (i)  not later than December 31, 1977, GOI would complete
the studies of pilot on-farm development areas,
discuss the results and determine, after consultation
with the Association, the level of on-farm development
works and degree of farmer participation to be adopted
(para 5.07); and



- 27 -
(ii)  the agreed level of on-farm development works in the
project area would be carried out and completed within
four years after completioni of project works (para 5.07);
(d)  GOI would submit to the Association by September 30, 1975,
a comprehensive agricultural development program for the
entire Jatiluhur project area, including the number of
agricultural extension officers and subject matter
specialists required to implement such program, to the
Association not later than September 30, 1975 for the
Association's review and comments, and the agreed program
would thereafter be implemented in the entire Jatiluhur
project area (para 5.08);
(e)  GOI would employ two internationally recruited specialists
- an O&M engineer and an agricultural extension service
expert - under contracts individually approved by the
Association, each for a period of at least three years
(para 5.14); and
(f)  (i)  as each tertiary network under the project is
completed, GOI would collect IPEDA from land owners
at such level required to recover full O&M costs
of the project and a reasonable portion of the
project capital costs (para 5.20);
(ii) GOI would submit to the Association not less than
once every two years a report on the sample surveys
and methodology used in determining net value of
production of the project lands, which would be used
as a basis for the IPEDA rates (para 5.20).
8.02      A condition of credit effectiveness would be that consultants
acceptable to the Association had been appointed on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association (para 5.14).
8.03      With the above assurances obtained from GOI, the proposed project
is suitable for an IDA credit of US$30 million under the usual IDA terms.
The borrower would be the Republic of Indonesia.






INDONESIA
JATILUTEIR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Summary of Climatic Data
(Jakarta Observatory - Average values for the period 1865-1969)
Dry Season                                 W4et Season
Climatic Factors
Jun.   Jul.   Aug.   Sep.  Oct.   Nov.   Dec.   Jan.  Feb.   Mar.  Apr.  Ma
Solar radiation at ground level
(cal./cm2/day)                   368    396    435    46o   431    405    378    368    390    408    W40    382
Maximum temperature (aC)           30.8   30.9  31.2  34.4  32.7   30.8   30.3   29.0   28.4   30.2   30.7   31.2
Mean temperat=a (00)                26.5  26.3   26.3  26.7  26.6   26.6   26.2  25.8   25.9   26.3   26.7   26.9
Minirnum temperature (C0)           23.6  23.1  23.1  23.2  24.2  23.3   23.3   23.6   23.6   23.6   23.8  24.0
Relative humidity (%)               82      80     77     76     78     81      84     86     86     85      84     83
Prevailing wind direction           NE      NE     NE    N       N      N       W      W      NW     W       NE     NE
IWind velocity (m/sec)               1    1.1    1.2    1.2    1.1       1       1      1      1      1       1      1
Evaporation (mn/day)               1.9    2.2    2.6    2.8    2.5    2.1    1.9    1.6    1.6    1.7    1.6    1.8
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
IF >
¢.j 1



INDONESIA
JATfl LUHUR IRRIUTION EXTENSION PROJECT
Summary of Climatic Data
Long-Term Average of Rainfall at Fbur Stations
Near the Project Area
Dry Season                                 Wet Season
Stations                Jun.  Jul.   Aug.   Sep.   Oct.   Nov.   Dec.   Jan.   Feb.  Mar.  Apr.   May          Y
(1)   97    61     52     78     91      155    196    334    241    201    147    113    1760
Jakarta
(2)   7.2   6.1    4.5    5.5    7.8    12.3   14.1   18.9   17.4   15.6   11.3   9.2         -
(1)   86    72     56     90     121    185    188    346    213    218    162    140    1877
Bekasi
(2)   5.1   4.0    3.1    3.8    6.6    10.3   9.6    13.6   11.2   11.2   8.9    6.9         -
(1)   72    56     37     45      106    191    189    303    234    207    159    118    1717
Karawang
(2)   3.5   2.2    2.9    6.2    10.2   10.3   14.2   11.3   11.3   8.8    6.2    4.9         -
(1)   75    57     36     38      70     138    156    329    216    154    110    93       1472
Rengas dengklok
(2)   5.1   3.3    2.2    3.1    4.2    7.8    9.1    14.0   11.2   9.7    7.1    6.6         -
(1)  Mean monthily rainfall (mm)
(2) Mean nuwatior of rainy days



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Agriculture
General
1.        The project area is located in the Jakarta plain.  It is fairly
flat, sloping down from south to north, at 1:1,000 in the southern part and
at less than 1:5,000 near the coast in the northern part. The flat northern
part, less than 2 m elevation above MSL, is subject to frequent and occasion-
ally prolonged flooding, generally during January and February, while the
steeper southern part is subject to infrequent flooding of short duration.
The project area can be divided into four distinct agricultural zones on the
basis of topography, frequency and duration of flooding, natural drainage
efficiency and dry season water availability (Table 1 and Map IBRD 10526).
The main distinction, however, is between the very low-lying land in the
northern part of the project area and the higher southern part.
2.        Indonesia is in an equatorial region and trhere are only slight
differences in day length and temperature throughout the year. The daily
average temperature is between 250 and 27° C. The climate is tropical
with a wet season from November to May and a relatively dry season from
June to October. In Bekasi, just south of the project area, the average
annual rainfall is about 1,88C mnu, of which 1,450 mm or about 80% occurs
during the wet season. However, even in the wet season, rainfall distribu-
tion is not uniform and agricultural production would benefit greatly from
an assured water supply. Rice is the main crop and is grown over the
entire project area. The northern part has one low yield rice crop a year
in the wet season (average 1.2 ton/ha of paddy). In the southern part, where
some irrigation water from semi-technical irrigation works is available but
unreliable, two rice crops are grown, with higher yields (2.2 ton/ha oL paddy
per crop). Other major field crops, commonly called "palawidja", are maize,
soybeans, groundnuts, cassava and vegetables, which are grown in the dry
season on areas with residual soil moisture or with some additional water
supply. Yields are also generally very low (Annex 12). Overall cropping
intensity of the project area presently averages about 130%, of wnich 6%
palawidja.
Present Rice Cultivation
3.        Local rice varieties are generally of the indica type.  Some of
the local varieties belong to the "bulu" group, an awned rice that is
intermediate in its characteristics between indica and japonica. The local
unimproved varieties commonly grown are medium grain, medium to long season
types that mature in about 130 to 160 days after seedling emergence. Long
maturing (150 to 160 days) varieties account for about 60% of the rice grown



ANNEX 2
Page 2
in the project area. Some local improved varieties are also grown in the
project area. They include "Synthiag' and "Dara", medium season varieties
that mature in 140 to 150 days and "Bengawan", a long season type maturing
in 160 days.
4.        Improved, high-yielding varieties (HYV) have been developed since
1968. PB-5 is the same as IRRI 5-47-2, a cross between "Peta", an Indonesian
indica variety, and "Tangkai Rotan", a Malaysian indica variety. PB-8
(or IRRI 8-288-3) is a cross between "Peta" anl "Taichung Native 1", a Taiwan
indica variety. The breeding of these new var:.eties was carried out at IRRI.
The Indonesian identification "PB" stands for "Peta Baru" or "new Peta".
Yields of these varieties can range from 5 to 8 tons/ha paddy ("gabah").
Despite these high yields, however, these varieties were not widely accepted
because of poor taste, difficulty in harvesting in the traditional Javanese
manner (para 17), and higher sensitivity to water control with less tolerance
for deep water than traditional varieties. More recently, C4-63 has been
introduced from the Philippines, and Pelita I and II from the Central
Research Institute for Agriculture at Bogor to overcome these problems. All
these HYVs are short maturing (about 130-140 days) with high lodging
resistance, weak sensitivity to photo-periodism, and high response to
nitrogenous fertilizer application. However, they produce easy-shattering,
chalky grains and are susceptible to bacterial leaf blight.
Cropping Seasons
5.        Java has distinct wet and dry seasons, although the dry seasons
are not as pronounced as in many monsoonal regions. Differences in rainfall
are sufficiently distinct, however, to cause recognition of wet season crops
and dry season crops. The wet season crop is normally begun in seed beds
in late November through December with transplanting to the paddies in
December and January and harvesting beginning in mid-April and continuing
through mid-June. There is obviously much variation from this pattern,
for in nearly any month of the year rice may be observed in every growth stage
from seedling through maturity and harvest.
6.        Monthly production records expressed as percentages of total
harvest for West Java are given below. They indicate the harvest months to be
from mid April to mid June, representing the wet season crop, and mid September
to mid November for the dry season crop, with May and October being peak
inotichs for each season. The wet season crop accounts for the largest
pcortion of the gross production.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Month                     Percent of Harvest
January                                0
February                             0.5
March                                4.0
April                               24.0
May                                 40.0
June                                12.0
July                                 1.0
August                               1.0
September                            4.0
October                              9.0
November                             4.0
December                             0.5
Total                   100.0
Cultural Practices
7.        Seedbed (Nursery) Preparation.  For the main wet season crop,
nursery preparation starts in late November/early December in the southern
part of the project area and in late January/early February in the northern
part.  Seedling nurseries are 1/20 to 1/15 of the size of field to be
planted. They are thoroughly hoed and carefully leveled to assure a good,
uniform, fine mud seedbed. Seeds are usually pre-soaked for one to two
days to germinate and then broadcast uniformly in the nursery on the wet
soil surface. The recommended seeding rate for HYVs is 25 kg/ha. Local
varieties are seeded at a rate of about 40 kg/ha because of poorer quality
seed with lower expected germination and also because the farmers transplant
more densely and therefore require more seedlings. After about a week the
nursery is flooded.
8.        Land Preparation.  While the seedlings are developing in the
nursery, farmers prepare land for transplanting. More than 80% of the paddy
fields are plowed with animal power, mainly buffaloes. Straw and weeds
from the previous crop are cleared by hand before plowing. The waste is
usually buried, but sometimes burned. Tillage with a primitive wooden
plow is followed by harrowing once or twice and leveling before transplanting.
The land is generally prepared after rainfall or first irrigation.
9.        Transplanting.  Transplanting is about 3-4 weeks after seeding for
IYVs and 5-6 weeks for local varieties, though unreliable water supply
often delays transplanting, resulting in lower yields. In particular, in
the northern area where frequent flooding occurs during or after transplanting,
it is common for farmers to have to re-transplant in late February and
often re-transplant again later. Row transplanting is only practiced on
about 10% of the area.
10.       Fertilization.  Fertilizers are applied in the nursery before
seeding, and in the field immediately after land prepration and again            2
after first weeding. Recommended application rate is 10 grams of urea per m



ANNEX 2
Page 4
of seedbed and 200 kg of urea and 45 kg of TSP per ha in the field.
Experimental trials with potash fertilization of rice in Java have shown
little, if any, yield increase. Hence, potash fertilizers are not recom-
mended. Application has been only 10 to 40% of the recommencded dose,
and farmers have been reluctant to use more inputs because of the scarcity
of low interest credit and the danger of drought. Recently the use of
fertilizers has been increasin,; in the project area under two government-
sponsored agricultural credit programs - BIMAS and INMAS (para 22).
11.       Weeding.  Weed growth depends on the thoroughness of land prepara-
tion and the effectiveness of water management. The first weeding is
usually done two to four weeks after transplanting and the second weeding
four to eight weeks later. Weeds are usually removed by hand by women in
the standing water. Where rice is planted in rows, small home-made, hand-
pushed rotary weeders are sometimes used. Herbicides are not presently
used by Ineonesian rice farmers.
12.       Pests and Disease Control.  At present, pests are more of a threat
to the rice crop than disease. In 1971, between 15 and 30% of the crop in
the project area was damaged by insects. The most serious insect is the
rice stem borer, though the rice gall midge, army worms and rice bugs are
also problems. Control is attempted by spraying with solutions of diazinon
(2 cc of diazinon concentrate in one liter of water) on the seedlings and two
weeks after transplanting, usually by means of knapsack hand sprayer.
Grasshopers are also controlled with this chemical.
13.       Rats are a very serious pest, causing losses amounting up to 10%
to 15% of total yields, and damaging dikes. Where control is attempted,
Warfarin, zinc phosphide, and endrin baits are used. Birds are frightened
away from maturing rice by means of various devices that flutter in the
wind or are moved by pulling on a string.
14.       Brown spot (Helminthosporium spp) is the most common disease.  As
HYVs develop in the area with high dosage application of nitrogenous
fertilizers, other diseases such as rice blast and bacterial leaf blight
are becoming more common. Chemicals to protect rice plants from pests and
diseases are supplied under the BIMAS and INMAS programs (para 22), but
are not so widely used as fertilizers. They are often ineffective because
of limited dosage used by farmers and improper timing of spraying.
15.       Water Management.  Under ideal conditions with a properly designed
and functioning irrigation system, enough water is applied to the paddy to
s.t"rate the soil before plowing, hoeing and leveling. This makes plowing
easier and also results in a well-puddled soil, a condition favoring the
retention of water. After the paddy is cultivated the level of water is
broughr to a depth of about 5 cm prior to transplanting.  When the trans-
planted rice has re-established a root system and active growth, up to 10 to
14l days, the water depth is increased to 10-15 cm. When drainage is possible,
water is drained from thie paddy before the first weeding, or two to four
wqeeks after transplanting. After the weeding, the rice paddy is reflooded
to a depth of 10 to 15 cm. SimiLarly, if drainage is possible, the field



ANNEX 2
Page 5
is drained for the second weeding and reflooded two or three days after
weeding is finished. A full flood is then maintained until about two weeks
before harvesting.
16.       In the project area, existing "semi-technical" irrigation facilities
are generally very poor; water is mainly derived from rainfall or in a few
areas from old dilapidated distribution systems. It is practically
impossible for the farmers to control irrigation, there is no drainage control
at all, and the available water flows freely from one field to the next.
During the growing season there is no voluntary field drying for fertilizer
top-dressing or weeding because the inability to reflood the field will endanger
the growing crop. Some farmers do not drain their rice fields even for
harvesting because they wish to conserve water for the dry season crop.
17.       Harvesting.  Harvesting is traditionally done with a special cut-
ting knife, called "ani-ani", which enables the harvester to cut the panicles
ore-by-one. The rice crop is harvested as stalk paddy, almost entirely by
women and children. The sickle is just being introduced following the spread
of HYVs, but its use is still negligible. Some rice, particularly the
easy-shattering PB varieties, is threshed in the field, but most is done
at home.
18.       The stalk paddy is cut about 25 to 30 cm long and tied into hand-
sized bundles. These are carried from the field by women, in cloth slings
over their backs, or by men using shoulder sticks. Sometimes, a triangular
wooden rack is placed at each end of the shoulder stick on which the bundles
are stacked. Transportation along roads is commonly by bicycle and high-
wheeled carts pulled by water buffalo or bullocks. Generally, this mode of
transportation is used only by buyers for transport of rice between villages,
markets, and mills.
19.       Rice consumed at home is threshed on a dirt, brick, concrete, or
wood floor, by beating the stalk paddy with a stick. Coarse straw is
picked out manually and the chaff separated by winnowing. The paddy "gabah"
is spread out to dry on bamboo woven mats or on floors. This rice is
occasionally stirred with a rake or with the feet.  After drying, hulling
is done in small, daily quantities, by placing the "gabah" in a hollowed-
out log "lumpang" and pounding it with a heavy stick "alu".
20.       The loosened hulls are separated from the grain by winnowing
several times. The grain is then put into the "lumpang" and pounded with the "alu"
until the bran is removed, followed again by winnowing. The bran is saved
for feeding livestock and poultry, the hulls are discarded or sometimes
burned as fuel, and the straw is either used for livestock bedding, making
paper, baskets, etc., or left on the field.
?1.       Most of the rice in the home is stored as dry stalk paddy but some
is stored as rough rice in bags or bamboo containers. Rice sold may be
delivered as stalk paddy or paddy "gabah" and is usually hulled and milled
mechanically at village hullers or larger mills in the towns. Milling



ANNEX 2
Page 6
capacity is considerably in excess of present production, although many mills
are old and inefficient.
Credit
22.       Under the BIMAS program, credit is provided in kind for a recom-
mended package of inputs (fertilizers, insecticides, spraying equipment
and seeds) and a small subsistence allowance, amounting from Rp 10,000 per ha
for local variety paddy to maximum total value of Rp 14,000 per ha for
HYV. BIMAS also provides intensified extension services. Funds are pro-
vided through the People's Bank of Indonesia (Bank Rakjat Indonesia
or BRI). The credit, which carries in interest rate of 1% per month, must
be repaid after harvest. At the locail level, BIMAS is generally organized,
guaranteed and managed by the village head, who receives a management fee
from the Government. After the BIMAS program has been in operation in
an area for two or three seasons, it is replaced by INMAS, which is
essentially an agricultural extension program to encourage increased use of
innuts. Under INMAS, farmers are no longer obliged to purchase the whole
package of inputs, but may buy any amount of fertilizers and pesticides they
wish. Despite the recent expansion of these programs, coverage is still
limited; in the wet season of 1972/73, only about 16% of the project area
was under BIMAS and 30% under INMAS.



INDONBSIA
JATILUHUR LBRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Agricultural Zones
Southern Area                           Northern Area                               Pro ec t
Zone III            Zone I               Zone II              Zone IV              Area
Area (ha):  Total                 24,000               8,000                11,000                8,C00             51,CCO
Cultivable Area.     24,000               6,600                 9,6ro                6,800              7,O
Swainp area (to be
reclaimed)               0              1,300                 1,500                1,200               h.,000
Elevation (m above MSL)           Above 2            Less than 2            About 2              Above 2
Flooding                        Infrequent &         Frequent and         Frequent but         Infrequent and
short duration        prolonged         short duration         short dura,tion
Irrigation                      Sem.i-technical        Rainfed              Rainfed            Rainfed & inunda-
ticn from Cit[run2
River
Cropping Intensity (%)               143                 100                   12C                  127                131
Population DensatX
(persons per km  )           More than 5co         Less than 300          About h0             About 400






-NNEX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Project Works
1.        The project would have the following components:
(a)  Rehabilitation of flood control embankments along the
Citarum River;
(b)  Flood diversion channel connecting the Cikarang and Bekasi
Rivers directly with the sea;
(c)  Drainage works - secondary and tertiary drains;
(d)  Irrigation canal systems - secondary and tertiary
irrigation canals;
(e)  Reclamation of swamp land;
(f)  Roads:
(g)  Pilot on-farm development works; and
(h)  Buildings and other works.
The location of the major works is shown on Maps IBRD 10525 and 10526.
Rehabilitation of Citarum Embankments
2.        The Citarum River embankments were constructed some 40 years ago
hut have deteriorated badly due to rain, pedestrian and livestock traffic,
channel movement and very limited maintenance work. Some improvements
were made in 1961 after extensive overtopping and breaching. However, in
spite of the storage now provided on the Citarum by Jatiluhur dam, severe
floods on the Cibeet, Cikao and other tributaries in February 1973 which
converge in the Citarum River, caused further overtopping and breaching
with prolonged flooding of agricultural land in the project area and in
the North Tarum area.
3.        The embankments were underdesigned in many places and channel move-
ment has created numerous potential breaching locations. Some 12 km on the
left bank and 5 km on the right bank require construction of new embankments
set back from the existing channel. Embankment heightening, by an average
of 1 m, is required over 35 km on the left bank and 41 km on the right bank.
Minor heightening and rehabilitation is necessary on another 22 km.
I



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Flood Diversion Channel
4.        Much of the project area, in particular the low-lying northern
area, is subject to annual flooding from rainfall and over-bank spill from
rivers, aggravated by restricted drainage outlets to the sea.  Each year
a m:.nimum of 10,000 ha is submerged, in depths up to 1 m, for periods
ranging from a few days to many weeks.  While the Citarum is subject to
occasional overspill, overtopping on the Cikarang and Bekasi and other
smaller rivers is the major cause of annual flooding. In 1972, about 27,000
ha of cultivated land was flooded even with no spill from the Citarum.
5.        Whe existing qischarge capacity of tie Cikarang river decreases
from 100 m /sec to 15 m /sec in the 20 km embanked reach upstream of its
confluence w.th the Bekasi river. With an estimated annual peak discharge
of 200 m /sec, flooding occurs on both sides of the Cikarang each year.   3
The discharge capacity of the Bekasi river decreases similarly, from 370 a /sec
to 140 m3/sec over the 22 km reach upstream of the same confluen5e, which is
8 km from the sea. The estimated annual peak discharge of 260 m /sec causes
flooding over large areas each year. The smaller rivers of Jambe and Sadang
lose their flood discharge capacity completely in the project area. The
annual peak flow of 90 m3/sec in the Jambe and 55 m3/sec in the Sadang,
contribute significantly to flooding.
6.        Flood control is obviously essential for agricultural development.
Over the years consideration has been given to various schemes for alleviating
the flooding, including storage reservoirs on the Bekasi and Cikarang,
enlargement of river channel capacity by relocation of embankments and bed
excavation, and excavation of a major flood diversion channel through the
project area to the sea. The latter proposal offers the best long-term
solution to flooding in the area and is incorporated in the proposed project.
7.        The intake to the 26 km long flood diversion channel would
be located on the Cikarang, a short distance downstream of the existing
barrage. The first 12 km of channel would be excavated at a longitudinal
slope of 0.7 m/km, picking up the waters of the Sadang and the Jambe
rivers. On entering the plain, the channel would flatten to a slope of
0.25 n/km and continue at that gradient for 6 km to its junction with the
Bekasi river and for another 8 km directly to the sea.
8.        Preliminary design of the channel assumes a bed width ranging from
!5 m at its head to 50 m between the Bekasi and the sea. With side slopes
of 2:1 and a design water depth of 4.2 m, the basic channel capacity is
jus- above the annual flood frequency and represents the minimum design
discharge. Lateral embankments up to 2 m high would be provided about 200 m
apart, primarily to provide overbank flood flow capacity up to the 1:100 year
flood frequency, but would also allow for bank erosion in the channel. Channel
a.w  embankment design are based on optimization of construction cost with land
acquisition and compensation for flood bank crop losses. The channel would
be unlined, with the final design cross-section governed by the bed and side
slope material.



ANNNFX 3
Page  3
9.        Waste weirs would he provided at each river crossing Artid ri-r.Ap
sills constructed where necessary to maintain the desitn hed  lope., Sills
would also be provided in the existing Bekasi clhannel, tirstream of its
junction with the flood diversion channels. in view of the lower stage-
discharge relationship caused by the river's shorter outlet route to the
sea and the resultant higher flow velocities.
Drainage Works
10.       The flood diversion channel will eliminate entirely the overbank
spiLl from the major rivers flowing through the project area, up to the
flood magnitude of 1 in 100 years frequency. The field drainage works
would, therefore, be required to prevent excessive submersion of rice
crons from rainfall only.
11.       The key collector drains leading to the main outfalls are
classified as secondary drains. They would be aligned as much as possible
on existing channels, with drain sloDes generally following the natural
ground slope and wtith check structuires to control velocity as necessary.
The drains would be spaced from 1,500 m to 4,000 m apart and sized to
discharge 4 1/sec/ha, or about 80% of the peak tertiary drainage capacity.
The total length of secondary drainage would be about 300 km.
12.       The secondary drains would collect water from small drainage
channels in the tertiary irrigation units.  P;-eliminary designs, subject
to reviexw when improved mapping is available, plan tertiary units of
150 ha-200 ha. The tertiary unit drains would have a minimum capacity of
5 l/sec/ha--capable of draining a 3-day storm rainfall likely to occur once
in 10 years in a 6-day period. The drainage capacity of a typical tertiary
drain wouldl therefore range between 750 1/sec and 1,000 1/sec. An
estimated 500 km of tertiary drainage would be constructed; contour line
and slope will govern final design and quantities.
Irrigation Canal Systems
13.       Secondary irrigation canals would be designed on the basis of a
peak water duty of about 1 I/sec/ha. As 'ar as possible, existing canals
in the technical irrigation area would be enlarged and used as secondary
irrigation distributary canals taking the water from the West Tarum main
canal. Other secondaries would be directly linked to the main canal.
The bed of the Cikarang, from which headwaters would be diverted by the
flood diversion channel, would also be used as a rajor secondary irrigation
canal, with control weirs at Sukatani and Kemujing feeding tertiary canals.
About 270 km of secondary canals, with over 120 control and offtake
structures, would be constructed. All canals would be unlined, except at
road crossings, syphon, control structures, etc. About 120 km of canals
would be flanked by a 3 m inspection road, reserved for 0 & M vehicles.
14.       The tertiary distribution system would be constructed for a
maxinium unit discharge capacity of 1.65 1/sec/ha, allowing simultaneous
filling in 15 days of all rice fields in a tertiary unit. The tertiary



ANNEX 3
Page 4
of. f iz; woulc ½ge gated and water level regulators provided in the
. econdary canal.  Provis on for quaternary offtakes would be incorporate1
in thle tertiary canal- banks. About 50()0 km of tertiary canal:; would be
constructed, concurrently with the tertiary drains to economically
utllize drainage excavation for embankment fill.
r\eclamation of Swamp Land
15.       About 4,000 ha of swamps would be drained and reclaimed.  These
swanns are primarily covered with aqaatic brushwoods and rmangroves. After
chiey are drained the lands have to be cleared.  In order to dry the land and
"#ripen" the soils quickly, so that the area can be used for cultivation as
sooll as possible, more drains and sluices may have to be constructed than
in other non-swamp areas.  It is not expected that these lands would need
soil amelioration. Once dried, the land should be suitable for immediate
cultivation.
Roads
16.       At present, the West Tarum area suffers badly from very limited
access facilities. It is essentially served only by the heavily laden
iorth Trans-Java Highway wit' three spur roads leading north into the
project area at Babelan, Sukatani and alongside the Citarum west bank to
Cabangbungin. The roads are generally in poor condition and become
impassable in the wet season. Many bridges on dirt secondary and field roads
bave collapsed over the years and vehicle access to much of the project
area, in particular the large area between Bekasi and Cikarang Rivers, has
become impassible.
17.       An essential component of the project development is the provision
of an adequate internal road system to facilitate public and trade communica-
tion between the agricultural development area and the large market
-enters of Karawang, Bandung and Jakarta; to aid agricultural extension
work; and to enable efficient 0 & M of the project.
18.       The new road system would, as far as possible, be aligned along
the large irrigation or drainage canals to utilize excavated material from
canals for road embankment fill and to limit acquisition of agricultural
land. All roads, other than those restricted to 0 & M traffic (para 13),
wrould have a gravelled pavement, 3.5 m wide, with 1.5 m shoulder width on
eacli side (Indonesia - Class III feeder roads). A total of about 170 km
of thlese roads would be constructed under the project. The West Java
Prov.Incial Government through its Public Works Department would be
responisible for the satisfactory maintenance of these roads.
Pi-o- on-farm Development Works
_ _t _ _ 
19.       Provision of the proposed tertiary drainage and 4rrigation system
uader the project would be an innovation in irrigation projiect development
in Java. On the rehabilitation projects 7 t has been the practice to
-rovide only the off-take from a secondary canal and the initial 50 m of



ANNEX 3
Page 5
tertiary canal, leaving completion of the tertiary system and on-farm works
to the farmers.
20.       The intensity of agricultural development required to justify
the proposed major expenditures on flood control, drainage and irrigation
canals is such that double-cropping throughout the project area is essential
at the earliest practical date. Also the utilization of IIYV rice requires a
highler standard of water control at farm level. Tertiary unit construction
is, therefore, only the first stage in reaching full development and should
be followed by comprehensive on-farm development -- quaternary irrigation
and drainage, access, land leveling, and possibly farm boundary realignment.
21.       Such on-farm development has not taken place to date in West
Java and its fulfillment could be extremely complex in the project area with
its large number of small holdings. It is therefore proposed to develop,
under the project and at the earliest practical date, a wide range and
several levels of pilot on-farm development areas such as with or without
access roads beyond those along tertiary canals, with or without boundary
realignment, varying spacings between quaternary irrigation canal and
drains, otc. To obtain a broad perspective of the problems and potential
solutions for on-farm development in Indonesia, the pilot areas would be
located in differing types of tertiary units of projects recently rehabilitated
with the assistance of IDA credits. The pilot on-farm studies would be
administered by PROSIDA for works on the Rehab I, III and IV areas and by
the Jatiluhur Authority on Rehab II and this project area.  The project
consultants would provide assistance as required by either agency.
22.       A pilot area would comprise at least one fully equipped
tertiary unit on each sub-project in the Rehab project areas. Thus, on
the Rehab I areas, individual pilot areas would be developed on the four
individual sub-projects -- Way Seputi, Cisedane, Rentang and Glapan-Sedadi.
Similarly on Rehab III, pilot areas would be developed on tertiary units on
the Sadang, Pemali-Comal and Ciujung sub-projects; and on Rehab IV on each of
the five non-contiguous areas. On Rehab II, at least two of the pilot
areas would be tertiary units in the West Tarum technical irrigation area,
with other pilots in the North and East Tarum areas.
23.       A total pilot area of about 4,000 ha on the four Rehab projects
areas would be under study during the initial 3 years of the Jatiluhur
Extension Project 6-year construction period. These would provide practical
approaches to on-farm development which would be incorporated on about 1,000
ha comprising six completed and fully equipped tertiary units in the Project
area. By the time of completion of this extension project, sufficient data
could be available to enable optimum on-farm development throughout the
remaining 50,000 ha, and other irrigated areas in Indonesia.
Buildings and Other Works
24.       The major office, workshop and equipment requirements of the
Jatiluhur Authority for operation and ranagement of the whole Iatiluhur
pro4ect area have been provided unuaer Credit 195-IND. The proposed project



ANNEX 3
Page 6
would require iiited additional buildings for field engineering offices at
!Iaura Bakti, Sukatani and Pebajuran, workshop and six new Rural Extension
Centers for agricultural extension services.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Water Supply and Demand
Water Supply
1.        The water supply for crop production would be derived from rainfall
and from the existing West Tarum main canal, distributed through a network
of secondary and tertiary canals. Water is supplied to the West Tarum main
canal by the Curug pumping station at the Curug barrage on the Citarum
river, and by diversion barrages on the Cibeet, Cikarang and Bekasi rivers.
Regulation of water supply from the Citarum to the Curug pumping station is
provided by the Jatiluhur Dam, some 10 km upstream of the pumping station
with a live storage capacity of 2,600 Mm3. The dam incorporates a hydro-
electric power plant with an installed capacity of 118 mW. Water is
released to the river through the turbines and through two hollow jet
valves. The pondage between Jatiluhur dam and Curug barrage is large enough
to act as a re-regulation reservoir to allow the power plant to generate
peak power, if required, without affecting irrigation operation.
2.        Irrigation water supply to the project area is part of the
Jatiluhur Authority's overall water-use plan for the development area
commanded by the Jatiluhur dam and the West, North and East Tarum main
canals. The dam and main canals were designed to provide water according
to the following priority uses: (a) domestic use, including sewage
flushing of rivers and canals passing through the city of Jakarta and its
planned extension area (Jakarta Special District); (b) irrigation of a
projected net agricultural area of 236,000 ha; and (c) generation of
electric power. The priorities of water-use and the operation principles
of the Jatiluhur reservoir, as developed by the Authority and approved by
the Government, are detailed in Appendix A attL.ched to this Annex.
3.        The water supply available for the Jatiluhur Authority's
water-use plan was analyzed prior to commencement of the Second Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project (Credit 195-IND). Dependable supplies in a dry
year were developed from 19 years of observed flow data in the Citarum
river's data. The total average annual discharge of all rivers was
estimated as 12,200 million m3, with the Citarum providing 5,600 million
m3. The total available supply in a dry year (firm supply 75% of the time)
was estimated as 8,700 million m3. Recent detailed hydrologic studies
by the Consultants to the Jatiluhur Authority have confirmed the data
developed in the original study. The following table gives estimates of
mean and extreme annual water availability from the rivers based on flow
records and rainfall-runoff correlation reconstituted to cover the 49-year
period from 1919 to 1968.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Catchment              Annual Flow (million m3)
Area2              Minimum  Maximum  Average
River                               Km
Main River
Citarum                         4,600                3,380     8,850    5,650
Western Rivers
Bekasi                            412                  495       995       695
Cikarang                          293                  366       680       506
Cipamingis                        270                  370       607       475
Cibeet                            536                  643     1,055       820
Eastern Rivers
Cikao                             280                  386       630       490
Ciherang                          108                  148       282       205
Cilamaja                          231                  307       585       422
Cidienkol                         200                  240       480       348
Ciasem                            319                  405       770       555
Cigadung                          157                  202       425       296
Cipunegara                        922                  955     1,990    1,390
Overall Water Resources           8,328                7,897    17,309   11,852
4.        The water availability in a 1 in 10 dry year is estimated to be
9,000 million m3,   4,100 Mm3 from the Citarum), with a seasonal distribution
of 1,500 million m  in the dry season (June to October) and 7,500 million m3
in the wet season (November to May).  The water availability, reconstituted
on a monthly basis over the 49-year period, was utilized with the projected
water requirements in a system operation study.
Water Demand
5.        Water Supply to Jakarta and Proposed Eastward Extension.  The West
Tarum canal was constructed for the overall utilization of water resources of
rivers between Jatiluhur dam on the Citarum and the city of Jakarta. The
final reach of the canal, between Bekasi barrage and the tunnel at the
canal's end, was designed to provide a discharge capacity of 14 m3/sec.
However, at present it can only accommodate 6.5 m3/sec due to banks collapse,
siltation and vegetation growth. The canal is being rehabilitated under the
Second Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Credit 195-IND). The tunnel has
a design maximum capacity of 10.8 m3/sec and discharges into the Ciliwung river
wLich passes through Jakarta city. The Ciliwung river water is used as a
source of water supply for Jakarta and for flushing of sewage in the
riv rs and canals in the city. At present, Jakarta is provided with about
5 m /sec of water supply; 4 m3/sec come from the Pedjompongan I and II water
treatment plants which draw water from the Ciliwung river and 1 m3 sec from
groundwater and from springs near Bogor. The remaining water in the
Ciliwung river (which equals the West Tarum canal discharge passing through
the tunnel minus discharge taken by water treatment plants plus the natural
flow of the river) is used for flushing.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
6.        The two water treatment plants in Jakarta are undergoing rehabilita-
tion and expansion.3 It is anticipated that by 1975 the plants would be
able to produce 6 m /sec. Hence from the 10.8 m3/sec which could be drawn
through the tunnel, there would be about 4.8 m3/sec left to supplement the
Ciliwung river flow for flushing. The West Tarum discharge available for
flushing will eventually reduce as demand for water supply in Jakarta
increases with extension of distribution system and increasing population. 3
It is estimated that by late t980's, the maximum tunnel discharge of 10.8 m /sec
would be fully utilized for water supply. Flushing water would then have
to come entirely from the natural flows of ,he Ciliwung and Sunter rivers.
GOI recognizes this and studies for other supplementary sources of supply
are being carried out.
7.        Since after rehabilitation, the last reach of the West Tarum
canal can carry 14 m3/sec, there will still be 3.2 m3/sec (14-10.8) which
could be utilized in the Jakarta proposed eastward extension area. The
development of the eastward extension of Jakarta is estimated to require
a total water supply of 6.9 m3/sec by late 1980's. It is planned that the
remaining 3.7 m3/sec would be drawn from the existing secondary canals
which branch off from the West Tarum canal below Bekasi barrage (Map IBRD
10525). The location and capacity of future water treatment plants to
serve the Jakarta eastward extension area will, therefore, be dependent on
the design capacity of the canal system in this area, in particular the
Bekasi Tengah and Bekasi Barar canals. In finalizing the water supply
development plans, the Jakarta Special District Authority must therefore
liaise closely with the Jatiluhur Authority.
8.        Irrigation Demand.  In determining the demand for irrigation, the
modified Blaney-Criddle method was used. The effective rainfall used
varies from 90% in the dry months to 53% in the wet months, with an
annual rainfall effectiveness of about 70%. The field irrigation efficiency
was estimated to range between 60% and 80%. With a conveyance efficiency
of 80%, the overall system efficiency were ranged between 48% and 64%,
with an average of around 55%. The water requirements were determined for
the total area of 236,000 ha k,erved by the Jatiluhur dam and the main canals,
and on a monthly basis over the 49-year period from 1919 to 1968, taking
account of the reconstituted mean monthly inflows from rivers diverted into
the canals. The mean monthly irrigation water requirements from Jatiluhur
dam on completion of the whole project were found to be as follows:
Month           J   F   M   A   M   J   J   A   S   0   N   D    Year
Water Require-
ment (million
m3)            113 122 175 214 238 400 435 484 390 165 100 143   2,979
9.        Power Production.  The hydro-electric plant at Jatiluhur Dam
generates power as a by-product of water released for water supply and
irrigation. The maximum water storage level of Jatiluhur Dam is at
elevation 107 m HSL and power can be generated until the storage level falls



ANNEX 4
Page 4
to elevation 74 m MSL, i.e. a live storage for power generation of 2,000 Mm3
(at elevation 54 MSL where the hollow jet valves for adIitional irrigation
water release are located, the live storage is 2,600 Mm ). The firm monthly
energy presently available at Jatiluhur power plant is 40 million kWh, with
an annual energy production of about 600 million kWh.
~0.       The Jatiluhur power plant is presently a major source of both base
load and peak power generation for the West Java electric grid. However,
a new thermal power plant and several gas turbine units are under construc-
tion and by 1980 the role of Jatiluhur power plant in firm power generation
will have diminished, and the reservoir and power plant would be operated
primarily as a source of secondary energy. The prime aim in future
reservoir operation will be to meet first the priority demand of Jakarta
water supply and irrigation and to generate energy while fulfilling these
demands. The Government policy statement (Appendix A) confirms this
role, with the proviso that in a dry year the irrigation water requirement
can be reduced to 90% of the theoretical water demand, if necessary, in
-der to maintain the reservoir level above elevation 74 m MSL and thus
iaintain energy generation, as long as possible. The 10% allowable
1-',ciency in irrigation demand will-have negligible effect on crop yields.
Adequacy of Water Supplies
11.       A detailed system operation study was carried out by the
JaLiluhur Authority and their consultants utilizing the water supply,
irrigation and power criteria detailed in the preceding paragraphs. The
study was carried out on a monthly basis for the 49-year period with the
Jatiluhur reservoir as the key regulation facility in the system. In the
sLudy, the water requirements were met from the various rivers, draining
into the East, North and West Tarum main canals to the maximum extent
possible (generally 50% of available monthly discharge or maxiTmu capacity
of the intake structures). The reservoir was then operated to meet the
ieeds for water supply, irrigation (with allowable 10% deficit in a dry
period), and power generation, in that order. Results of the study for an
average year and a dry year are detailed below:



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Average Year (Year 23 in System Analysis)
Dry Season        Wet Season
June-October     November-April   Annual
____.________________ _mm3 ..............
Net Water Demand on Jatiluhur Reservoir
Water Supply                         192               173           365
Irrigation                         1,752             1,326         3,078
Sub-Total                        1,944             1,499         3,443
Allowable Irrigation Deficiency         61 (Aug)         -              61
Total                            1,883             1,499          3,382
Inflow to Jatiluhur                    988             4,568,1       5,556
Net Demand from Storage               +895            -3,069--  3   -2,174
Annual Surplus                                         2,174 Mm  (spilled)
Annual Energy Produced                                   600 M.kWh (approx)
One in Ten Year Dry (Year 7 in System Analysis)
Dry Season        Wet Season
June-October     November-April   Annual
_____________________    m3............. .
Net Water Demand on Jatiluhur Reservoir
Water Supply                         214                188           402
Irrigation                         2,439             1,01          3,540
Sub-Total                        2,653             1,289          3,942
Allowable Irrigation Deficiency        273 (5 mths)       11 (1 mth)   284
Total                            2,380            _1278           3_658
Inflow to Jatiluhur                    325             3,89711       4,222
Net Demand from Storage             +2,055            -2,619  -      -  564
Annual Surplus                                           564Mm   (spilled)
Annual Energy Produced                                   500 M. kWh (approx)
/1   Reservoir filling.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
Conclusions
12.       Tne operation studies led to the following conclusions:
(a) The inflows from Citarum anc other rivers together with
discharges from Jatiluhur reservoir would be adequate
to meet the water supply requirements of jakarta and its    3
eastward extension up to 17.7 n3/sec (10.8 + 6.9) or 46.5 Mm3
per month, as well as to meet the irrigatior. water demand
of the whole Jatilunur project area every year. In a dry year,
there would be an estimated deficiency in irrigation water during
the dry season of less than 5%, which is less than half the
allowable deficiency. The requirement in the wet season
would be fully met and the reservoir would be practically
filled to capacity every year.
(b) The minimum annual requirement from Jatiluhur reservoir to
meet demand for water supply of Jakarta and its eastward
extension would be about 300 Mam3 and the maximum around 450 Mm3,
with an average of 400 Km3. This means that with good
operation, the Jatiluhur reservoir could supply Jakarta
and its eastward extension with about twice as much as the
200 Mm3 the GOI has included in its policy statement (Appendix A).
(c) The practical fulfillment of the total water demand and main-
tenance of power output is, however, very dependent on effec-
tive utilization of the run-of-river supplies in the other
rivers and efficient operation of the Jatiluhur reservoir.
This would require an effective telecommunication network to
ensure rapid transmission of hydrologic data - daily rainfall
in the upper catchment and the irrigated areas, discharge
measurements and gate openings at canal gaging stations, etc.
- to a control center. Provision is made in Credit 195-IND
for the purchase and installation of the essential communica-
tion equipment.  Practical water regulation rules for
operation of the Jatiluhur water system, already developed
under the Authority's Water Management Studies, should be
implemented. With efficient water management, the annual
generation of electric power would continue to be around the
present 600 million kWh.



ANNEX 4
Appendix A
Page 1
INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Government Policy Statement on              1/
The Operation of Haji Juanda (Jatiluhur) Reservoir -
In consideration of its multi-purpose aspects and ensuring its optimum
use without neglecting and leaving its basic design criteria, a firm policy
for the operation of the Haji-Juanda (Jatiluhur) Reservoir is needed.
The primary elements which form the basis formulating its annual reservoir
operation plan are as follows:
I.   The Haji-Juanda Reservoir has been designed to provide the
additional water for:
1.   Water supply and flushing for Jakarta Special District,
with a discharge capacity of maximum 14 m3/sec and
amounting to approximately 200 million m3 of raw water
per annum;
2.   Irrigation water requirements fox approximately 240,000 ha
of rice-fields with two crops per annum;
3.   Hydro-electric power generation with an installed
capacity of 6 x 25 MW or an annual power production
output of approximately 700 million kWh.
II.   In accordance to the above mentioned design-basis and the
existing regulation in force (Algemene Water Reglement 1936),
to meet the various purposes of water uses, the reservoir
operations will be carried out duly to the following priorities:
Priority No. 1: Water supply and flushing of Jakarta Special
District;
Priority No. 2: Irrigation water requirements;
Priority No. 3: Production of electric power.
Ill.   In case of exceptionally dry years the deficiencies will not be
shared equally between the three above purposes, hence the
distribution of the various supplies will be as follows:
1/   Reproduced from the original copy, approved at the May 17, 1973 meeting
of the Ministerial Council of the Minister of State for Economy, Finance
and Industry.



ANNEX 4
Appendix A
Page 2
1.   Water supply and flushing of Jakarta Special District with
a discharge capacity of maximum 14 m3/sec and amounting to
a total of approximately 200 million m3 per annum;
2.   Delivery of 90% of the irrigation water requirements; and
3.   a)   Power production will be in accordance with the dis-
charged water reqiiired for Jakarta Special District
and irrigation, while implementing the utilization
of Curug pondage as after bay will produce an
additional power for peak load.
b)   Stopping the power production if the water level
falls below the intake of the penstocks.
IV.   Due to the fact that the total acreage of farmlands commanded
by the Haji Juanda Reservoir of approximately 240,000 ha is
not yet fully equipped with the necessary irrigation conveyance
and distribution system, the completion and the rehabilitation
of the Tarum West Main Canal which is still under way and the
installation of the No. 6 generating unit which has been
postponed until today, the expected output of the storaged
water in the reservoir will be as follows:
1.   For Jakarta Special District water supply and flushing,
the discharge capacity of maximum 14 ms/sec will be
achieved in 1975;
2.   Irrigation water supply for rice-fields in the:
wet-season           amounting to an acreage of approximately
240,000 ha;
dry-season           of approximately 200,000 ha in 1972
and increasing to approximately 240,000 ha
in 1980;
3.   Hydro-electric power generation with an annual production
of approximately:
600 million kWh - with 5 x 25 MW installed capacity today,
700 million kWh - with 6 x 25 MW installed capacity in 1977.



ANNEX 4
Appendix A
Page 3
GOVERNMENT PLAN TO MEET THE JAKARTA WATER DEMANDS
As mentioned, the Haji Juanda Reservoir will meet some of the needed
water demands of Jakarta Special District, e.g. with a maximum discharge  3
capacity of 14 m3/sec and totally amounting to approximately 200 million m
thus the other possible deficits must be supplied from other resources.
Various stucies and investigations have been undertaken by the Government
to recognize the future prospective water demands of this district, while
conjunctory proposals for the solution of its problems have been forwarded
by the Consultants engaged in those studies.
Although some potential resources have been identified e.g. rivers,
possible dam sites and reservoirs, fu'rther comprehensive studies and
investigations have to be undertaken before any decisions can be made.
I.   Water Supply
At present the Pejompongan Treatment Plants with a total
capacity of 5,000 1/sec are finished and in operation.
Together with the Ciburial (Bogor) groundwater supply
system, the total production capacity will be 5,300 1/sec.
An effort to increase the production capacity of the above
mentioned existing plants by an additional 1,000 l/sec
and the construction of a new treatment plant of 4,000 1/sec
capacity at Pulo Gadung in the eastern part of Jakarta
Special District are now in the initial implementation stage.
For all of these plants, its raw water input demands can be
supplied by the allocated supply of the Haji Juanda Reservoir.
II.   Flushing
As mentioned, the water requirement for flushing purposes
as one component of the total water demand for Jakarta
Special District was also studied in the context of a compre-
hensive water management system including its flood and
storm water disposal and its sewage and drainage system, which
could not also be separated from the city's solid waste
disposal problem.
Preliminary findings of these studies did point out that
there are various possible alternative solutions which
still require further detailed studies before any
recommendation with its complete project stages can be
finally proposed, hence the water demand for flushing
purposes is still open for discussion.



ANNEX 4
Appendix A
Page 4
GOVERNMENT PLAN TO MEET THE ELECTRIC POWER DEMAND
OF JAKARTA AiD WEST JAVA
i.   Power Demand
The power demand projections are listed as follows:
1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979 ' 1980   Yrs.
235    269!  311 '  365    434    508    596    701 ' 827' MW.
II.   Existing Condition
The installed capacity is:  Hydro power              216.4 MW
Diesel power        :   24   MW
Steam power            150   MW
Total : 390.4 MW
The total power production capacity is varying between 372 MW
during wet season and 262 MW in normal dry season. Taking into
account the largest power unit of 50 MW, a reserve power
equivalent must be deducted, so that the firm power capability
is 212 MW.
III.   Development Plan
1.   A project aid from the IDA/World Bank for the Muara
Karang steam power plant of 2 x 100 MW is negotiated
and is expected to be completed in 1977.
2.   From other countries an additonal 220 MW of gas turbine
generating units are expected to be built simultaneously
to compensate the expected power shortage during the
period of erection of that steam power project.
The gas turbine generating units will be operating as
follows:
Years   1974 .975 '976
MW    '  100d    40   80
3.   After completion of the Muara Karang project the power
capability will be 362 MW (spare unit 100 MW).
4.   The projected Saguling dam upstream of the Haji Juanda
Reservoir with an installed capacity of approximately
400 MW with a production capacity of approximately 2,250
million kWh per annum..



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Construction Schedule
1.        The project's proposed six-year engineering and construction
schedule is shown in Chart No. 7910, with the tentative location of the
four civil works contracts shown on the inset map. The topographic mapping,
essential for planning and design was completed in May 1974. The appointment
of consultants is scheduled for July 1974.
2.        The first 11 months, from July 1974, comprise mainly planning and
design activities, with award of the first major construction contract
scheduled for mid-1975. The tender and award timing of the four civil works
construction contracts will be governed by the requirements for planning
and design. To enable construction to commence in the 1975 dry-season, the
first contract will cover some 7,000 ha between the western project boundary
and the Bekasi River. This area does not raise major design or construction
problems and construction could proceed without the import of major heavy
equipment.
3.        The second contract will incorporate the major excavation works
for the flood diversion channel and the main drains and outfalls, together
with all irrigation and drainage works in an 11,500 ha area. The possible
advantages of using dredgers for excavation of the channels and outfalls
in this area will be given consideration at the design stage. Several
types of heavy construction equipment would be required for the contract.
4.        The third contract, adjacent to the Citarum river, would cover
construction of irrigation and drainage works in an area of 16,500 ha and
would include rehabilitation and improvement of the Citarum flood embank-
ments. The fourth contract is located in the southern region where some
irrigation is presently available and where much of the existing drainage
problems would be relieved by construction of the flood diversion channel
in the second contract. The contract includes irrigation and drainage
works in 16,000 ha.
5.        Each contract would include the construction of all secondary
canals and drains and the tertiary irrigation and drainage networks to
ensure utilization of water at farm level immediately following contract
completion. Road construction would also be included in the contracts,
with consideration being given at the design stage to the incorporation
of road works in any one contract area in the contract. Likewise the
construction of buildings, stores and staff houses in each contract area
will be included in the contract.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
6.        Pilot on-farm works would be constructed in existir.g irrigated
areas of Rehab I, II, III and IV projects in 1975 and 1976, and in the
project area in 1976 and 1978 on areas completed to the tertiary level,
with an assured water supply and drainage facilities.



ANNEX 6
INDONES .A
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTEVNSION PROJECT
Cost EstinimatesI/
Item                      Local  Foreign  Total        Local  Foreign  Totail
-    Rp Million ----       ---- UST Millicni ----
Civil Works
Flood Chanrnel                      930      760   1,690        2.2      1.8     4.C
Citarum Embankments                 200      110     310        0.5      0.3     0.8
Drains and Structures             2,160   1,230   3,390         5.?      3.0     8 -
Secondary Canals and Structures  1,335       995   2,330        3.2      2.4     5.0
Tertiary Drains, Canals and
Structures                      1,030      510   1,540        2.5    1.L       3.7
Reclamation of Swamps                100      70      170       0.2      0.2     0.4
Roads                              1,025     575   1,600        2.5      1.h     3.9
Office kuildings, Stores,
Houses and Rural Extension
Centers                            170     -       170        0a4      -       o °4
Sub-Total                    6,950  475   11,200          16.7    10.3    27.0
Pilot On-Farm Development               415     -        415       1.0       -      1.0
Equipment and Vehicles
Construction Equipment and                               )
Vehicles                            10      50       60)      o 1      o L     o .f
Agricultural Extension Equipment                                0 *       '  
and Vehicles                        15     115     130)
Sub-Total                        25     165     190        0.1      0.     ThT
Jatiluhur Authority
Land Acquisition                  1,620      -      1,620       3.9       -      3.9
Operation and Maintenance
during Construction                3h0     -        340       0.8       -      o.8
Agricultural Extension Services    575       -        575       1.4       -      1.4
Specialists and Training              85     185      270       0.2      0.4     o.6
Administration and Overheads         915     -        915       2.2       -       .
Sub-Total                    3,535    718    3,720          .5      0.4     o.9
Consulting Services                     355     825   1,180        0.9      2.0     2.9
Physical Contingencies                1,120     5h0   1,660        2.7      1.3     h.C'
Sub-Total Project Cost      12,400   5,965  18,365        29.9    1l,    2..
2xpected Cost Increase due to
In lation                           6,680   3,155   9,835       '6.1      ?.o .   3.
TOTAL PROJECT COST                   19,080   9,i20  28,200       46.o    22.0    68.C'
1/ Errors due to rounding.






ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Equipment List
1.        Heavy equipment, including dozers, scrapers, graders, draglines,
loaders, dumpers, rollers, trucks, concrete batching plants, and possibly
dredgers, will be required by the project civil works contractors. Costs
for such equipment are included in the various civil works items in the
project's cost estimates. They could total about $7.0 million and
provisions have been made in the tender documents and civil works contracts
for the Authority to authorize advances to appointed contractors of up to
20% of the value of his contract for the purchase of such imported construc-
tion equipment and spare parts.
2.        Vehicles and equipment for construction supervision, operation,
and extension services would be purchased under the project by the Jatiluhur
Authority. These are limited to requirements additional to the equipment
procurement under Credit 195-IND. The estimated requirements and costs are
given below:



ANNEX 7
Page 2
/a
Equipment List-
Estimated Cost
Item                                  Quantity        cif Jakarta
(US$)
(a)  Construction Supervision
Field vehicles                            10               40,000
Motorcycles                               34               27,000
Miscellaneous equipment                    -               20,000
Sub-total                                             87,000
(b)  Operation
Raingages and flow-gaging equipment                        60,000
(c)  Extension Services
(i)  Vehicles:
Field vehicles                       12               48,000
Motorcycles                         125              100,000
Bicycles                            200               10,000
Sub-total                                            158,000
(ii) Equipment:
Paddy threshers & rice hullers        6               24,000
Audio-visual aids                     6               11,000
Power tillers                        18               26,000
Soil tester kit                     250                7,000
Miscellaneous                        -                27,000
Sub-total                                             95,000
TOTAL                                           400'
/a   To be reviewed by the Jatiluhur Authority and the Consultants.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
INDONESIA
JATILUHIR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
Total                      Calendar Year
Item                        5ost            1974  197  1976  1977  1978  1979
--------- US$ Million -----------------
Land Acquisition                   3.9             0.1   0.8   1.2   0.9   0.9   -
Civil liorks                      27.0             0.2   0.8   5.0   8.3   5.9   6.8
Equipment and Vehicles             0.5             0.1   0.2   0.1   0.1   -       -
Consultants' Services              2.9             0.4   0.7   0.6   o.4   o.4   0.4
Spe^ialists and Training           0.6             -     0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.1
Pilot On-Farm Development          1.0             -     0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2
Agricultural Extension Services  1.4               -     0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3
Operation and Maintenance
during Construction              0.8             -     -     0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3
Administration & Overheads         2.2             0.1   0.2   0.4   0.5   0.5   0.5
Physical Contingencies             4.0             0.1   0.3   0.8   1.1   0.8   0.9
Sub-Total                   44.3             1.0   3.5   8.8  12.1   9.4   9.5
Expected Cost Increase due
to Inflation                   23.7             0.1   0.7   3.0   6.0   5.9   8.0
Total Project Cost          68.o             1.1   b.2?  11.8  18.1  15.3  17.5



ANT1X 8
Table 2
,TrILUTTpU  I2J.IrGATIOX.' EXTF.20,T   PRCJECIT
Eo'.me.ted Schedule of Disbursements
IL. Fiz.i ^ -.Year                           Accumulated Disbursements
O!-C Seriestcr                               US$ Millicn _Equiv¢1Ient
19 7Y
Tls+                                                0.3
2nd                                                 0.7
1976
1st                                                 1.5
,Ind                                                2 .5
1977
ls' 4                                               5.0
nrnd                                                7.5
1978
1st                                               10.5
2nd                                                114.0
1 18 7g
T t                                                 7.5
2nd                                               21.0
2.980
1St.                                              214 .0C
2(nd                                               27.0
19 1
Is 1                                               30.G



ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Training
1.        There is a shortage of trained and experienced personnel in
almost all agricultural and irrigation activitias in Indonesia. Those
trained prior to World War II are either retirel or nearing retirement and
there is a severe shortage of qualified personnel to replace them and to
staff new positions. Consequently, more than the usual amount of staff
training is provided in this project.
Irrigation Training
2.        The Ministry of Public Works and Electric Power (MPEP) operates
two institutes -- the Bandung Technical Academy (Akademi Teknik Pekerjaan
Umum and Tenaga Listrik) and the Surabaya Training Institute. Formerly,
the Academy gave only formal academic courses towards degrees in civil,
electrical and mechanical engineering and architecture but, since 1969,
at the request of the Directorate General of Water Resources Development,
it has provided three short refresher courses for irrigation sectional and
sub-sectional officers and a course for irrigation construction foremen.
The courses lasted for a period of three. months, training about 100 persons
in total.
3.        The Surabaya Institute was established in 1970 with the sole
purpose of training old and newly recruited irrigation sub-sectional
officers and gate supervisors (Pengamat). The course for new recruits
comprises three months of classroom study and nine months of actual field
work in an operating irrigation project. The course for officers who have
already been in service a few years, consists of three months classroom
study only. Each of the courses trains about 40 men.
4.        Though the Bandung Technical Academy has the capability and
facilities to give training to about 150 men per year and the Surabaya
Training Institute to about 200 men annually, the number of classes at
and admitted to both the institutions have been below these levels,
due to lack of operating funds. The costs of training at the Bandung
Academy, including instruction, overhead and board and lodging of trainees are
estimated at Rp 1,200 per trainee per day while the costs of Surabaya
Institute are about Rp 1,000. These costs do not include travel from the
trainees' hometown to the institutes.
5.        The proposed project includes funds for training about 100 Pengamat
and for awarding scholarships to 15 students taking academic courses for
a B.Sc. degree (3 years) in civil, mechanical or electrical engineering.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
These students would be obligated to work for the Authority after graduation
as provided in GOI regulations. In addition, funds have been included for
sending 15 selected officials for overseas training and study tours of
irrigation projects. The project consultants would make arrangements for the
overseas training of these officials.
6.        Under the terms of reference of the consultants to be engaged
under this project, the consultants would be required to give in service
training to Authority counterparts in planning, design and construction.
Foreign consulting firms would be encouraged to associate themselves
with Indonesian firms with a view to uplifting the capability of these
firms. Indonesian engineers and technicians would undoubtedly benefit
from these arrangements.
7.        One of the duties of the expatriate 0 & M specialist to be
directly employed by the Authority under the poject would be to train the
Authority's 0 & M staff. This specialist would be engaged for a period of
three years.
Administration and Management Training
8.        Administrative personnel to handle general administration and
management, personnel matters, budgeting, finance, accounting, stores'
inventory, bookkeeping, etc. are essential for efficient operation of
the Authority. These personnel are in short supply in Indonesia and thus
training would be provided to existing administrative personnel as well as
to the new recruits in order to strengthen their capabilities. Both the
Institute for Management Research and Education (Lembaga Penelitian &
Pendidikan Management - LPPM) and the University of Indonesia in Jakarta,
give three months training courses in administration and management,
specifically oriented for government officials and officials of semi-governmental
organizations. Under the project, funds for the training of 25 administra-
tive personnel have been provided.
Agricultural Training
9.        Training in modern agricultural practices would be provided under
the project for all agricultural officers and extension workers working at
the Kecamatan (sub district) and Desa (village) levels in the whole
Jatiluhur project area. Subjects to be covered in the training would
include: (a) characteristics of new rice varieties and some important upland
crops and modern agricultural practices for these crops; (b) irrigation
water management; (c) the use of fertilizers and pesticides; and (d) methods
and techniques of approaching, reaching and gaining cooperation of the
farmers.  The training course would last about one month and would be conducted
at the Rural Extension Centers.
10.       In addition, workshops and seminars would be organized for senior
agricultural officers and subject matter specialists, to help them gain
a better knowledge of modern agricultural techniques, crop diversification
and project management. Training courses for project supervision, evaluation
and reporting would also be given.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
11.       Training abroad, possibly in Japan where there are special courses
developed by the Government for foreign personnel, would be provided for
agriculturists, extension officers, and farmers. Fifteen agriculturists and
agricultural extension officers would be sent for periods of 3 months each,
to study and observe advanced farming methods on small farm holdings,
agricultural extension techniques and farmers' cooperatives in rural areas.
Costs for such training are included in the project.
12.       Under the project, an internationally recruited agriculture exten-
sion specialist would be employed directly by the Authority t? advise and
assist on all matters pertaining to agricultural extension service and
on-farm development in the whole Jatiluhur project area. One of his main
functions would be to advise and train Indonesian agriculturists and extension
officers. This specialist would be engaged for at least three years.






ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDONESIA
JATILURUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference of Consultants
I.   Objectives and Scope of Services
1.        The Government of Indonesia, through the Jatiluhur Authority, a
semi-autonomous agency of the Government, desires to engage the services
of a consulting firm to prepare plans, designs, specifications, tender
and contract documents; to provide construction supervision for the
Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension Project and associated works; and to assist
the Authority in formulating an on-farm development plan for the entire
Jatiluhur project area.
2.        The Jatiluhur Authority would assigf. a number of professional
and technical staff to work with the Consultait's staff, and the Consultant
would be required to provide guidance and on-the-job training to such
staff.
3.        With a view to improving the capabilities of Indonesian engineers
and engineering consulting firms, foreign consulting firms invited to sub-
mit proposals are encouraged to incorporate in their teams proposed to
be assigned to this project, a reasonable number of suitably qualified
Indonesians, or to associate themselves with Indonesian engineering con-
sulting firms.
4.        It is expected that consulting services would be required for a
six-year period covering the design and construction works, beginning from
about April/May 1974.
II. The Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension Project
5.        The proposed project would provide flood control, irrigation and
drainage facilities, swamp reclamation and improved agricultural supporting
services to farmers, growing mainly rice, in a net area of about 51,000
ha (gross area about 65,000 ha) under the cotmnd of the existing Jatiluhur
dam and West Tarum main canal, to permit increases in cropping intensity
and yield. The project area is located in the "Jakarta Plain", one of the
most important rice producing areas of Java. The area is bounded in the
east and the north by the Citarum River, on the west by fish ponds, swamp
areas adjacent to the coast and by the planned industrial and residential
areas adjacent to the eastern border of the Special District of Jakarta,
and on the south by the West Tarum main canal. The project is in Bekasi
district (kabupaten) and extends over nine sub-districts (Kecamatan) with
47 villages (Desa).



ANNEX 10
Page 2
o.        The feasibility study of the project was prepared by the former
consultant (a joint venture of Coyne et Bellier and SOGREAH, France) of the
Authority. Report of the study is attached for ready reference.
7.        The project consists of the following:
Part A: Civil Works
(a) Rehabilitation of about 115 kilometers of the existing
flood embankments on both banks of the Citarum River;
(b) Construction of a major flood diversion channel of a
length of about 26 kilometers to evacuate flood waters
from the Cikarang and Bekasi Rivers to the Java Sea
and related control structures;
(c) Construction of about 270 kilometers of secondary irriga-
tion canals and about 300 kilometers of secondary drainage
canals to serve the Extension Area,
(d) Construction of about 500 kilometers each of tertiary
irrigation and drainage networks:
(e) Reclamation of about 4,000 hectares of uninhibited swamp
land for agricultural purposes;
(f) Construction of about 170 kilometers of new feeder roads
between farms and large marketing centers in the Extension
Area; and
(g) Construction of office buildings, stores, staff housing
and six rural agricultural extension centers.
Part B: E.quipment and Vehicles
Procurement of equipment and vehicles for the supervision of
construction and agricultural extension services.
Part C: Pilot On-Farm Development
Construction of works for pilot on-farm development areas covering
akout 3,000 hectares of the areas rehabilitated under the Irrigation



ANNEX 10
Page 3
Rehabilitation I, III and IV Projects 1/ and about 1,000 hectates of areas
rehabilitated under Irrigation Rehabilitation II project and 1,000 ha of
t:is Drolect area.
Part D: Agricultural Extension Services, Training and Studies
(a) Upgrading and expansion of the agricultural extension
services in the Jatiluhur Project Area;
(b)  (i)  overseas and local training of Authority staff,
(ii) overseas and local training of agriculturalists
and agricultural extension officers, and
(iii) local training of selected farmers from the
Extension Area;
(c) Detailed survey and evaluation of the present and
projected financial situation of small farmers,
landlords and sharecroppers in the Extension Area;
(d) Studies based on Part C of the Project to determine
the degree of on-farm development and farmer
participation to be adopted in the entire Jatiluhur
Project Area and other areas of the Borrowers;
(e) Preparation of a long-term agricultxural development
program for farmers in the entire Jatiluhur Project Area;
and
(f) Cadastral mapping of the swamp lands in the Extension
Area to be drained anid reclaimed under Part A(e)
of the Project.
The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.
III. Responsibilities of the Consultant
8.        The Consultant is to be responsible for the planning, design,
preparation of tender documents and for assisting in supervising
1/   Irrigation Rehab I Project comprises rehabilitation of Rentang, Cisidane
and  Glapan-Sedadi irrigation svstems in Java and completion of a new
svstem in Way Seputih in South Sumatra.
Irrigation Rehab II Pro1t, comprises rehabilitation of existing Jatilu-
hur Irrigation Project.
Irrigation Rehab III Project comprises rehabilitation of Ciudjung and
Pemali-Comal irrigation systems in Central Java and Sadang Project in
South Sulawesi.
Irrigation Rehab IV ProjecZ co-ii?rises rehabilitation of Pekalen-Sampean
irrigation systems in East Java.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
construction works for Part A of the project; for the preparation of specific-
ations and tender documents for Part B; for the design and assistance
in supervisin£ the construction works for Part C; for providing training
stecified in Part D(b) (i), and for assisting in carrying out studies in
Part D(d) of the project. The responsibilities of the consultants are
outlined below:
A.   Engineering Services
(a) Review of all pertinent reports, data, preliminary
project planning and design for the project, in
particular the Feasibility Study dated February 1973
and the aerial photo maps completed in May 1974;
(b) Formulation of final project concept;
(c) Formulation of design criteria for all structures,
channels and canals including all necessary supporting
field and laboratory investigations;
(d) Preparation of detailed project layout, scope of
contracts, engineering and construction schedules;
(e)  Preparation of final plans, detailed designs,
specifications and tender documents, for international
competitive bidding of civil works under Part A(a) to (f)
and local bidding for Part A(g) of Section 7;
(f) Preparation of cost estimates of project works;
(g) Assistance in pre-qualification of contractors,
evaluation of bids and drafting of contract documents;
(h) Preparation of specifications of vehicles and equipment
to be procured by the Project and assistance in their
procurement:
()  Assistance in supervision of construction of all civil
works under Part A of Section 7, including certification
of monthly progress measurements for interim and final
pavments to contractors, approval of construction equip-
ment, methods and materials, and direct supervision
of all works in relation to contract specifications;
(1)  Preparation of several alternative approaches to on-
farm development: prepare design and specifications of the
pilot on-farm development areas and assist in supervising
their construction; altogether there would be about 20 pilot
areas in the Rehab I, II, III and IV project areas and
4-5 areas in this Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension Project,
each area corresponds with a tertiary unit of 150-200 ha;



ANNEX 10
Page 5
(k) Supplying data and information as will be needed by the
Authority in its preparation of O&M manual; and
(1) Provision of on-the-job training to Authority's staff and
assist in arranging the overseas training for the
Authority's staff, agriculturalists and agricultural
extension officers concerned with Jatiluhur Irrigation
Project.
B.  Reports
The Consultant shall maintain full liaison with designated officers
of the Jatiluhur Authority and regular project review meetings will be
held as determined by the Authority. In addition the Consultant shall
prepare and submit to the Authority the following documents:
(a) An Inception Report, four months after the contractual
starting date of the Consultant, presenting the con-
clusions and recommendations of the Consultant on items
(a), (b), (c), and (d) of Section 8A;
(b) Quarterly progress reports, at calendar quarters,
describing progress of works in detail and summarizing
the Consultant's staffing and activities during the
reporting period and his work program for the coming
quarter. The reports will present a summary statement
of all Consultant's certified expenditures on the project
to that period and a detailed forecast of expenditures
for the coming quarter, together with a summary forecast
for the subsequent three quarters. Each report will
incorporate updated schedules for all construction
contracts; and
(c) A final report, on completion of the Consultants con-
tractual services, incorporating a full set of "as-
constructed" drawings and identifying all aspects of the
completed project works which require specialized
operation and maintenance procedures, and detailing such
procedures.
IV.       Personnel and Services to be Provided to Consultant
9.        The following will be provided by the Authority to the Consult-
ant:
(a)  (Personnel - This sub-sectio-  is to be written by the
Authority.  The Authority will state in details the kind
and number of personnel, for instance civil engineeers,
mechanical engineers, foremen, technicians, draftsmen,
etc., it plans to provide to the Consulant, including
the number of man-months or man-years for each person.



ANNEX 10
Page 6
These personnel should be provided by the Authority
at no costs to the Consultant, or if the Consultant
is expected to pay allowances or per diems, this should
be clearly stated with the monthly amount specified
against each person or each kind of personnel);
(b) One negative and six copies of the 1:5,000 scale aerial
photo maps with contour interval of 0.50 m, covering
the project area;
(c)  All available aerial photog;aphs, maps, drawings,
data, reports and any other information pertinent to
the execution of the contract;
(d) Reasonable office equipped with necessary furniture and
utilities in the project area;
(e) All local transport facilities and equipment required
by the Consultant;
(f) Reasonable furnished family living quarters acceptable
to the Consultant;
(g) Exempt or bear the cost of, any taxes, duties, fees,
levies or other impositions imposed under its laws and
regulations or the laws and regulations in effect in its
territories or any political subdivision or agency thereof,
on the Consultant and his personnel (other than personnel
who are citizens or permanent residents of Indonesia) in
respect of:
(i) any payments made to the Consultant or to such
personnel in connection with the carrying out of
the agreed-to-services;
(ii) any equipment, materials and supplies brought into
the country for the purpose of carrying out the
services and which will subsequently be withdrawn
therefrom; and
(iii) any property brought into Indonesia by the per-
sonnel of the Consultant and his dependents for their
personal use and which will subsequently be withdrawn
therefrom upon departures of such personnel; however,
to qualify for these exemptions, shipment of such
property will have to be arranged by contract no
later than three months after the arrival of the staff
members;
(h) Facilitate prompt clearance through customs of any equipment,
material and supplies required for the services and of
the personal effects of the Consultant's personnel;



ANNEX 10
Page 7
(i)  Ensure that the Consultant's personnel and their dependents
are promptly provided with any necessary entry and exit
visas, residence permits, exchange permits and travel
documents required for their stay in the territories of
the Government; and
(j)  Issue all necessary permits and authorizations for the
carrying out of the services.
V.   Necessary Procedure to be Followed by Invited Consulting Firms
10.       Invited consulting 'irms are requested to submit their proposals
addressed to                            ,                                    X
(name)                      (address)
The proposals must reach                                not later than
(name above)
(date and time)
11.       The proposals should state clearly the following:
(a) Terms and conditions under which they would carry out
the duties and responsibilities specified above; financial
terms are not desired at this stage;
(b) The proposed composition of the team (with names and
qualifications) which they intend to assign to the
project both in the field and at the home office, number
of man-months of each individual, for both expatriate
and Indonesian personnel. The Consultant would be expected
to incorporate in his team the reasonable number of suitably
qualified staff recruited in Indonesia, or provided to them
through association with an Indonesian consulting engineering
firm. The Consultant is also encouraged to sub-contract
such works as sub-soil investigations, material testings,
hydraulic model tasts, etc. to suitably qualified Indonesian
Institutes or firms, approved by the Authority; and
(c) A list of vehicles and equipment which they anticipate
would be required in the carrying out of their works.






ANNEX 10
Appendix A
Page 1
INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference of Agricultural Extension Specialist
Post Title           Agricultural Extension Specialist
Employer             Government of Indonesia
Duty Statioi   :    Purwakarta/Curug, West Java, Indonesia
Date Required        April, 1975
Duration             Three years
Duties               To work with Jatiluhur Authority, Ministry of Agri-
culture and West Java Provincial Government in improv-
ing the agricultu-al extension services in the entire
Jatiluhur irrigat:-on project area (236,000 ha). The
expert will have the following duties:
1)   to advise and assist in the development of
agricultural extension program;
2)   to advise and assist in drawing up the programs
for upgrading and expansion of extension
services, including the Rural Extension Centers,
for meeting the overall program in (1) above,
and to assist in their implementation;
3)   to advise and assist in drawing up the plan and
program for coordination and integration of various
extension activities for field crop production,
fisheries, forestry, animal husbandry and plantation
crops at provincial, Kabupatan, Kacamatan and
village levels and to assist in the implementation
of such plan and program;
4) to advise and assist in preparing a training
program and to give training for upgrading the
capabilities of the agriculttural extension
officers and workers, including the training
in water management techniques;
5)   to advise and assist on the efficient dissemination
of research results to the farmers;



ANNEX 1 0
Appendix A
Page 2
6)   to advise and assist on the diversification of
crops; and
7)   to advise and assist on all other matters related to
agricultural extension services in the entire project
area.
Qualifications       The specialist should have experience at responsible
level in the setting up of agricultural extension
organization. At least 10 years experience in agri-
cultural development of which at least five years
should be in extension work, in particular in program
development. Experiences in working in developing
countries is considered advantageous.
Language             English essential.  Working knowledge of Indonesian
is considered an asset.



ANNEX 10
Appendix A
Page 3
INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference of Operation and Maintenance Engineer
Post Title     :    Operation and Maintenance Engineer
Employer             Government of Indonesia
Duty Station   :    Jatiluhur Dam, Purwakarta, Indonesia
Date Required        April, 1975
Duration       :    Three years
Duties               To assist the Jatiluhur Authority in the operation and
maintenance of its irrigation project comprising a net
area of about 237,000 ha in the province of West Java.
The expert will have the following duties:
1) to assist the Authority in establishing efficient
operation and maintenance organization;
2) to prepare manuals and rules for the efficient
operation and maintenance of structures, embank-
ments, canals and the irrigation and drainage
systems of the entire Jatiluhur project;
3) to supervise and train the Authority staff in the
operation and maintenance of the project; and
4) to advise and assist the Authority in all other
activities related to operation and maintenance
of its project.
Qualifications :    An operation and maintenance engineer with extensive
experience in managing the operation and maintenance
of large gravity irrigation and drainage systems.
Experience in teaching and conducting field training
on this subject is advantageous. Experience in working
in developing countries is considered essential.
Language             English.






ANNEX 11
Page 1
INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance
Organization
1.        Operation and maintenance (O&M) of existing irrigation works in
the Jatiluhur project area is currently the responsibility of a section
within the Irrigation Department, with much of the even routine decision
making falling on the Director of Irrigation. Lack of funds for O&M in the
past has limited the formation of an adequate organization.
2.        Under Credit 195-IND funds to equip an adequate O&M organization
have been provided and the Authority and their consultant are evolving an
organizational structure, and the budget requirements, which would effi-
ciently operate and maintain the major structures and canals in the whole
Jatiluhur project area.
3.        The proposed organization, still under consideration by the
Authority, is shown on Chart No. 7851. It calls for the establishment
within the Irrigation Department of a Division, to be headed by a Deputy
Director, with full responsibility for O&M. The Jatiluhur project area
would be sub-divided into four districts, each headed by a District Engineer.
The project area would be in the West District, with headquarters at Cikarang.
The O&M Division headquarters would be at Curug, the control center for
watebr distribution to all the Jatiluhur project area's main canals.
4.        O&M district organizations would have separate operation and
maintenance sections. The operations section for the project area would
comprise a middle grade engineer reporting to the District Engineer, four
technicians (water masters or 'pengamat') each in charge of a sub-area and
about 40 water distributors or 'juru', who are in charge of the allocation
of irrigation water to farmers' fields from tertiary canals. The main-
tenance section would comprise a middle grade engineer, two inspectors and two
maintenance teams equipped to undertake normal maintenance and repair work
on gates, structures and embankments.
5.        The Authority's consultant for the Credit 195-IND has prepared
a report proposing the O&M organization and a draft O&M manual for the
Jatiluhur Irrigation Rehabilitation project area. These draft report and
manual have to he reviewed and expanded to include the proposed extension
project area. Provision is therefore made in the project cost estimates
for the Authority to obtain the services of a specialist O&M engineer for
a period of three years to assist in this zask, and more importantly to
assist in the implementation of the O&M organization and O&M activities
as well as to train the Authority's staff.



AUNEX 11
Page 2
6.        O&M of works within the tertiary units would be the responsibility
of farmers, organized into 'Water User Associations' for each unit (150-200
.a).  Each association would be resporsible for establishing rotational
sc;:edule and for the distribution of water to the farmers' fields according
:3 cae amount available and the timing agreed among members. It would also
De responsible for organizing the repair and maintenance work within the
units. Each association would elect or appoint )ne Juru to carry out and
oversee these activities under the Association's direction.
Cost of 2erat ion and _
7.        The estimated costs of operating and maintaining all facilities
for which the Authority would be responsible are shown in Table 1 attached.
These costs exclude road maintenance which would be the responsibility of
the Provincial Government and is estimated to cost Rp 150,0001km, equivalent
to Rp 500/ha for the roads in the project area.



ANNEX 11
Table 1
INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Cost of Operation and Maintenance /a
Annual Cost
(Rp Million)
Salaries and Wages                                            120
Plant fleet (depreciation, spares, fuel)                      200
Materials (cement, reinforcement, etc.)                       220
Office expenses                                               100
O&M of Jatiluhur Dam (portion of irrigation)                  120
Total                                                 Rp 760 million
or Rp 3,200 per ha
US$1.83 million
or US$7.7 per ha
/a   For the whole Jatlluhur project area of 237,000 ha.






ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Yields and Production cf Crops
Present Cropping Patterns, Yields and Production
1.        The project area may be divided into four agricultural zones
depending on topography, degree of flooding and availability of dry season
irrigation (Annex 2, Table 1 and Map No. IBRD 10526). The basic distinction,
however, is between the higher southern part of the area and the low, flat
northern part which is more susceptible to flooding.
2.        At present, rice is the dominant crop, while field crops cover
about 6% of the area during the dry season, mostly in the south. Overall
cropping intensity is about 130%. During the wet season (November-April),
100% of the cultivable area is under paddy cultivation. In the southern
part, where semi-technical irrigation is available, HYVs account for about
two-thirds and local varieties, one-third of the area. Yields are low,
averaging 1.8 tons/ha, due to the unreliability of irrigation, limited use
of inputs, shortage of credit facilities and low level of extension services
(Annex 2). In the northern part of the project area, wet season paddy yields
are much lower, averaging 1.2 tons/ha, because of frequent flooding in
addition to the other problems. Total wet season paddy production is about
72,000 tons (Table 1). Net return to the project area is about Rp 4,100
million, not accounting for labor costs (Table 3).
3.        In the dry season (May-October) 35% of the southern part of the
project area is sown to paddy, over 80% of which is HYV and less than 20%
local varieties. Yields are low, averaging 2.0 tons/ha. In the northern
part, dry season paddy, all local varieties, covers some 15% of the area.
Yields average 1.3 tons/ha (Table 1). Some field crops, mainly maize,
soybean, groundnut and vegetables, are also grown during the dry season
on residual moisture. These crops presently cover about 8% of the land in
the southern part and 3% in the northern part of the project area. Yields
are low, averaging about 2.0 tons/ha for maize, 1.0 ton/ha for soybean and
groundnut, and 10.0 tons/ha for vegetables (Table 2). Present dry season
paddy production is about 21,000 tons (Table 1), and field crop production
is about 6,800 tons (Table 2). The net return to the project area in the
dry season is about Rp 1,400 million, not accounting for labor costs (Table 3).
Future Cropping Pattern, Yields and Production
5.        In the future without the project, zonal features would remain
the same as at present. The southern part of the area would have unreliable
semi-technical irrigation with infrequenC flooding while the northern part



ANNEX 12
Page 2
would remain under rainfed conditions and continue to experience frequent
and prolonged flooding. Some improvements would be expected in the avail-
ability of credit and use of inputs. Under these conditions, the cultivable
area and area sown to various crops is projected to remain the same as at
present, while yields are projected to increase at 1% per year. Annual
production from the whole project area would be about 111,000 tons of paddy
and 8,000 tons of field crops (Tables 1 and 2), while net return to the
project area would be about Rp 6,400 million, not accounting for labor costs
(Table 4).
6.        In the future with the project, flood protection and year-round
irrigation would be provided for the entire project area. Although basic
topographic differences between the higher southern part and low, flat
northern part of the area would persist, zonal differences and the problem
of flooding in the north would largely disappear. In addition, about 4,000
ha of present swamp land in the north would be reclaimed and transformed
into good agricultural land, increasing the overall cultivable area from
47,000 ha to 51,000 ha at full project development.
7.        Cropping patterns would remain much the same as at present.  Rice
would continue to be the dominant crop, though HYVs would replace most local
varieties. Field crops would cover about 15% of the area in the dry season,
and overall cropping intensity would increase from 130% to about 195%.
Improved on-farm development works, expanded agricultural supporting services
and the increased availability and use of inputs, along with flood protection
and irrigation would lead to much improved yields.
8.        During the wet seascn, 100% of the project area would be sown to
paddy. In the southern part, 85% would be HYVs while in the north, new
varieties would account for 70% of the area. Average yields are expected
to range from 3.8 to 4.4 tons/ha for HYVs and from 2.8 to 3.1 tons/ha for
local varieties in the northern and southern parts, respectively. Total
wet season paddy production would be about 195,000 tons, with net value
of about Rp 10,800 million, not accounting for labor costs (Tables 1 and 5).
9.        In the dry season, paddy cultivation would cover 83% of the southern
part of the project area. 80% of the crop would be HYVs with yields averaging
4.7 tons/ha. Average yields on local varieties would be around 3.5 tons/ha.
75% of the northern part of the area would be under paddy, 70% of which
would be HYVs with average yield of 4.2 tons/ha while 30% would be local
varieties with average yield of 3.2 tons/ha. Total dry season paddy pro-
duction would be about 170,000 tons (Table 1). In addition, 8,500 ha or
more than 15% of the whole project area would be under field crops in the
drv season, with production estimated about 35,000 tons annually (Table 2).
Net return from the project area would be about Rp 10,000 million in the
dry season, not accounting for labor costs (Table 5).



ANNEX 12
Page 3
Rate of Development
10.       The GOI is expanding the BIMAS and INMAS programs to provide credit
and inputs in the project area (Annex 2) and is already implementing a
program, which the project would complement, to improve extension services
(para 5.10-5.11). It is therefore expected that the continued spread of
new rice varieties and improvement in farm management techniques would be
rapid, once irrigation water is available and on-farm development works
are constructed.
11.       Project works, down to and including the tertiary irrigation and
drainage networks, would be completed in six years. The corresponding
irrigated area would increase gradually at first, reaching the total project
area of 51,000 ha by 1980 (Table 6). Construction of on-farm development
works would begin after the results of the pilot development area studies
become available by December 31, 1977 (para 5.08), on areas which are
served by tertiary networks. It is estimated that these works would be
completed at a rate of about 8,500 ha per year, and that on-farm development
works would all be completed by the end of 1983 (Table 6). Because inputs
and extension services would be made available concurrently with the progress
of project and on-farm development works, it is expected that small farm
owners and tenants who rent land from the Forestry Department or from village
adiinistration would achieve full development yields as soon as they complete
on-farm development works, or within four years of the availability of
assured irrigation water supply. Because sharecroppers generally have less
incentive to modernize cultural practices, it is assumed that their ultimate
yields would be slightly lower than those of owners and tenants, and that it
would take them an additional five years to achieve these yields. Full
project development would therefore occur in year 15, or 1988 (Table 6).






INDONESIA
JATILUHIIR IRRIGATION EXT___SION PROJECT
Yields and Production of Paddy
Present                  Without Project                 With Project
Area   Yield   Production    Area   Yield  Procduction    Area   Yield   Production
(ha)   (t/ha)    on '000)) 7          -t(h/a) (ton '000     (ha)   7t7h)  (ton '0007
1/
Southern Area
Wet Season:  Local Varieties    7,000   1.5         10.5       7,000   1.7        12.2        4,000   3.1         12.4
HYV               17,000   2.0        33.8      17,000   2.5        41.7       20,000   4.4         88,0
Dry Season:  Local Varieties    1,400   1.5          2.1       1,400   1.7         2.4       4,000   3.5          1400
HYV                7,_000   2.2       15.1       7,000   2          17.7      i36 002   4.7         75.2
Sub-total or Average            32,400   1.9        61.5      32,1400   2.3       74.0       44,000   4.3        189.6
Northern hrea i
Wet Season: Local Varieties   23,000   1.2          27.6      23,000   1.4        3?.2        8,000   2.8         22.4
HYV                    0    -            0            0    -            0      19,000   3.8         72.2
Dry Season:  Local Varieties    3,s200   1.3         4.3       3,200   1.6         5.1        6,000   3.2         19.4
HYV                    O                 O            O o    -          0      14,100   4.2         59.7
Sub-total or Average            26,200   1.2        31.9      26,200   1.4        37.3       47,100   3.7        173.7
Total
Wet Season:  Local Varieties   30,000   1.3         38.1      30,000   1.5        44.4       12,000   2.9         34.8
HYV'              17,000   2.0        33.8      17,000   2.4        41.3       39,000   4.1        160.2
Dry Season:  Local Varieties    4,600   1.4          6.4       4,600   1.6         7.4       1CI000   3.3         33.4
YfV                7,000   2.2        15.1       7,000   2 5        17.6      i30i10    4.5        134.9
Total or Average 2/             58,600   1.6       93.4       58,600   1.9       110.7       91,100   4.0        363.3
1/  Southern Area:  Zone III; Northern Area:  Zones I, II & IV (reference IBRD Map N.o. 1C(,52).
2/ Discrepancy in average yields is due to rounding.



TNDONE SEA
JATMiJUHUR IRRIGATTON EXTENSION PROJECT
Yield        Produc        of Fie   Crops
Present                  Without Project                With ProJect
Zone        Area   Yield   Production   Area   Yield   Procluetion   Area   Yield   Pr-oduetion
7iha    7i;Y     (ton)       Tha    Wtha)    (ton)         T&7    (t/ha)  riitFn
Maize      - Southen Area ,/1o000    2.0        2,000       1,000    2.3      2,300      3,000    2.8       8,500
- Northern Area 1/ 500    2.0    1,000            500    2.3      1,200      1,800    _          h,600
Sub-total or Average   1,500    2.0       3,000      1,500    2.3      3,500       4,800    2.7      13,100
Soybea  21_- Southern Area      850    1.0        850         850    1.2      1,000      1,000    1.5       1,500
- Northern Area     400    1.0        400         400    1.2        500       1,300    1.5       2,000
Sub-total or Average   1,250    1.0       1,250      1,250    1.2      1,500       2,300    1.5       3,500
Ve s - Southern Area            150   10.0      1,500         150   11.7     1,800         900   15.0      13,0C0
- Northern Area      100   10.0     1,000         100   11.7      1,200    5° O   10.0             2000
Sub-total or Average      250   10.0      2,500        250   11.7      3s0oo       1,400   13.0    1T,
TOTAL             3,000             6,750       3,000             8,000      8,500             34,60C
1/  Southern Area:  Zone IV; Northern Area:  Zones I, II & IV (reference Map IBRD 10526).
2/ Including groundnuts.



INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Value of Production From The Project Area At Present
Avg        FarmGate    Gross Value Production  Net Value        Net Return
Crop                           Area         Yield          Price          of       Costs 1/       of             from
Production              Production 2/ Project Area
Th7a  (ton/ha) --TR--                               (/ha) ---( millions)
Local Paddy
Wet Season                 30,000         1.3         66,000        85,800       13,025      72,775          2,183.2
Dry Season                  4,600         1.4         66,000        92,400       13,325      79,075            363.7
HYV Paddy
Wet Season                 17,000         2.0         66,000       132,000       19,000    113,000           1,921.0
Dry Season                  7,000         2.2         66,000       145,200       19,600    125,600             879.2
Maize                          1,500         2.0          20,000       40,000       10,500      29,5G0             4.2
Soybean                        1,250         1.0         55,000        55,000       14L,500     40,500             50.6
Vegetables                       250        10.0          17,500      175,000       63,000    112,000              28.0
Total                    61,600                                                                           5,1469.9
Cropping Intensity I/    130%
1/  From Annex ll, Table 1.  Excludes the cost of labor.
2/  W;ithout oG!,L'ii&g for labor costs.                                                                                   X
3/  Paned on p net. lrrigable area of 47,000 hp.



INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Value of Production From The Project Area in Future Without Pro ect
Avg         FarmGate    Gross Value Production  Net Value          Net Return
21rp                        Area         Yield          Price           of       Gosts 1/       of               from
Production             Production 2/   Project Area
(h-a   (ton/ha)   (Rp/ton) --(--- ha                              --    T0/T1iT7s)-- o -
Local Pg
Wet Season                   30,000         1.5          66,000        99,000       13,750       85,250          2,557.5
Dry Season                    )4,600        1.6          66,000       105,6oo       14,050       91,550            421.1
HYV P5day
Wet Season                   17,000         2.4          66,000       158,h00       23,750      134,600          2,289.0
Dry Season                    7,000         2.5          66,000       165,000       2)4350      140,650            984.6
Maize                            1,500         2.3          20,f000       46,ooo       12,000        3h,0oo            51.0
Soybean                          1,250         1.2          55,000        66,000       17,400        48.,6CO           60.8
Vegetables                         250        11.7          17,500       204,750       74,000      130,750            . 32.7
Total                      61,600                                                                             6,396.7
Cropping Intensity 3/       130%
1/  From Annex 1ih, Table 1.  Excludes the cost of labor.                                                                        x
2/  Without accounting for labor costs.
3/ Based on a net. irrigable area of 47,000 ha.



INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Value of Production From The Pro,ject Area At Full Development
Avg        FarmGate    Gross Value Production  Net Value          Net Return
Crop                      Area         Yield         Price          of        Costs 1/       of              from
Production             Production 2/   Project Area
(ha)      (ton/ha)          T      -(Rp/ha)7  -                   -     --   (Rp millions)
Loc,a.lPaddy
Wet Season                 12,000         2.9          66,ooo      191,400       22,725      168,675         2,024.1
Dry Season                 10,000         3.3          66,000      217,800       23,925      193,875         1,938.8
HYV Paddw9106                                                           7,6o25,0                                 3o
Wet Season                 39,100         4.1          66,000      270,600       45,500      225,100         8,8o1.4
Dry Season                 30,100         4.5          66,000      297,000       46,700      250,300         7,534.0
Maize                          4,800         2.7          20,000        541,000     14,700       39,300           188.6
Soybean                        2,300         1.5          55,000        82,500      21,800       60,700           139.6
Vegetables                     1,400        13.0          17,500      227,500       95,000      132,500
Total                    99,600                                                                           20,811.7
Cropping Intensity 3/    195%
a- -0
1/  From Annex 14, Table 1.  Excludes the cost of labor.                                                                   w m
2/  Without accounting for labor costs.
3/  Based on a net irrigable area of 51,000 ha.



INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Summary of Cropping Pattern and Production
Cropped Area  Production                  Net Return from
C_ __ed Area                 Productionthe Project Area
Present     Future           Present     Future           Present      Future
------- ha                   ---- 'Om tons ----           --- Rp million ---
Wet Season
Local Paddy                30,000      12,000             38.1       34.8            2,183.2      2,023.8
HYV Paddy                  17,000      39,000             33.8      160.2            142L1.0      8,801.4
Sub-total               47,000      51,000             71.9      195.0           4,104.2    10,825.2
Dry Season
Local Paddy                 4,600      10,000              6.4       33.4              363.7     1,938.8
HYV Paddy                   7,000      30,100             15.1      134.9              879.2     7,534.0
Maize                       1,500       4,800              3.0       13.1               44.2        188.6
Soybean                     1,250       2,300              1.2        3.5               50.6       139.6
Vegetables                    250       1 ,400             2.5       18.0               28.0       185.5
Sub-total               14,600      48,600             28.2      202.9           1,365.7      9,986.5
Total                         61,600      99,600            100.1      397.9            5,469.9    20,811.7
1/ From Tables 1 and 2.
2/ From Tables 3, 4 and 5, without accounting for labor costs.



ANNEX 12
Table 7
INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Rate of Implementation
Incremental NVP as
Total Irrigated      On-Farm Development       % of Full Project
Year       Area (ha)         Works Completed (ha)         Development NVP
1974             0                       0                       0
1975             0                      0                        0
1976         1,800                      0                        1
1977         9,300                      0                        8
1978        23,800                  8,500                       24
1979        36,500                 17,000                       46
1980        51,000                 25,500                       74
1981        51,000                 34,000                       80
1982        51,000                 42,500                       86
1983        51,000                 51,000                       90
1984        51,000                 51,000                       94
1985        51,000                 51,000                       96
1986        51,000                 51,000                       98
1987        51,000                 51,000                       99
1988-
2023        51,000                 51,000                      100






ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Marketing and Prices
Marketing Structure
1.        Farmers sell their marketable surpluses mostly as stalk paddy 1/
to village middlemen who supply the rice mills. With the spread of small
hullers, farmers are increasingly marketing rice themselves. A considerable
amount of paddy is marketed immediately after harvest to pay debts and it is
quite usual that the small farmers have to buy back their requirements on
credit later in the season.
2.        Farmers usually keep dry stalk paddy in the house for home con-
sumption and for some later sale to meet cash needs. A few large farmers
have small outside storages built of wooden frame and floor with bamboo
sidings. Some villages have communal storages built in the same way. Rice
mills and hullers usually have storage capacity and almost all have sun-drying
floors. At present, there are 16 large mills and over 240 hullers in
and around the project area, most of which operate at about half of their
capacity or less. Nearly all large mills have added mechanical dryers in
recent years. Most mills are privately owned and have ready access to
sources of capital in Jakarta, Bekasi and other towns in the project area.
It is therefore reasonable to expect that the private sector would expand
the milling and drying facilities in the area as production increases.
3.        The marketing structure for field crops, such as maize, soybeans
and groundnuts, is less developed because of their limited production at
present. With the project, a five-fold increase in field crop and vegetable
production is projected. However, it is expected that expansion of the
population in the Jakarta and Bekasi areas would absorb the increased
production and that existing marketing channels would easily adjust to
handle it.
Price Structure
4.        Price fluctuations, caused L.y the uneven seasonal supply of rice
and relatively even demand throughout the year on the one hand, and wide
price differences between anc within different regions of the country on
the other, have been a major government concern. Since 1968, GOI has
I/   Stalk paddy, or "padi kering," consis-s of the heads of rice cut off by
hand, with about 15 cm oC the stalk left attached, so that the paddy
can be tied in bundles. StaLk paddy, when dry, contains about 52%
milled rice by weight.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
operated a rice price stabilization program through BULOG, which is the
government agency responsible for most of the storage and movement of
rice over long distances, and for maintaining the price floor and ceiling
by buying and selling rice at the appropriate times and places. In 1968,
the first year of the program, the average annual retail price for milled
rice varied from a low of Rp 26 per kg in Southeast Sulawesi to a high of
Rp 63 in Jakarta. By 1970, the average annual price range between provinces
had been narrowed to betweer. Rp 40 and Rp 55, and the price held fairly
stable at around Rp 45 per kg in Jakarta, except for January and February,
when it was Rp 58.
5.        The estimated future farm-gate price for paddy used in the economic
analysis was derived from the Bank's forecast for the world market price of
milled rice in 1985 in terms of 1974 constant prices. In converting to
a farm-gate equivalent price, it has been assumed that about 10% of rice
production from the project would be milled into high grade (5% broken),
60% into medium grade (20% broken) and 30% into lower grade (42% broken),
so that the equivalent average world market price would be US$225 per ton of
milled rice cif Jakarta. After making allowance for transport and handling
charges, the equivalent farm-gate price of paddy would be about Rp 66 per kg.
A somewhat lower price (Rp 55 per kg) was used in the farm budget analysis
to reflect marketing imperfections under which farmers are often forced to
sell their produce at low prices at or even before harvest time in order
to pay back their loans for inputs and other obligations.
1985 Price
Structure for Rice
-----(Rp/ton) ----
Export price, fob Bangkok                                 93,375 /a
Ocean freight                                              8,300
Jakarta port handling charges and
transport to Bekasi                                     4,500
Wholesale price of rice, Bekasi                          106,175
Paddy equivalent price, Bekasi /b                         69,000
Milling costs /c                                        2,000
Handling and transport costs from farm to mill          1,000
Farm-gate price of paddy                                  66,000
/a   Weighted average price in 1974 currency values, assuming 10% of milled
rice to be higher grade (5% broken) at US$270 per ton; 60% medium grade
(20% broken) at US$210 per ton; and 30% lower grade (42% broken) at
US$175 per ton. The weighted average is US$205 per ton fob Bangkok, or
US$225 per ton cif Jakarta, assuming US$20 per ton ocean freight.
/b   One ton paddy - 0.65 ton rice.
/c   Additional to the value of by-products to cover part of the milling costs.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
6.        The prevailing farm-gate price for maize (Rp 20 per kg) is somewhat
low in relation to the Bank's world market price forecast for 1985, while the
price of soybeans (Rp 55 per kg) is somewhat higher. However, as returns
from maize and soybean production are very small relative to total project
benefits, no attempt has been made to adjust these prices in the economic
analysis. In the case of vegetables, a weighted average price of Rp 17.5 per
kg was used in the economic analysis.






ANNEX 14
Page 1
IN DONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Crop and Farm Budgets
General
1.        Annex 2 describes agricultural practices in the project area while
Annex 12 shows present and projected future cropping patterns, yields and
production. This annex presents crop production costs, labor requirements,
crop budgets and farm budgets for typical farms.
Production Costs
2.        Crop production costs for each crop are presented in Table 1.
Current production costs are based on the project feasibility report and
personal interviews conducted during appraisal in the project area. Some
improvements in farming practices are assumed for future "without project"
conditions. The level of inputs for "future with project" conditions is
based on the package of inputs recommended by BIMAS, and results from
experimental stations in West Java, including one in the project area.
Prices of fertilizers and agro-chemicals used in economic analysis are
based on world market prices, whereas GOI subsidy prices are used in the
farm budget analysis (para 6(b)(iii)).
Labor Requirements
3.        Total labor requirements for each crop are presented in Table 1, and
include both family and hired labor; no distinction between the two is made.
Monthly labor requirements by crop are presented in Table 2. It is estimated
that 80% of land preparation is performed by buffaloes, and 20% by manual
labor. Detailed farm labor analysis is presented in Annex 15.
Crop Budgets
4.        Crop budgets based on economic prices for cash inputs, as used in
the economic analysis, are presented in Table 3.
Farm Budgets
5.        Separate farm models liave been prepared for the northern and southern
parts of the project area. In the northern part, where rainfed paddy cultivation
predominates, the average farm size is 1.9 ha. In the southern area, which has
a rudimentary irrigation system, the average farm size is 1.1 ha.



ANNEX '4
Page 2
6.        Crops other than rice are of minor importance in the project area,
and therefore only rice production has been considered in the farm budget
analysis. To show representative farm budge!ts, seven basic farm models have
been analyzed under two different condition.;: "Present" and "Future with
Project" at full development. Details of farm production costs are presented
in Table 4, and the farm budgets appear in Table 5. Assumptions and definitions
used in the analysis are explained below:
(a)  Gross Value of Production.  The gross value of production
is valued at Rp 55 per kg of paddy, 83% of the projected
1985 farm-gate price expressed in 1974 currency values.
This reduction has been made to reflect various imperfections
in the marketing system which usually result in the farmer
receiving a somewhat lower return than the prevailing
market price (Annex 13).
(b) Production Costs
(i) Land Preparation. Throughout much of the project area,
but especially on medium size farms, land preparation is
customarily carried out by rented buffaloes. The rate
of buffalo rental, including the driver's wage, is
Rp 6,500 per ha for full land preparation. At present,
farmers with 0.5 ha or less do not hire buffaloes for land
preparation.  It is assumed that buffaloes would replace
manual labor :.n land preparation on most of these farms
at full development. On the larger farms (2.5 ha), which
usually own some buffaloes, an annual charge of Rp 14,600
has been included to cover the cost of draft animals.
(ii)  Hired Labor.  Labor availability on the farm has been
estimated to be between 50 and 60 man-days per month
(for details see Annex 15). In addition to land prepara-
tion, hired labor is usually engaged during transplanting
and harvesting on most farms and throughout the year on
the larger farms. Much of the hired labor represents
an exchange between neighboring farms. For the purpose
of this analysis, only the cost of hired labor (and
likewise off-farm income as described in para 9) above
and beyond that exchanged with neighboring farmers is
accounted for. The cost of hired labor in the farm
budgets was taken as Rp 120 per day for all activities
except for harvesting, when payment is made in paddy and
amounts to one-fifthl of the quantity harvested. The cost
of hired labor used in ti-he different farm models is pre-
sented in Table 4.
(iii) Farm Inputs. These include seed, fertilizer and agro-
chemicals. For the tradizional rice varieties, the



ANNEX 14
Page 3
seeding rate is 40 kg/ha and for HYV, 25 kg/ha. The cost
of seed is estimated at the farm-gate price of paddy
actually received by farmers (Rp 55 per kg) for traditional
varieties and Rp 90 per kg for HYV. There is little use
of cash inputs in the production of local rice varieties.
For the cultivation of HYV, the BIMAS recommended application
rates and prices are as follows:
Amount
Input                 Recommended    Unit Cost    Total Cost
(per ha)         (Rp)       (Rp/ha)
Urea                       200 kg           40.0          8,000
TSP                         45 kg           40.0          1,800
Diazinon                     2 1          1400            2,800
Zinc Phosphide            0.1 kg          1000              100
Total         12,700
Interest (7%)   900
Cost per
hectare Rp 13,600
The fertilizer price of Rp 40.0 per kg is subsidized under the BIMAS program.
The corresponding market price which is used in the economic analysis is
Rp 75 per kg, which is derived from the Bank's 1985 projected world market
price of US$111 per ton fob Europe and Middle East for urea, plus ocean
freight and internal transport and handling for a total of US$180 per ton
at farmgate. At present, the use of cash inputs amounts to about 10 to 40%
of the recommended dose. The entire package of inputs presented above is
expected to be applied to HVY at full development. In the economic analysis
it is assumed that average fertilizer use on HYV's is presently 20% of the
recommended dose, and will increase to 40% in future without the project. In
all cases, fertilizer application on local varieties is assumed to be 10%
of that on HYV's (Table 1).
(c) Taxes. The IPEDA tax is based on 5% of net value of
production of the land.  At full development, all the
project area would be classified as controlled irrigation
and the average IPEDA rate would be about Rp 15,000 per ha.
Other illegal taxes such as village taxes and contributions
for village development, school construction and mosques,
would by that time be eliminated. The voluntary village
labor contribution (Gotong Rojong) of 3-5 days per month,
which is made during slack periods, has not been accounted
for in the farm budget analysis.
(d) Other Expenses. This includes an allowance for farm imple-
ments, depreciation, waste and losses. It is estimated to be
about 10% of the gross value of production.



ANNEX 14
Page 4
7.        Sharecropping.  Only the sharecropper's income is shown in the
farm budgets (Table 5). Both income and costs are based on the prevailing
custom according to which land preparation and weeding are the sharecropper's
resnonsibility, seeds and transplanting costs are paid by the landowner,
cash farm inputs, taxes and harvesting costs are paid jointly, and the
harvested crop is shared equally.
8.        Operation and Maintenance.  The farm budgets include the O&M costs
of the irrigation and drainage systems, which amount to Rp 3,200 per ha per
year (Annex 11). Other project charges, which are still under consideration
by GOI, are not included in the budgets.
9.        Off-farm Income.  Very little is kncwn about the farmers' incomes
from off-farm activities. Major sources of off-farm income are work on
neighbors' fields during peak periods, fishing and trading. Based on avail-
information, it is assumed that during periods when labor is not needed
for own or exchange farming operations, farmers earn about Rp 35 per day
from other activities. This is equal to the present pay rate for unskilled
labbr for a half day's work (3-1/2 hours).



INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Crop Production Costs 1/
Local Paddy (Wet Season)             Local Paddy (Dry Season)               HYV Paddy (Wet Season)                HYV Paddy (Dry Season)
Crop                   Present   Future W   Future W         Present   Future W   Future W         Present   Future W   Future W         Present   Future W   Future W
Cash Inputs (Rp/ha)
Land Preparation                6,500      6,500       6,500          6,500      6,500      6,500           6,500      6,500       6,500          6,500      6,500       6,500
Seed                            2,200      2,200       2,200          2,200      2,200       2,200          2,250      2,250       2,250          2,250      2,250       2,250
Agro Chemicals 1/                 425        850      2,125             425        850       2,125          4,250      8,500      21,250          4,250      8,500      21,250
Other                           3,900      4,200       8,700          4,200      4,500       9,900          6,000      6,500      12,300          6,600      7,100      13,500
0 & M Charges                     -          -         3,200            -          -         3,200            -          -         3,200            -          -         3,200
Total:                      13,025    13,750       22,725         13,325    14,050      23,925          19,000    23,750      45,500          19,600    24,350       46,700
Labor Inputs (Mandays/ha)
Land Preparation 2/                44         44          44             44         44          44             44         44          44             44         44          44
Nursery                             6          6           6              6          6           6              6          6           6               6          6          6
Planting/Sowing                    30         30          30             30         30          30             32         32          32              32        32          32
Weeding                             35        35          35             35         35          35             40         40          40              40        40          40
Management 3/                      42         42          44             42         42          44             61         61          71              61         61          71
Harvesting./                       45         52          59             45         52          59             50         58          70              50         58          70
Total:                         202        209         218            202        209         218            233        241         263            233        241         263
Maize                            Soybean                          Vegetables
Present   Without    With         Present   Without    With          Present   Without    With
Cash Inputs (Rp/ha)                                       10,500      12,000   14,700         14,500    17,400   21,800          63,ooo    74,000   95,000
Labor Inputs (Mandays/ha)                                     144        160       200           125        140       165           260        290       310
1/ At economic (unsubsidized) prices for fertilizers.
2! Assumes 80% by buffalo and 20% by manual labor.
3/ Fertilizer, spraying, bird protection, irrigation.
4/ Includes threshing, drying and transporting to farm.



INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Monthly Labor Requirements for Various Crops (Man Days/ha) 1/
jan    Feb    1ar    Apr    May   jun    Jul    Aug    Sep    Oct    Nov    Dec              Total
Crop
Local Paddy   P 1/   51      15      24     48       8                                                  56         202
(Wet Season)  w       51     15      25     52     10                                                   56         209
w      51      15     25     56      15                                                   56        218
Local Paddy   P                                            56      51     15      24     48       8                202
(Dry Season)  W                                            56     51      15     25      52     10                 209
w                                           56      51     15      25     56      15                218
HYV Paddy     P       56     19      37     51      10                                                  60         233
(Wet Season)  W       56     19      39     55     12                                                   60         241
w      57      21     42     67      15                                                  61         263
HYV Paddy     P                                            60      56     19      37     51      10                233
(Dry Season)  W                                            60     56      19     39      55     12                 241
w                                           61      57     21      42     67      15                263
Maize         P                                     35      28     21     21      35                               140
w                                    40      32     24      24     40                               160
w                                    50      40     30      30     50                               200
Soybean       P                                     31     25      19     19      31                               125
w                                    35      28     21      21     35                               140
w                                    41      33     25      25     41      43     43                251
Vegetables    p                                     65     52      39     39      65                               260
w                                    72      58     44      44     72                                290
w                                    78     62      46     46      78                                310
1/ P = Present.
W = Future without project.
W = Future with project.



INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRI"ArION EXTENSI3M P;WZ4C0
Crop Budgets
Local Paddy (Wet Season)            Local Paddy (Dry Season)            HYV Paddy (Wet Season)              HYV Paddy (Dry Season)
p 1/      W1/       w  t/            p         W         w               p         W          w              p         w         w
Yield (tons/ha)                  1.3       1.5       2.9             1.4       1.6        3.3            2.0        2.4       4.1             2.2      2.5       4.5
Farm-gate Price (Rp '000/ton)  66.0       66.0      66.0            66.0      66.0      66.0            66.0      66.0       66.0            66.0     66.0      66.0
Gross Value of Production
(Rp '000/ha)                 85.8       99.0     191.4           92.4      105.6     217.8           132.0     158.4      270.6          145.2    165.0      297.0
Production Costs (Rp '000/ha)  13.0       13.8      22.7            13.3      14.0       23.9           19.0      23.8       45.5            19.6     24.4      46.7
Net Value of Production
(Rp '000/ha)                 72.8       85.2     168.7           79.1       91.6     193.9           113.0     134.6      225.1          125.6    140.6      250.3
Labor Requirement
(man-days/ha)                202        209       218            202        209       218              233      241        263            233       241       263
Yield (tons/ha)                  2.0       2.3        2.7            1.0       1.2        1.5           10.0       11.7      13.0
Farm-gate Price (Rp '000/ha)   20.0       20.0       20.0           55.0      55.0       55.0           17.5       17.5      17.5
Gross Value of Production
(Rp '000/ha)                 40.0       46.0      54.0            55.0      66.0      82.5           175.0     204.8      227.5
Production Costs (Rp '000/ha)  10.5       12.0      14.7            14.5      17.4       21.8           63.0       74.0      95.0
Net Value of Production
(Rp '000/ha)                  29.5      34.0      39.3            40.5      48.6      60.7           112.0     130.8      132.5
Labor Requirement
(man-days/ha)                140        160       200             125       140        251            260        290       310                                                          w -
1/ P - Present; W = Future Without Project; W = Future With Project.



INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Farm Production Cocts
(Rp '000)
0.5 ha Farm
Southern Area               1.0 ha Farm Southern Area                        1.0 ha Farm Northern Area                       2.5 ha Farm Northern Area
Owner                    Owner            Sharecropping 1/               Owner            Sharecropping 1/                Owner            Sharecropping 1/
Present   Future         Present   Future    Present   Future            Present   Future    Present   Future             Present   Future       Present   Future
Hired Labor Costs:
Land Preparation 2/                        0         6.5          6.5        13.0        6.5       .12.4           6.5       11.7         6.5       11.1           9.8        16.3         9.8       14.6
Harvesting                                 0         3.5          2.3        11.1        1.0         5.1           1.1        8.8         0.5        4.0           4.6       41.3          2.1       18.8
Transplanting                              0           0             0          0          0           0             0          0           0          0           7.0        20.4           0          0
Other Production Costs:
Farm Inputs 3/                           5.6        15.2          9.8        27.7        2.9        10.2           3.5       23.4         0.8        8.2          14.6        66.2         9.0       28.5
Taxes                                    4.0       10.3           6.5        19.5        3.3      i10.0            3.2       15.2         1.5        7.8           7.5        34.0         3.9       18.0
OSM Charges                               -          1.6                      3.2         -          1.6            -         3.2          -         1.6            -          8.0          -         4.0
Other                                    4.0        11.5          7.5        22.3        3.4        10.1           3.8       17.5         1.6        8.0           9.3        41.3         4.3       18.8
Total Production Cost                      13.6        48.6          32.6       96.8        17.1       49.4          18.1        79.8       10.9        40.7          52.8      227.5        29.1      102.7
Contribution by Landowner 4/                  -          -             -          -         12.0       38.3            -           -         6.0        30.4            -           -        21.2        96.2
Total Costs Including Landowner's
Contribution                             13.6        48.6         32.6        96.8       29.1        87.7          18.1       79.8        16.9        71.1         52.8       227.5        50.3      198.9
1/  Production costs shown in details are only the sharecropper's contribution.
2/  Under present conditions land preparation is carried out with manual labor on the 0.5 ha farms and with buffaloes on all other farm sizes.  Under future
conditions, all land preparation on the 0.5 ha farms are shown as being carried out with buffalo although in actual practice it is expected that on about
20% of the poorer farms,owners would continue to utilize manual labor.
3/ Future use of farm inputs is based on the BIMAS recommended package of Rp 13,600 per ha.
4/ Comprising full costs of seeds and transplanting, and half costs of cash farm inputs, taxes, OfM charges and harvesting costs.
. -
4I -



INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IFRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Farm Budgets
0.5 ha Farm
Southern Area              1.0 ha Farm Southern Area                   1.0 ha Farm Northern Area                    2.5 ha Farm Northern Area
Owner Farming           Owner Farming       Sharecropping           Owner Farming        Sharecropping            Owner Farming        Sharecropping
Units        Present  Future         Present  Future   Present  Future            Present  Future   Present  Future            Present  Future   Present  Future
Local Varieties (Wet)          ha               -        -              0.2      -           0.3      0.2            1.0      0.2         1.0      0.3            2.5      0.5         2.5      0.8
RYV (Wet)                      ha               0.5      0.5            0.8      1.0         0.7      0.8            -        0.8         -        0.7            -        2.0         -        1.8
Local Varieties (Dry)          ha               -        -              -        0.2         0.1      0.2            0.2      0.1        0.1       0.2            0.5      0.3         0.3      0.5
HYV (Dry)                      ha               0.25    0.5             0.5      0.8         0.3      0.7            -        0.7         -        0.5            -        1.7         -        1.2
Total Cropped Area             ha               0.75     1.0            1.5      2.0         1.4      1.9            1.2      1.8         1.1      1.7            3.0      4.5         2.8      4.3
Crbpping Intensity            %                 150      200            150      200         140      190            120      180        110       170            120      180         110      170
Total Paddy Production         ton              1.6      4.6            3.0      8.9         2.7      8.1            1.5      7.0         1.3      6.4            3.7    16.5          3.4     15.0
Gross Value of Production  Rp '000             88.0   253.0           165.0   489.5       148.5   445.5             82.5   385.0        71.5   352.0            203.5   907.5        187.0   825.0
Production Costs 1/           Rp '000          13.6    48.6            32.6    96.8         17.1    49.4            18.1    79.8        10.9    40.7             52.8   227.5         29.1   102.7
Net Farm Income                Rp '000         74.4   204.4           132.4   392.7       131.4   396.1             64.4   305.2        60.6   311.3            150.7   680.0        157.9   722.3
Off-Farm Income               Rp '000          20.0    20.0            15.0    10.0         20.0    15.0            15.0    10.0         20.0    15.0            10.0      -          15.0       -
Payments to Landowner         Rp '000           -                                           74.2   222.8             -        -          35.8   176.0             -                   93.5   412.5
Net Farm Cash Income           Rp '000         94.4   224.4           147.4   402.7         76.2   188.3            79.4   315.2         45.8   150.3           160.7   680.0         79.4   309.8
1/ Production costs on sharecroppers' farms exclude the landowner contribution. Payments to the landowner are equivalent to half the gross value of production.
541






ANNEX 15
Page 1
INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Farm Labor Analysis
Labor SuppE
1.        There are no comprehensive, reliable statistics on population and
labor force in the project area. However, a sample survey of villages in the
project ar,-a indicates that there are about 36,000 farm families in the area,
each averaging 6.8 persons, of whom 3.5 are potential labor force (age 15-60).
From this potential labor force, one person is usually assigned to domestic
housework and is not available for farm work. The number of large land-
holders or wealthy families in the project area who would not contribute to
the labor force is insignificant. Therefore, the present available labor
supply is estimated to be about 90,000 farm laborers. Assuming a farm labor
growth rate of 2.0% per year, the labor force available for farm work would
increase to about 121,000 workers at full development in 1988.
2.        assuming 240 working days per worker per year, the annual labor
supply wou:ld increase from about 22 million man-days at preseat to about
29 million man-days at full development, or an average of aboit 2.4 million
man-days per month. During peak agricultural periods, farmers tend to work
longer hours, more days per month, and also reduce their household activities.
At these peak periods the "stressed" labor supply is accordingly estimated at
about 3.0 million man-days per month, or an increase of 25%.
3.        In the past, there has been very little labor m-ovement into or
within the project area, due to inadequate employment opportunities, high
population density and poor transport conditions. With the project, tran-
sportation facilities would improve, but little increase in labor mobility is
expected, since the local labor supply would continue to satisfy local labor
requirements (para 5 and Table 1).
Labor DemalLd
4.        In addition to farm production activities, the labor force in the
project area can undertake (a) on-farm development work lncluding main-
tenance of quaternary irrigation and drainage canals and small structures,
(b) village development works including improvements and maintenance of
existing works, (c) construction of new project facilities, and (d) off-
farm activ:ities. Labor for categories (a) and (b) would be supplied out of
the local farm labor force during off-peak periods. The market for labor
in category (c) is well organized and such labor is assumed to be drawn
from contracting firms and pools of partly skilled labor outside the
project area. Thus, the analysis of labor demand concentrates on farm
production and off-farm employment activities.



ANNEX 15
Page 2
5.        Istimates of monthly farm labor requirements per ha for rice
cultivation are given in Annex 14, Table 2. Estimates of total farm labor
requirements for the project are given Ln Table 1 of this Annex. At
present, tl,e total annual labor requirenent is about 13 million man-days,
or about 60% nf the estimated total supply. However, peak monthly demand of
over 2.6 million man-days in December approximates full employment con-
ditions. At full development, the total labor requirement is estimated
at almost 25 million man-days with the project and about 13 million man-days
without the project. Without the project, total annual labor requirement
would be less than half the available labor supply, leaving substantial
unemployment throughout most of the year, although 90% of the "stressed"
labor force would be employed in the peak month of December. With the project,
the employment situation would improve considerably, with the total annual
requirement increasing to some 85% of supply, almost full employment in
April and December, and much less pronounced seasonal fluctuation.
Economic Cost of Farm Labor
6.        The proper assessment of the economic cost of farm labor is a
complicated issue involving a number of value judgments as well as exten-
sive empirical data on farm and off-farm employment. Detailed information on
wages actully paid in the project area is scarce, payments vary seasonally
and geographically within the area, and payment is often in kind, making
comparisons difficult.  Information on off-farm employment is even more
fragmentar). The following analysis should be read with these limitations in
mind. In addition, the analysis disregards:
(a) the value of leisure;
(b) problems of income distribution between the various
segments of the population; and
(c) the relative importance of saving and consumption.
Thus, the analysis given here deals only with the opportunity cost of
output foregone in other employment in the project area, and is based on
information containing a large subjective element.
7.        Rp 150/day is given as the nominal farm wage rate in all seasons
for adult male labor. However, interviews with farmers and other local
sources indicate that the market value of farm labor ranges between Rp 100
and Rp 200 per day for adult males, and as low as Rp 35 for half-day weeding
and fertilizer application by women or children. Based on this information,
the weighted average market wage rate for all types of labor is estimated
at Rp 120 per man-day.
8.        Ihe estimation of the lower limit of the economic wage rate is
based on two components.  The first is the minimum opportunity cost of
alternative non-farm employment in activities such as fishing, minor trades,
cottage industry and maintenance works. This is estimated at Rp 20 per day
on the average. The second component is the cost of the increased nutritional



ANNEX 15
Page 3
requirement which results from shifting a laborer from an activity such
as fishing to more demanding farm work. This cost is also estimated to be
about Rp 20 per day for a total of Rp 40.
9.        On the basis of all available information about the project area
and experience from similar areas, it is postulated that the marginal oppor-
tunity cost of labor supplied for farm work in the project area can be
represented by an "S-shaped" curve. The marginal opportunity cost of farm
labor is positive at all levels of demand and increases as more and more
labor is drawn into farm work. The increase in opportunity cost is slow
initially, reflecting the scarcity of productive alternative employment, but
increases more rapidly as the full labor supply is utilized. At the employ-
ment level corresponding to full employment of family labor in the project
area, the opportunity cost is assumed equal to the market wage rate. If the
demand for farm labor were to increase beyond this level, the opportunity
cost would continue to rise, though at a slower pace. At about Rp 140 or 20%
above the present market wage rate, it is postulated that the opportunity cost
curve would flatten out, since at that wrage large numbers of laborers from
other areas would come to work on farms in the project area.
10.       In practice it is reasonable to approximate the idealized 'S-shaped"
curve by three straight line segments as shown in figure 1, which presents
the marginal opportunity cost of labor as a function of the quantity of labor
demanded. Once such a curve is constructed, it is easy to estimate the total
opportunity cost for any level of farm employment - it is simply the area
under the marginal opportunity cost curve up to the given level of labor
demand. Based on figure 1, the estimated marginal and total economic cost
of farm labor, under "with project" and "without project" conditions by
month are shown in Table 2. Evaluated in this way, the annual economic cost
of farm labor at full development is Rp 1,520 million "with the project" and
Rp 740 million "without the project". The incremental economic cost of labor,
amounting to Rp 780 million, accounts for about 11% of the incremental net
benefit to the project area at full development (without accotuting for labor
costs) of Rp 6,055 million (Annex 12, Tables 3 and 4). The foregoing analysis
assigns an average value to labor over t:he course of the year which would
have resulted if all incremental labor were evaluated at 58% of the estimated
market wage rate of Rp 120 per man-day.
12.       Because of data limitations, the estimated opportunity cost curve
(Figure 1) is to some extent a matter of subjective judgment. However, the
the imputed incremental wage bill is rather insensitive to changes in the
shape of the curve and, accordingly, it is felt that the above results are
a good measure of the increased cost to the economy of incremental farm labor,
even after allowing for a reasonable degree of possible error in estimation.
13.       The above analysis is applicable only at one point in time; at
full development of project benefits in 1988. Similar analyses should be done
for other times to take into account changing demand and supply conditions,
but the quaLity of the available data does not warrant such a refinemiient.
Hence for economic analysis it is assumed that:



ANNEX 15
Page 4
(a) during project implementation, the imputed labor cost is
in the same proportion to the net production value (before
costing labor) as at full project development; and
(b) after full project development, the above analysis is
applicable unchanged over the remaining project life.



INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRICATTON FXTENSTON PROJECT
Total Monthly Requirement of Farm Labor (man-days '000)
Area       Jan      Feb     Mar      Apr     May      Jun      Jul     Aug      Sep      Oct     Nov      Dec      Total
(ha)
Rice:  Local Varieties         P11    29,500    1,505      443      708   1,416      236       -       -        -        -       -        -    1,652      5,960
Wet Season             W       29,500    1,505      443      738   1,534      295      -        -        -       -        -        -    1,652      6,167
W      11,400       581     171      285      638     171       -       -        -        -        -       -       638     2,484
Rice:  Local Varieties         P       4,600        -       -        -        -       -       258     235       69      110     221       37       -        930
Dry Season             W        4,600        -       -        -       -        -      258      235       69     115      239       46      -         962
w      10,000        -        -       -        -       -       560     510      150      250     560      150       -      2,180
Rice:  HYV                     P      17,000       952     323      629      867     170       -       -        -        -        -       -    1,020      3,961
Wet Season             W       17,000       952     323      663     935      204      -        -        -       -        -        -    1,020      4,097
W      39,100    2,229      821   1,642   2,620       587       -       -        -        -        -       -    2,385    10,284
Rice; HYV                      P       7,000        -        -       -        -       -       420     392      133      259     357       70       -      1,631
Dry Season             W        7,000        -       -        -       -        -      420      392      133     273      385       84       -      1,687
W      30,100        -        -       -        -       -    1,836   1,716       632   1,264   2,017       452       -       7,917
Field Crops 2/                 P       3,000        -        -       -        -      108       86      65       65      107       -       -        -         431
W       3,000        -        -       -        -      W22       97       73      73      122       -       -        -         487
W       8,500        _        -       -        -      443      355      266     266      443      100     100       -       1.973
Total                          P      61,100    2,457       766   1,337   2,283      514      764     692      267      476      578     107   2,672    12,913
W      61,100    2,457       766   1,401   2,469      621      775     700      275      495      624     130   2,672    13,400
W      99,100    2,810      992   1,927   3,258   1,201   2,751   2,492   1,048   1,957   2,677           702   3,023    24,838
1/  P = Present.                                                                                                                                                  IL
W = Future without project.
W = Future with project.
2/  Including maize, soybeans and vegetables.                                                                                                                       ix






INDOESIA
JATWIUHJR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
ESTThATED OPPORTUNITY COST (URVE: FOP FARM LABOR
1140                                           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _
120
'-100
8O 
0
E0-4  60_                                                                 _    __         _
_5 _._ 1.5                      2.0        2.5        3.0        305        4.o0
FARM LABOR DEKAND (MILLION MAN-DAYS/MONTH)






ANNEX 16
Page 1
INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        The following assumptions were made in evaluating the project's
rate of ret:urn:
(a) Benefits. The expected yields, prices, gross returns,
production costs, net returns (without accounting for
labor costs) and labor requirements per ha, for various
crops are shown in Annex 14, Table 3. Because share-
croppers would have less incentive to modernize cultural
practices, their average yielids at full development are
assumed to be somewhat lower than those on landowner or
tenant (lease holder) fields. Produce prices used in the
economic analysis are estimated farmgate prices based on
the Bank's latest estimates of world market prices for
1985 and are discussed in detail in Annex 13.
(b) Subsidies. Under the BIMAS program, farmers pay a subsidized
price of Rp 40 per kg for urea and TSP. An economic farmgate
price of Rp 75 per kg (US$180 per ton) has been used in the
economic analysis (Annex 14).
(c) Investment Costs. All investment costs used in the analysis
exclude price contingencies. Also, costs which are common
to the whole Jatiluhur project: area have been prorated in
the following manner: half the cost of the Citarum embank-
nent was charged to the project; costs of the two specialists
(for agricultural extension and operation and maintenance)
and training were charged on a per ha basis with the project
area accounting for about 18% of the total; and one third of
the overall cost of the agriciiltural supporting services was
charged as a project cost.
(d) Construction Period. Construction period for all project
works down to and including tertiary irrigation and drainage
systems is six years.
(e) On-Farm Development lWorks. Construction of on-farm develop-
ment works would begin in the dry season of 1978, after
results of pilot on-farm development studies are available,
and will be completed throughout the project area by the
end of 1983, four years after completion of project works
(year 10).



ANNEX 16
Page 2
(f) tievelopment Period. Full benefits would be achieved con-
currently with the completion of on-farm development works
cn owners' and tenants' fields (year 10), and five years
later on sharecroppers' fields (year 15).
(g)  Iricing of Labor.  Farm labor was evaluated at a shadow
w'age rate equal to its opportunity cost, which varies
seasonally and is equivalent to pricing all incremental
farm labor at Rp 70 per man-day, or 58% of the market
wage. Detailed analysis is presented in Annex 15. The
market wage rate of Rp 120 per man-day was applied to
labor used in project construction.
2.        Using the foregoing assumptions and discounting project benefits
and costs over a 30-year evaluation period, the economic rate of return is
estimated to be 42% (Table 1). It is further assumed that civil works
constructed under the project would have a residual value of 33% (at constant
1974 prices) after 30 years.
3.        Several of the basic assumptions made in the economic analysis
have been varied, in order to examine their impact on the rate of return.
These factors include delays in on-farm development, a reduction in
the cropping intensity, costing farm labor at the market wage of Rp 120
per man-day, a reduction in fertilizer use due to possible worldwide
shortages, an increase in construction costs and extension of the construction
period. The extent of variation from the basic assumptions and the resulting
economic rates of return are described below.



ANNEX 16
Page 3
Alternative                                     Rate of Return
(a) (On-farm works implemented over a nine-year
lieriod                                                    37
(b) (On-farm works implemented over a fourteen-
year period                                                34
(c)  Nlo on-farm works                                           31
(d)  Cropping intensity reduced from 195% to 175%                37
(e) Farm labor costed at the current market rate
of Rp 120 per day                                          41
(f)  Use of fertilizer reduced by 251 over the life
of the project as the result of possible worldwide
shortages and yields at full development
correspondingly reduced by 25%                             25
(g)  Construction costs increased by 25%                        36
(h)  Construction period extended by two years                   31
(i)  Construction costs increased by 20% and con-
struction period extended by two years                     27
4.        The economic rate of return does not measure fully the priority
of the project from a social point of vLew. Slightly more than half the
incremental income generated by the project at full development would accrue
to small farmers (0.5 - 2.5 ha) who own their own land, and tenants (lease-
holders) who rent lands from the Forestry Department and village administration.
Their average income is now about half the national average, and at full
project development it would be at or sLightly above the projected national
average. About a quarter of the incremental income would go to very poor
sharecroppers whose average incomes would increase from about one-fourth
the national average presently to about half the projected national average
at full project development. The remainiing quarter would represent the net
earnings of landlords who do not farm, but receive payment from the share-
croppers. Little is known about these landlords. Presumably they have
sources of income additional to the relatively small net amounts they receive
from sharecroppers. They may represent the better educated who work in
Jakarta while sharecroppers till their small farms, or they may be owner-
operators on one small parcel and landlords on another. However, there is
no indication of affluence or large size of landholding in the project area
and, although these landlords may have incomes above the national average,
it is unlikely that they are many times as rich as the average.






ANNEX 16
Table 1
INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Economic Coats and Benefits
(Rp Million)
Incremental ProJect Costs          Incremental Project Benefits
mapi-           Exten-  FIam
Year          tal l/   O&M    sion 2/ Labor   Total        Paddy   Other   Total
1974            415      0        0       0      415            0      0         0
1975          1,328      0      125       0    1,453            0      0         0
1976          3,1444     6      166       8    3,624           140     4       1414
1977          4,8l14    30      166      62    5,072        1,124    29      1,153
1978          3,735     76      208     187    4,206         3,371    89     3,1460
1979          3,901    117      166     358    4,542        6,461   170      6,631
1980            456    163      125     576    1,320       10,393   2714   10,667
1981            622    163     125      623    1,533       11,236   296    11,532
1982            456    163      125     670    1,414       12,079   318    12,397
1983            332    163     125      701    1,321       12,641   333    12,974
1984              0    163     125      732    1,020       13,202   348    13,550
1985              0    163      125     748    1,036       13,483   355    13,838
1986              0    163      125     763    1,051       13,764   363    14,127
1987              0    163      125     771    1,059       13,905   366    114,271
1988-2002         0    163     125      779    1,067       14,045   370    14,415
2003         -3,7352'  163     125      779  -2,668        14,045   370    14,415
Economic Rate of Return                                                      142%
1/ Includes cost of on-farm development.
2/ Includes specialists and training through 1979.
3/ Residual value of civil works (33%).






INDONESIA
JATILUHUR iRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
1973                 1974                1975                  1976                   1977                      4     ,           POE    CiCT  StAGES
WORK                                                                                                                                                                         7 ~S-ond contract
C.   DRY O    WET         DRY       WET        DRY        WET        DRY        WET       DRY                                                            Thid contract
_ Z    _                                                                     _ _ _ _ _ ___  , JAVA SEA. ~ 2                                   Fourth contract
Mapping                             1111111IIliii II
KAAWANG
First Contract
7,000 ha. and including                             i                                   *     l A  Vi
Rehabilitation of
Citarum Embankments                              ....                      -|                                 -                   . -   VET 4   DRY  f2jET       DRY            WET        DRY
Second Contract                                                   -.. . .                                          - .. 
15,000 ha.
Third Contract
16,500 ha.                                                                                                        .-.... 
(Incl.Citarum                                                                           U [
Embankment Rehab.)
Fourth Contract                                                                            L |  |I
16,000 ha.                                                                               -|
CONTRACT ACTIVITIES:
||||||||||||||   Mapping
Planning and Design
ffi Tender and Award                                                                                                      World Bank-7910(3R)
Construction






INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
0 & M ORGANIZATION (IRRIGATION) OF JATILUHUR AUTHORITY
Irrigation Department
Direcltor             |                                                                                       Above this level, see Inset
Office of Director
Secretary, Admin. &
Finance
- - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - --                                         
Agricultural Develop-                                                                                                                                                    Development & Con- 
ment Division                                                                       0 O    M   ivision                                                                 struction Division
Deputy-Director                                                                     Deputy-Director                                                                      Deputy-Director
When appropriate the                                                                                      I
Section will be made a Division
Agriculture                        West District                      Middle District                     East District                      Curug District
Section                             O&M                                 O&M                                O&M                                 O&M
Chief of Section                 District 0 & M Engr.               District 0 & M Engr.                District 0 & M Engr.                District D & M Engr.
Sub -District                                                Organization below this for each
0 & M                                                     district is same as for West District
Diretor                       DMisreor SDirector
Pengamat-                            Pengamat    _|Hom,e Affairs,Agriculture|
Oration     _M Iaintenance   _01 
1! "Water Master" operatinv geaes and other structures en the main and senonda.y nanals and drains                                 D                                                                                                     I
2! "Field Operater" in charge of the aBication of irrigation water to tertiary canais.                                   Note- Authrity's Board of Dinectors cornprises President Director avd the three Directors,
heading rho Authority's three del.reme,t3
WorlId Bank-7851(3R)






IBRD 10524
107¢                                         F10S'                                                                                          17'5                           N                                         AUGUST 1973
INDONESIA                                                       SOU"SEA                               KLMNA
JATILUHUR IRRtGATION EXTENSION PROJECT                                                                                              KAL(MANTAN
.eneral Map
A               / AAl                    4    :         A                                                                Exis-frn  main Canals                               SUM   TRA
_____Canals
rProject areaWYEtfNo                                                                                         
Exneing technical irrigation areo                  WAa                               A  V           5  E  A
-i----Swamp and fish( ponds                                                    JAT/Lt//UH? 1ffG4WGT1aN
.        U Under rehabilitation (CREDIT 195 -IND)          i                   ArATENsK2IN PREcT
aV Brrages                                                 i:OItJJG           6         NN             APA4-SEFDADI
-;                           F=o-ldintirgrrmuzds                                                 5o Eiti     P gAr
Railways                                                                       CMLObc                          PKIE-APA
0 0 i 10 0 : t i : 3: 3: g, : KBztu~~~~~atlaja                                                                                                                                   "  tgl>;=Sec6rld retAa
RFhi,l Project Ares          A 
~JJ rir Prei t Area                        :  . H A  L: V
=b   M ;mOHA JWT                    Ok     C,irgkung                                                                                                         a                To      is       2,0     25
JAKARTA,
t JC l 4 / 2 / f seK ( < ( /CANA                                                                           Sokoqsemr    TAU        <d                                              .nam           CIUE3R    SYT
8   HA -04/  / <  J  ~4 X Suh7t ' /37   HA (NET]
IJS nJ / ( /                                                                                                         S/YZk                              .....r/CAANAZ-M 6 i t \ nonsf *----$ *--- \ $Kedangwunsa                      Lnrarnr
WES                             X                            < f          _  f / ARRAGEi          C,-kArtk              A _U                     . ..A.AMDARMA                                                    . .Gabuswetan
Tel.g sS ,-'   \       c        AREAGE                                         * EARRAGT
5530                                                                                                                                                                                          wn                                                                           6'30
49 )/)  <|0  0t r  |   (  if   /                   9         Xunrar         fKrnjo
K.w.b'  0  6r 8,    I1T                                                   Mo
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ca MI CA aIV                                                                                                                                                                             ung  I
\  2   '107'                                                    07,1'       >                  gj             10,'30'107aS'                                                                          1         OS- 






IBRD 10525
; \ ; '< == ', -                                                  ;0 = 0 0 ; . 0 _ ; _ ;0__ ,0SJO-TRA
:;                                                                                                                                                                                 eoIwceJ                          A     V   A   ,  i   A
N S t;  lV \   < \                                                                                                                                                            'N Ni';           ARE; {  / A1 S   A  Ie OF MAP
J    A     V      A    oaa
A     V    A
Y f    _-)  :   -  _    = 3  -   Z  -  -C                                                                                                                                           A N =                    - '
$A
j                                                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IN DON ES IA
N                                                 '>-- ' '-';,----                                                                              JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Cahargbangen  ~~~~                                                    Irrig~ation and  Drainage System
0 0 A= ' ' \ T klundl~~~~~~~~~~KecOie0R   e -_  ngeedengelok                                                                                                                         ---Enistoig errigatior caonmi
CW-0                                                                                                                      ----N.41=dr- ge -canals
+ :~ ~    ~    ~ ~~ ~~&               f .~ S'eana -Eitn  rie emaKmn to. bee'b toted0 1                :i       ,       ,g               1i.                         I        )f                                         sO
N                                                                                                                                                                        AcurtA    xE1  f T|>S    9   | \N  w X/i9  Bday a the project area
;R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IEitin'-.igSd lalic  a s '  '%}Xt,  gor'\ :tiotE\yr 0100 ;      V/t/NAA
-   ~~~~~~~~~~~~  -  -                                                                                                                        = -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FisO pnds and --ap areas
__.-                                                                                                                            A    aaqewAnzAzS .,  ,
'N!
9  e ;   M/EST  l        i,-                   l '       \      '  i                        ,       d'c                                                              t      _                     '                        n>
kl    ,   V  \    {/      '         lg                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-         0;                                                                                                                               0   0   Pu 0gcaf       
j  ;   t   0  , ,-,                                                                                                           dfif@t     <' S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K  ARRtAGE                                        8 | CLRRL4






IBRD 10526
AUGUST 1973
4  9   ts      0 j§°       \                                 ~~~~~~~~~INDONESIA
JATILUHUR IRRIGATION EXTENSION PROJECT
Roads and AgriculturaI Zones
J    A    V  A                              4)  ) X -9 t E.,nting main canols                    ;---   Existing fish ponds  New roads
S  E   A                                   ( \                                    Existing irrigation canals  Swamp and fish ponds . Roads to be rehabilitated
Agriculturul zone boundaries  V  Barrages  by government
,.   B.Eoundary of project area  2:-     Rivers  - Existing roads
Q,3tUjajQ                        Existing technical irrigation ama  - Railways
GFOGRAPHITCAI NET IR/G6AB7ON
A REA    AREA
2,650 h.  3000 ha
1   13,300 h  I 1,000 h
___________  29,050 ho  24,000 ha
9,200 ha  8,000 ha
TOTAl  6d,200 ha-  51,000 ha
PW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
SvMATRA &                                                                          C/BFEETBARRAGE               XCURUG BARRAGE  
Teivi,beLng        J  A   V  A  S  if  A              t/4tJ
AREA OF MAP            9 
0Bgo 'BasanduSearng      vo ux a 
J   A   V    A  Sarabojoik;ran
/ /V D / A N1  To  hrA UM
OCEAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f                                                                                        ToIPurwaNart



