Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CA Zo ~~3 -7- t
Report No. P-5030-LA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 30.8 MILLION
TO THE LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
MAY 16, 1989
Country Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Region
This document bas a retctd distibudon and may be used by redpients only in the performnce of
dtir officdal dues. Its ontents may not othwise be disosed without World Dank authorizaion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(March 1989)
Currency Unit = Kip National (KN)
US$1.00 - KN470
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
List of Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADB         Asian Development Bank
BCEL        Banque pour le Commerce Exterieur du Laos (Bank for Foreign
Trade)
EDL         Electricite du Laos
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
IDA         International Development Association
IMF         International Monetary Fund
LAO PDR     Lao People's Democratic Republic
MinEPF      Ministry of Economy, Plan and Finance
PTT         Post Telegraph and Telephone
SAC         Structural Adjustment Credit
SAF         Structural Adjustment Facility
SBL         State Bank of Laos
SDR         Special Drawing Rights
SIDA        Swedish International Development Authority
UNDP        United Nations Development Program



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
LAO PDR
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT SUMHARY
Borrower:           Lao People's Democratic Republic
Executing Agency:   Ministry of Economy, Plan and Finance
IDA Amount:         SDR 30.8 (US$40.0 million equivalent)
Termss              Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.
Project:            The proposed IDA Credit would (a) support the substantial
Description:        reforms being undertaken by the Government and underpin
their implementation over the 1989-91 period; (b) assist
the Lao PDR to improve state enterprise management; (c)
stimulate private sector activities; (d) support the
formulation of fiscal reforms to increase revenues; and
(e) support banking reforms to increase savings
mobilization and produce greater efficiency in the use of
resources. The credit of SDR 30.8 (US$40.0 million
equivalent) would finance general imports of goods by
meeting part of Lao PDR's short-term foreign exchange
requirements, while supporting Lao PDR's commitment to
rely increasingly on market mechanisms and helping to
accelerate growth of the economy. Counterpart funds would
be used to increase the budget available for operations
and maintenance and to meet Government's public investment
obligations. Continued good performance in implementation
of the reforms could form the basis for a subsequent
credit in about two years.
Benefits and        The proposed structural adjustment program is expected to
Risks:              improve the growth prospects of the economy through better
incentives and more assured availability of vital inputs.
The balance of payments will improve, as growth of
traditional and non-traditional exports increases.
Restoration of public savings will result from reforms
aimed at eliminating subsidies and increasing revenues.
The main risk is that the limited administrative capacity
in the country may create delays in the implementation of
the program. Technical assistance provided to the
Ministry of Economy, Plan and Finance and to the banking
system by the Bank, the IMF and other donors will help to
minimize this risk.
This document ha a rstricted distrbutin and may be used by rcipients only in the pefonnmance
of their official duties. Its contents may not othewise be disclosed without World Bank authoron.



- ii -
Estimated           The proceeds of the proposed Credit would be disbursed in
Disbursements       two equal tranches of about SDR 15.4 million each (US$20
million equivalent). The first tranche would be available
for disbursement upon effectiveness of the Credit, which
is expected to take place in July 1989. Retroactive
financing of up to $8 million is proposed. Release of the
second tranche is planned for mid-1990, after the
completion of a number of key actions upon which the
success of the program depends.
Economic Rate       Not Applicable
of return:
Apgraisal Report:   None



- iii -
LAO PDP
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT  SUMMARY  ..               ......... ..                                 ...........    ...........                         .
I.        THE  ECONOMY            ......................................................                                          1
Background  .                              ............................I...................  .                         2
The New System of Economic Management ...................                                                               3
Rationale  for  IDA Adjustment  Lending  ........................  *..                                                  4
--.  THE GOVERNMENT'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM ..... ..............                                                                     4
.II.  THE SAC PROGRAM ....*...................*.........................                                                         8
Program  Objectives  and  Policy  Tools   .......8..................... 
Exchange  Rate  and  Price  Reform  ......................... ....                                               8
Enterprise  Reform                          ..........................................                           9
Financial  Sector  Reforms   ...................................                                               11
Budgetary  and  Fiscal  Reforms   ...............................                                              12
External  Debt  Management   ................                         *..... ..............                    14
Program Benefits, External Financing Requirements, Social Impact                                                      14
and  Risk  ...................................................
Program  Benefits                 ...........................................                                  14
External  Financing  Requirements   ............................                                               15
Social  Impact  ................                   .......         .......................                     16
Risk           ......................................................                                          16
III.  THE PROPOSED CREDIT ............................................                                                          17
Credit  History  ......... .............  ...................................                                         17
Credit  Objectives   .................. ..............................                                                18
Credit  Administration                   ..............              ............................                     18
Monitoring and Tranche Release ..............................,.                                                       19
Coordination  with  Other  Agencies   ..............                           ..         ...............             20
IV.       RELATIONS  WITH  IMF                          .............................................                           21
V.        THE  BANK  OPERATIONS  STRATEGY  ...................................                                                  21
VI.       RECOMMENDATION                    .................................................                                   23



- iv -
Page No.
Annexes
I.   Key Macroeconomic Indicators              ..........I ......         24
II.  Status of Bank Group Operations in Lao PDR ............ ........     30
III.  Supplementary Data Sheet ................   4  ................... .  31
rV.  Government's Letter of Development Policy    .....................   32
V.   Matrix of Structural Adjustment Program Objectives,     ...
Measures and Actions ......... ..     ... . ................



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF
THE PRESIDENT
OF
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 30.8 MILLION
TO THE LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REFJBLIC FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit of SDR 30.8 millior (US$40.0 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms to the Lao People's Democratic Republic to support the
Government's structural adjustment program for the period 1989-1991. The IMP
is expected to provide SDR 22 million (US$28.6 million equivalent) through a
Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) also covering 1989-91.
2.       An economic report, entitled "Lao People's Demucratic Republic
Country Economic Memorandum '(No.7188-LA, dated September 21, 1988) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in September 1988. Annex I gives
selected economic indicators for the country.
Part I - THE ECONOMY
3.       Over the last three years the Lao PDR Government has undertaken a
program of wide-ranging economic reforms. The boldness of the measures (major
devaluation and exchange rate unificstion, bringing down trade barriers,
unfettering state enterprises, abolishing subsidies, encouraging the private
sector, reducing the size of the civil service) attests to Govern-ment'8
strong commitment to push ahead with the switch from a centrally-planned
economy to a more open, market-criented economy.
4.       Early results are positive.  The turnaround of an administered
economy takes time however. Laos is only at the beginning of the'adjustment
process, and the great strain that it places on macroeconomic management is
just starting to be felt. Major efforts will continue to be needed to alter
institutions and develop appropriate policy instruments. The overall fiscal
deficit and the current account deficit both remain high and may worsen in
1989. The surge of inflation which typically threatens socialist economies in
transition is potentially on the horizon, so that strengthening macroeconomic
management is critical. Towards this end, the Bank and the IMF have worked
together with the Government to formulate a medium-term policy framework and
are providing technical assistance to support the adjustment program.
Government is aware that the most difficult work in addressing weaknesses in



-2-
the system still lies ahead. For this reason it has requested the Association
to strengthen the adjustment program with a Structural Adjustment Credit
(SAC). The IMF is also working towards a SAF operation.
Background
5.       For the first decade after its creation in 1975 the Lao PDR
Government tried to build an economy based on socialist principles. Industry
and trade were nationalized, while in agriculture the number of state farms
and cooperatives was increased. State intervention supplanted market forces,
wh.ile rigid official prices, an overvalued exchange rate aXld Government
monopoly on external trade severely distorted incentives and gave rise to a
widespread parallel market for goods and foreign exchange. As domestic
savings were very low or even negative, Government relied heavily on external
assistance for its investment budget. The rapid increase in bilateral
assistance from the non-convertible currency area provided the means required
to finance budgetary investment expenditures. However, because of lack of
budgetary revenues and the priority given to investment as opposed to
maintenance, Government expenditures on operations and maintenance were very
limited and complementary inputs required for the efficient use of capital
assets often were not available.
6.       In this environment the expected benefits from high investment in
infrastructure and a few large industrial projects failed to materialize.
Rice was the only commodity which, according to official statistics, showed
rapid growth. Manufacturing output fell by .0Z in 1980-84, and production of
other industrial goods (hydroelectricity and m.Wnerals) was flat during the
same period. Furthermore, growth in other sectozs such as transport and
commerce was extremely slow. The pattern of growth that emerged in 1975-85
was characterized by a growing share of subsistence-orieLted activities,
little dynamism in the modern sector (with the exception of hydroelectricity
in the late 19708), and a development pattern that did not reflect Laos'
comparative advantage.
7.       By the mid-1980s it was becoming increasingly clear that the previous
development pattern was failing. With exports covering only 3SO of imports on
average throughout the early 1980s, continued large trade deficits had
resulted in a doubling of Laos' external debt over the 1982-87 period.
Despite Laos' borrowing at highly concessional terms, by 1985 the debt service
ratio had risen sharply to 22.32 of exports, and Laos faced severe
difficulties in meeting its service payments. Internally, due to a lack of
dynamism in non-subsistence activities, the Government faced mounting
difficulties in mobilizing domestic resources to finance budgetary
expenditures. These had to be financed by larger external borrowings and
monetary expansion. While the Government avoided direct recourse to domestic
bank credit, public enterprises were forced, irrespective of performance, to
transfer target amounts from their cash flow to the budget, which forced them
to borrow heavily from the banking system to finance their operations. The
resultant rapid growth of domestic bank financing fueled overall inflation,
which averaged 602 p.a. during 1984-86.



-3
The New System of Economic Management
8.   -  It is against that background that the Government initiated a program
of reforms in 1985, which was further extended and modified in 1987 and 1988
in the context of the policy dialogue between the Bank and the Government and
tae-preparation of the proposed SAC.  Initially the adjustment program was
focussed on extending autonomy to state enterprises, but pri-.rity increasingly
was given to removal of Government restrictions on trade, elimination of the
system of multiple exchange rates and price liberalization. The cornerstone
of this policy has been the unification of exchange rates and their alignment
with the market level. Following a devaluation of the commercial exchange
rate from 35 to 95 kips per US dollar in 1986, the commercial rate was
devalued to 350 kips per dollar in late 1987, as part of the exchange rate
unification, and then gradually to 470 kipsl$ by February, 1989. The
representative exchange rate, which applies to transactions of international
orgaLizations was also devalued from 10 to 470 kips per US dollar. As a
result, there is now only one official exchange rate, with the exception of
the representative rate with the IMP which is still 10 kips per US dollar.
These policy changes were motivated by the expectation that export expansion
would make higher growth feasible. Also, it was expected that the elimination
of quantitative import restrictions would stimulate efficiency gains and
facilitate the supply response to the program of reforms.
9.       Following reform of exchange rate and trade policies,-the Government
launched a far-reaching initiat. ve to revitalize agriculture. Procurement
prices for agricultural goods were raised to market levels and preferential
treatment of cooperatives and state farms was officially abandoned in 1988.
This policy resulted in a substantial improvement in the terms of trade
between agriculture and industry in favor of agriculture and provided the
incentives required by farmers to increase agricultural productton. The
emphasis on private farming greatly improved the consistency of the reforms by
ensuring that agricultural production could respond more quickly to the
incentives being offered.
10.      A key decision taken in mid-1987 was to give almost complete autonomy
to state enterprises to set their prices. The Government recognizes that
remaining issaes concerning state enterprises, such as financial restructuring
and rehabilitation, need to be addressed gradually over the medium term. In
t:his area, the objective is to establish progressively the building blocks of
competitive markets, namely free entry and exit of enterprises, as well as
efficient management, which will require the setting up of appropriate
accounting systems, provision of training and rehabilitation of existing
plants.
A.       Preliminary indications are that the reform program is showing
positive results. Overall inflation slowed down considerably from 1152 in
1985 to 352 in 1986 and 72 in 1987. In 1988, the sharp increase in official
prices and in wages of state employees translated into higher inflation, but
inflation on the parallel market remained moderate. There are also
encouraging signs of a positive impact of the reforms on exports. Merchandise
exports, other than electricity, rose by an estimated 362 p.a. in current



-4-
dollars from 1986 to 1988, mostly because of an increase in the volume of log
and wood exports. Exports of manufactured products are also growing rapidly,
although from a very small base. In addition, following the promulgation of
an investment code tn 1988, several joint ventures were created, mostly with
Thai firms, opening the possibility of further export expansion.
Rationale for IDA Adjustment Lending
12.      The acid-test for countries abandoning centrally planned mechanisms
comes during the implementation period that follows the adoption of reforms,
since it is during that turnaround that macroeconomic management is under the
greatest stress. Laos' adjustment program is now at this critical juncture.
While results have been thus far r,ositive, severe structural weaknesses
remain, and Government recognizes that a failure to deal with them could
undermine the reform effort.
13.      At the Government's request, it 1s proposed to strengthen the
adjustment program through a SAC. The !.ank is well-placed for assisti..g
Government. Most of the Bank's recommendations from the 1986 and 1988 CEM
reports are being implemented, thus helping to lay the groundwork for a more
efficient allocation of resources and accelerated growth. Also, the zeforms
are being modified when needed in order to assure their internal consiftency,
thus suggesting a continued strong receptivity to Bank advice.
II. THE GOVERNMENT'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
14.      The economy continues to face formidable obstacles.  The Government
has abandoned its direct tools for controlling the economy and is relying on
incentive policies and on newly instituted, and therefore untested,
instruments of macroeconomic management. The quantification and prediction of
economic variables is complicated by recent sharp changes in relative prices.
Moreover, the rapid transition from a centrally planned to a market-oriented
economy has not been matched by the development of managerial capabilities.
In the context of the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) being prepared in
consultation with the Bank and the IMP, the Government has indicated its
willingness to embark vigorously upon a program to address these weaknesses
and is determined to maintain the momentum of the reform. The program for
1989-92 envisages a sizeable foreign technical assistance component to assist
in this effort. Additional flexibility on the foreign resource side is
required to manage the economy and help lift the remaining physical and
institutional obstacles to long-term growth.
15.      The Government's medium-term program of adjustment aims at achieving
an average real GDP growth of 5-6 percent per annum; reducing the rate of
inflation to that of prevailing world inflation by 1992; and making progress
toward balance of payments viability. In order to meet these targets, the
Government is committed to the maintenance of the present policy environment
of market-determination of prices, public enterprise autonomy and flexible
management of a unified exchange rate. At the same time, fiscal and monetary



-5
policies will need to be more cautious. Over the course of the 1989-92
period, structural reforms would (i) position the private sector to be a
greater driving force in the economy and to vigorously promote exports; (ii)
further strengthen public enterprise autonomy; (iii) enhance domestic resource
mobilization efforts through tax and financial sector reform; (iv) create new
inetitutions and instruments of economic management; and (v) improve the
process of policy-making and planning, and the efficient use of foreign aid
inflows.
16.      In the short term, economic growth is expected to recover as weather
conditions return to normal and electricity generation and agriculture
rebound. The liberalization of producer prices and the elimination of
barrJers to trade should also facilitate a strong agricultural supply
response. The depreciation of the kip and trade liberalization are expected
to encourage production for exports and more efficient import substitution
while removing bottlenecks caused by shortages of imported inputs. Higher
government spending and new private sector activity are expected to give an
immediate boost to the construction industry.
17.      Over the medium term, achievement of sustainable higher growth
requires a more broadly based, diversified economic structure, and depends on
increased productive capacity and on a significant improvement in the
efficiency of investment. Agriculture is expected to exhibit only modest
additional gains reflecting increased emphasis on non-rice cash crops. The
most dynamic growth is projected to come from industry, in part as a new
hydroelectricity generating capacity comes on stream, and from the transport,
comm4nications and commercial services sectors.
18.      The adjustment program is conditioned on a rapid expansion of
investment. The real investment growth required to sustain the GDP growth
target of 5.62 is estimated at 142. Therefore the nature of the adjustment is
primarily seen in the shift in the composition of the expenditures from
consumption to investment rather than a reduction in domestic expenditures.
To promote investment efficiency, project evaluation and monitoring
capabilities, within an environment of realistic pricing of foreign exchange
and capital, will be enhanced with Bank assistance. Furthermore, in contrast
with the past, this investment will be undertaken largely by autonomous bodies
(autonomous state enterprises, private firms, joint ventures) and guided by
market-based prices. For instance, the medium-term strategy envisages an
important role for the private and foreign sectors to undertake new
investments and assist in public enterprise transformation. Efficiency of
investment will be further supported by the strengthening of credit policy.
Government policy is 4.o maintain positive real interest rates to improve
credit allocation. The Government is also considering measures to reinforce
control over provincial banks. Pending the implementation of a system of
reserve requirement, each provincial bank could be subjected to an overall
credit ceiling. In addition, the autoromy of provincial bank managers vis-
a-vis the provincial authorities could be increased and all large credits may
have to be referred to the central bank for approval.
19.      On the domestic side, the emphasis will be or mobilizing additional
resources to support this higher investment level, principally through fiscal



policy reforms, as financial reform to encourage higher private savings will
take time to bear fruit. Therefore the program envisages major revenue and
expenditure reforms. The tax components, which will be supported by the
proposed SAC ares (i) streamlining the profit tax by unifying rates,
strengthening collection and widening the base; (ii) introducing a progressive
wage-income tax; (iii) introducing a single-stage turnover tax; (iv) levying
royalties from natural resource exploitation. Additional fiscal revenues
would also come from the adjustment of electricity tariffs, as specified in
the SAC. These revenue measures, coupled with the recovery of
hydroelectricity production, are projected to generate an additional 1.82 cf
total expenditure l/over the period 1988-92. Current expenditure growth will
be contained over the same period, but adjusted to ensure the need to increase
budgetary allocation for recurrent costs associated with capital expenditure
is met. The share of current expenditure in total expenditure would decline
by a 5.6t. As a result, Government savings will increase by 8.62 of total
investment between 1988 and 1992. This would reduce reliance on non-project
aid for financing local cost of the investment program.
20.      Additional domestic savings will be generated through the
restructuring of public enterprises, which are now expected to finance part of
their investment through retained earnings, and also through the
rationalization of the interest rate structure, supported by the SAC. Non-
government savings would however grow more slowly than total investment.
overall, domestic savings are expet.ted to cover an additional 5.22 of total
investment between 1988 and 1992. Despite these domestic resource
mobilization efforts, additional foreign assistance will be needed to support
the considerable expansion of investment.
21.      Adjustment on the external side will take the form of rapid growth
and changes in composition in both exports and imports. The program envisages
a strong recovery in imports, of 242 in dollar terms in 1989, reversing the
132 fall in 1988. Thereafter exports are projected to grow faster than
imDorts. However, as imports are currently much higher in absolute terms than
exports, this would not lead initially to a reduction of the ccuxrent account
deficit. Nevertheless, there would be a sizeable adjustment in the
composition of imports in favor of capital goods: as much as 752 of the
incremental imports betwt a 1988 and 1992 would represent the direct import
content of the increase in the investment level. While the bulk of the import
growth is expected to comprise imports of spare parts, equipment, machinery,
and raw material and intermediate inputs, some increase of consumer goods
imports is expected early in the program as a result of trade liberalization
and the reform of wage policy.
22.      Rapid growth in exports will be stimulated by the maintenance of a
market-related exchange rate and the liberalization of che trade regime for
traditional exports, which is a condition of the proposed SAC. The main
source of export growth in the short run is expected to come from the recovery
of electricity exports from drought-reduced levels.   Over the medium term,
1/     Including on-lending to autonomous enterprises.



wood products, mining, coffee, other cash crops and non traditional
manufactured goods such as garments, will become more important, as a result
of improved price incentives, the liberal trade regime and the open attitude
towards foreign investment. Tourism and private remittances are also expected
to emerge as important sources for foreign exchange earnings. The reduction
of the current account deficit is expected to take place beyond the program
period, as investment brings about higher exports and the level of imports
associated with the initial recovery of investment reaches a plateau.
23.      Foreign funds averaging $227 million per year are required to finance
the current account deficit and permit a build-up in reserves to 16 weeks of
convertible zone imports, a level considered prudent in view of the increased
openness of the economy and its vulnerability to weather conditions. With the
proposed SAC, SAF and Asian Development Bank (ADB) funds, there would be no
unfunded gap in the balance of payments in 1989-90. However, in the following
two years, a funding gap of about 20 million dollars per year would emerge.
The composition of the average $216 million identified financing per year over
1989-92 (of which $44 million are grants) would be the followingt IDA: $30
million; ADB: $26 million; IMF: $7 million; other multilaterali $10 millions -
non-convertible zone (mainly USSR): $87 million, 2/other bilateral donorss $34
million; foreign investors $22 million. To avoid exacerbating the debt
service burden, public and publicly-guaranteed borrowing on commercial terms
will be strictly limited during the program period. Difficulties in meeting
external debt obligations are not expected during the program period because
of the large concessional element of the external debt and its long maturity.
24.      A key feature of the overall macroeconomic adjustment program will be
to contain inflation. Past inflation has been associated with the
liberalization of official prices, the depreciation of the official exchange
rate to market level and wage increases. Reforms already instituted should
increase the availability of goods, thereby helping to alleviate price
pressures. Relatively high inflation is likely to persist in 1989, however,
because drought has again reduced the large December-February rice crop to
below normal levels. In addition to increased supplies in the coming years,
strong domestic resource mobilization and access to foreign funds will limit
the need for monetary base expansion and help reduce inflationary pressures.
The anti-inflation policy will also contain domestic credit expansion to a
level consistent with price and output targets, taking into account the
monetary deepening expected from the shift from barter to cash trade. Money
and credit ceilings monitored under a SAF agreement will be established.
2I     Down from $104 million in 1986-87.



-8-
IIT. THz SAC PROGRAM
Program Obiectives and Policy Tools
25.      The proposed adjustment program seeks to reinvigorate economic growth
by ensuring a more efficient use of Laos' existing capital assets and new
investment and its natural resources. Achieving such changes constitutes a
formidable challenge, given the large financial imbalances which beset the
economy and the sharply deteriorated production facilities and transport
network. The proposed SAC is viewed as the first of at least two or three
similar operations that would be needed to achieve long-lasting structural
adjustment in Laos, while ensuring that GDP grows by 5-6Z p.a., as projected
for the 1989-92 period. The program contains five sets of policy tools
to be used in achieving these goalss (i) exchange rate and price reform;
(ii) enterprise reform; (iii) financial sector reforms; (iv) budgetary and
fiscal reforms; and (v) external debt management.
26.      This section describes the refcrm measures already taken in the
key policy areas and outlines the agenda for implementation of structural
reforms as discussed between the Bank and the Government. A matrix of
objectives, measures and actions appears in Annex V. Our focus is on the
crucial next steps of a long process of institutional change and changes in
macroeconomic management.
Exchange rate and price reform
27.      The most far-reaching step taken by the Government has been the
elimination of the dual price system (official and parallel prices) for
goods and for foreign exchange, and the subsequent reliance on market
prices. The official exchange rate is aligned with the level of the
parallel market. The unification process wta initiated in 1986 and in 1987
the Government adopted the principle of maintaining a unified, flexible
market-related exchange rate, which is now being used for the valuation of
all foreign transactions and foreign assets/liabilities in the budgetary,
monetary and national accounts.   During the program period, the Government
will continue to pursue a flexible exchange rate policy.
28.      Domestic prices of most goods and services are now market-
determined. This fundamental policy reform was initiated in June 1987.
Official procurement prices in agriculture, with important exceptions in
forestry, have been aligned with market prices. This includes coffee
prices which were increased three-fold in 1988. Subsidies for agricultural
inputs (e.g. fertilizer) were eliminated as part of price rationalization.
The prices of fuel, cement, machinery and vehicles were freed in March
1988. In 1988 the Government also aligned subsidized prices of goods
available to public sector employees in state stores with market prices.
Consequently, official prices for most traded goods are now in line with
world prices. Only the prices of public utilities, i.e., electricity,
water, PTT, and air transport, remain controlled by the Government. The
Government is taking steps to progressively align these prices with
domestic costs. In the case of electricity, as Thailand is committed under



-9
present contracts to buy any quantity that is not sold on the domestic
market, apFropriate domestic electricity pricing is crucial to achieving an
optimal allocation of available production between domestic consumption and
exports. Domestic prices will be adjusted during the program period
towards the long run marginal cost of low-voltage production.
Enterprise reform
29.      The structure of production and of trade has undergone major
changes, aimed at stimulating private sector participation and increased
state enterprise efficiency. These changes are congruent with the new
pricing system as they give economic agents the opportunity to respond to
the price signals transmitted through the markets.
30.      Most state enterprises have been extended financial and managerial
autonomy. In March 1988 the Government adopted the principle of abolishing
operating subsidies to state enterprises. State enterprises henceforth
increasingly have to rely on retained earnings, bank credit and Government
equity and loans for operations and new investment. The Government has
initiated a policy to charge commercial terms for funds that are provided
from the budget to selected enterprises in the form of equity or long-term
credits and will establish policy guidelines for the remainder. In order
to benefit from the new incentives, many state enterprises are in need of
serious restructuring. A large number of state enterprises operate with
obsolete equipment. To address this problem, the Government has received
an IDA credit to rehabilitate selected industrial enterprises. I/In 1988,
an initial 13 enterprises have been identified for this purpose. For the
general financial restructuring of enterprises, a first step is to
introduce a reliable system of accounting, to assess their financial
situation. To that end, the Government is receiving French bilateral
assistance to establish a national system of accounting.   A proposed new
accounting system has been accepted by the Government in 1989, and a
training program is being planned with the objective to complete
implementation of the new system by end-1990.
31.      The reform of the enterprise sector was broadened in 1987 and 1988
when the Government decided to promote private sector participation. Under
the program, Government has agreed to strengthen this process. Private
firms and farmers have been granted access to imported raw inputs,
machinery, and transport equipment and to credit from the banking system.
Participation in agricultural cooperatives has been made voluntary and
preferential treatment for cooperatives and state farms has been
eliminated. Furthermore, in line with this policy, the Government will
The state enterprise sector is relatively small in terms of
contribution to GDP. Also, of the 250 to 300 individual units that are
classified as enterprises in Laos, only about 10? are modern
enterprises of medium and small size. The remainder are traditional
and handicraft operations and loosely organized activities. The
reforms focus on improvements in the small core of modern enterprises.



_ 10 -
partially privatize selected state enterprises. In the case of the
Ministry of Industry, 9 out of 18 enterprises are envisaged for partial
privatization.
32.      For the purpose of attracting foreign investors the Government
issued a liberal Foreign Investment Code in July 1988 and the regulations
for its application were passed in March 1989. Some joint-ventures are
already in operation. The increased participation of private and foreign
investors, however, is handicapped by the absence of a legal framework
(company law) concerning such important issues as the statute of the
various forms of enterprises, the definition of shares, the liabilities of
shareholders and managets, and so on. During the program period, the
Government will establish a legal framework for companies. Assistance in
this field would be provided in the context of a Bank-executed, UNDP-
financed study on foreign investment and export promotion to be done in
1989.
33.      Under the program, important steps have been taken to liberalize
foreign trade, which was almost completely monopolized by the state. To
that eff- ., previous import prohibitions and restrictions have been
eliminated with the exception of a few goods such as cars. As a result,
all economic agents have access to imported goods through licensed public
and private sector traders. Until recently, nearly all key merchandise
exports4/were subject to special arrangements. Since these goods are
covered by Government contracts which specify the quantities that are to be
exported to socialist countries, the domestic purchase and marketing of
these goods were restricted by Government. One state enterprise was given
a nearly complete monopoly on the domestic procurement and exports of
strategic goods, and procurement prices were kept low. These policies, in
conjunction with the severe overvaluation of the exchange rate, have been
tha main cause for the low level of Laos' exports of coffee, cattle and
other agricultural commodities. Government recognizes that if Laos'
exports are to grow, these policies have to be modified. Accordingly, in
1989, the list of "strategic goods' will be reduced. Mixed public/private
enterprises are authorized to trade in coffee, wh .e a central Government
enterprise is to be designated to trade in logs for export. The minerals
are handled under contracts supervised by Government. These measures are
equivalent to Government removal of its monopoly on astrategic goods", with
the exception of logs as discussed below. Finally, the Government will
explore ways to further promote exports, such as import duty drawback
schemes, the elimination of the export profit tax and the introduction of
export financing mechanisms. This is part of the UNDP-financed study on
foreign investment and export promotion.
34.      Government will continue to extend coverage of its policy to align
official procurement prices to market prices. Before second tranche
4/     Goods designated by Government as 'strategic goods" in the past
included coffee, tobacco, cardamon, benzoin, sticklac, logs, processed
wood, rattan, cattle, wild animals, minerals and other special goods.



- 11 -
release, official procurement prices of all "strategic goods" will be
aligned with border prices.
35.      The export of logs is a special case.  Government took steps to
ban the export of logs, but this measure has proved to be too disruptive to
the economy given the importance of earnings from this sector. In March
1989, Government decided to partially lift the ban and to pursue its
conservation objective by imposing a royalty on logging to capture the
economic rent. The larger issue of sustainable forest exploitation
requires the 3tudy of exploitable potential, policy issues in the field of
ownership, taxes and prices, and reforestation measures.   During the
program period, these issues are to be reviewed under a FAO Tropical
Forestry Action Plan to be undertaken in 1989 with active Bank
participation. A comprehensive action plan in this field is to be
implemented starting in 1990.
Financial sector reforms
36.      Financial sector policies are designed to reinforce the impact of
the reform of the price signals and regulatory framework.  The strength-
ening of credit policy will complete the incentive framework for efficient
private investment decision-making while improved private saving mobili-
zation will contribute to the additional domestic resources required to
sustain the higher investment level envisaged under the program.
37.      Therefore the Government has initiated a complete restructuring of
the financial sector as well as the reform of monetary and credit policies.
In March 1988, the central banking and commercial banking functions of the
State Bank were separated. Two commercial banks were opened in Vientiane.
The State Bank will remain in charge of monetary and credit policy while
autonomous commercial banks will be responsible for the allocation of
credit.
38.      Adequate mobilization of financial savings will necessitate the
introduction of appropriate financial instruments, the maintenance of
remunerative returns and the restoration of sound financial practices. A
significant step towards the objectives mentioned above was already taken
in October 1988 when lending and borrowing rates were raised above the rate
of inflation on the parallel market. Government policy during the program
is to maintain positive real interest rates. Nevertheless, several
shortcomings remain in the interest rate structure. These include the zero
interest paid on large short term deposits in local currency and the
negative spread on some maturities. Government has requested technical
assistance to study the interest rate issues in 1989. It was agreed that,
before second tranche release, the Government will revise the interest rate
structure with a view to introducing interest bearing accounts for large
short term deposits and positive spreads on all maturities. This would
provide appropriate financial incentives to increase domestic resource
mobilization and would provide transparency in interest rate policies.
When banks are required to extend credit at subsidized rates they will be
compensated through the budget.



-12 -
Budgetary and fiscal reforms
39.      Budgetary and fiscal reforms are key measures in this early stage
of the adjustment program. There has been a substantial reorientation of
current budgetary expenditures. In 1988 Government dismantled the system
of consumer subsidies to public sector employees. However, the overall
wage bill more than doubled as the Government compensated the civil
servants for the loss of consumption subsidies, which were predominantly
financed through implicit taxes on rice farmers, and as severance payments
were made to encourage workforce reduction.   Vages of civil servants are
still extremely low. In order to retain qualified ctaff, the Government
will gradually increase the salaries of higher level civil servants in line
with similar levels in the rest of the economy and, to bear this cost, will
reduce drastically the total number of civil servants.   This will result
in a gradual reduction of the civil service by about 20 percent, in the
course of 1989. It is expected that new employment opportunities for those
displaced will emerge in the private growth sectors.
40.      The restructuring of current expenditures undertaken in 1988 will
be pursued to emphasize maintenance and operation of existing assets.
During the program period, operations and maintenance units will be set up
with necessary personnel, equipment, and budget in transport and
irrigation. Road-user taxes and cost-recovery measures in the irrigation
sector will be studied and specific measures proposed for adoption to
contribute to the increased budgetary resources needed for sustaining these
programs. Pilot projects have been identified under IDA and ADB-financed
operations in these sectors to start the process of building administrative
units with permanent 0 & M responsibilities.
41.      To increase budgetary savings in the short term, prior to release
of the second tranche, Government has agreed to increase the domestic price
of electricity by an average of 702. I/ This is an increase towards the
objective of achieving a domestic tariff rate equivalent to the long-run
marginal cost of low voltage electricity.
42.      The public investment program will continue to emphasize the
development of the productive sectors of agriculture, energy and transport,
representing respectively about 202, 302, and 35Z of the investment budget
for 1989. These priorities are consistent with the most urgent needs of
the country to stimulate agricultural production, exploit the vast
hydroelectricity potential both for exports and domestic use, integrate the
fragmented economy and overcome the bottlenecks caused by its landlocked
position. However, investment allocations inside these sectors will be
redirected towards more cost-effective projects and priority will be given
to rehabilitation, completion and maintenance of existing infrastructure.
In addition, more emphasis will be given to social sectors, particularly
5/     This increase will be calculated as the weighted average of the
percentage increase in tariffs for domestic consumption, excluding the
diplomatic community consumers.



- 13 -
education and health. These issues wrill be further elaborated with the
Government in the framework of a Public Expenditure Review, scheduled for
late 1989.
43.      The Government initiated a fundamental tax reform in 1988 aimed at
adapting the tax system to the increased financial autonomy of state
enterprises and providing equal treatment to all firms in the same sector,
whether state or private. The cornerstone of this reform was the principle
that only a single and uniform tax should apply to each activity, whether
production, retail, import or export. In the case of industrial
enterprises, this has been translated into the introduction of a profit tax
to replace the transfer to the budget of operating surpluses of public
enterprises. The previous practice of negotiating tax payments has been
discontinued under the 1988 tax reform in favor of a uniform tax treatment.
However, tax rates still vary across sectors. The tax reform addressed
some of the major sources of distortions in the tax system, but a number of
problems remain. In particular, the profit tax did not yield the expected
revenues. I/ This tax is extremely difficult to administer and easy to
evade. In addition, the different tax rates among sectors introduce
unwanted distortionary effects into the production system.
44.      As Government revenue from new taxes fell below expectations in
1988, further reform is envisaged to place tax collection on a more solid
footing and to remove remaining distortions. A major element of the
Government's tax reform program is the streamlining of the profits tax by
unifying all rates. Part of the problem with collection of the profits tax
has been enterprise avoidance of profits by permitting costs to escalate.
As there are no audited enterprise accounts, it has proven to be difficult
for the Government to monitor enterprise profits and collect taxes. The
Government's approach to dealing with this problem is to: (i) implement a
new system of enterprise accounts with the help of foreign technical
assistance; (ii) study the feasibility of introducing a wage-bonus taxation
scheme to limit the deductibility of wage bonuses, and thus inhibit growth
in costs from eroding the profits tax base; (iii) raise the tax base by
raising electricity prices and reviewing other utility prices; and (iv)
introduce flat fee business licenses in lieu of a profits tax for foreign
or joint ventures, with the value of the license set by competition amongst
foreigners. The latter is envisaged for the cigarette and beer factories.
Overall, the profits tax and license fees are expected to generate revenues
equal to 7.3Z of total expenditure by 1992.
45.      A second element in tax reform is the introduction of a
progressive wage income tax, with a maximum rate equal to the profits tax.
This will be withheld at source. However, because the formal salaried
employment sector is so small, tax receipts from this source are unlikely
to surpass 1.3Z of total expenditure. A third element of tax reform is the
6/     However, the trade taxes yielded a dramatic increase which could
have accounted in part for a decrease in profits and therefore in
profit tax yield.



- 14 -
expansion of the turnover tax. This is being considered as a substitute
for a VAT or a sales tax because of the difficulties in implementing these
alternatives. With technical assistance, the Government will review
implementation of a turnover tax so as to avoid the cascading effect that
arises when goods are taxed at different stages in the production process.
Production for export will be excluded from the turnover tax. A petroleum
turnover tax, which would be easily administered and relatively non-
distortionary, will be introduced in 1989. Overall, the turnover tax is
expected to generate 92 of total expenditure. Other indirect taxes, such
as tariffs on non-project imports, will contribute a further 72 of total
expenditure.
46.      The remainder of the tax effort should be focussed on collection
of royalties or excises from natural resource exploitation. The two main
resources from a tax viewpoint are hydroelectricity and forestry products.
The abolition of the special export tax rate of 802 for electricity exports
will generate a windfall for the electricity company, only part of which
will be reclaimed by the Government through the profits tax. The remainder
should also be collected via a new royalty tax. Similarly, log production
will be subject to a royalty to capture the inherent rent. The Government
has proposed the introduction of an ad valorem forestry tax with rates
varying between 10-702, depending on the grade of wood. The tax yield from
these two royalties is forecast at 72 of total expenditure.
47.      Before second tranche release, an agreement is to be reached with
IDA on adoption of tax reform measures, including the introduction of a
uniform profits tax, a wage income tax and a turnover tax, avoiding
cascading effects as much as possible. No tax having a discriminatory
effect on exports will be introduced.
External Debt Management
48.      During the program period, the Government will transfer all
official foreign exchange transactions to the State Bank.   The Government
intends to pursue its cautious approach in contracting new external debt
and to improve its debt management system. The Government will continue to
emphasize external financing in the forms of grants and highly concessional
credits. Additionally, the Government will continue to seek voluntary debt
relief from its foreign creditors. To improve debt management, all public
debt data will be centralized, debt reporting methods will be improved and
a computerized system of debt management will be set up, with technical
assistance. Government has agreed to continue to report its debt regularly
to the Bank.
Program Benefits, External Financing Requirements, Social Impact and Risk
Program Benefits
49.      The program aims at achieving an average GDP growth rate of 5.52
p.a. over the years 1989-1992. Given an annual population growth rate of
2.72, income per capita should grow by about 2.72 p.a. over the same
period. The larger contribution to growth would come from agricultural



- 15 -
production growing at an average annual rate of 3Z, but the most dynamic
sectors *ould be the industry and services sectors. The agricultural
growth rate would reflect the initial recovery of rice production from the
drought, the slowing down of logging activities and a gradual shift t.o cash
crops, e.g. coffee, maize, cardamon, soya beans, cassava, and tobacco, and
to livestock in response to increased prices and access to markets.
50.      Manufacturing production is expected to pick up, from a narrow
base, as capacity utilization increases, equipment is rehabilitated,
availability of imported inputs and spare parts improves, and the more open
domestic and foreign trade system enlarges producers' access to potential
markets. Furthermore, efficiency will increase with the enhanced role of
the private sector, including foreign investors, and the greater autonomy
accorded to enterprises. Mining output will initially rise as consequence
of ongoing investments in tin and gypsum and, in the medium term, as a
result of the exploitation of other mineral deposits. As the effect of the
drought diminishes, electricity production would gradually recover its 1986
level. 7/ The construction sector is also expected to grow rapidly as a
result of public ir.vestment in infrastructure and a projected increase in
the demand for housing. Finally, the liberalization of trade and prices
will give a strong boost to services., In particular, the removal of
restrictions on the shipment of goods between provinces and the development
of the road network will continue to have a substantial impact on the
transport sub-sector.
External Financing Requirements
51.      In order to accommodate the level of import growth needed for
economic recovery and to permit a modest increase in gross official
reserves, additional foreign concessional assistance will be needed. B/The
proposed IDA Credit of US$40 million equivalent would be disbursed in
1989-91, and a second SAC, estimated at US$20 million equivalent, is
envisaged for FY92. The ADB is also preparing an agricultural program loan
for $20 million, disbursement of which will more than double its assistance
to average $11 million annually through 1992. IMP financing under the SAF
is projected to total $28.6 million equivalent in the 1989-91 period. Lao
PDR will also benefit from the deferment of debt repayments to 2000 by the
Soviet Union and from the cancellation of outstanding official loans and
rescheduling of commercial credit on concessional terms by France. Taking
these factors into account, and including disbursements under existing
commitments from bilateral and multilateral sources as well as foreign
7/     Hydroelectricity production will increase in the early 90s due to
the completion of the 35 am Xeset hydropower plant.
8/     In the External Financing Requirements Table (Annex I, Table 4)
"disbursements from existing commitments" cover only long-term loan
committed before December 31, 1987, as recorded in the Debt Reporting
System. All other aid disbursements are included in "disbursements
from new commitments".



- 16 -
direct investment inflows already identified, the balance of payments is
fully financed through 1990. However, a financing gap in 1991-92 avcraging
$21 million per year is projected to materialize as the economy becomes
increasingly open. Nevertheless, without sizeable new aid commitments, the
reserve position could not be strengthened and import growth would have to
be constrained, with the attendent consequences for real growth.
Social Impact
52.      The implementation of the adjustment program is expected to result
in a recovery of per capita real income growth to 2.7Z on average over the
program period, after two years of decline. The immediate outcome of
reforms has been to change the distribution of income in favor of the rural
areas. The primary mechanism that allowed this redistribution was through
substantial adjustment to both the internal and external terms of trade,
facilitated by the removal of restrictions on trade and the alignment of
official prices with market levels. Further improvements in rural living
standards can be expected as farmers respond to the changes in relative
prices and as the supply of consumer goods increase. The greater access to
imported inputs (fertilizer, seed, machinery) will also allow farmers to
improve their production techniques and therefore raise their incomes.
53.      Urban living standards may initially show signs of the stress of
the adjustment taking place. This will affect primarily public sector
employees, who used to benefit from the implicit tax on the rural sector
arising from food subsidies. Public sector employment is declining. This
adverse impact is being mitigated by the 12 month salary that the
Government provides as severance pay to civil servants and by the phased
increase in civil servant wages. In addition, there are increased job
opportunities in private sector services and industry as well as new
employment in foreign ventures, with higher wages. The poorest segment of
the population, who did not have good access to official markets, will be
less affected by the shift in relative prices, as the amplitude of the
price adjustment is expected to be less in parallel markets.
Risk
54.      Laos is a small economy where activities are highly concentrated on
a few major sectorss rice, wood (and wood products) and hydroelectricity.
The latter two represented, for instance, more than 70Z of exports over
1986-88. The key assumption underlying the adjustment program is that no
exogenous shocks will affect these sectors during the course of the program.
In particular, it is assumed that weather conditions will return to normal,
after two years of drought, allowing a recovery in hydroelectricity that
would generate increased export earnings and fiscal revenue, and in rice
production that would support private consumption and reduce imports. It is
also expected that the overall level of wood exports will continue to rise.
Also, based on the participation of foreign investors and technical
assistance to overcome the present quality control problems in the wood
processing industry, it is projected that exports of processed wood will
intcrease. In the event this scenario does not come about, domestic
expenditure would remain curtailed, as it has been in the last two years.



- 17 -
55.      A second assumption is that policy measures, such as revenue-
raising measures and the strengthening of credit policy, which are necessary
for the adjustment process, will not face crippling political or
administrative problems. The risk of such problems arising is lessened by
the fact that Government sees the reform program as its own. This is
evidenced by the fact that it embarked upon the reform process without IDA
or IMF financial support, although a close adherence to Bank and Fund
recommendations is evident. In addition, while the program envisages a very
substantial increase in fiscal revenues, by international standards, part of
this increase will come from exogenous developments, e.g. the recovery of
hydroelectric production. Finally, the adjustment program is linked to a
more global liberalization process which has gatherod public support and
momentum on its own. A strong commitment to the reform process exists at
the ministerial and technical levels and has not wavered in the last three
years. However, the sheer lack of qualified people in core economic
agencies could hinder the implementation of the adjustment program or the
absorption of the increased foreign assistance. Therefore, the program
embodies a substantial role for technical existence in the key areas for
adjustment, i.e. credit poiicy, from the IMF and ADB, and pu lic sector
management, from the Bank and UNDP as well as bilateral donors.
IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
Credit History
56.      The Government of Lao PDR and the Association are in general
agreement on the main features of Laos' economic situation and on the broad
program of economic reforms aimed at liberalizing the economy and improving
its management. Over the last three years, the Bank has supported the
Government's adjustment efforts through its enhanced economic dialogue
based on the country economic reports of 1986 and 1988 (Reports
No. 6070-LA dated July 15, 1986 and No. 7188-LA dated September 21, 1988).
As discussed above, several key measures werc taken. Public secto-
enterprises were granted autonomy, and steps are being taken to bring about
improvements in their management, including private sector takeover through
majority ownership and leasing arrangements. Subsidies on agriculture
inputs were eliminated and producer prices were increased substantially,
including the paddy procurement price which rose by about 200Z since 1987
and is now at the level of the border price. Prices of most industrial
goods also were increased to the level of parallel market prices. Domestic
trade was liberalized and restrictions were removed on private sector
activities. The measures culminated in the decision made by Government at
the end of 1987 to introduce a uniform market-related exchange rate and to
announce its commitment to a flexible exchange rate policy. The kip rate
has been adjusted in line with developments in the parallel market since
then.
57.      The proposed credit was prepared following Government's
announcement in July 1988 of the implementation of the decree on the
exchange rate reforms, and builds on ongoing consultations on trade, public



- 18 -
enterprise, investment &ad fiscal issues. Supplementary credit data are
provided in Annex III.
Credit Obiectives
58.      The objectives of the proposed credit of SDR 30.8 million (US$40.0
million equivalen.) are to support the substantial reforms undertaken by the
Government and underpin Government's implementation efforts over the 1989-91
period. Specifically the credit would (a) assist the Lao PDR to improve state
enterprise management; (b) stimulate private sector activities; (c) assist
with formulation of fiscal measures to ensure increased revenues; (d) assist
with Bank reform measures aimed at an increase in savings mobilization; and
(e) support measures to achieve greater efficiency in use of resources. The
objectives would be achieved in part through support to the balance of
payments by the proposed credit and support to the budget provided by the
counterpart funds generated by the sale of the imports purchased under the
credit and in part through ongoing dialogue on policy issues.
Credit Administration
59.      Disbursement.   The proposed credit would amount to about SDR 30.8
million (US$40 million equivalent), depending on IDA availability. The
credit would be disbursed in two equal tranches of about SDR 15.4 million
each. The first tranche would be available upon credit effectiveness. The
second tranche would be available for disbursement following a review of
performance in March 1990, and subject to the conditions outlined in the
paragraphs below. The proceeds of the IDA credit would be used for eligible
imports. The list of ineligible imports for the purpose of this credit
would be standard, i.e., goods intended for military or para-military
purposes, or for luxury consumption, goods financed from other official
multilateral or bilateral sources; and uranium. IDA financing will be
limited to imports procured from Bank member countries and Switzerland. The
credit would be used to reimburse 1002 of foreign costs of imports. In
light of the fact that Government has taken prior action on many elements of
the adjustment program, it is recommended that IDA retroactively finance
eligible items procured, in accordance with Bank guidelines, within four
months prior to signing of the credit agreement, but after March 1, 1989, up
to a maximum amount of US$8.0 million.
60.      The Ministry of Economy, Plan and Finance (MinEPF) will have
primary responsibility for the administration of the proposed credit.  The
Ministry's Department of External Finance will be responsible for the
preparation and submission of withdrawal requests. Disbursements for
contracts of US$500,000 and above would be fully documented following
standard procedures employed ir. adjustment lending. Disbursement against
contracts less that US$500,000 but more than US$10,000 would be made on the
basis of certified Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) from the MinEPF
detailing individual transaction in a given period together with payment of
the amounts involved and of their eligibility under the credit. Supporting
documentation for SOEs would be retained by the MinEPF for periodic review
by IDA supervision missions. Expenditures for goods procured under
contracts less than US$10,000 equivalent would not be eligible for



- 19 _
financing under the credit. To facilitate disbursements from the credit, a
Special Account, with an authorized allocation of US$7.5 million,
representing approximately four months' average expenditures would be
6stablished in US dollars by the MinEPF at the Banque pour le Commerce
Exterieur Laos (BCEL).   Replenishment from the second tranche amount
could be made following satisfactory performance on the conditions speci-
fied for second tranche release. All of the proceeds of the proposed
credit are expected to be disbursed in 22 months from the date of credit
effectiveness.
61.      Procurement.  Both private and public sector imports would be
eligible for financing. Contracts under US$5 million each would be awarded
on the basis of normal commercial practices for private sector imports.
For public sector imports, contracts under US$5 million would be a*arded
after prudent shopping, meaning solicitation and comparison of price
quotations from at least three sources. All contracts for goods and
services estimated to cost US$5 million or more each would be procured
through simplified International ComLpetitive Bidding procedures in
accordance with Bank/IDA Guidelines.
62.      Accounts and Audits.  The MinEPF would maintain records of all
transactions under the credit and would be responsible for reconciling
these records with the records of the BCEL from time to time. There are no
accredited independent auditing firms operating in the Lao PDR. The credit
account would be subject to the normal government audit carried out by the
Accounting Department of the MinEPF, which is satisfactory to the
Association. HinEPF would submit to the Association the annual audit
report on (i) the project accounts and (ii) the Special Account and SOEs
within nine months of the end of each fiscal year.
Monitorin8 and Tranche Release
63.      The Bank would monitor closely, through frequent consultations
with Government, the progress in implementation of the reform program, as
shown in the matrix in Annex V. The reform process is now at a relatively
advanced stage, despite the absence of a policy-based lending operation in
Lao PDR. This reflects the receptivity of the Government to Bank
recommendations which has been evident both in the conception of the reform
program and the adjustments the Government has brought to its program in
the course of its implementation. This program includes major policy
changes cutting across the economic sectors.
64.      Further progress towards the establishment of an economic
structure conducive to accelerated economic development will be made before
second tranche release. The program for the next two years covers almost
all sectors and includes implementation of recent decisions as well as new
reform measures. While continued progress on this broad front will be
monitored by the Bank, four conditions are proposed for second tranche
release:



- 20 _
(i)   adoption of tax reform measures, including the introduction of
a uniform profit tax, a wage income tax and a turnover tax,
avoiding cascading effects as much as possible. No tax having
a discriminatory effect on exports will be introduced;
(paras. 43-47);
(ii)   increase in the price of electricity for domestic sales by an
average of 702, as a first stage towards the level of long run
marginal costs for low voltage electricity; (para. 41)
(iii)   revision of the structure of interest rates with a view to
introducing interest-bearing accounts for large short term
deposits in local currency and a positive spread between
borrowing and lending rates; (para. 38) and
(iv)   alignment of official procurement prices for all "strategic
goods, with border prices. (paras. 33-34)
Coordination with Other Agencies
65.      The successful implementation of the program will be supported by a
substantial program of technical assistance agreed with the IMF, the ADB and
the Bank to start in 1989.  In the field of central banking, this program
will assist in the formulation of credit, foreign exchange and monetary
policies; the regulation of commercial banks; the new procedures of the
State Bank; and the monitoring of the monetary sector through improvements
of the classification, coverage and valuation of banking and monetary
statistics. In the field of commercial banking, technical assistance will
concentrste on institution building (accounting and auditing systems, credit
procedures, etc). and training. In addition, Laos is receiving assistance
for the establishment of reliable national accounts. Bilateral assistance
also covers a review of tax policy and the design of the new accounting
system for enterprises and training.
66.      Assistance will also be provided in the fields of foreign
investment and export promotion under a UNDP-financed project. The Bank
will do a study of macroeconomic management focussing on budget
administration, public enterprise supervision and public expenditure review.
Other Bank projects, both ongoing (Industrial Credit) and under preparation
(Telecommunications, Transport and Agriculture) also include technical
assistance which further supports the objectives of the proposed SAC in the
fields of bank credit, institutional development, enterprise restructuring,
cost recovery, and export promotion. FAO is the lead agency for the
Tropical Forestry Action Plan for Laos which will be done with assistance of
the Bank, ADB, and SIDA. The ADB is also preparing an Agriculture Program
Loan for 1989, in the amount of about $20 million.   Consultations have been
held with ADB on issues in agriculture (irrigation) and forestry (log
exports).



_ 21 -
V. RELATIONS WITH IMF
67.      The latest IMF Article IV consultation mission was held from
February 16 to March 2, 1989. The staff report was released April 25, 1989
(SM8974). The Government of Lao PDR has not had any stand-by or extended
arrangements since 1981. The last purchase was for SDR 14 million under a
stand-by arrangement: the amount has been fully repurchased. DIM technical
assistance has been provided from the Bureau of Statistics in
October/November 1988 to assist with building up money and banking
statistics and in November 1988 to establish a framework for compilation of
balance of payments data. The Central Banking Division has placed an
expert in the Central Bank in Vientiane from January 1989.
68.      The preparation of the structural adjustment program to be
supported by the proposed IDA Credit benefitted from joint Bank/Fund
missions. From February 16 to March 2, 1989, the Bank and Fund missions
collaborated on producing a 4daft joint Policy Framework Paper which was
discussed and agreed in substvnce with Government. The PFP was discussed
and agreed with the Government delegation in Washington, D.C. on May 11,
1989, following completion of the credit negotiations. The IMP is
scheduled to negotiate a SAP agreement with the Government in May/June
1989.
VI. THE BANK OPERATIONS STRATEGY
69.      Overview. Ten IDA credits have been made to the Lao PDR to date,
totalling an equivalent of US$110.5 million. The Bank's relationship with
the country has gradually strengthened, and the Bank strategy is to expand
lending in key sectors and to support Government's substantial program of
economic reforms with IDA credits and technical assistance.   The overall
magnitude of the changes and increased private sector confidence and
participation are strong signals of the depth and staying power of the changes
in the economy. The marked improvement in Laos' performance has been
recognized by the Bank in an improved performance rating and an increased
lending program. The Bank strategy gives priority to economic policy and
institutional improvements.
70.      IDA resources are focussed on fast-disbursing adjustments credits
which are crucial at this early stage of the economic reforms and on costly
infrastructure investments which are needed to provide access to both
domestic and international markets. Agriculture which is freed by the
liberalization measures to move into the cash economy and contribute more
fully to growth is a priority sector. Priority is also given to the as yet
small industrial sector to promote import substitution (manufacturing) and
export growth (hydropower and manufacturing). In the social sectors, which
are also a priority, the Bank can benefit Government most by acting as a
catalyst to formulate projects and supplement IDA funds with the substantiai
grant funding that Government is in a good position to attract for these
sectors.



- 22 -
71.      Sector strategy.  A tremendous obstacle to be overcome is the
country's international isolation and its woeful lack of internal
communications. In order for the liberalization policies to result in
sustained economic growth, domestic markets must be integrated and access to
international markets provided. Investment is therefore urgently needed to
rehabilitate, modernize and expand roads, river por& facilities, and
telecommunications. Priority needs are being addressed under the ongoing
transport project, and a national-level study is being done to get an overview
of the status of the sector and developme.t priorities.   Given the policy
reforms that are affecting the sector and the large capital requirements,
sector lending is an option we want to consider.
72.      One result of past policies has been a serious lack of foreign
exchange. Exports must be increased if Laos is to sustain a higher rate of
growth. Price incentives are being adjusted upwards under the reform program,
but important constraints on export development include lack of investment
goods, intermediate inputs, and improved technologies. Due to a recent
decline in the price of its main export (electricity), the need to increase
merchandise exports became an urgent short term issue. A prime candidate for
increased export earnings was tropical forest logs. In 1987188 there was a
surge of exports in tropical forest logs which helped bolster foreign exchange
earnings, but for the future Government wants to conserve its forest cover and
to selectively export forest products with high value-added. We are assisting
Government in establishing a tropical forest master plan to know better how to
proceed with overall sector development and sound environmental policies.  In
addition to other agriculture, forestry and livestock products, there are a
number of export possibilities for the medium-term in mining products and
hydropower.  The prospects are uncertain, however, because the success in any
one area depends on a number of complex factors including political ones.
Further development of hydropower for export presents the problem of a single
buyer, Thailand, and thus regional political considerations. We will continue
to work on hydropower feasibility while taking into account this constraint.
In mining we are responding to Government's request to assist in formulation
of a viable sector strategy, establishment of an adequate legal and insti-
tutional framework for sector development, and increased mobilization of
resources. We are also proposing an oil and gas exploration operation to
reply to Government's request for assistance in this area.
73.      The lack of skilled manpower is a serious bottleneck that cuts across
all sectors and affects the country's ability to bring about the desired
improvements in management of the economy and in management of commercial
enterprises. For this reason, we will focus on building up capacity in the
country for engineering and higher level technician training. At the same
time, at the request of Government we plan to review the basic education
system to identify a sound program of reform and ways in which the Bank could
assist in its implementation.
74.      Social indicators for Laos show the extremely low level of health
services available to the population. Low labor productivity is one result
which adversely effects all sectors and in particular agriculture--the sector
engaging 80Z of the work force. Bank assistance will focus on improving



- 23 -
health education, facilities and services in the larger provincial centers
with a view to benefitting a substantial part of the population.
75.      Cofinancing is an important aspect of our strategy as we continue
to widen the range of sectors benefitting from Bank assistance. Laos, being
classified as an LLDC, has been very successful in attracting grants, and
the Bank has worked with Government to attract grant funds for technical
assistance in IDA projects. Our strategy in this respect will be to work
with co-donors for possible co-financing of technical assistance as well as
other project components. Given Government's preference, the ratio of IDA
funds to donor grants would continue to be higher in industry and transport,
for example, whereas the ratio in health and education projects would be
much lower. The Bank would in this way be furthering its objectives of
helping to ease a potential debt burden problem for the country and, at the
same time, increasing its involvement in areas closer to core poverty
problems.
76.      Another area where Bank and Government concern coincides is on the
environment. In Laos the greatest poverty is identified with the part of
the population living in remote mountainous areas where traditional slash
and burn cultivation practices have become the cause of the greatest amount
of environmental degradation. The Bank is participating with FAO, ADB, and
SIDA, on a tropical forestry plan to focus on management and sustainable
exploitation of the forests and the potential environmental impact. The
Bank is taking environmental factors into consideration in macroeconomic
policy formulation and in operations in support of enterprise development.
VI. RECOMMENDATION
77.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
by Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
Hay 16, 1989



IAO PDR
MEY UACROECONM9I PSICATUR
Actual              Eat.                P-eejete
lam4     105       s9o"     3967      1998      In69     1 W90     iSP      1CS2
CDP Crot Rate 1/                                               6.4       9.1       7.2     -2.6       2.0      4.0       6.2       6.9      6.5
CP/Cpit  romth Rate t.9                                                  6.7       4.6     -4.9      -0.4      1.6       2.7       5.1      8.7
Debt Service (is, mliIees of USI)                             15.2      10.7      11.7     13.2      11.7      16.9     10.1      20.2     16.9
Debt Serrice/XS                                               22.4      22.8      14.7     14.9      14.6      19.2     16.5      12.9     U2.0
Deoeetic Sevings/Tatal Invost et                               15.6     10.9      21.9    -26.9      16.0      IS.1     19.7      19.4     20.2
Natioeal sa1viag/Total Im.nvsetmmt                            17.4      15.0      24.6    -28.5      19.5     16.0      23.1      25.5    2U.S
Public Savings/Total Ivestmemt                               11.6       6.2      24.6     22.9       2.3      5.7      10.2      11.1     10.9
PeivtO  Saviags/Total Iev.t.oet                                0.0       4.7      -2.6    -49.7      12.7      9.4       9.6       o3.      9. S
Total I__tmet Growt Rat., 2/                                    ..      1.0    -10.9        0.5      -2.1     27.9       9.2       4.9     12.3
Public Set Ia_vetmet Growt Rate 2/                            ..      20.0    -14.5       8.4    -14.5      52.6       0.7       0.9     11.7
Privet. Sectot Investet Grow" Rate 2/                           -        9.1       7.1     -2.5      5.0      16.6      15.7      16.0     16.4
Sev.,imt Reveeuse/Total Esp. l/                                59.0     52.2      09.6     67.6      55.o     52.4      56.o      57.9     57.4
vewrmmt Curret Eap.fTotal gap. 5/                             49.2      48.4      59.0     54.0      U.7      27.7      27.1      28.0    I2.1
Curreet Deficit (-) or Srplue (*)/Total Esp. 5/                9.6       5.6      13.6    13.2        1.9      4.7       9.6      90.       9.5
Overell Dfleit (-) or Surplus (.)/Totol Esp. a/ 4/           -41.0    -47.6    -50.5    -82.2    4W4.4    -07.0        -4.4      42.1   -42.0;
Of  uileb  Gev. h,det D.f./T.tol Esp. 4/ S/                   ..        ..        ..       ..        ..      -18.4    -14.0    -15.6    -15.0
lEport  owt ROt. 2/                                             ..      29.3      -4.7     12.0    -12.0       9.5      21.2      11.5       .0
import Greow  R.to 2/                                          *-       29.4     -7.2       9.7    -20.0      17.6       9.6      10.0     10.0
Current Account (in Wilielo  of USlI)                       -121.1   -148.5   -120.5   -144.0   -151.0   -177.7   -190.4   -201.9   -252.6
Currat Accowt/oS                                                ..    -191.5   -151.5   -165.1   -1U2.1   -201.7   -160.3   -161.5   -105.0
Sources: Date provided by the LAO *uthoritise; sad staff stimates.
1/ Ratios to GOP are nt pre seted. Offlell estimates of  et Meteriel prodet which or, adjusted by the stff to include deproOitioe
and *om se*vice snd private sector transactions to approximt.e GOP. *re eosidered to be substantially ndersattd.
2/ la real trms
8/ 'Total oxpeeditwemg Includo on-leading to autonoem e  terprle .
4/ Overall deficit including *n-leading to autonomous enterprises
6/ Overall deficit exeludiag o.-lending to autoresooe enterprises



soL,ANc Of PTINS0Wt
(US Wflolwe of Current Price.)
19U4     1085      10o6     167       SUB      1680       s0o0    1900      1962
A. Eporta of GCods                         45.0     58.6      5.0      *2.1      57.0      oa.S     77.7      *.9    100.4
0. _*0ete of Cood                         161.6    196.2    165.?    216.2    US.0   28.2    261.3    30.65   544.9
C. Teads soltan                          -116.0   -119.6   -180.7   -154.1   -130.4   -109.4   -5.8   -212.6   -244.5
5. MNt Service                             -9.9     -7.8       6.6      6.6      -7.5    -16.6    -15.8       -4.0     -7.1
E. aet Curren Trawofere (Privet.)           2.6      8.5       8.7      8.5       6.7       7.6     10.5      34.7     10.1
P. CurrnOt Accot Sales.                  -125.1   -148.,   -126.5   -144.0   -181.0   -177.7   -190.4   -203.9   -282.6
B. Lowtarm Capital  .tl1v                122.5    140.8    158.0    186.5    135.9    A70.4    192.1    108.9    2t0.7
1.Dir.ct Xevstmse                          0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       4.6       6.6     12.6      le.6    2n.
2.8fficial Capital areat                  42.1     49.0      80.5     27.0    S.5        40.7     48.0      46.4     42.8
$.Not LT Leos                             80.8     47.       45.4     54.4      55.7      04.7    1(4.6      60.6    109.9
a.Diaberaemmota                         40.8     62.1      5.7      6.6       67.9    106.2    115.3    101.6    122.0
b.Ropsym ent                            10.0     14.8      10.3      11.1      9.2      15.5     12.8      11.9     12.1
4.0tber LT Itlown (Not)                   50.1     60.9      67.17    5.1       84.2      55.5    u8.8       82.4     81.2
M. Total oth&er It.e. (tNt)                -8.4     15.0      -4.6      -8.8     -0.4       4.9      6.l       5.2      5.9
I."t Stert Term Capital                   6.6       8.8       8.6      5.5       4.7      4.9       6.1      5.3       S.9
2.Copital fieo h.E.I.                      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
8.Errors and Caolesos                     -9.0     12.5    -4.2       -7.8    -14.1        0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
I. Cheso. to Not aeorew e                  6.0    -20.8      -8.7      11.8       4.5      -6.0     -7.0      -6.0     -0.2
1.Nst Credit from t1h 3W                  0.0    -4.0        -2.1      0.0       0.0      6.1      12.8       6.2      0.0
2.0t.r Aerve ChSe                          ..     -14.7      -0.7     11.4       4.5    -14.7    -19.2    -1S.2       -9.2
(- lodicatae lcrase)
J. Fliamectg, Gap                           0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      17.6    28.1
Shares of XGUWS (current MI)
1.7rd.  elec.                              ..    -106.6   -104.6   -174.5   -161.4   -102.5   -175.6   -150.6   -174.1
2.10.t1 Ieterest Pm"e                      ..       8.8       1.       2.8       5.1       4.1      8.6       8.4      8.2
4UC3rot.  Ioat Bats.o.                     .      19-11.6   -151.5   -162.1   -162.1   -201.7   -160.    -101.8   -I16.6
4.LI Capital lef too (tI l. 0)             .       06.      156.     154.0    106.2    205.0    162.1    146.0    150.1
5.Net Ctedit f rm the IMP                  ..      -6.0      -2.6      0.0       0.0      0.2      11.6      0.5       0.0
em.oradm" Items
XKSWS (i lliIa  of curraot VII)             ..      74.8      79.4     66.8      80.6     66.1    106.6    125.2    140.4
fortgn Ep fch      Resev"
1.lat'l. Resrve (IFS lid)                 10.6     25.8      82.0     20.6      16.1     80.6      50.0    6e.2       t2.4
2.0e1d (oed ye Leadl  prete)               0.6      0.6       0.6      0.6       0.6      0.6       0.0      0.6       0.6
L.Gross R"erve lelt. bold                 11.2     26.9      82.6     21.2      16.7     11.4      wCe0      6.*      n.0
4.O. ans. In Usew    mptort.               1.0      7.0       9.1      5.1       4.0       7.0     10.0    .13.0      11.0
Exchgp Rate. (LCUsIUSS)
I.Nom. Off. X-Rat  (IFS rb)              $8.0      75.0      96.0    160.0    400.0    406.0    587.0    562.0    576.0



Annex I
Table- 3
Page 1 of 3
X                -- -26
ii:           ..4wa i"f         i        X :1        X 
S  iX       gg ~agggo V                       ! a
5f  i     11   ^*|"||0 i *1                      OiW
Ir~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~ ~ ~ ~ . 
C4~~~~~~~~~C~
a    -
-         -                 - - -     -



Annex I
Table 3
- 27-                         Page 2 of 3
- - - -  -   - -   - -  -   --  -   - -   - -  -   - -   -
!a                                               i
tu  I              j xs I I           ||p 
to e- I0
*  I          ll"!l   01             lisS*0a.4          i       U
,w 83~~~~~~~~
BI            a*aBjU18#^^g|   
mz I E~    U. 3gg v i
____________________
- - - -        - -   - -    - -



3IAL. 1GOVEU3T BUJDT 1984-92
(IN ""GM OF KPS)
I                    .            I
)                                 I                          III. PRWIIN                                         I
CURET BLANCE                             22     747    869       9 mg8   1498    5779   12752   15621   16864 I
I                                 J                                                                             I
lOvNEALL BALANCE                  I  -S4W    -9487   -4186   -9667  -51140  -8824  -96714 -104306 -128690
IBEFCIT FDWIACIHC 
IWC    l>                         I                                                                             I
DOWSEIC FINANCING               I    -96    -104    -211    -222   -1896          0        0       0        0 I
wioiE IN MET D93ESTIC CREDIT  I    -96    -164    -211    -222   -189S          0        0       0        0        0I
I     I                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
FOREIGN FIDNACIlG                    868W    9601    9847     799   558S   68824   96714  104tOS   128t90
FtR. FIN. CfRENT EXPDEDrTE           0       0        0        0       0    1510    1937    1472    204B1
FOR. FIN. GOVT. INVESTlUBT         8688   10671    9828   11797  56216    98a45  101462  109628  126474
LESS: AMORTIZATION                   0   -1070    -976   -1996   -8680   4687    -606   -469   -M49
ITOTAL FINANCING                       8487    9487    8186   9ON7   51140   98824   96714  104506  128690
Source: Ministry of Econcwy, Plan and Finance and Bank staff estimates.
Ww 



Annex I
- 29 -                          Table 4
LAO PDR
EXTEUNAL FI=;CLZG REQUIRUMNNTS. 1988-92
(trn mitlions of v.S. doLtars)
1988     1989    1990      9l91    :992
Current account deficit. excluding official
transfers                                        131.0    177.7   190.4   201.9   232.5
Amortization                                         9.2      13.4    12.3    11.9    12.1
Change in gross reserves                            -4.5      14.7    19.3    13.2      9.2
IMF repurchases                                       -         --      --               --
Total financing requirement                        135.7    205.9   221.9   227.0   253.7
Disbursements:  Existing commitmencs
Grants and loans                                 140.6      92.0    38.S    23.7    17.9
Of which:  IDA projects                         (6.5)   (18.5)  (12.8)   (7.7)   (4.9)
IDA adjustment iending                (--)     (--)    (-)    (-)    (-)
Private creditors, including errors and
omissions                                       -4.9        --      - __
IMF purchases                                       --                -       -        -
Disbursements: Expected new commitments
Grants and loans                                    --      92.9   154.0   156.1   183.6
Of which:  IDA projects                            (-)       (--)   (3.0)   (8.0)  (10.4)
IDA adjustment lending                  (-)   (20.0)  (20.0)    (-)  (15.0)
Private creditors 1/                                        13.4    17.6    21.9    27.7
IfF purchases under tranche facilities              --                        --       -
SAF                                                 --       8.1    12.3     8.2       -
Other                                                       -0.5    -0.5    -0.5    -0.5
Total identified financing                          135.7    205.9   221.9   207.0   228.7
Financing gap                                          -        --      --    17.8    25.0
Sources: Data provided by the Lao authorities; and staff estimates.
1/ Includes direct investment.
.



- 30 -
Annex II
LAO PDR
FIRSi STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT SUMMARY
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LAO PDR
A. STATEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1989)
Credit        Fiscal                                             Amounts ($mln)
No.           Year   Borrower   Purpose                      less cancellations
IDA    Undisbursed
Two IDA Credits have been fully disbursed                    18.6        -
1021-LA        1980   Lao PDR    Agriculture                 13.4        0.5
1197-LA a/     1982   Lao PDR    Power                       15.0        0.4
1395-LA a/     1983   Lao PDR    Agriculture                  6.2        0.5
1684-LA a/     1986   Lao PDR    Telecommunications           3.9        4.0
1826-LA a/     1987   Lao PDR    Power                       25.8       22.2
1946-LA a/     1988   Lao PDR    Transport                   14.1        8.6
1947-LA a/     1989   Lao PDR    Industrial credit           10.0        8.9
Total                                                  107.0       45.1
of which has beea repaid                                      0.1
Total Now OutstandinR                                  106.9
Total Undisbursed                                                  45.1
la   Principal amounts shown in US$ equivalent at date of negotiations, and
undisbursed amounts shown in USS equivalent are valued at exchange rate
applicable on the date of this statement.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
Nones Lao PDR is not a member of the IFC.



- 31 -
Annex III
LAO PDR
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
a)  Time taken to prepare the program                   About 6 months
b)  Responsibility for program preparation              Ministry Economy, Plan.
and Finance
) Appraisal Mission (jointly with IM)                  Feb./March 1989
d)  Negotiations                                        May 1989
e)  Planned date of effectiveness                       July 1989
f)  Target date for second tranche release              March 1990
Section IIs Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Conditions of Second Tranche Release
(a)   adoption of tax reform measures, including the introduction of
a uniform profit tax, a wage income tax and a turnover tax,
avoiding cascading effects as much as possible. No tax having
a discriminatory effect on exports will be introduced; (paras
43-47)
(b)   increase in the price of electricity for domestic sales by an
average of 701, as a first stage towards the level of long run
mar4inal costs of low voltage electricity; (para. 41)
(c)   revision of the interest rate structure, with a view to
introducing interest-bearing accounts for large short term
deposits in local currency and a positive spread between
borrowing and lending rates (para. 38); and
(d)   alignment of official procurement prices for all "strategic
goods' with border prices. (para. 33-34).



ANNEX IV
-32                             Page I of 9
......., 1989
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Unofficial Translation of French Version)
Dear Mr. President:
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1.       The Government of the Lao People's Democratic Republic wishes to
request the International Development Association to provide a Structural
Adjustment Credit in support of a program of economic reform. This letter
provides a description of the current situation, the measures which the
Government has taken and the direction of future policy actions.
2.       Faced with growing constraints on the development of the country,
the Government has steadily redirected its economic strategy, starting in
1985 with the reform of public enterprises.   During recent years, this
reform program has been broadened to include such areas as the exchange
rate, domestic prices, domestic and foreign trade, private sector
participation, foreign investment promotion, tax reform and financial
sector restructuring. Substantial steps have been taken in all these areas
and further measures will be implemented in the coming months, aimed at
establishing a consistent framework for accelerated economic growth and
poverty alleviation.
3.      -The implementation of this reform p:ogram is expected to generate
an increased demand for imported goods which is not covered by the
anticipated foreign exchange resources of the country. Sustaining the
reform program will require the maintenance of an appropriate policy
framework and the mobilization of quick disbursing, general purpose funds.
Therefore, the Government has prepared a Policy Framework Paper in collabo-
ration with staff from the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund
and has reached a basic understanding on a medium-term macroeconomic
program. At the same time, quick-disbursing funds are being requested from
IDA and from other sources. The International Monetary Fund is expected to
support the Government's program with a Structural Adjustment Facility
Agreement, under preparation, while an Agricultural Program Loan will be
negotiated wit}. the Asian Development Bank in June 1989.



- 33 -
Annex Itd
Page 2 of 9
Background
4.       Laos faces formidable constraints to its development.  The country
is relatively well endowed in natural resources (fertile soils, rich
forests, vast hydroelectric potential, mineral deposits) but ranks among
the poorest of the world. The mountainous terrain and landlocked position
are natural impediments to both domestic and foreign trade as well as to
the exploitation of mineral resources. Economic activities have been
further disrupted by decades of war and regional tensions.
5.       During the first decade following the establishment of the
Lao PDR, zfforts to overcome these constraints yielded only mixed results.
During that period the economy was restructured with the private sector
being replaced, in almost all sectors, by state enterprises and
cooperatives, and central planning was attributed the leading role in
guiding the economy. The development strategy emphasized three objectives:
the achievement of self-sufficiency in rice, the rehabilitation of roads
and the exploitation of hydroelectricity. However, by the mid-1980s, it
became clear that the achievement of these objectives would not provide the
foundations for sustained growth. Subsistence agriculture and animal
husbandry still were the mainstay of the economy. The industrial sector
remained very small, consisting mainly of the generation of hydro-
electricity and the processing of agricultural and forestry products.
Meanwhile macroeconomic tensions accumulated and resulted in surging
inflation and increasingly large current account deficits.
The New Economic Mechanism
6.       It is against that background that the Government embarked upon a
reform program in 1985, known as the New Economic Mechanism. Initial steps
concerned the reform of public enterprises. The scope of the reforms was
enlarged in 1987 and again in 1988. It now represents a wide-ranging
program of structural economic reforms cutting across all sectors of
activity. The objectives of the reforms are to remove the constraw.nts to
growth, to better exploit the country's natural resources, and to
strengthen the country's external position. These objectives are to be
attained by decentralizing economic decision making, switching to market
mechanisms, opening up domestic and foreign trade, and drawing upon the
potential of all economic agents (public, private, mixed, cooperatives,
family and foreign investors). The Government is supporting this process
by improving its macroeconomic management and relying primarily on indirect
instruments, such as exchF    rate, credit and fiscal policies, to guide
the economy.  A number of  icAsions have already been taken in this sense
(major devaluation, bringing down trade barriers, unfettering state
enterprises, freeing the prices and abolishing subsidies) and the same
policy direction will be maintained over the medium-term.



- 34 -
Annex IV
Page 3 of 9
The Medium-Term Policy Agenda
7.       While the overall results of the reform program have thus far been
positive, a number of structural weaknesses remain which could undermine
the successful implementation of the reform effort. This is the reason
additional adjustment measures appear on the policy agenda for the coming
years. The Government's priorities aret
1)   to enhance the efficiency in allocation and use of resources;
2)   to improve tax incentives and to restore public savings;
3)   to improve financial resource mobilization;
4)   to promote exports;
-5) to improve external debt management.
s.       In order to meet these priorities, the Government is committed to
the maintenance of the present market-oriented policy environment, enter-
prise autonomy and management of a flexible unified exchange rate. The
main risk to the success of this strategy lies in a possible surge of
inflation. This risk ca- be avoided only through sound fiscal and monetary
policies, which are elaborated in the Policy Framework Paper. Key
instruments will be the steady increase in public savings and the reform of
banking sector and credit policies. Technical assistance in these fields
is being provided by the International Monetary Fund and the Asian
Development Bank. In this context, the Government is determined to contain
credit expansion to levels consistent with price and output levels and
balance of payments targets.
9.       The remainder of this letter outlines the policy program the
Government is implementing to achieve these objectives.
Enhancing the Efficiency in Allocation and Use of Resources
10.      Before the implementation of the New Economic Mechanism, the
country had not been able to reap the full benefit of years of high
investment efforts. The new policy emphasizes the need for efficiency gains
in the productive sectors.   To that end, economic decision-making is being
decentralized and distortions in the incentives and regulatory framework in
which economic units operate are being removed. This objective is further
supported by the high priority given to the maintenance, rehabilitation and
expansion of the existing infrastructure. Also, the Government will
undertake a public investment review with the assistance of the World Bank.



~ 35 -                       Annex IV
Page 4 of 9
a.   Exchange rate and prices
11.      The Government has decided to eliminate all dual prices between
official and parallel markets for goods and foreign exchange and to
establish the principle that prices should be determined by the interaction
of supply and demand. Between 1986 and end-1988, the commercial exchange
rate wae devalued by 92 percent (in foreign currency terms) and the
previous seven exchange rates were unified. The evolution of the official
exchange rate now follows the developments on the parallel market. in the
future, a flexible exchange rate policy will continue to be applied
consistent with the evolution of domestic costs, export profitability and
the overall balance of payments.
12.      In addition, official procurement prices of agricultural goods, in
particular rice, have been aligned with parallel market prices. This
policy will be maintained. In conjunction with the reform of enterprises,
the prices of industrial goods and services are now set by the enterprises,
with the exception of state monopolies, such as the major public utilities
(electricity, PTT, airline, water) and mines, whose prices remain
controlled by the Government. In the transport sector, prices of state
transport companies have been increased to reflect costs and are now set by
the enterprises themselves. In order to avoid monopolistic practices,
state transport companies have been allowed to operate and compete across
provincial boundaries. In addition, the Government has abolished all price
subsidies whether for consumer goods or for agricultural inputs.
Consequently, most prices are now in line with border prices.
b. Participation of economic agents
13.      The Government has taken steps to stimulate competition.  In
particular, all forms of economic associations, including mixed and
private enterprises have been allowed since 1987. In addition,
restrictions affecting the operations of certain categories of economic
agents have been removed. Private companies have been allowed to transport
passengers and agricultural products and administrative checkpoints along
the roads have been removed. Private firms and farmers now have access to
all imported goods, including machinery, vehicles and fertilizers, through
mixed trading companies and they can borrow from the banking sector.
Participation in cooperatives has been made voluntary and the preferential
treatment of state farms and cooperatives has been abolished, together with
subsidies to them. During the coming years, the Government intends to
increase the share of foreign exchange available to the private firms and
farmers for materials and spare parts and to increase their share in
domestic credit. Finally, a Foreign Investment Code has been enacted to
attract foreign investment and regulations for its application have been
passed. The effectiveness of these measures in stimulating new ventures
partly depends on the establishment of an appropriate legal framework and
suitable incentives. Technical assistance in these fields is planned.



- 36 -
Annex IV
Page S of 9
c. State enterprise reform
14.      Given the relative size of the public sector in the economy, the
Government views the reform of state enterprises as a primary tool to
increase economic efficiency. The current policy is based on four
principless
(i)    Extending autonomy to state enterprises.  Over 752 of state
enterprises have been transformed into autonomous
enterprises, responsible for decisions on production levels
and product mix; financial management, including
investment; choice of suppliers and markets; output pricing
and manpower management. In particular, the Government has
eliminated the system of compulsory production targets and
allowed state enterprises to enter into transactions with
private firms. It has authorized state enterprises to use
after-tax earnings for financing investment and abolished
the system of administered cost-plus pricing system. In
addition, firms are now free to hire and fire workers and
to set wages.
(ii)   Strengthening financial discipline of state enterprises.
As a counterpart for their increased autonomy, state
enterprises are expected to operate according to sound
financial principles. Consequently, the Government has
adopted the principle of abolishing all budgetary subsidies
to state enterprises, a policy that will be continued in
the coming years. This policy is further supported by the
decision to eliminate the system of automatic financing of
state enterprises financial needs by the banking sector.
Investment funds can still be obtained from the budget, but
such funds will have to be remunerated adequately. The
Government is currently devising a policy to this effect.
Finally, a new system of accounting was approved in 1989
and an action program to implement it during the next two
years is being prepared.
(iii)  Rehabilitating state enterprises.  State enterprises also
need physical rehabilitation as a number of plants are due
for replacement or repair. In 1988 plans were formulated
for rehabilitating 13 industrial enterprises which are
candidates to benefit from IDA assistance. Additional
enterprises will be identified for rehabilitation in 1989.
(iv)   Improvins workers' incentives.  An increase in the share of
wages paid in cash means workers will be given more
incentives to increase productivity. To this effect, the
non-cash payment of salaries was abolished in March 1989.
This will increase consumption which must be met to avoid
inflation.



- 37 -
Annex IV
Page 6 of 9
e. Infrastructure
15.      With greater responsibility for industrial investment being
transferred to the enterprises, the Government must focus on improving the
infrastructure of the country. The Government strategy will emphasize a
more balanced approach between new construction and operations and
maintenance. To that effect, it will review its policy in transport and
irrigation, the two main budgetary items, with assistance from the World
Bank and the Asian Development Bank. The Government intends to set up
operations and maintenance units in these two sectors, with the necessary
personnel, equipment and budget.
Improving Tax Incentives and Restoring Public Savings
16.      The Government initiated a fundamental tax reform in 1988 aimed at
adapting the tax system to the increased financial autonomy of state
enterprises and at providing equal treatment to all firms in the same
sector, whether state or private. The cornerstone of this reform is the
principle that only a single and uniforu tax should apply to each activity,
whether production, retail, import or export. In the case of industrial
enterprises, a profit tax was introduced to replace the transfer to the
budget of operating surpluses of public enterprises. The previous practice
of negotiating tax payments has been discontinued under the 1988 tax reform
in favor of a uniform tax treatment. However, tax rates still vary across
sectors. The tax reform addressed some of the major sources of distortions
in the tax system, but a number of problems remain. In particular, the
profit tax did not yield the expected revenues. This tax is extremely
difficult to administer and it is also fairly easy to evade. In addition,
the different tax rates among sectors introduce unwanted distortionary
effects into the production system. As government revenue from new taxes
fell below expectations in 1988, further reform will be done to place tax
collection on a more solid footing and to remove remaining distortions.
a. Fiscal revenues
17.      A major element of the Government's tax reform program is the
streamlining of the profits tax by unifying all rates. The Government
will also adopt additional tax reforms, including the introduction of a
uniform profit tax rate and the introduction of a wage income tax and of a
turnover tax, avoiding as much as possible any cascading effect. No tax
that would have a discriminatory effect on exports will be introduced.
These tax measures will be devised so as to slow down wage escalation.
They will be adopted no later than early 1990. In addition, to increase
budgetary savings in the short term, the price of electricity for domestic
sales will be increased towards the level of long run marginal cost for low
voltage electricity. As a first stage, the domestic electricity tariffs
will be increased by an average of 70% by early 1990.



- 38 -
Annex IV
Page 7 of 9
b. Budgetary expenditures
18.      The Government has also taken far-reaching measures to reorient
current expenditures. First, all budgetary subsidies, whether to the
consumers or to the producers, have been abolished. Second, over the
medium term, the Government aims at reducing the number of civil servants
by as much as 20 percent. In order to retain qualified staff the
Government plans to gradually increase the salaries of selected levels of
civil servants, and has already abolished the cash book system. Third,
budgetary allocations for maintenance and operations will be raised.
Fourth, local currency capital expenditure will increase along with foreign
assistance. The major part of public investment will continue to be
allocated to the key sectors of agriculture, transport and communications
and hydroelectricity. The Government will undertake studies, with
technical assistance, to improve the selection of cost-effective projects.
Education and health will receive greater priority than in the past.
Improving Financial Resource Mobilization
19.      Under the New Economic Mechanism, the enterprises are expected to
rely on their own resources and those they can obtain from banks to finance
their operations and expansion. The financial sector is therefore bound to
play a much more active role in the mobilization and allocation of
resources. In order to adapt it to this new role, the Government has
initiated a complete restructuring of the financial sector.
20.      In March 1988, the Government decided to separate the central
banking and commercial banking functions of the State Bank. The State Bank
will henceforth be in charge of monetary and credit policies. The
principle has been adopted that these policies will be implemented through
the use of reserve requirements and bank refinancing techniques. The State
Bank will also be responsible for managing the foreign reserves of the
country. In addition, some of the provincial branches of the central bank
will be turned into autonomous commercial banks. Two commercial banks have
already opened in Vientiane. Intensive efforts are being made, with
technical assistance from the Asian Development Bank and from the
International Monetary Fund, to strengthen the banking system's capacity to
extend credit on commercial grounds and to strengthen the State Bank's
ability to formulate and implement credit and monetary policies according
to overall macroeconomic constraints and objectives.
21.      The reform of the financial sector plays a key role in the
mobilization and allocation of resources. The introduction of appropriate
financial instruments, the maintenance of remunerative returns and the
restoration of sound financial practices will be required. Significant
steps have already been taken in this direction. In October 1988, lending
and borrowing rates were sharply increased. During this year, the
Government will revise the interest rate structure and reach an
untderstanding with IDA, in early 1990, on further reforms aired at



- 39 -
Annex IV
Page 8 of 9
maintaining positive spreads between borrowing and lending rates and the
introduction of interest-bearing accounts for large short-term deposits.
Promoting Exports
22.      The Gwvernment considers the development of exports a key
condition for sustainable economic growth. Principal among the measures to
promote strong and more diversified export growth is the alignment of the
exchange rate with the parallel market, which is expected to boost
nontraditional exports. Sectoral policies are also geared towards this
objective. In manufacturing and mining, the Government is relying heavily
on foreign investors to restructure and expand productive capacities
according to the comparative advantage of the country and to open up new
markets. In transport a key objective of the public investment program is
to improve access to markets. The Government has also requested technical
assistance from the United Nations Development Program to help it formulate
a program of export promotion.
23.      In addition, existing obstacles to traditional exports are being
removed. Official procurement prices of all "strategic goods, will be
maintained at the level of border prices or aligned with them by early
1990. The list of 'strategic goods' will be reduced and regulations will
be relaxed to allow authorized firms to export them.
24.      Product-specific actions are planned too. In the case of coffee,
the Government applied to the International Coffee Organization, so as to
improve export markets to the convertible currency area. In the case of
logs, the Government will review its export policy in the more general
framework of the elaboration of a Forestry Action Plan aiming at protecting
the forestry resources of the country and encouraging the development of
efficient domestic wood processing capacities.
Improving External Debt Management
25.      To improve external debt management, all public debt data are
being centralized, debt reporting procedures are being improved and a
computerized system of debt management is to be implemented with technical
assistance.
Conclusion
26.      The Government has taken a number of policy initiatives in the
framework of the New Economic Mechanism. Further policy and institutional
reforms will be implemented. The Government considers that the policies
and measures described in this letter will enable the countcy's economic
and social objectives to be obtained. To facilitate the smooth



- 40 -
Annex IV
Page 9 of 9
implemntation of the program, the Government hereby renews its request for
an Initial Structural Adjustment Credit.
Respectfully yours,
Minister of Economy, Plan and Finance
Attachments Matrix of Objectives, Measures and Actions



LAO PSi
SiRUCWAL DLMST  P_oA
Uatrix of  bjotiov. Meouures *nd Actons
Menaurs to be takn
(Conditions for second
Objectives                        U Maures being ttken/sIP19eY isploont4d                             trnneh  relese_
unde riI nod)
I. gXaweas RATE NO PRICE REFORM
A. Ensure intrnationsl competit e sens- Unification of  ultiplo exchan_  rat                            - Maintain a uniform morket-related
to proeot  exports and    cioeet                    with parallol mrket rate. Dons.                     xchang  rote for *11 foreign
Import substitution.                            -  Comreoal rats gradually dou sved from                transactions.
f Kips ia De. 19SB to 450 by end-
lose.
S. Move from stat, regulation of Price
towards mrket dotormin;tion of pries
a. Agriculture                                   - Raise procurem_nt prices for rice to              - Abollsb official procurmnt of rice
the loevl of perilol m_rket prices                  through *tt* companles.
b. Industry                                      - Reduce nmber of state controlled
prices of industrial goods and
s rvIces. Done. Price    are fIx d by
Govoermen fo-r pubilc utilitios only.
c. Transprt                                     -  Increas  official transport pricte  to
refloct costs. Dons. Prices ar now
set by f Irs.
- Incroeae mp etition in transport
ector. Done. Provincial bondaries
no lonoer-Thit the geograpbleh areas
to b eovered by tho stato transport
firma.
II. EITERPRISE REM
A. Stimulate d    lometi competition from
pri vae  fi r m.
a.  Low r adoinistrativ  berrier                -  Allow formtion of various fonms of                - Establish a legal fe   ork (with
to creation of private firms.                  economIc association Including mixed                technical assistance) for c_mpnies,      '
enterprises, and creation of private
enterprise. Done.



-  Enact a  tnveatt code for forelgn                 - Frit prorm (with technical
Investment. Done.                                   assistance) to attract fore1gn
investment.
b.  Rnmove restriction  on                       -  Allow private to         to tnsport
oportions ot privt firma                        agricultural  od   and0endrs.
nfar_s.                                     Don. AdaleistletIve cocol   on
trFoport hae bee  removed..
-  Allow privot  firm  aN  farm rsccs                -  Increeg  availabilty of foreign
to Imported m.torials, mchinery,                     *xcha,q for "atrials and spr. perts.
tranport vehicles eN  f*rtilizers.
Done. Private import-export fine were
creatd for that purpow.
-  Allow private  ector  nd farmers to               - Increase shnro of pIv*to sctor In
borrow from the banking *etor. Doen.                dopsatA l credit.
- Portleption In agricultural
cooperatives to becoe voluntary.
Eliminat  prtoront;o  sreatment and
ubsidiss. Done.
S. Inrease the autonomy of *tat                     - Action plan for 7M1 of stat.,
entrprses,                                          enterprieo  to becom outonom. Dons.                                                                >
- Eliminate system of complsory
productior targete and allo  stat
enterprises to enter Into tranosations
with privela firm; alnlow stat.
enterprises to u aftor-tax profit.
for finaneing inv etment In extsting
lins of production without government
authorlstion; abolish 1986 Syst   of
cost plus pricing w*hreby profit. are a
fixed porerntag  of coat. Dons.
C. Str ngthen financtol discipline of               -  Abolish budgetary subsidies to  tate              - Establish policy of remvnaratiot  of
stat. enterprleas                                   enterpriste.  Investment funds from                  govrnmnt funds invested in stat
goverrment budget to be r  unrated.                 enterprises.
Principle adopted.
- Continue policy of not granting
budgtary subldies to state
enterprises.



-  Elml-lns  system of automatic filnaning
by baks of stat *nterpriesn
financial neds.  Don.
- Grant financiol autonamy to state foerr
involved In production. Don.
Pretfrential tretmmnt an7 'bldles
*ere eliminated In June 168.
-  Improve systm of accounting.  Onoing.             - Mn  systm of accounting to be
established (with t=chniccl
essistance). New accounting system to
be adopted in 1989.
D. R.stnrctring of state enterprises                 - Plan for rehbililtotion of industrial               -  Identify additional group of state
enterprise.  Inittated for 13                        *nterpr;ses to be reabilitated.
enterprise In 1966.
E. Incr     worker   Incentives *nd                  -  Allow firm  to hire *d firs workers.
mobility in state entrpries                          Doe.
- Allow state entrprises to Incease
workers' aes. Don.
- To lncrae _ ncnti  s of stat
enterprise eploye_, tho share of
wages that Is paid to eash WIll be
grndua1y raised from 101 to 100X.
Cash share of *ages raised
to 106L Done.
F. Reduc  administrative r.trictions on              - Private and public fIrms can now export
exports                                              dir etly *11  oodb    For *strategic
gmoedo  hoo  r, a  p ocif IC
*"terla tlon to  Ir lr d. Done.  List
of 'strategic godo  I* to bhirduced.
- Strategic goods can be, xported by                 - Altn officielprocuremnt plees of
euthorixsd private and publie firm  att  ole r                       goce   wi*h bord r
market prices.  In the cae of coffee,                pric.
*pply for mebrship to Internetlonal                                                          ^ 
Coffe Organlttlon, so as to expendoi
marets in convertible currency
countre.o  D0ose.X
;                    *                                 o c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9



- 44 -
Annex V
Page 4 of 6
Ct .1 .                               .3
;3, iti  tX       !       o.e    'IC
-   I.    .      .            
j!,o5~ ~~~ ,                   !.,da' ;:,  '1i
*   S            I                  



IV. SUETMY AND FISCAL RSFORUS
a. Ftc l reoF nu
(t) Rotors of taxation to                       - Eliminate practice of neotiating tax
Increese tax _etrality by                     py mnte with enterpries.. Don.
applying a uniform rdt of
pro it tax and Introducing a
System of indiroct taxes and
exclis txes
- Apply os rats of tax betwen privete              -       ion of tax retorm  ees ure
and state entorpriet. Don.                            I nio    introdwition of * uniform
profit tax, a 3555 1550Sm UKx end of
turnover tx. *avoiding cscadin
efrte. *o -u us r       iblo.   t  x
h.vinp a di crli-natry effect on
exports wilI be Introdu   .
(ii)Increase rereu                                                                                 - Increase In th. price of *lectricity
for       ceoPI  *"a0ns rb    of 70.
ISM run arginal cost 'For low voltAge
eusetricitiy.
(llt) To impro  fiscal policy,                                                                     - Carry out study (with technical
impleent gyste  of tfisc   rovens 
fore tin  bese  On Mcr_Ic
b. Uwdptacy oxpeediture.
(i) lIrease  prodctivity of                                                                        - Carry out public *ox_edi to  reiew
leveetmeat*xpesldterse.                                                                          (with tOebilcal *eslssace from the
-  Establish 0  U aduinlstrative
structurer  Nd locreas u    _edituOrr  es
- ReVise latmt pi   to e_le               0
vehebiIIti to of Icisatleo projs _
ther the am cesrect.is



- 46 -
Annex V
I                               ~~~~~~~~~~~Page 6 of 6
h _S
*. 2
2211.|
S             a
I           IiX
*} I'
I~~
a;jj



