Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  12664
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2037-LA)
JANUARY 6, 1994
Country Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and the Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used by recipients only in the performance of
their off2cial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOQIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Kip National (KN)
US$1.00 = KN470
(at appraisal, March 1989)
US$1.00 = KN720
(at final disbursement, November 1991)
ACRONYMS
IMF:            International Monetary Fund
NEM:            New Economic Mechanism
PFP:            Policy Framework Paper
SACl:           (First) Structural Adjustment Credit
SAF:            Structural Adjustment Facility
SDR:            Special Drawing Right
SIDA:           Swedish International Development Authority
UNDP:           United Nations Development Program
UNSNA:          United Nations System of National Accounts
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
W"hington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Office of Director-Gonoral
Operations Evaluation
January 6, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on LAO
People's Democratic Republic
Structural Adjustment Credit
(Credit 2037-LA)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on LAO People's Democratic Republic - Structural
Adjustment Credit (Credit 2037-LA) prepared by the East Asia and the Pacific Regional Office. The
Government has not prepared Part II of the PCR, but has indicated that it is in full agreement with the
Region's draft and does not have anything to add to it.
This was the first structural adjustment operation by the Bank in support of the program of
economic reform launched by the Government at its own initiative during 1987-88 and agreed with the
Bank and IMF in 1989. The IMF provided support from its Structural Adjustment Facility. The
program encompassed reforms in exchange rate and price policies, enterprise regulation, financial sector
institutions and interest rate policies, and in fiscal policies. The program was implemented in full, and
the measures reduced inflation, restored growth, reversed the deterioration in fiscal revenues,
encouraged exports and strengthened the external account, significantly increasing reserves.
The credit of SDR 30.8 million was fully disbursed within the planned period. The overall
outcome of the operation is rated as satisfactory, and sustainability as likely. The institutional
development impact is rated as uncertain, given the magnitude and complexity of the systemic reforms
triggered by the adjustment operation, especially in the public enterprise sector.
The PCR is satisfactory. However, its treatment of the institutional aspects of the reform
program is inadequate.
An audit is planned.
Attachment
This docmnet ha a rmtsicted distribution and may be used by recipiets only in the performance of their oflca dties. lsb
coatets may od otlewis be disclosed without World Bank atorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CREDIT 2037-LA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface   ......................................................                                                       i
Evaluation Summary  ..............................................                                                     ii
I.  PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ...................                                                   1
1.   Project Identity   ...........................................                                               1
2.   Background ..............................................                                                    1
3.  The New  Economic Management  ................................                                                1
4.   The Program  of Action Under the First Structural Adjustment Program    ...                     .....        2
5.   The Role of the Bank ........................................                                                3
6.   Accomplishments under the First Structural Adjustment Program  .............                                 3
7.   Monitoring of the Adjustment Program  .............................                                          7
8.   Sustainability .............................................                                                 7
Key Indicators, 1988-91  .....................................                                              10
External Financing Requirements, 1989-91   .......................... .11
I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ....                                              ..........    12
III. CREDIT DATA   ..............................................                                                      13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CREDIT 2037-LA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the first Structural Adjustment Program in
Lao PDR for which Credit 2037-LA in the amount of US$40 million was approved by the Board of
Executive Directors of the Bank in June 1989. The Credit was closed in January 1992, six months
beyond the date originally envisaged. It was fully disbursed in two tranches and the last disbursement
was in November 1992.
This report was prepared by Country Department 1, East Asia and the Pacific Region. The
Report is based on the President's Report, the Development Credit Agreement, Supervision Reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda, and Policy
Framework Papers that accompanied this operation. There is no Part II in the Report providing an
assessment by the Borrower since after reviewing Part I, the Borrower indicated that they have no
commentary to add and are in full agreement with this assessment.






ii
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CREDIT 2037-LA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
Following the establishment of the Lao People's Democratic Republic in 1975, the economy
had been restructured along socialist lines, with the private sector being replaced by state enterprises,
in industry, and official efforts supporting the development of cooperatives in agriculture. After a
decade, it had become clear to the leadership that this experiment had failed.
In the wake of the Fourth Party Congress of 1986, the government of the Lao People's
Democratic Republic embarked upon a sweeping program of transition from central planning to a
market economy. This comprehensive reforms collectively known as "the New Economic
Mechanism" was aimed at exposing the economy to market forces, opening up trade and foreign
investment opportunities, strengthening the role of the private sector and improving macroeconomic
management.
Tlhis program of economic reform was launched at the government's own initiative and
started in earnest in 1987-88. In 1989, agreements were reached with the Bank and the IMF on an
adjustment program supported by the Bank's first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC1) and the IMF
Structural Adjustment Facility.
The Structural Adjustment Program supported by the IDA Credit was quite broad as it
encompassed
(i) exchange rate and price reform;
(ii) enterprise reform;
(iii) financial sector reform
and     (iv)  fiscal reforms.
Implementation Experience
The program supported by SACI has been implemented in full. It included policy actions in
the following five fields: (i) exchange rate and price reforms: all prices (except public utilities but
including those of the previous "strategic goods") have been liberalized and the official exchange rate
was brought to the level of the parallel market and maintained at that level; (ii) enterprise reform:
autonomy has been extended to almost all state enterprises and restrictions on the operation (e.g.,
access to inputs and credit, licensing requirements) of private firms were lifted; the abolition of all
subsidies to state enterprise is also furthering fair competition between private and public firms; (iii)
financial sector development: the single multi-purpose State Bank of Laos has been transformed into a
central bank (the Bank of the Lao PDR) and its former branches have been restructured into six



iii
autonomous commercial banks; interest rates were increased to levels which are positive in real terms
and their structure was rationalized in order to eliminate interest rate subsidies; (iv) fiscal reforms: on
the revenue side, Government adopted at the outset of the program a major tax reform, introducing a
uniform profit tax, a wage income tax and a value-added tax. Among other public tariff adjustments,
it also raised the domestic price of electricity by more than 70 percent. On the expenditure side, the
payment of wages in kind was abolished, the civil service was reduced by 19 percent between 1988
and end-1990 and the appropriation for O&M was increased in the 1990 budget; and (v) external debt
management: the debt reporting system has been centralized in the central bank.
Results
Measures supported by SACI were instrumental in bringing about macroeconomic
stabilization. Growth revived in 1989 and continued at a sustained pace in 1990 and 1991. After
peaking in the summer of 1989, inflation steadily decelerated. It was 68 percent between December
1988 and December 1989, but had declined to 10.4 percent at the end of 1991. The June 1989 tax
reform succeeded in reversing the deterioration of revenue collection: fiscal revenues, which had
declined to 8.2 percent of GDP in 1989, rebounded to an estimated 10.9 percent in 1991, while
government current expenditure was contained at around 11 percent of GDP. Furthermore, the
decision in August 1989 to maintain interest rates positive in real terms helped curtail the demand for
credit. Exports of goods and non-factor services grew very strongly while import growth was only
slightly higher than output growth. Consequently, the current account deficit remained well within
the bounds of available foreign assistance. Despite the loss of aid from the former Soviet Union
(which still averaged 3 percent of GDP during 1989-90) in 1991, the resulting shortfall in foreign
financing was more than offset by higher aid flows from the convertible currency area and by small,
but rapidly growing, foreign investment flows. As a result, gross external reserves more than tripled
from US$17 million at end-1988 to about US$57 million at end-1991, equivalent to about 3 months of
imports.
As seen above, apart from supporting further progress in structural reforms, SACI
emphasized the need for resource mobilization efforts. This emphasis proved timely and helped the
economy overcome a period of major stress which had arisen from the adverse impact of the initial
round of reforms on public sector savings. Actions taken by the Government under SACI were
successful in taming the resulting inflationary pressures and engendering a healthy recovery in output.
Sustainability
The implementation of the reforms brought about positive results in terms of growth,
resource mobilization, external balance, and inflation, which have been sustained until the present
time. There is little question that the move toward a market economy which was supported by SACI
is an irreversible one. The Lao authorities have realized as much as everyone else that the central
planning model is now discredited. Hence, despite some initial setbacks, Government commitment to
the reform program has never wavered.
In view of the magnitude of the task, however, it had not been envisaged that all the
problems of moving this economy from central planning to a market system could be solved in the
short time-span of a single adjustment operation: SACI was therefore explicitly seen as the first in a
series of adjustment operations. The positive results achieved under it, especially compared to other



iv
countries undertaking similar endeavors, amply justified continued support of the program, as the
Bank did under the Second Structural Adjustment Program.
Findings and Lessons Learned
Given the broad scope of the reform program, however, and the swiftness of its
implementation, it was inevitable that economic stress would emerge. First, the market reforms
unveiled the vast inefficiency of the state enterprises, which had been concealed by price distortions.
Second, the resource mobilization base on which SACI started to build, however, has turned out to
be weaker than assumed at the time. Thirdly, the abandonment of central planning left the
administration with as yet undeveloped instruments of public management. Finally, it became clear
that growth performance could not be sustained without a major improvement in institutional or
physical infrastructure, without which markets cannot operate. While substantial growth in private
activities was expected in the modern sector, this sector would not be in a position to play its full role
in the development of the country unless such basic public services and an enabling environment
developed. The key remaining policy issues were to strengthen public savings performance to support
such an investment effort, building upon the initial achievements of SACI, while bolstering the
fledgling private sector.






LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CREDIT 2037-LA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Part I: Project Review from the Bank's Perspective
1     Project Identity
Project Name:                           Structural Adjustment Program
Credit Number:                          2037-LA
RVP Unit:                               East Asia and the Pacific
Country:                                Lao People's Democratic Republic
Credit Amount:                          SDR 30,800,000
Board Approval:                         June 14, 1989
Signing:                                June 23, 1989
Effectiveness:                          August 1, 1989
Second Tranche Release:                 June 30, 1990
Closing:                                January 31, 1992
2       BackgrQund
2.1     Following the establishment of the Lao People's Democratic Republic in 1975, the economy
had been restructured along socialist lines, with the private sector being replaced by state enterprises,
in industry, and official efforts supporting the development of cooperatives in agriculture. After a
decade, it had become clear to the leadership that this experiment had failed. Growth remained
sluggish at best and concentrated on two sectors, rice and hydroelectricity, where it rested on heavy
investments financed from abroad and the clemency of weather conditions. High and unstable
inflation combined with unattractive interest rates hampered private savings and the divergence
between the market and official rates encouraged currency substitution. Export growth, already
complicated by the closing of the border with Thailand, was impeded by unrealistic official exchange
rates and below-market procurement prices while imports were constrained by the lack of foreign
exchange. As a result, rather than modernizing, the economy tended to revert to subsistence activities
and barter trade.
3       The 'New Economic Management"
3.1    In the wake of the Fourth Party Congress of 1986, the government of the Lao People's
Democratic Republic embarked upon a sweeping program of transition from central planning to a
market economy. This comprehensive reforms collectively known as 'the New Economic
Mechanism' was aimed at exposing the economy to market forces, opening up trade and foreign



2
investment opportunities, strengthening the role of the private sector and improving macroeconomic
management. Initial actions included the freeing of virtually all prices, the elimination of consumer
and other subsidies, the unification of official exchange rates and the market determination of the
exchange rate, the self management of state enterprises and the authorization of private activities.
This was accompanied by a massive devolution of administrative and fiscal authority to local
governments.
4       The Program of Action under the First Structural Adjustment Program
4.1     This program of economic reform was launched at the government's own initiative and
started in earnest in 1987-88. In parallel, discussions were initiated with the Bank and the IMF on
the outline of a structural adjustment program to be supported by the Bank's first Structural
Adjustment Credit (SACI) and an agreement under the IMF Structural Adjustment Facility. The
Asian Development Bank also opened discussions for an Agriculture Program Loan. All were
concluded in 1989.
4.2     The Structural Adjustment Program supported by the IDA Credit was quite broad as it
encompassed exchange rate and price reform, enterprise reform, financial sector reform and fiscal
reforms, which can be summarized as follows:
(i)   Exchange rate and price reform. The multiple official exchange rates were to be
unified, adjusted to the level of the market rate and maintained within close range of
the latter. Similarly, administered prices in agriculture, industry, and transport, were
to be brought to the market level than freed; and this, in the case of rice, preparatory
to the abolition of direct government procurement. Finally, where government
remained involved in pricing decisions, such as was the case for so-called "strategic
goods", the export of which was covered by bilateral trading arrangements, it was
understood that procurement prices would be adjusted with border prices.
(ii) Enterprise reform was to be pursued along the following two lines. On the one hand,
the government set about to authorize private activities, removing restrictions to their
full development, such as (a) the then prevailing ban on private involvement in
certain sectors (transport of goods and passengers, foreign trade), (b) the absence of
access to credit and foreign exchange; or (c) the privileged treatment granted to state
and collective entities. On the other hand, managerial and financial autonomy was to
be extended to most state enterprises, including labor management, while budgetary
subsidies and quasi-automatic access to bank financing were to be eliminated. This
two-pronged approach was to be supported by the initial development of market
institutions such as revised business accounting rules and business legislation.
(iii) Financial sector reform. This program involved (a) the separation of central and
commercial banking activities of the existing monobank; (b) the adjustment of the
structure and level of deposit and lending interest rates interest rates; (c) the
introduction of appropriate instruments of monetary control; and (d) the strengthening
of banking skills.
(iv) Fiscal Reforms. Major fiscal reforms were also agreed. On the revenue side, the
authorities programmed to (a) introduce in stages a new system of domestic taxes



3
(uniform profit tax, wage income tax, turnover tax); (b) reduce the range of customs
tariffs and extend their coverage; and (c) substantially increase the price of low-
voltage electricity for domestic sales. Concomitantly, a reorientation of expenditure
priorities was devised involving (i) a reduction in the size of the civil service and
switch to cash payment of public sector wages; (b) a relative increase in operation and
maintenance expenditures; and (iii) a review of public investment priorities.
5       The Role of the Bank
5.1     The design of the reform program undertaken under the "New Economic Mechanism"
reflected in large part the recommendation put forward in the 1986 and the 1988 Country Economic
Memoranda prepared by the Bank. This role expanded steadily with the implementation of the
Structural Adjustment Program, and this for two reasons.
5.2     First, confidence in Bank policy advice increased when early successes demonstrated its
value. As a result, the government showed growing receptivity to this advice, as evidence by its
willingness to adjust, when needed, its policy course. The rapid switch in the emphasis of the
enterprise reform from state enterprise autonomy to privatization, and the continued improvements in
the tax system after the June 1989 are only two examples of this receptivity. Central to this advisory
role was the preparation of a new economic report immediately after the approval of the Credit. This
report entitled "Issues in Public Economics" addressed in a detailed fashion the main problems which
had emerged with the implementation of the reforms, i.e. the fiscal and financial strains caused by the
move towards market socialism, problems which had been somewhat underestimated at the design
stage, and put forward practical recommendations to tackle them. This document became a useful
policy reference for the authorities. The preparation of several PFPs, in tandem with the Fund,
provided the Bank with another channel to deliver this advice.
5.3     Second, the Bank started playing an active role in policy implementation with the initiation
of technical assistance in economic management. Until then, the authorities had been reluctant to
request this kind of support from the Bank. In the initial years of the New Economic Mechanism, the
authorities relied primarily on bilateral technical assistance from the Soviet Union and the German
Democratic Germany. With the country moving towards a market economy, the relevance of such
assistance was rapidly reduced. It had initially been hoped, and this hope was still entertained when
SACI was prepared, that substantial technical assistance would be forthcoming from bilateral Western
donors. Such assistance, however, remained limited.
5.4     The authorities therefore turned to the Bank which, with the support of UNDP and SIDA,
put in place the "Support to NEM" technical assistance program involving resident assistance in: (i)
foreign investment and privatization; (ii) commercial legislation; (iii) social statistics; and (iv) tax and
customs administration (sub-contracted to the IMF). Under separate programs, the Bank also assisted
in putting together a Five-Year Public Investment Program (the approval of which became a condition
of the first tranche of SAC2) and establishing national accounts under the UNSNA methodology.
6       Accomplishments under the First Structural Adjustment Program
6.1     Implementation of the Program of Action supported by the Credit The program supported
by SACI has been implemented in full. It included policy actions in the following five fields: (i)
exchange rate and price reforms: all prices (except public utilities but including those of the previous



4
"strategic goods") have been liberalized and the official exchange rate was brought to the level of the
parallel market and maintained at that level; (ii) entermrise reform: autonomy has been extended to
almost all state enterprises and restrictions on the operation (e.g., access to inputs and credit,
licensing requirements) of private firms were lifted; the abolition of all subsidies to state enterprise
also furthered fair competition between private and public firms; (iii) financial sector development:
the single multi-purpose State Bank of Laos was transformed into a central bank (the Bank of the Lao
PDR) and its former branches were restructured into six autonomous commercial banks; interest rates
were increased to levels which are positive in real terms and their structure was rationalized, so as to
eliminate interest rate subsidies; (iv) fiscal reforma: on the revenue side, Government adopted at the
outset of the program a major tax reform, introducing a uniform profit tax, a wage income tax and a
value-added tax. Among other public tariff adjustments, it also raised the domestic price of electricity
by more than 70 percent. On the expenditure side, the payment of wages in kind was abolished, the
civil service was reduced by 19 percent between 1988 and end-1990 and the appropriation for O&M
was increased in the 1990 budget; and (v) external debt management: the debt reporting system was
centralized in the central bank (since then it has been transferred to the Ministry of Finance).
6.2     Conditionality. Recognizing the considerable efforts already made by the government in
implementing economic reforms, the Credit did not include any conditions of first tranche.
Compliance with the conditions of second tranche release were satisfactory in all material respect, as
described hereafter.
Tranche Release Condition No. 1:
Reguired action: Adoption of tax reform measures which will increase generation of tax
revenues, including the introduction of a uniform profit tax, a wage income tax and a
turnover tax. Action taken: In June 1989, the Government adopted a comprehensive tax
reform under which, inter alia, (i) a wage income tax is applied to all wage-earners; (ii)
the profit tax rate was unified at a flat 45 percent rate; and (iii) a value-added tax at the
wholesale level on most goods and services was introduced. With the broadening of the tax
base, the generalization of tax withholding and ad valorem rates as well as administrative
simplification, the new system permitted a recovery in tax collection.
Tranche condition No. 2
Required action: Increase in the price of electricity for domestic sales by an average of 70
percent, as a first stage towards the level of long-term marginal costs for low voltage
electricity. Action taken: The price of electricity for domestic sales was increased, in
January 1990, from 7 kips per kwh to an average of 12.28 kips per kwh, i.e. by more than
70 percent.
Tranche Condition No. 3:
Required action: Revision of the interest rate structure with a view to introducing interest-
bearing accounts for large short-term deposits in local currency and a positive spread
between borrowing and lending rates. Action taken: A decree of August 1989 transferred
the responsibility of setting interest rates from the Council of Ministers to the banking
sector. Since then, interest rates have been set freely by the banks, subject to minimum
rates defined by the State Bank. Minimum deposit rates, at the time of tranche release,



5
ranged from 0.1 percent per month on demand deposits to 2 percent per month on saving
bankbooks and to 3 percent per month on one-year deposits. The decree provided for the
maintenance of a positive spread on all maturities between these rates and minimum lending
rates. The implementation of this policy resulted in (i) the restoration of a positive spread,
thus the elimination of the implicit subsidy previously provided by lending rates being below
deposit rates, and (ii) return of real interest rates to positive levels when inflation
decelerated. In addition, banks started issuing short-term deposit certificates bearing interest
rates ranging from 3 to 6 percent per month, at the time.
Tranche Release No. 4:
Reguired action: Alignment of official procurement prices for all "strategic" goods with
border prices. Action taken: Restriction on the trade of "strategic goods", which used to be
procured at administered prices and exported exclusively by Government companies, were
gradually lifted over the course of 1989. The list of the so-called "strategic goods" was
reduced to only four items (coffee, logs, tin and gypsum)", the marketing of these products
was liberalized and the administrative pricing was abandoned. By the end of 1989, as a
result, their prices were aligned with border prices. Although coffee continued to be
procured by state trading companies to fulfill the trading arrangements with the non-
convertible zone then in place, state companies had to compete with private traders. In the
case of minerals, producers were negotiating their prices directly with their customers.
Finally, logs were priced freely according to market opportunities.
6.3     IMF Program. The IMF approved a three-year Structural Adjustment Facility arrangement
on September 18, 1989. A second-year arrangement was approved on April 8, 1991. The Lao PDR
borrowed amounts equivalent to SDR 5.86 million and SDR 8.79 million under the first and second
annual SAF arrangements, respectively. The program aimed at limiting the expansion of domestic
liquidity to 52 percent in 1989, 29 percent in 1990 and 7 percent in 1991, while increasing foreign
reserves from about US$17 million at the end of 1988 to US$ 30.4 million at end-1989, US$49
million at end-1990 and US$ 60 million at end-1991. To achieve these goals, bank financing to the
budget was programmed to be minimal, and maximum targets were set for the evolution of net
domestic assets and credit to state enterprises. Given the reserve target of the program, this allowed
for a large growth of credit to joint-ventures and the private sector. The policy benchmark of the
first arrangements covered: (i) the 1989 tax reform also supported by the Bank's SAC; (ii) increase
and thereafter maintenance of the one-year deposit rate to a positive level in real terms and
remuneration of foreign currency deposits; (iii) maintenance of the official exchange rate within a 10
percent range of the market rate; (iv) initial introduction of the new accounting system; and (iii)
promulgation of a central bank law. Policy benchmarks for the second arrangement were: (i) the
centralization of foreign exchange management within the central bank; (ii) the opening of a formal
discount window at the central bank; (iii) the setting of the central bank lending rate at a positive level
in real terms and the issuance of guidelines indicating minimum deposit rates for commercial banks;
and (iv) the maintenance of the difference between the official and parallel exchange rates below 10
percent.
6.4     Macroeconomic Performance.  The supply response was initially slow, as expected, in
large measure because the 1987-88 drought substantially reduced agricultural and hydroelectric
exports, thereby reducing the country's capacity to import raw materials and spare parts. Growth,
however, revived in 1989 and continued at a sustained pace in 1990 and 1991. This recovery was



6
supported by a 40 percent shift in the domestic terms of trade between agriculture and industry, in
favor of the former between 1986 and 1989, due to price liberalization and the adjustment of the
exchange rate. The same phenomenon led to a redistribution of national income in favor of the
private sector. The resulting sustained improvement in private disposable income considerably
alleviated any adverse social impact that the reforms might have had.
6.5     Despite the magnitude of the policy changes, the authorities were successful, under SAC1,
in stabilizing the economy. Inflation had picked up during the first part of 1989 but this flare-up was
short-lived. After peaking in the summer of 1989, inflation has steadily decelerated. It was 68
percent between December 1988 and December 1989, but had declined to 22 percent during 1990.
As of the end of 1991, the annual inflation rate was down to 10.4 percent, i.e. below the program
target of 14 percent for the whole year. Reflecting also the impact of prudent macroeconomic
policies, the exchange rate has remained at kips 700 to 730 per US$ from January 1990 up to now, in
line with market developments.
6.6     This success in taming inflation was achieved primarily by stopping and then reversing the
deterioration of public sector savings, while financing the remaining deficit through foreign aid. Both
state enterprise and Government savings were adversely affected by the reforms: consolidated public
sector savings declined from 2.5 percent of GDP in 1986 to a negative 3.3 percent in 1989. But
these two sub-sectors reacted differently: while Government endeavored to cut expenditures by a
cumulative 27 percent in real terms between 1986 and 1989, the expansion of credit to state
enterprises led, in 1989, to a 90 percent increase in liquidity, which explains the inflation flare-up of
1989. Subsequently, owing to a drastic curtailment in the credit extended to these same enterprises,
liquidity growth was limited to 14 percent in 1990 and 9.7 percent in 1991, and inflation followed
suit.
6.7     Exports of goods and non-factor services grew very strongly in 1989-90, at an estimated 17
percent per year in real terms, thanks in part to the recovery in hydroelectricity exports. On the
other hand, import growth (about 9 percent per year in real terms) was only slightly higher than
output growth. Consequently, the current account deficit remained well within the bounds of
available foreign assistance. The maintenance of a market-based exchange rate undoubtedly
contributed to this result. While aid from the former Soviet Union (which still averaged 3 percent of
GDP during 1989-90) stopped in 1991, the resulting shortfall in foreign financing was more than
offset by higher aid flows from the convertible currency area and by small, but rapidly growing,
foreign investment flows. As a result, gross external reserves more than tripled from US$17 million
at end-1988 to about US$57 million at end-1991, equivalent to about 3 months on imports.
6.8     Measures supported by SACI were instrumental in bringing about macroeconomic
stabilization. The June 1989 tax reform succeeded in reversing the deterioration of revenue
collection: fiscal revenues, which had declined to 8.2 percent of GDP in 1989, rebounded to an
estimated 10.9 percent in 1991, while government investment started growing again at an average
annual rate of 7.6 percent in 1989-90 after having declined at a rate of 9.0 percent a year between
1986 and 1988. Furthermore, the decision in August 1989 to maintain interest rates positive in real
terms helped curtail the demand for credit. The disposable income of the public sector' thus
regained about 4.7 percent of GDP in 1990, permitting some recovery in both public expenditures
I Consolidated fiscal revenues plus net transfers plus state enterprise surpluses.



7
and public sector savings (from -3.3 percent of GDP in 1989 to -1.8 percent in 1990). Finally, the
inflow of balance of payments support, combined with a recovery in electricity and log exports,
stabilized the exchange rate and provided non-inflationary financing to the economy.
6.9     Thus, apart from supporting further progress in structural reforms, SAC1 emphasized the
need for resource mobilization efforts. This emphasis proved timely and helped the economy
overcome a period of major stress which had arisen from the adverse impact of the initial round of
reforms on public sector savings. Actions taken by the Government under SACI were successful in
taming the resulting inflationary pressures and engendering a healthy recovery in output.
7       Monitoring of the Adjustment Program
7.1     Monitorability. In spite of the breadth of the program supported by SACI, the policy
matrix and the development credit agreement spelled out very specific and time bound actions that
could be effectively monitored during the implementation of the program.
7.2     Supervision. The implementation of the Structural Adjustment Program was closely
supervised by frequent economic missions from the Bank, generally multi-purpose missions involving
also the preparation of a PFP, of a CEM, and the design and supervision of technical assistance
programs. Supervision before second tranche release took place in May 1990. This represented a
two months delay compared to the original timetable, in order to coincide with the review of the SAF
arrangement and allow the Bank to ascertain the soundness of the macroeconomic framework. As
this review took place slightly later than initially envisaged, SAC supervision was also rescheduled, in
agreement with the authorities.
7.3     Procurement. Following standard Bank procedures, a negative list was included in the
development credit agreement. International competitive bidding was required for contracts over US$5
million; no such contact was financed however. An issue came up regarding the financing of imports
of oil under bonded warehouses, which was approved.2
8       Sustainability
8.1     The implementation of the reforms brought about positive results in terms of growth,
resource mobilization, external balance, and inflation, which have been sustained until the present
2 Imports of petroleum products was taking place in the following way. The said products were shipped
to the customs border of Lao PDR by Shell and stored in bonded warehouse belonging to that company.
These products passed customs when sold to Societe Lao des Petroles, at which stage Shell was invoicing
Societe Lao des Petroles (in foreign currency). Payment was made abroad in foreign currency. The
Bank established that the sales out of the bonded warehouses were foreign transactions, which could be
financed under the Credit in view of the fact that (i) this was the country's normal procedure; (ii) the
goods were procured from outside the customs territory of the borrower (the bonded warehouses) and
paid in foreign currency; and (iii) the payment of the invoice abroad and in foreign currency was a
sufficient indication that no tax or tariff was included. As no shipment document would be established
for the release of oil from the tanks under bonded warehouse, it was agreed that a customs document
would suffice, supported by a bill of lading representing the bulk shipment to Shell tanks.



8
time. The price, exchange rate, financial and trade reforms pursued under SACI laid the foundation
for a resumption of growth based on a more efficient allocation of resources. Growth continued in
1992 continued at a healthy pace (7 percent), while inflation further declined to 6 percent. Fiscal
performance continued to improve, with fiscal revenues gaining another half percent of GDP, and
thanks to a continued restraint in current expenditures, the current fiscal account returning to a
balanced position for the first time since 1988. lhis performance was reflected on the external side
in a further reduction of the current account to GDP ratio.
8.2     There is little question that the move toward a market economy which was supported by
SACI is an irreversible one. The Lao authorities have realized as much as everyone else that the
central planning model is now discredited. Hence, despite some initial setbacks, Government
commitment to the reform program has never wavered. The Fifth Party Congress of 1991 strongly
reaffirmed the commitment of the country to a market economy.
8.3     Given the broad scope of the reform program, however, and the swiftness of its
implementation, it was inevitable that stress would emerge in economic management. Furthermore,
Lao PDR was among the first socialist countries to adopt the "cold turkey" approach to economic
reforms, and hence did not benefit from the cross-country experience which has now accumulated.
Reforms thus brought with them new, and sometimes unanticipated, challenges to the authorities, as
outlined hereafter.
8.4     The market reforms unveiled the vast inefficiency of the state enterrises, which had been
concealed by price distortions: when exposed to market forces, most state enterprises could not adjust
their selling prices sufficiently to recoup the increased cost of their inputs and wage payments, in the
face of the increased competition from abroad and from a more dynamic private sector. Moreover,
as common to reforming socialist economies, once the corset of central regulations disappeared,
employee compensation in autonomous state enterprises started to absorb an increasing share of
enterprise gross income, reducing profits available for reinvestment. For these reasons , privatization
has since become the centerpiece of government policy toward the sector.
8.5     In addition, the resource mobilization base on which SACI started to build, however, has
turned out to be weaker than assumed at the time. The public resource mobilization system under the
central planning system was highly inefficient due primarily to its heavy reliance on the forced
procurement by Government and state enterprises of goods at below-market prices and exchange
rates. In the first years of reforms, the buge was therefore negatively affected in two ways. On the
one hand, reduced state enterprise profitability ricocheted on the budget through a shrinking of the
revenue base. Moreover, the introduction of a proper tax system, in lieu of the previous system of
pooling enterprise surpluses with the budget, had to be carried out by an administration with scant
experience in this field. First attempts in 1988 at creating a modem tax system proved overly
complex and therefore counter-productive. Hence, state enterprise transfers to the budget declined by
an estimated 7.4 percent of GDP between 1986 and 1989. On the other hand, the abolition of forced
procurement at administered prices and exchange rates represented a cost to the current budget
equivalent to 4.9 percent of GDP over the same period. The full extent of this fiscal shock was not
appreciated before 1989, i.e. before it had started to make a material impact on the Lao economy.
Hence, the fiscal effort carried out under SAC 1 started off from a lower point than thought at the
time.



9
8.6     Finally, the abandonment of central planning left the administration with as yet undeveloped
instruments of public management. The capacity of the Government to formulate development
programs and to conduct fiscal policies in a market economy was particularly affected, and the
inherited organization of public administrations proved itself ill-designed to carry out Government's
new tasks. In particular, the existing pattern of decentralization made the fiscal squeeze even worse
on the central Government. While rich provinces were keeping the majority of their revenues for
themselves, the central Government, notwithstanding the autonomy principle, had to come to the
rescue of poorer provinces to maintain a minimum level of public services.
8.7     With the completion of SAC 1, it had therefore become clear that the gains achieved would
remain short term ones if not consolidated by fresh efforts to tackle these outstanding obstacles to the
sustained development of the country. Despite impressive inroads, private participation in the modern
sector remained small, wages were unsustainably low in the civil service and delinked from labor
productivity in the public enterprise sector, and development expenditures were still undesirably low.
On this last score, in particular, it was clear that growth performance could not be sustained without a
major increase in investment, in particular in social and physical infrastructure, without which
markets cannot operate. While substantial growth in private activities was expected in the modern
sector, this sector would not be in a position to play its full role in the development of the country
unless such basic public services began to develop.
8.8     In view of the magnitude of the task, it had not been envisaged, it bears reminding, that all
the problems of moving this economy from central planning to a market system could be solved in the
short time-span of a single adjustment operation: SACM was therefore explicitly seen as the first in a
series of adjustment operations. The positive results achieved under it, especially compared to other
countries undertaking similar endeavors, amply justified continued support of the program, as the
Bank did under the Second Structural Adjustment Program.



10
Lao P.0.A.: Kay Inrdicators
19S       1989      1990       1991
Growtr  ratas
Real G;P                                      -1.5      13.5       6.6        4.0
Real MP per c3:ita                            -4.3      10.8       4.0        1.4
Rest "tJic inveistenc                        -18.5       4 5        5. t     18.9
GOP defLatrr                                   4.7      66.3      33.3       13.8
Cormi.r prieas (ari-period)                   t4.8      75.9       19.6      10.4
Oebt service
Oet servies (S M¶.)                          13.4      13.0       13.3      15.0
Of Whicn:  Interest CS or.)                 S3.        3.1       3.2        4. 4
Debt service ratio j/                         2a.0      17.4       15.2       15.7
Ratics to GOP (in current orices)  J
Goverrnwrtnc reves                            12s'       8.2        9.9       10.S
Goverrrmrc exrri tures             3Z.9 ;                  7        3          O.4
C..rransv                                   129S3               t1 41      11 3
Caoita&  3/                                 20.6      15.4      12:.         9.1
Goverrfent savings                             0.2      -1.1       -1.5       -0.4
OveraUL deficit e-) or sur;Lus (-)  /    14.3          -12.       -10.7       -j.7
Yarginal rates
ICOR                                           4.5       2.1        2.6        2.9
Miscei Lan.us
Ocaestic Liquaidity growith                   37.0      89.3       14.0        9.7
Growth in crecit to
no  gverrwlntal sector                      53.6      73.0       11.6       4.8
Velcity of circ.tation                        12.2      13.7       13.9       14.8
ExcOrt grci:n                                .17.2       6.3       18.5        1.3
Ex=rts/MP                                      9.'        7.3       7.5        6.3
I.-=r- growtn                                -29.5      11.2       15.1        7.2
Iioor:s/G=P                                   28.1      22.7       22.5       20.3
Current aee unt (S mn.) 5/                  -106.1   -111.1 1 -13 3    -133.5
cGrrenc aCZzutn/GZP  /                       -19.3    -14.8    -14.3         -12.9
Grcss reser-'es (S Mr..) 6/                   16.7       42.0      61.1       55.1
In weecs or t_:aL  ircWrts                   5.7      12.9       16.2       13.7
I/ As a ratio of ex=rts of goods ani services.
?/   as*ed an rtvise1e  G-P es'irAtes, wnicn are sini?ic3intty higher than tne estioates used in the la-
PoTicy Franevorx Piner.
3/  cacitaL  oenciture figures for 188-1990 reftect tne vluaiaticm of foreign assistance trcu
nonconvertible area at vne official excnange rate, atdi are not s:ric:y cwi.araoLe to otrier data.
4/  Cm a casn basis; inclu4es grants.
J/  EActuces grants.
6/  lrrctuces reserves of ccunrcial bants.



11
.ao P.D.O.:  Externt Finarcinq gecuaremfIs
(Im mntifor of U.S. dcttars)
1989 St     9           91
Est.
C_xrvmcn ocranc C4tTi Ci t,
excuainq otriciaL  trar2Tsrs                  111.1       23          33.
A    iz A t 1orl                                  0.6         7.3       10.5
"'%"a in gross rviery"                           25.3       19.2         -S 0
:MF reourcaas                                      -            '
Total  finAncirn  re-nuiremC2                 14.0         9.5 t       8t0
'!sburase2nts
ZfftCiaL    ar?fstau                 ~58                 '27.0       2.8.5
.:Am                                     !2.0   ~ 9.5            _6
.~'w,rtzi aria                           C47. 1)      '9 .7.1 i
St whiCrn:
ASO &                                24.51      :2,.31      :!3.41
:OA                                 k1.01      :3.01       :4.71
Worwa rr¶reT   area I/                   ( 4.;)        979.7 (7)
OttiCiSL  3rade,w rs l.3 5                              77.2        71.4
;3nTfrsICLO arco                         ('9e  )     '!6.7)       !L3.9)
xrwcrrvoite  arts                         (C 3)       (0.31       (S 0)
O1recI fro*%   i                                7.3        12.8         * 0
Privata creotts. LncLuclnq
errors arc cissiorn                        -12.6         9.9        -7.3
IMF (SAF)                                       7.3          *-        11.8
totai icenti''eo  ertti                         1C4.0         9 t        _0
flnarrinq gao                                       -
3Otate SAF                                           -           -
eS I CA L I  .rJuC I ns c *o
[Jt ctuc sc=wm ry crmi £






12
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CREDIT 2037-LA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Part Il: Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective
There is no Part II in the Report providing an assessment of the Borrower since after reviewing
Part I, the Borrower indicated that they have no commentary to add and are in full agreement with this
assessment.






13
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CREDIT 2037-LA)
Part III: Credit Data
As of February 28, 1993
Original      Disbursed     Cancelled     Repaid      Outstanding
Credit No. 2037-LA     40.0           40.72         -           -                42.74
Original Credit Dates                  Actual
Initiating Memorandum      January 30, 1939                     January 30, 1989
Letter of Development         May 30, 1989                         May 30, 1989
Policy
Negotiations                   May 9, 1989                         May 9, 1989
Board Approval                June 14, 1989                       June 14, 1989
Credit Agreement             June 23, 1989                        June 23, 1989
Effectiveness                August 1, 1989                       June 23, 1989
Credit Closing               July 31, 1991                      January 31, 1992
Actual Completion             June 30, 1991                    November 18, 1991
CUMULATIVE CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
FY90         FY91           FY92
(i)    Planned                     22.5          40.0           40.0
(ii)   Actual                      19.0          36.1           40.7
(iii)  (ii) as % of(i)             84.4          90.3          101.8
MISSION DATA
No. of No. of Staff
Month, Year  Weeks Pers.  Weeks Date of Reports
Preparation          Nov., 1988      2     3      6     Nov. 30, 1988
Appraisal            Feb., 1989      2     2      4     Mar. 31, 1989
Supervision I        May., 1990    2       2      4     Aug. 21, 1990
Supervision II       June., 1991     1     2      2     Sep. 03, 1991
Completion           Mar., 1993      1     1      1     June 30, 1993
FOLLOW UP OPERATIONS
Lao PDR:             Structural Adjustment Credit II    Credit No. 2304
approved on October 1, 1991 in the amount of US$40.0 million



