Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15517-SE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT
May 9, 1996
Population and Human Resources
Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)/ US$ 1 = 500 CFAF
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETIP       Agence d'execution des travaux d'interet public contre le sous emploi
CCS          Cellule de coordination et de suivi
CIDA         Canadian International Development Agency
CNOA         Coordination national des operateurs en alphabMtisation
CROA         Coordination regional des operateurs en alphabtsation
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GTZ          German Agency for Technical Cooperation
KfW          Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaujbau
IDA          Intemational Development Association
MCALN        Ministere charge de I 'alphabetisation et des langues nationales
NGO          Non-governmental Organization
OPEC         Organization of Petroleum Producing Countries
PAIS         Projet d 'alphabetisation intensive au Senegal
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
SOE          Statement of Expenditures
UNESCO       United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR                                                   ACADEMIC YEAR
January I-December 31                                                 October-June



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..................................................................i
I. INTRODUCTION ..................................................................1
II. THE  CONTEXT ..................................................................1
A.  Development Context ..................................................................1
B.  Sectoral Context ..................................................................3
1.   Illiteracv Among  Women ..................................................................3
2.   Provision  of Literacv  Programs ..................................................................3
3.   Government Strategy  and  Action  Plan ..................................................................5
4.   Issues in  literacv ..................................................................6
5.   IDA's Strategy  for Literacv im   Senegal ..................................................................                                    7
6.   Lessons Learned ..................................................................8
a. IDA-Financed  Education  Projects in  Senegal .................................................................8
b. Bank-Financed  Literacy  Projects or Components ...........................................................8
c. IDA's Experience with  AGETIP ..................................................................9
III. THE PROJECT .................................................................. 0
A.  Scope and  Objectives .................................................................                                                            10
1.   Literacy  and  Post-Literac     Sub-Projects .................................................................                                 10
2. Project Management and Capacity Building in Program Deliverv, Management, and
Evaluation                                  ................................................................. 12
B.  Program   and  Project Cost and  Financing  Plan .................................................................  12
iV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .................................................................                                                               13
A. Status of Project Preparation  .                                 .................................................................  3
B.  Project Coordination  and  Management .................................................................                                            14
C.  Monitoring  and  Evaluation  ................................................................. 14
D. Procurement .................................................................                                                                       15
E.  Disbursements                   ................................................................. 17
F.  Accounting, Auditing  and  Reporting ...........................                                     ...................................... 18
V.   PROJECT  BENEFITS  AND   RISKS .................................................................                                                       18
VI. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ................................. 19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission conducted in December 1995 and a donor's meeting held
in March 1996. The appraisal mission included Rosemary Bellew (Mission Leader), Serge Theunynck (Consultant,
Implementation Specialist), David Kahler (Consultant, Evaluation Specialist) and Alassane Diawara (Operations
Officer, Senegal Resident Mission). Amy Ba is the staff assistant for the project. Also involved in project
preparation were William Cooper (Consultant), Wolfgang Chadab (Disbursement Officer), and Bernard Abeille
(Implementation Specialist). Djamalddine Rouag, Robert Prouty, and Carmen Perez Castafio (AF5PH Education
team) also provided input during the review process. Birger Fredriksen and Ok Pannenborg are the Acting
Department Director and managing Division Chief, respectively, for the operation. Tom Eisemon and Nat Colletta
are the peer reviewers.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1 - Basic Data
2 - Project Benefits
3 - Draft Policy Paper and Action Plan for the Literacv Sector
4 - Sub-Project Eligibility Criteria
5 - Estimated Cost Structure of Sub-Projects
6 - Project Cost and Financing
7 - Stakeholder Participation
8 - Evaluation Results of the Test Phase
9 - Assessment of Management Options
10 - Project and Sector Monitoring Indicators
11 - Work Plan and Procurement Schedule
12 - Selected Documents Available in the Project File
13 - Disbursement Profile
MAP: IBRD 27781



i
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Senegal
Beneficiary:      Ministry in Charge of Literacv and National Languages (MCALN)
Credit Amount:    SDR 8.7 million (US$ 12.6 million equivalent)
Poverty:          Program of targeted intervention
Terms:            Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturitv.
Program Objectives: The project would support the first phase of the Government's 10-year
program which aims to reduce the illiteracy rate of the age group 10-39 years
old from an estimated 50% in 1995 to 25% bv the vear 2005, and from 66%
to 30% for women. The main objective of the first phase is to pilot a strategy
which supports non-governmental literacy providers to expand their
programs with the aim of lowering the illiteracy rate to about 40% overall
and to 47% for women. This would require reaching about 300,000
beneficiaries, 75% women. Other objectives include: (i) ensuring the
sustainabilitv of literacy skills, and (ii) strengthening the capacity of the
private sector to deliver effective programs, and the capacity of the public
sector to monitor, evaluate and coordinate sector investments.
Project Description: IDA financing would support literacv and post-literacy sub-projects in the
regions of Diourbel, Louga, Kolda, Fatick, and in peri-urban areas of Dakar
to reach about 135,000 adults (75% women) over the five-year period 1996-
2001 -- or about 75% of the total required to meet the Government's targets
for those regions. Parallel financing for about 75,000 beneficiaries in
Tambacounda, Kaolack, St. Louis, Ziguinchor, and Niayes would be
provided by CIDA, for 14,000 beneficiaries in Fatick and Kaolack bv the
GTZ, and for 50,000 beneficiaries through on-going programs. The proposed
project would also strengthen the capacity of providers in program
development and delivery, and the capacitv of Government, providers and
AGETIP in program monitoring, supervision, evaluation and coordination.
Benefits:        Given trends in primarv school expansion, if no adult education programs are
provided, by the year 2015, only about 45% of young women in their peak
years of childbearing and child-rearing will be literate, and much fewer in
rural areas. The consequences are striking for productivitv, health, fertilitv,
child survival and education. A recent anal!ysis from Senegal shows that
children of illiterate mothers are 50% more likelv to die in childhood.
illiterate women want 1.8 more children on the same income as literate
mothers: and literate mothers are about 50% more likelv to send their



ii
daughters to school, ceteris paribus. Under these assumptions, the expected
health benefits of the literacy program are sufficiently high to make the
program attractive on health grounds alone. The program is estimated to
result in a 10% reduction in disease burden, equivalent to 8.5 million
(disability adjusted) life years saved, at a cost of about US$ 2.00 per capita.
In comparison, the most cost-effective health intervention -- a minimum
package of clinical services -- at an expenditure of US$ 7.80 per capita is
estimated to reduce the disease burden by 24% in low-income countries. The
program is also expected to result in an estimated 10-14% decline in infant
mortality, a 3-5% decline in the number of births, and a 23% increase in
girl's enrollment.
Risks:             This is a pilot that tests a new approach to delivering literacy programs. The
experimental phase, which began in four regions in August 1995, provided
useful feedback on procedures and processes which were incorporated into
the project's design. The risk that a larger pilot may not achieve its
objectives are difficult to assess at the outset for three main reasons. First
although literacy providers show significant interest in the program, capacity
is widely believed to be weak among small providers. To minimize this risk,
the project will provide capacity building services to assist the weaker
providers and increase absorptive capacity. The second risk concerns the
ability of Government and providers to maintain an effective partnership. The
alliance established is innovative and recent. To be successful, providers will
need to place less emphasis on protecting their turf and more on
strengthening their technical capacity. And, the MCALN will need to guard
against exercising undue control over providers, particularly in areas where
they are more experienced. To assist the process, the project supports
regular discussions between the MCALN and providers on program
implementation and results, and training for both to improve technical
competence. A third potential risk concems the sustainability of literacy
skills. Some researchers argue that relapse into illiteracy may occur when the
environment offers no support for the new literate to apply and improve her
skills. However, there is no strong evidence to reject the hypothesis that
when programs are well designed, and offer a minimum instruction of 300
hours, neo-literates retain their skills over time. To address this issue, the
project will conduct longitudinal studies to assess skill retention and
operational research to assess the cost-effectiveness of select post-literacy
activities.
Environment:       This is a category C project. It is expected to have a beneficial environmental
impact through improved knowledge transmission among women, essential
stakeholders for environmental management.



iii
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN'
(US$ million)2
ESTIMATED           PROJECT
COSTS
LOCAL         FOREIGN  TOTAL
(USS million)
1. Literacy Sub-Projects                                  10.3            0.0           10.3
2.  Strengthen Program Delivery, Management,               1.9            0.9            2.8
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.  PPF refinancing                                        0.6            0.2            0.8
Total Base Costs                                      12.7            1.1           13.8
Physical Contingencies                                 0.0            0.0            0.0
Price Contingencies                                    0.1            0.1            0.2
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                   12.8            1.2           14.0
Financing Plan (US$ million)
IDA                                        12.6
Government                                  0.5
Beneficiaries and NGOs                      0.9
TOTAL                                      14.0
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
US$ Millions
IDA FY                1997         1998        1999        2000        2001         2002
Annual                  0.5         1.9         2.4          2.8         2.7         2.3
Cumulative              0.5         2.4         4.8          7.6        10.3        12.6
' The estimated cost of the first phase of the program is USS30.0 million. IDA would provide USS10. I million,
CIDA USS12.6 million (escluding bilateral technical assistance), the GTZ US$1.4 million, NGOs and beneficiaries
US$4.4 million, and Government USSI.4 million leaving a financing gap of about USS4.0 million which is under
discussion with other donors. Financing details for the full program, are in Annex 3.
2 Totals may not add up due to rounding.






REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1          The Government of Senegal has requested IDA's assistance to support the first
phase of a 10-year program which aims to reduce the illiteracy rate of the age group 10-39 years
old from an estimated 50% in 1995 to 25% by the year 2005, and from 66% to 30% for women.
To achieve this target for women, about 50,000 a year will need to be reached by adult education
programs. The program has broad based support, having been developed through a series of
consultations between the Ministry of National Education in charge of Basic Education and
National Languages (MCALN) and a broad spectrum of representatives of Government, and
literacy providers, including NGOs, language associations, academic institutions, enterprises and
the more loosely knit women's and economic interest groups.
1.2          The main objective of the first phase (1995-2000) is to pilot nationwide a strategy
which supports non-governmental literacy providers to expand their programs with the aim of
lowering the illiteracy rate to about 40% overall and to 47% for women. This would require
reaching about 300,000 beneficiaries, 75% women. Other objectives include ensuring the
sustainability of literacy skills and strengthening the capacity of the private sector to deliver
effective programs, and the capacity of the public sector to monitor, evaluate and coordinate sector
investments.
1.3          The proposed project provides partial financing for this program Total program
costs of the first phase for the country-wide pilot are estimated at about US$ 30 million, with IDA
providing US$ 12.6. IDA financing would support the provision of literacy and post-literacy
programs in the regions of Diourbel, Louga, Kolda, Fatick, and in peri-urban areas of Dakar for
about 135,000 beneficiaries, as well as the capacity building objectives of the program. Total
project costs are estimated at US$ 14.0 million with a foreign exchange component of US$ 1.2
million. Communities and/or NGOs would contribute about US$ 0.9 million equivalent, and the
Government US$ 0.5 million. For the rest of the program, parallel financing is expected to be
provided by Canada (CIDA, US$ 10.0 million equivalent, excluding bilateral technical
assistance), Germany (GTZ, US$ 1.4 million equivalent), and NGOs and beneficiaries (US$ 2.9
equivalent). (See Annex 3 for the financing plan of the full program.)
II. THE CONTEXT
A. Development Context
2.1          Poverty. Senegal is a coastal semi-arid country situated in Africa's Sahelian zone
with a per capita income of US$ 611 (1995). Its population of 8.3 million has been growing at a
rate substantially above the real GDP growth rate (2.7% vs. 1.9%, 1985-95). The rnajority of the
population (58%) lives in rural areas and half is under the age of 16. Despite a relatively high
level of income for the Sahel region, poverty is widespread in rural areas and in Dakar. During the
most prosperous time of the year for farmers, in 1992, 33% of the population did not spend enough
on food to assure a minimum caloric intake. Poverty is highest in the regions of Fatick, Kaolack,
Kolda, Louga, Tambacounda and Ziguinchor were the population receives a comparatively lower



2
level of public transfers (such as scholarships, retirement benefits, family allowances, etc.).
Together, these regions account for two-thirds of the total poor population in Senegal. The high
levels of poverty are linked to a low level of economic growth and skewed distribution of income
(59% of income going to 20% of the population), human capital and access to public services.
2.2          Social indicators. Senegal has significantly lower indicators of development than
what would be predicted on the basis of its per capita income. Child mortality averages 120
compared with 62 for low-middle income economies; fertility averages 6.0 compared with 2.9; and,
primary education enrolls the equivalent of only 56% of school-aged population compared with
104% for lower-middle income economies and 68% for Sub-Saharan Africa. Widespread illiteracy
among women is a significant factor.
2.3          Economic Growth. Between 1988-1991, real GDP per capita grew at an average
annual rate of -2.0%, and key economic sectors deteriorated. Since 1991, fish processing declined
in volume by 66%, food processing by 46%, phosphates by 24%, and textiles by 37%, while
groundnut exports declined in value by 41%. As the tax base shrank, Government increased its
reliance on exceptional and ad-hoc revenue measures which increased the costs of production and
forced firms to close or join the informal sector. The fiscal deficit and balance of payments
worsened; substantial domestic and external arrears accumulated; and foreign reserves declined
sharply. To halt the deterioration, Senegal adopted several measures in 1993 to deepen
deflationary policies and devaluated the CFAF. Since then, tourism, cement and textile production,
and exports of phosphoric acid and fish show signs of recovery. However on the fiscal side,
shortfalls in Government receipts are chronic, particularly from import duties on non-essential
consumer goods.
2.4          The Country Assistance Strategy aims to assist Senegal to reduce poverty by
restoring growth in per capita income and fostering a more equitable distribution of the benefits of
growth. To relaunch economic growth, the strategy focuses on increasing opportunities for private
sector expansion and improving productivity in agriculture, particularly in the production of
traditional export, food, and non-traditional and high value-added crops. To support this growth,
two elements are essential: (i) a more efficient and cost-effective provision of public goods such as
power, water and transportation, and (ii) an improvement in the human capital base. To foster a
more equitable distribution of benefits, the strategy focuses on improving public resource
mobilization and the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of public expenditure, particularly in basic
education and health, targeting girls, women and the poor to enable them to contribute to and
benefit from economic growth.



3
B. Sectoral Context
1. Illiteracy Among Women
2.5          The majority (80%) of young rural Senegalese women aged 15-39, women in their
peak years of productivity, childbearing and motherhood, are illiterate, with rates as high as 80-
90% in the regions of Diourbel, Tambacounda, Kolda and Louga, and 65-75% in Kaolack, Fatick,
St. Louis and Thies. Comparable rates for their urban counterparts and men average between 40%
and 45%, respectively. In the regions of Dakar and Ziguinchor, where gross primary enrollment
rates are at or near 100%, illiteracy rates are significantly lower at 28% for men and 41% for
women. The consequences of high illiteracy among women are striking. A recent analysis from
Senegal shows that children of illiterate mothers are 50% more likely to die in childhood; illiterate
women want 1.8 more children on the same income as literate mothers; and all other things being
equal (income, geographic location, ethnicity, etc.), literate mothers are about 50% more likely to
send their daughters to school than illiterate mothers (Annex 2).
2.6          Widespread illiteracy among women is directly related to an historical under-
provision of primary education, to financial, cultural, and social constraints that limit girls' school
enrollment, and limited education opportunities for teens or adults who missed the opportunity to
attend formal school. To expand access to primary education, IDA, the KfW, France and Japan
are supporting a five-year program to increase the (gross) primary enrollment ratio to at least 65%
by the year 1998 (73% for boys and 57% for girls), mainly by expanding access in rural areas,
improving quality and implementing a program to increase girls' enrollment. This effort alone,
however, will be insufficient to significantly lower illiteracy among young women for at least
another generation. Projections suggest that even assuming the objectives for primary education are
attained, in the year 2015, still about 45% of teens and young women (aged 15-39) would be
literate, and even less in rural areas.
2.7          The proposed project complements and the efforts to expand basic education by
supporting the expansion of literacy programs for teenage girls and young women who dropped
out, missed the opportunity to attend, or are not yet reached by formal schooling. The program is
consistent with poverty reduction objectives and with the Country Assistance Strategy which was
discussed with the Board in January 1995. It targets girls and women in the poorest parts of the
country where the impact on social development indicators is likely to be greatest.
2. Provision of Literacy Programs
2.8          Demand. Evidence suggests there is strong demand for literacy training among
women. In 1994, women comprised between 75%/o-90% of enrollment in literacy programs,
depending on the region. A recent survey of women in seven regions (St. Louis, Thies, Diourbel,
Tambacounda, Kolda, Louga, Fatick and Kaolack) shows that 35% of women had participated or
were participating in a literacy program. About 75% of other women report that they would like to
participate (MCALN, 1994). The majority do not attend due to the absence of a program in the
community or to a lack of information on the availability of programs.
2.9          Supplv. Literacy programs in Senegal have historically been organized and
provided by a diverse group of NGOs, language associations, enterprises, and youth, women's and



4
producer's groups, using their own resources and cost-sharing arrangements with beneficiaries.
According to a comprehensive survey of literacy providers conducted in 1994, some 200 registered
NGOs, and a larger number of associations claimed to offer some form of literacy education. In
practice, about 100,000 individuals were attending classes offered by some 94 organizations
(MCALN 1995). There is, however, a strong case to be made for public financing of literacy
programs -- the social rate of return is substantial (see Annex 2); the resources of non-
governmental organizations are insufficient to significantly expand their operations; and, it is
unlikely that women can or would pay the full cost of the program. Based on experience, literacy
providers in Senegal estimate the maximum average ability to pay at the equivalent of $5.00 (or
about 13% of average unit costs).
2.10          Program content and duration. Literacy programs are offered in French (mainly in
urban centers) and in national languages, in particular in Wolof, Pulaar, Sereer, Joola, Mandinka
and Soninke. They vary widely in program content and structure depending on the provider's
definition of literacy, its experience, and the needs of the target group. Most providers offer
programs that can be referred to asffunctional literacy (reading, writing and arithmetic along with
vocational skills), integrated literacy (comprehensive education that includes problem solving
skills with the goal of making participants leaders in their communities), or adult basic education
(basic literacy skill training combined with a general education in health, nutrition, farming, and
other areas of interest to rural women). The latter may be independent or linked to development
projects. (Refer to Annex 2 for definitions). The majority of programs offer between 200-300
hours of instruction spread over 12-18 months (i.e. 2 hours a day, 3 to 4 days a week).
2.11          Between 1993-1995, the Government, with CIDA assistance, tested a mass
literacy campaign (Projet 1000 classes), which provided exposure to reading, writing and
arithmetic during 140 hours of instruction spread out over four months, the main objectives being
to sensitize the population to the importance of literacy and to learn more about what conditions
contribute to a successful program. Recognizing that the program was insufficient to cultivate
basic skills, a second phase of 150 hours of instruction with a particular focus on arithmetic was
added (Projet PAIS), and a year later an additional 150 hours was added for instruction in thematic
areas such as health, nutrition, environmental protection, etc. Evaluations of all phases of the
campaign showed predictable weaknesses related to the acquisition and distribution of instructional
materials, inadequate instructor training and on-the job support, and questionable learning
outcomes. The evaluation results were fed-back into the program's design which allowed the
MCALN to improve upon itsfaire-faire strategy and to delegate implementation of the third phase
of the campaign to experienced literacy providers.
2.12          Characteristics of effective programs. Evaluative information is available only on
a few progranms in Senegal. Only one provides reasonable measures of learning achievement, and
none provide information on key variables that are likely to be related to program effectiveness.
Nevertheless, this information supports the conclusion from international research on literacy that
the following elements are characteristic of effective programs: (i) minimum of 250-300 hours of
instruction which is necessary to attain a level of literacy (fourth grade equivalent) where skills are
actually acqmured and, therefore, can be maintained, (u) meaningful content for adult learners, (iu)
materials appropriate for adults, (iv) teachers knowledgeable about the content and trained in adult
education approaches, (v) regular in-service teacher support, and (vi) participation of beneficiaries
in progran design and implementation. A review of the literature is in Annex 2.



5
2.13         Program costs. Actual costs of on-going programs vary across providers,
depending on program duration, level of fees paid to instructors, how much materials development
is involved, the quantity of program materials, and the extent of supervision, in-service and pre-
service instructor training. The information suggests that the average cost per participant for a
300-hour program averages US$ 65 (32,500 CFAF), ranging between US$ 48 (23,000 CFAF) and
US$ 125 (62,500 CFAF) per participant when materials development and testing is involved.
Drop out rates from adult literacy programs are high internationally with 30-40% being considered
good. Drop-out rates reported by literacy providers in Senegal, like programs everywhere, vary
between 100/6-60%. Programs with the lowest drop-out rates are generally those that contain the
elements of effective programs (para. 2.11) and are also, therefore, more costly.
3. Government Strategy and Action Plan
2.14         Prior to 1991, the Ministry of Education was responsible for overseeing literacy
activities, and had traditionally limited its role to providing technical support to donor-financed
projects. In 1991, a Ministry responsible for literacy was created which later became the
Ministry of Basic Education and National Languages (MCALN). The MCALN is responsible for
developing public policy and publicly financed programs, mobilizing resources, coordinating donor
support, and planning, programming, monitoring, and evaluating the effectiveness of public
investments in the sector.
2.15         The MCALN's program for literacy (Annex 3) was developed in 1994 through a
series of consultations with a broad spectrum of Government agencies, donors and literacy
providers. Its priorities for literacy are to: (i) substantially reduce illiteracy among females, (ii)
reduce the literacy gap between regions and between urban and rural areas, (iii) promote the use of
national languages in functional and basic education programs to improve learning outcomes, (iv)
promote a literate environment, and (v) coordinate the interventions of financial partners to work
towards these objectives. Specific literacy objectives for the decade 1995-2005 are to reduce the
illiteracy rate of the population 10-39 years old from an estimated 50% in 1995 to 25% by the year
2005, and from 66% to 30% for women. Intermediate objectives for the year 2000 are 38%
overall and 46% for women. Although most of the improvement will be due to the expansion of
primary education, about 50,000 women and 10,000 men will need to be reached each year by
other education programs. Other objectives of the program are to: (i) improve the effectiveness of
literacy programs; (ii) ensure the sustainability of literacy skills; and (iii) improve monitoring,
evaluation and coordiation of sector activities.
2.16         The main strategies by which Government aims to achieve the targeted literacy
rates are: (i) supporting a strategy of "fairefaire" by which Government channels financing to
qualified local organizations to develop and deliver literacy programs, and (iu) developing a
participatory approach involving communities and beneficiaries at all stages (design,
implementation and evaluation). This strategy has so far resulted in a consensual policy
framework and action plan for the sector, the creation of a coordinating mechanism among litacy
providers, and a consultative mochanim linking government and providers to review and revise
policies and programs.



6
4. Issues in literacy
2.17         The main questions surrounding literacy programs in general, as well as those in
Senegal, are: (i) What is the best strategy to increase the availability of programs for women? (ii)
Is the absorptive and technical capacity of literacy providers sufficient to provide the services
desired? (iii) Can the public sector forge a sustainable partnership with literacy providers to enable
this to happen? (iv) How can efficiency and quality be ensured in program delivery? And, (v) what
are the odds that literacy skills will be retained once acquired?
2.18          Strategv to increase availability of programs. The availability of effective literacy
programs, responsive to the needs of women, is a main constraint to increasing their level of
literacy. How to improve the supply has been the subject of much discussion in recent years
among donors, Government and literacy providers. Although there are no clear answers to this
question in the absence of experimentation, experience in Senegal and elsewhere with government
delivered programs has led all parties to conclude that a different approach was needed. A main
objective of the proposed pilot project is to test a mechanism to operationalize a strategy of faire-
faire par les partenaires sur le terrain, in other words, to support private sector literacy providers
to expand their operations and encourage new providers to enter the market.
2.19         The absorptive and technical capacity of providers to expand their operations has
proven difficult to assess through surveys and interviews. With the exception of the larger
providers (e.g. Tostan, Aide-et-Action, SODIFITEX) financed by bilateral or multilateral donors,
most providers operate on small budgets with few specialist staff and offer small-scale programs,
targeting narrowly defined groups in specific geographic areas. Not much is known about how
effective the programs are which smaller providers offer, nor if smaller providers have the
professional capacity to develop and manage larger programs. Many providers maintain, however,
that care should be taken to ensure technical support to smaller providers, particularly in the areas
of instructor training, adult education methods, and instructional materials.
2.20         Maintaining an effective partnership. The faire-faire strategy is an appropriate
one in the Senegalese context. However, its effectiveness depends importantly on maintaining an
effective partnership between Government and suppliers. To develop this partnership, in 1993, the
MCALN began consultations with organizations interested in literacy, with the aim of obtaining
feedback on its development plan and defining modes of collaboration (See Annex 71. Trust and
interest on the part of providers to participate in a government program have improved. In 1995,
providers formed a professional association to represent them in consultations with Government
and to provide technical support services for members to maintain standards while programs
expand. Suregtheng and sustaining this partnership will be critical for the program to achieve its
objectives.
2.21          Quality of program delivery. The absence of evaluations of the quality and
effectiveness of on-going literacy programs could raise questions concerning the pertinence and the
effectiveness of instruction and of instructional materials. Concerning program effectiveness, a
system to qualify providers has been put in place. However, instructional materials deserve
particular attention. A multiplicity of literacy publications exist in the six national languages.
Although there is little difference among them in content, methodology and presentation, in 1994,
at least 24 literacy operators were publishing their own materials. The reasons they do include: (i)



7
content in available materials is inconsistent with their training methodology or target group,
particularly in the areas of health, nutrition, family planning, environment and women's rights, (ii)
unawareness of the existence of other materials, and (iii) difficulty of acquiring materials even if
they are known to exist. The latter two problems result mainly from insufficient operating capital
for materials production and storage, and from insufficient publishing skills in planning, editing,
design, illustration and economical production methods. As a result, publications are not
advertised; printing costs are relatively high because print runs are small (1,000 copies or less);
and material is poorly manufactured and has a short useful life.
2.22          Sustainability of Literacy Skills. A criticism often levied against literacy
programs, as well as primary education in general, is that even if literacy programs are well
designed and delivered, the beneficiaries will not retain their skills over time, particularly if the
immediate environment offers no support for the new literate to apply and improve her/his skills.
Other professionals, however, refute this hypothesis and argue that if basic literacy programs are
of sufficient duration and use well-designed learning materials with content that is interesting and
useful to adults, adults do acquire and retain the skills. Still others maintain that, even though skill
retention is improved when literacy programs are well-designed, post-literacy activities (such as
village libraries, local language newspapers, structured learning occasions, or the creation of
locally-managed structures such as a cooperative run by new literates) to which reading materials
can be attached should form part of the literacy program.
2.23          There have been no studies in Senegal on skill retention nor on the effectiveness of
post-literacy activities, and very few in other countries, to strongly support or reject any of these
hypotheses. The most that can be said is that: (i) there is no evidence to reject the hypodhesis that
when programs are well-designed and delivered and offer an adequate duration of instruction (250-
300 hours) young adults retain their skills, and (ii) there is no evidence that post-literacy activities
have been effective. However, there is stronger evidence to support the conclusion that: (i) the
longer the period of instruction the higher the level of skill development and retention, and (ii) of all
post-literacy activities, newspapers, particularly when reinforced by radio broadcasts, seem to be
most effective. (See Annex 2 .
5. IDA's Strategy for Literacy in Senegal
2.24          The Bank's strategy for increasing the level of literacy in Senegal has focused
exclusively on providing support for the expansion and improvement of primary education since it
is widely believed that this is the most cost-effective strategy for developing the basic human
capital required for development. There are at least four reasons for this view. First, it is
supported by the experience of mass literacy campaigns and functional literacy programs
popularized by UNESCO during the 1960s and 1970s which, by and large, were unsuccessful.
Although literacy programs have continued to develop and expand, they still have not recovered
from the bad reputation acquired from this time. Second, governments in Africa already have great
difficulty organizing and delivering primary education. Support for literacy programs risks
distracting Government from fulfiling this obligation. Third, literacy programs do not require
significant investment, and they are difficult for Government to provide because they are usually
small-scale operations that need to be responsive to needs of diverse groups. Finally, the Bank has
little experience with literacy programs.
2.25          Since 1991, the Senegalese authorities have persistently requestd IDA support for
a literacy program. However, for all the above reasons, particularly the specter of Government



8
becoming more involved in providing literacv programs when its capacity was already weak to
fulfill its obligations of providing primary education, the Bank was reluctant to move ahead.
Additional concerns were the limited experience of the MCALN in the area of literacy, and that
increased Government involvement in the sub-sector would turn towards program delivery and
regulation of private providers. Therefore, at the outset, IDA-Government discussions on this
proposed project centered on defining the meaning of its faire-faire strategy, the appropriate roles
for Government and literacv providers, and on an experimental approach to expand literacy
programs.
6. Lessons Learned
a.    IDA-Financed Education Projects in Senegal
2.26         Since IDA's first project in the education sector in 1971, six education and
training projects have been approved for a total of about US$ 87.0 million. Three projects
supported vocational and technical education (US$ 39.0 million); one supported the establishment
of a regional management training center (US$ 5.5 million); one covered a variety of objectives in
nearly all the sub-sectors of the system (US$ 12.0 million); and the on-going Second Human
Resources Development Project (US$ 30.0 million, 1993) focuses on expanding access and
improving the quality of primary education.
2.27         Project performance in the education sector with respect to the Operations
Evaluation Department's categories of outcomes, sustainability and institutional development, is
poor to mediocre. Across all projects, key constraints have been: (i) lack of counterpart funds or
insufficient operating costs for institutions; (ii) poor management of the sector; (iii) weak
Government commitment to change certain policies, particularly in higher education; (iv) poor
management and use of technical assistance; and (v) complexity of the operations with too many
sub-sectors or institutions involved. However, some gains in capacity building and policy reform
were achieved in primary education, and more recently in higher education. Following the
concems raised about project complexity and weak sector management, the Bank's assistance
strategy to the sector was to address the needs of each sub-sector in separate operations but within
the context of an overall policy and financial framework. Operations were to be phased in over a
period of 3-5 years, beginning with primnary education (Second Human Resources Development
Project, Cr. 2473-SE), followed by higher education (FY 96), literacy, and secondary general and
vocational and technical education. Combined, the operations support a policy framework which
places priority on the expansion of primarv education, and the improvement of education at all
levels, as well as on providing non-formal education for young women who missed the opportumity
to attend formal schooling.
b.    Bank-Financed Literacy Projects or Components
2.28         The Bank does not have a long history of supporting literacy programs. With the
notable exceptions of Indonesia (now on its fourth non-formal education project) and Ghana,
where the Bank has financed free-standing literacy operations, small literacy programs have been
financed mainly through agricultural (Mali, Senegal, Burkina Faso), Women in Development (The
Gambia, C6te d'Ivoire) or basic education projects (Philippines, Burundi, Mali). In all cases,
Govemment delivers the programs. A 1987 review of Bank-financed non-formal education



9
components3 concluded that the following aspects of non-formal activities need careful attention: (i)
active participation of the borrower in preparation to ensure commitment; (ii) needs analyses of
potential clients for large-scale non-formal education programs; (iii) close attention to management
capacity and clear implementation arrangements, (iv) measures for effective monitoring and
evaluation; (v) adequate resources for materials; and (vi) sufficient flexibility to respond to
different needs.
2.29          Project completion, audit and supervision reports of later projects draw attention
to the following common problems with literacy programs: (i) significant organizational problems
in the provision of program inputs (materials, teacher training); (ii) inadequate advertisement of
the program; and (iii) weak capacity of Government staff. In African countries in particular, such
as Mali and Burundi, organizational problems were severe. Smaller-scale programs, however, in
Senegal and Burkina Faso that targeted organized groups (extension workers for example) were
more successful.
c.    IDA's Experience with AGETIP
2.30          The Agence d'excution des travaux d'interet public contre le sous emploi
(AGETIP) was created by the Government in 1989. It has the status of an NGO and is governed
by a Board of Directors consisting of a Director from the private sector, representatives of the
National Council of Employers of Senegal, the Union of Construction and Public Works Workers,
and the Association of Mayors of Senegal. It operations are govemed by a procedural manual
which forms part of the Govermnent of Senegal-AGETIP agreement which established the Agency.
2.31          Since 1989, AGETIP has been involved in the management of several IDA
financed projects, most notably two Public Works and Employment Projects, the Community
Nutrition Project, and the classroom construction component of the Second Human Resources
Development Project. The Public Works projects aimed to create employment, strengthen the
capacity of small construction firms to respond to increased demand, and test procedures to enable
Government to commission small construction projects. A large number of small contracts, and
weak financial and managerial capacities of small enterprises in need of timely payments are main
features of the projects. AGETIP has successfully carried out these projects and has developed a
competence for efficient management of a large number of small contracts, effective monitoring,
and rapid payments while keeping administrative costs at or below 5% of program costs.
2.32          Given this experience, social sector Ministries also became interested in using
AGETIP's management experience. Since 1994, the Ministry of Health has used AGETIP in the
preparation and execution of the Community Nutrition Project. Due to its demonstat  expertise
with transparent and efficient procedures for the evaluation of sub-projects and the management of
numerous sub-project conacts, in 1995, the MCALN involved AGETIP in the preparation of the
Implementation Manual for the proposed project and in the management of its experimental phase.
AGETIP's performance thus far has been effective, efficient and professional. In April 1995,
AGETIP's convention with the Govermnent of Senegal was modified to allow it to offer this
assistance to support the delivery of basic public services in nutrition, health, education and
literacy.
I Ralph Romain and Lenor Arm sog. Review of World Bank Operamtio in Non-Fonial Education and Trning
Education and Training Department Disussion Paper, Report No. EDT 63, 1987.



10
III. THE PROJECT
A. Scope and Objectives
3.1          The MCALN's program for literacy is a 10-year program which aims to reduce
the illiteracy rate of the age group 10-39 years old from an estimated 55% in 1995 to 25% by the
year 2005, and from 66% to 30% for women. The program is divided into two phases. The first
phase tests a strategy offaire-faire par les oprateurs throughout the country with the intention of
expanding the program during the second phase, if successful. The main objective of the first
phase (1995-2000) is to lower the illiteracy rate to about 40% overall, and to 47% for women, by
supporting literacy providers to offer programs to a total of about 300,000 beneficiaries, 75%
women. Other objectives include: (i) ensuring the sustainabilitv of literacy skills, and (ii)
strengthening the capacity of the private sector to deliver effective programs, and the capacity of
the MCALN to monitor, evaluate and coordinate public investments in literacy programs. The
total estimated cost of the first phase is US$ 30.0 million, of which IDA would provide 12.6
million, CIDA US$ 10.0 million (excluding bilateral technical assistance), the GTZ US$ 1.4
million, NGOs and beneficiaries US$ 4.4 million, and Government US$ 1.4 million. Program
costs and financing are in Annex 3.
3.2          The IDA financed project would support literacy and post-literacy sub-projects in
the regions of Diourbel, Louga, Fatick, Kolda, and in peri-urban areas of Dakar to reach about
135,000 adults (75% women) over five years (1996-2001) -- or about 75% of the tota required to
meet the Government's targets for those regions -- to lower the illiteracy rate from a combined
average of 50% to 35%. Targets by region are in Annex 3 and shown in the table below. The
project would also finance activities to strengthen capacities in program development, delivery,
monitoring, evaluation and consultations with partners.
Target Number of Beneficiaries
Region             Beneficiaries
Diourbel                     25,000
Louga                        25,000
Fatick                       25,000
Kolda                        25,000
Dakar, peri-urban            35,000
3.3.         Parallel financing for about 75,000 adults in Tambacounda, Kaolack, St. Louis,
Ziguinchor and Niayes would be provided by CIDA. The GTZ will provide financing for about
14,000 beneficiaries in Fatick and Kaolack. On-going projects are expected to cover an additional
50,000 beneficiaries. Progress in achieving the IDA supported project would be assessed against
performance indicators in Annex 10. A more complete set of indicators for monitoring and
supervision are in the Project Implementation Manual.
1. Literacy and Post-Literacy Sub-Projects (US$ 9.5 million IDA)
3.4          Description. The project would provide US$ 8.2 million equivalent to finance
eligible literacy sub-projects prepared and submitted by literacy providers. Literacy providers (see
para 2.8) would mobilize participants, develop and provide the program, procure instructional
materials, recruit and train instructors, and supervise program implementation. The project would



11
also make available a limited amount of financing (US$ 1.3 million equivalent) for pilot post-
literacy activities developed and implemented by providers financed under the project. The project
would finance 85% of the cost of the program; the provider would cover the remaining 15%. The
post-literacy activities are intended to support skill retention of neo-literates. Procedures governing
access to, and management of, the funds are described in an Implementation Manual for the project
available in the project files and briefly summarized below.
3.5           Eligibility criteria. Sub-project eligibility criteria for literacy programs were
established on the basis of economies of scale in supervision (at least 10 classes of 25-30
auditeurs per class for one sub-project), and characteristics of effective programs in terms of
duration -- 250-300 hours of instruction spread out over a period of time agreeable to the
beneficiaries, generally 12-18 months. The capacity of providers to deliver the program is assessed
against their experience, the quality of the proposal and the commitment of beneficiaries to
participate. Criteria are summarized in Annex 4.
3.6           For post-literacy activities, financing would be limited to sub-projects on the list of
acceptable post-literacy activities in the Project Implementation Manual. At present, the list
contains two priority areas: (i) developing structured learning activities for neo-literates directly
linked to their social and economic activities, (ii) promoting the development of local newspapers,
and (iii) supporting the development of publications in national languages. Implementation
modalities and criteria for the evaluation of sub-projects was discussed during negotiations and will
be evaluated at the mid-term review of the project. For all post-literacy sub-projects, providers
will be required to set up an experimental design for the program, with treatment and non-treatment
groups, in order to assess the cost-effectiveness of the program. The evaluation would be financed
by the project and coordinated by the MCALN.
3.7           Proposal evaluation. Proposals would be prepared by the literacy provider, if
necessary with assistance from the CROA (Regional Committee of Literacy Providers), and
submitted to the MCALN for evaluation. A standard form for proposal submission is contained in
the project's Implementation Manual. Proposals would be accepted in May and September each
year. This schedule facilitates management and evaluation and corresponds to the peak preparation
period for providers as programs are not offered during the peak agricultural months of June-
October. Proposals received would be evaluated by an ad-hoc committee comprised of a
representative of the MCALN, the Ministry of Women, Children and Families, AGETIP (paras.
4.5-4.6), and an external expert from the provider community. A representative of the CNOA and
the chief of the Comite de Coordination et de Suivi (CCS) have observer status on the committee.
3.8           Financing. The project would provide financing up to a maximum of US$ 65 per
participant. This cost covers the cost of materials, instructor fees and training, the marginal cost of
the program's administration, each representing about one-third of the cost per participant.
Beneficiaries (or NGOs) are required to contribute 2,500 CFAF per participant. This figure was
selected because it was considered reasonable by literacy providers. A breakdown of estimated
program costs is in Annex 5.



12
2. Project Management and Capacity Building in Program Delivery, Management,
and Evaluation (USS 3.1 million)
3.9          This component would complement CIDA's capacity building support to the
MCALN by financing activities to strengthen the capacity of: (i) providers to deliver effective
literacy programs, focusing particularly on improving the quality of their human resources, and (ii)
the MCALN to monitor progress in the sector and establish reliable and valid evaluation designs
and procedures for sub-projects financed under the credit. The component will also finance client
consultations to strengthen the partnership between Government and providers.
3.10         To strengthen provider capacitv, the project would provide support in three areas.
Fir  it would finance 9000 person days of training and workshops provided by the CNOA.
Second, AGETIP, as part of its project responsibilities, would provide advice to providers on
managing financial records and accounts to ensure that they meet the guidelines presented in the
Implementation Manual for the project. Third, to improve the quality and availability of literacy
materials, the project would finance (a) local training seminars for about 10 literacy publishers and
MCALN staff responsible for publishing, marketing, sales and distribution of literacy materials,
(b) 10 months of short-term international training for MCALN staff responsible for the evaluation
of literacy materials, and (c) 3 months of foreign technical assistance to assist MCALN to evaluate
the quality of materials used by providers.
3.11         To strengthen the capacity of the MCALN in monitoring and evaluation, the
proposed project would finance: (i) the establishment of a geographic and management
information system to map out and systematically track progress in the sector, and the cost and
effectiveness of projects, (ii) an ex-post evaluation of a representative sample of literacy programs
every two years, (iii) a longitudinal study of a sample of program participants to assess skill
retention; and (iv) vehicles, equipment, furniture, supplies and training for project management
staff involved in monitoring progress in the sector. The development of the ex-post evaluation
design has been split into two phases. The first phase assessed procedures, processes and
mechanisms and was developed and tested under the experimental phase of the project. The
instruments and results are available in the project files. The second part, dealing with literacy
achievement, is under preparation and will be tested between October - December 1996, after the
programs financed under the experimental phase have been in operation for 12 months. At
negotiations, the Government would be asked to provide assurances that: (i) the results of the
evaluation will be discussed with IDA and the literacy providers, and the project will be adjusted
accordingly; and (ii) the design for the longitudinal study will be developed during the first year of
project implementation (not later than June 1997).
B. Program and Project Cost and Financing Plan
3.12         Project Cost. Total project costs are estimated at US$ 14.0 million, including
taxes, with a base cost of US$ 13.8 million and a foreign exchange component of US$ 1.2 million.
Price contingencies (US$ 0.2 million) and physical contingencies (US$ 0.0 million) assume an
annual inflation rate of 2.5% local and 2.4% foreign. The IDA credit would finance 90% of total
project costs (US$ 12.6 million). Government would finance 4% (US$ 0 5 million). Minimum
community and provider contributions arc estimated at 6% of total costs (US$ 0.9 million).
Detailed cost estimates are given in Annex 6.



13
3.13          Recurrent Cost Implications. Total costs of the project to the Government of
Senegal are estimated at CFAF 250 million (US$ 0.5 million); total recurrent costs of the program
to the Government of Senegal are estimated at CFAF 700 million (US$ 1.4 million). The
recurrent cost impact is low because: (i) the program and project are pilots and limited in scope,
(ii) implementation is carried out by non-governmental organizations, and (iii) no new government
staff are being recruited to execute or manage the project. However, the cost of the literacy
programs themselves will need to be financed by donors for the foreseeable future. It is
anticipated, however, that over time the project will leverage additional resources from the NGO
community as an increasing number acquire experience in delivering literacy programs and
incorporate it into their other development activities.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.     Status of Project Preparation
4.1           The project has been under experimentation since June 1995. Discussions on the
Government's approach to literacy, program design, financing and implementation arrangements
began in earnest in 1993 with the MCALN and donors. Over time, the MCALN began a dialogue
with providers to obtain feedback on its plans and develop a partnership that would enable
providers to expand and improve their programs. In July 1995, providers organized a professional
association (CNOA) to strengthen their professional capacity and to represent them in discussions
with the MCALN. Representatives of this association as well as other providers provided useful
feedback on the Implementation Manual for this project. Participation of stakeholders in project
design and imnplementation is described in Annex 7.
4.2           An Implementation Manual which describes, inter alia, the role and
responsibilities of the parties involved, and the funding process and mechanism was finalized
following pre-appraisal and tested prior to appraisal. The test phase provided financing for 24
literacy sub-projects for about 7,200 beneficiaries in four target regions (Diourbel, Louga,
Tambacounda, Kolda), 90% women, to: (i) assess provider interest and capacity, (ii) test a
potential system of providing technical support to providers (operateurs relais), (iii) assess the
efficiency and equity of the proposed processes and procedures, and the performance of the
various actors, and (iv) develop and test a participatory evaluation design where results are fed-
back into program and project design.
4.3           The response of providers to the test phase has exceeded expectations both in
terms of interest and program quality. Seventy-two sub-project proposals were submitted for about
22,000 beneficiaries. An evaluation of the efficacy of the funding and award process and
mechanisms, and the performance of the actors involved was conducted during October-December
1995. The results are summarized in Annex 9; the full report is available in the project files. The
main changes proposed were: (i) replace the op&rateur relais strategy with technical support
provided by the CNOA and the decentralized structures of the MCALN; (ii) enlarge the ad hoc
evaluation committee to include a representative of AGETIP and a representative of the CNOA,
the latter as an observer; (iii) reduce the number of eligible books providers could use to two core
books per language to reduce the cost of publications; and (iv) improve the format of reports to
enable better monitoring of sub-project progress. Project design was subsequently modified to
incorporate these recomnmendations.



14
B.    Project Coordination and Management
4.4          In June 1995, the MCALN created a coordinating unit (Cellule de Coordination
et de Suivi, CCS) for the project consisting of a project coordinator, project officer, and two
support staff. Under the proposed project, the unit would continue to be responsible for: (i)
promotional campaigns and dissemination of information about the project to providers and
communities, along with AGETIP and the CNOA; (ii) coordinating the evaluation and approval of
sub-projects; (iii) ensuring that all reporting requirements are met; (iv) maintaining a computerized
management information system to assess quantitative and qualitative progress in the sector; (v)
coordinating evaluations of the sub-projects financed by the credit; and (vi) discussing results with
all stakeholders to ensure high visibility and transparency. The CCS would also ensure
appropriate coordination with: (i) the Human Resources Development Project (Cr. 2473)
concerning the evolution of enrollment in primary education and the subsequent adjustment of
literacy targets, (ii) the Community Nutrition Project concerning the literacy needs of the women's
groups involved, and (iii) literacy projects funded by other donors. Detailed terms of reference for
the CCS are in the Inplementation Manual for the project.
4.5          The MCALN has requested, and the Government of Senegal has designated,
AGETIP (Agence d'Execution des Travaux d'lnteret Public) to act an executing agency to manage
the contracts with literacy providers, and to procure the goods and services financed by the credit
on behalf of the MCALN. Following an assessment of alternative management arrangements for
the proposed project, which are summarized in Annex 9 AGETIP was deemed the most
appropriate option, principally because AGETIP has relevant competence in the management of
nurnerous small contracts and can ensure rapid payments to providers.
4.6          Under the proposed project, AGETIP's would: (i) manage the credit's accounts,
including the preparation of withdrawal applications, (ii) manage the contracts with the literacy
providers financed by the credit, (i.e. making payrnents and verifying the delivery of services
according to contract provisions), (iii) conduct all procurement on behalf of the MCALN, and (iv)
ensure that all reports and audits are provided to the MCALN and IDA as required. AGETIP
would execute these responsibilities in conformity with its overall convention with the Government
of Senegal, existing procurement and disbursement procedures as defined in its own Procedural
Manual, the Development Credit Agreement to be signed between the Government of Senegal and
IDA, the specific project agreement to be negotiated and signed between IDA and AGETIP, and
the Project Implementation Manual. To assist in project implementation, AGETIP would recruit a
project coordinator, two technical verifiers, an administrative staff, a chauffeur and accountant for
the unit within AGETIP responsible for the project. As a condition of credit effectiveness
AGETIP would recruit the coordinator and accountant.
C.    Monitoring and Evaluation
4.7          Monitoring and evaluation of sub-project inputs and outputs is the responsibility
of AGETIP which would provide bi-annual reports of project performance based on
disbursements, service delivery verification reports, and the monitoring indicators in the project's
Implementation Manual. AGETIP would report on disbursements, and the status of sub-contracts
execution relative to the terms of the sub-contract including the number of beneficiaries, the



15
number of female beneficiaries, hours of training for instructors, availability of teaching and
learning materials, etc. To undertake reporting and analysis, AGETIP would establish a
computerized monitoring system with baseline data on the characteristics of providers and
programs drawn from the proposals submitted for financing, and data on implementation progress
reported in trimestrial reports provided by the providers and in the verification reports completed
by AGETIP. At negotiations, AGETIP would be asked to provide assurances that the
computerized monitoring system will be in place not later than June 1997. In the meanwhile,
AGETIP would record the data on a manual basis and ensure that all data will be retroactively
input into the computerized system.
4.8.         The MCALN is responsible for evaluating the quality of the literacy programs
provided, progress in the sector taking into account all interventions, the impact of the project on
the sector, and coordinating interventions in the sub-sector. The MCALN would: (i) submit
annual reports of program quality and impact on the sector of a form and content acceptable to
IDA, (ii) organize annual reviews of the project with AGETIP, IDA, literacy providers and other
donors, (iii) organize annual reviews with IDA during the fourth quarter of each year to review
progress reports and expenditure statements of the current year, and work programs and budgets
for the following year; and (iv) not later than September 1999, organize a mid-term review of
project implementation, the results of which will be incorporated in an action plan, acceptable to
IDA for further implementation of the project.
4.9           To provide information necessary to evaluate progress and outcomes, the
MCALN will put into place a Geographic information system to situate and track literacy
interventions, beneficiaries and literacy rates, and will evaluate sub-project outcomes in terms of
learning achievement and skill retention by carrying out: (a) every two years an evaluation of the
outcomes of literacy sub-projects based on a representative sample of sub-projects every two years,
and (b) a longitudinal study to assess literacy skill retention and the need for post-literacy
activities. Key supervision / monitoring indicators are in Annex 10.
D.    Procurement
4.10          Table 1 summarizes project costs, including taxes and duties, by
disbursement category and procurement method. Costs include all local taxes and import
duties. Vouchers are provided by the Government of Senegal to suppliers to cover the tax
component. Senegal's procurement laws and regulations conform to IDA procurement
guidelines. No special exemptions, permits or licenses need to be specified in credit
documents. Senegal's procurement regulations allow IDA procedures to take precedence over
any contrary provisions in local regulations.
4.11         Service contracts, which include literacy and post-literacy sub-projects delivered
by literacy providers, total an estimated US$ 10.3 million equivalent of which IDA finances 100 %
of the amounts paid by AGETIP to the literacy providers - these amounts representing 93% of the
cost of literacy programs (US$ 8.2 million) and 85% of the cost of post-literacy progams (US$
1.3 million equivalent). Procurement procedures for the evaluation and financing of literacy and
post-literacy sub-projects are detailed in the Implementation Manual for the project. Requests for
proposals will be advertised locally and through information campaigns conducted by the
MCALN, AGETEP and the CNOA. Evaluation of the proposals received will be conducted by a
Committee consisting of a representative of AGETIP, the MCALN, the Ministry of Women,



16
Children and Families, and an external independent expert. To improve the technical quality and
transparency of the process, the CNOA and the CCS have representation as observers. Proposed
contract awards to providers esimated at more than US$ 100,000 are subject to prior approval by
IDA. Selection and award of provider contracts estimated at under US$ 100,000 will examined a
posteriori during IDA supervision missions.
Table 1.
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(USS million, including contingencies, taxes and duties)
Project Element                              Methods for
IDA financing
ICB      Other  | Total
1. Goods
Furniture, Equipment, Vehicles, Supplies                   0.5       0.1        0.6
(0.4)     (0. 1)    (0.5)
2. Specialist Services
Service contracts                                          --        10.3      10.3
(9.5)     (9.5)
Local and international consultants a/                      --       1.2        1.2
(1.2)     (1.2)
3. Training
Local                                                                0.4        0.4
(0.4)     (0.4)
Foreign                                                    --        0.1        0.1
(0.1)      (0.1)
4. Incremental Operating Cos                                         0.6        0.6
(0.2)     (0.2)
6. PPF Refund                                              --        0.75      0.75
(0.75)    (0.75)
TOTAL                                                      0.5       13.5       14.0
TOTAL IDA                                                 (0.4)      (2.2)     (12.6)
al Includes AGETIP fees.
bf Includes contractual personnel, and expenses related to supervision such as gas, travel and other expenses.
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding. Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by the IDA credit.
4.12          Goods. Goods financed under the credit (US$ 0.6 million, including taxes) include
furniture, equipment and vehicles, of which IDA finances 85% of local expenditure and 100% of
foreign expenditure. Goods will be grouped into packages of at least US$ 0.15 million and would
be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) using the World Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents (January 1995). Goods which cannot be grouped into these packages would
be purchased locally through prudent local shopping based on price quotations obtained from at
least three reliable suppliers, provided the aggregate amount of such procurement does not exceed
US$ 0.1 million equivalent. IDA-financed contracts for goods above a threshold of US$ 150,000



17
equivalent would be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The review process would cover
80% of the total value of the amount contracted for goods.
4.13         Consultant services. International and local consultant services financed by the
credit (US$ 0.5 million) would be financed in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants (August 198 1). The services include training and technical assistance for
monitoring and evaluation, and literacy materials and auditing services. Prior IDA review would
not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 equivalent for firms, and less that
US$ 50,000 for individuals. However, this exception would not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts, single-source hiring of firms, assignments of a critical nature as determined by
IDA, or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to US$ 100,000 equivalent or more
for firms and US$ 50,000 equivalent for individuals.
E.    Disbursements
4.14         The proposed credit of US$ 12.6 million equivalent would be disbursed over a
period of about six years. The disbursement schedule based of the expected implementation
schedule and the disbursement profile is similar to those of education projects in Senegal as shown
in Annex 12. Table 2 shows disbursements by category and financing percentages.
Table 2.
Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
(excluding taxes and duties)
Proposed IDA
Allocation           Expenditures
Category of Expenditure           (USS million)        Financed by IDA
I . Goods (Furniture, equipment, vehicles      0.5           90% of local, 100% of
& supplies)                                                foreign expedire
2. Literacy sub-projects                        8.8          95% of total sub-project
3. Consultants a/                               1.1                  cost
4. Training                                     0.4                 100%
5. Incremental Operating Costs                  0.3                 90%
6. PPF Refund                                   0.7
7. Unallocated                                  0.8
TOTAL                                          12.6
a! Includes paper and other supplies, gas, tavel and other expenses related to supevision
4.15.        Disbursemnents of the Credit would be fully documented except for expenditures
valued at less than US$ 50,000 equivalent which would be made against Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation for withdrawals under SOEs would be retained by AGETIP
for review by IDA supervision missions and for semiannual audits. To facilitate disbursements,
AGETIP would open a Special Account in a commercial bank to cover IDA's share of eligible
expenditures. AGETIP will submit invoices for its own services to MCALN for approval prior
seeking the subsequent payment for its own account, and approval of AGETIP fees will be
attached to the said withdrawal applications The authorized allocation for the Special Account
would be 500,000,000 CFAF (US$ 1.0 million equivalent). IDA would make an initial deposit of



18
that amount from the proposed Credit upon credit effectiveness and would replenish the Special
Account upon receipt of satisfactory proof of incurred eligible expenditures. Replenishment
requests would be accompanied by up-to-date bank statements and reconciliation of the Special
Account. Applications for direct payments and reimbursement or requests for special
commitments would apply to contracts above US$ 50,000.
F.    Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
4.16          AGETIP will be responsible for the project's financial management. It would
maintain consolidated project accounts. A computerized accounting system developed for the
project was put in place under the experimental phase. All project accounts would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; all disbursements under SOEs would be
audited semi-annually. Audit reports of reasonable scope and detail would be submitted to IDA
within four months of the end of each auditing period. As conditions of credit effectiveness, recruit
an independent auditor under a multi-year contract acceptable to IDA.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.1           Benefits. Given trends in primary school expansion, if no adult education
programs are provided, by the year 2015, only about 45% of young women in their peak years of
childbearing and child-rearing will be literate, and much fewer in rural areas. The consequences are
striking for productivity, health, fertility, child survival and education. A recent analysis from
Senegal shows that children of illiterate mothers are 50% more likely to die in childhood; illiterate
women want 1.8 more children on the same income as literate mothers; and literate mothers are
about 50% more likely to send their daughters to school, ceteris paribus. Under these assumptions,
the expected health benefits of the literacy program are sufficiently high to make the program
attractive on health grounds alone. The program is estimated to result in a 10% reduction in
disease burden, equivalent to 8.5 million (disability adjusted) life years saved, at a cost of about
US$ 2.00 per capita. In comparison, the most cost-effective health intervention -- minimum
package of clinical services -- at an expenditure of US$ 7.80 per capita is estimated to reduce the
disease burden by 24% in low-income countries. The program is also expected to result in an
estimated 10-14% decline in infant mortality, a 3-5% decline in the number of births, and a 23%
increase in girl's enrollment.
5.2           Risks. This is a pilot that tests a new approach to delivering literacy programs.
The experimental phase, which began in four regions in August 1995, provided useful feedback on
procedures and processes which were incorporated into the project's design. The risk that a larger
pilot may not achieve its objectives are difficult to assess at the outset for three main reasons.
First, although literacy providers show significant interest in the program, capacity is widely
believed to be weak among small providers. To minimize this risk, the project will provide
capacity building services to assist the weaker providers and increase absorptive capacity. The
second risk concerns the ability of Government and providers to maintain an effective partnership.
The alliance established is innovative and recent. To be successful, providers will need to place
less emphasis on protecting their turf and more on strengthening their technical capacity. And, the
MCALN will need to guard against exercising undue control over providers, particularly in areas
where they are more experienced. To assist the process, the project supports regular discussions
between the MCALN and providers on program implementation and results, and training for both



19
to improve technical competence. A third potential nsk concerns the sustainability of literacy
skills. Some researchers argue that relapse into illiteracy may occur when the enviromnent offers
no support for the new literate to apply and imnprove her skills. However, there is no strong
evidence to reject the hypothesis that when programs are well designed, and offer a minimum
instruction of 300 hours, neo-literates retain their skills over time. To address this issue, the
project will conduct longitudinal studies to assess skill retention and operational research to assess
the cost-effectiveness of select post-literacy activities.
VI. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.2           During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would:
(a)    discuss with IDA and the literacy providers the results of the evaluation, and
adjust the project accordingly (para. 3.11); and
(b)    develop the design for a longitudinal study of skill retention during the first year of
project implementation, i.e. not later than June 1997 (para. 3.11).
During negotiations AGETIP provided assurances that it would have a
computerized monitoring system in place not later than June 1997 (para. 4.7).
6.4           As conditions of Credit effectiveness. AGETIP would:
(a)    recruit a project coordinator and an accountant for the unit in AGETIP responsible
for the management of the proposed project (para. 4.6); and
(b)    recruit an independent auditor, with qualifications and experience acceptable to
IDA, under a multi-year contract to conduct audits of the project's accounts (para. 4.16).
Recommendation. Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$ 12.6 million equivalent on standard IDA terms.






Annex I
Page 1 of I
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT
Basic Data 1995, or latest year
Lower-middle
Indicator                            Senegal   Sub-Saharan Africa  Income Economies
GNP per capita (IUSS)                 611             510                   1590
Total population (million)               8.3          565                   1097
Percent urban                       42              28                     55
Population growth rate                2.7            2.9                     1.6
Adult literacy rate
T otal                               38             50                     80
Female                               25             38
Total fertility rate                     5.9            6.2                    2.9
Infant mortality                        68             94                     39
Under five mortality                   120            172                     62
Life expectancy at birth (years)       49              52                     67
Primary gross enrollment ratio (%)
Total                                56             68                    104
Female                               50             62
Sources: Countrv and Sector Operations, Western Africa Department.
Development Diamond
Lte expectancy
GNP per                          arosr pnmemy
Caplta,                          emrolhent
Serfegd
-   wer-rdide-irtc    ,
Access to sate water



Annex 2
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT
Project Benefits
Effectiveness of Literacy Programs
1.           Literacy programs have a checkered past. Although there are many examples of
successful programs, there have also been many failures with high drop-out and low acquisition of
literacy skills. Poor program design and implementation are generally the cause of inefficiency.
Our review of the literature shows that ineffective programs are characterized by: (i) a duration of
instruction and target skill too low to allow the development of skills that can be retained over time,
(ii) Government organization, development and delivery of programs, (iii) the use of materials and
methods designed for children, (iv) uninteresting and uninformative content, and (v) poorly
trained teachers with little education themselves.
2.            These characteristics are found especially in mass literacy carnpaigns of the 1960s
and 1 970s. It is widely recognized that such campaigns have largely failed. They targeted a level
of literacy that may be more accurately called pre-literacy, providing usually 100 hours of
instruction, or one-third the number generally considered necessary for the acquisition of skils that
can be applied and retained. Instructional and learning materials were frequently lacking.
Teachers were poorly trained. And, programs were implemented under unrealistic time constraints
and with inadequate resources. As a result, drop out rates were exceedingly high and skill
acquisition and retention low because skills were never acquired in the first place.
3.            Recognizing the failures of mass literacy campaigns, UNESCO popularized the
idea of functional literacy and tested such programs in 11 countries between 1967 and 1972.
Functional literacy was defined as skills that enable the individual to engage in activities required
for the effective functioning of one's group or community and to use reading, writing, and
calculation for is own and the community's development. However, in program terms,
functionality was linited to vocational skills and work-oriented program content. Although there
may have been some cases where the programs were effective (e.g. Bangladesh), on the whole,
there is little evidence to show success. And, due to the vocational content of the programs, they
were also costly (UNESCO 1989).
4.            Other programs offer what is sometimes referred to as comprehensive, or basic,
education. Such programs are longer in duration, provide a range of important information of
interest to beneficiaries, and develop critical thinking and problem solving skills, at times with the
goal of making participants leaders in their communities or for women's empowerment. In the
context of this project, the following definition of literacy programs is understood: to provide
participants with a usable level of reading, writing and math skills, teach a range of important
information, cultivate critical thinking and problem solving skills, and bring participants to a
level where they can retain their skill and improve it over time. This is usually a fourth grade
equivalent.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
Benefits of Literacy
5.            The general literature. Most studies on the benefits to literacy relate the number
of years of fomial schooling an individual completed as a child to development indicators such as
income, fertility, child mortality, malnutrition, use of health services, etc. when they are adults.
This evidence suggests that investments in female education probably yield the highest return of
any other investment available to the developing world today. In Africa, estimates of increased
income due to a year of primary schooling average 26%. Estimates of the gain in agricultural
productivity due to 3-4 years of primary education average 8-10%, and higher when
complementary inputs are available. The social benefits are even more significant. Fertility and
child mortality are estimated to fall by 5-10% for each year of primary education. The direct
health benefits are so significant that the World Development Report on Health concludes that:
The cost per year of life saved by educating girls is sufficiently low to make them attractive on
health grounds alone, other benefits only strengthen the case. And, mothers who attended school
are more likely to send their daughters to school, passing the benefits on to succeeding generations.
6.            The evidence above deals with years of formal schooling acquired in childhood
and not the effect of literacy skills per se. It is generally assumed that primary education is a
proxy for these skills. Although there is a paucity of research that estimates the benefits to literacy
skills themselves or to the benefits of literacy acquired as an adult, the few studies available
provide evidence to support the hypotheses that: (i) the positive effects of formal education on
health and fertility are related to the level of literacy skills retained into adulthood (Levine, Robert
et al 1994); and (ii) literacy education for women leads to at least the same impact as primary
schooling in the areas of health, family planning and children's education. A review of 43 case
studies concluded that women's literacy increased the likelihood of using oral rehydration therapy
and immunization services, and improved nutritional and birth spacing behaviors (Comings 1995).
Indeed, it is reasonable to suspect that the impact of adult education would be stronger on health
and fertility than that of primary education since the knowledge base of adult learners is broader,
and literacy programs that target women generally offer health and family planning education at a
time when the need and application are more immediate (Comings 1995). In other countries
(Nepal, Botswana, South Africa and the US), studies of the effect of adult literacy education on the
education of children conclude that women who complete adult literacy classes are more likely to
send their children to school, and that literacy level and reading practices are predictors of their
daughters' educational attainment.
7.            Adult literacy programs are also shown to have important empowerment effects.
They increase self-confidence and self-efficacy of women, and provide an opportunity for women
to meet, discuss and formulate solutions to an array of common problems. Beneficiaries
themselves often describe a more wide ranging set of benefits that motivate them to participate.
Among the most common are: the desire to learn reading, writing and calculation for its own sake,
to gain more independence and greater control over their personal life, and to acquire new
knowledge useful in their daily lives (Wagner, 1994).



Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
8.              In Senegal. Although not supported by empirical analyses, literacy providers in
Senegal also contend that school enrollment, particularly for girls, has increased significantly in
the villages where programs are operating. An analysis from Senegal of available household
surveys (Sadio 1994) also confirns many of the social benefits cited above. It shows that children
of illiterate mothers are 50% more likely to die in childhood; illiterate women want 1.8 more
children on the same income as literate mothers; and literate mothers are about 50% more likely
to send their daughters to school, ceteris paribus. With these assumptions, below we estimate the
reduction in disease burden, infant mortality and fertility, and the increase in girls' primary school
enrollment that could be expected from the Government's literacy program.
9.               Table I shows the estimated impact of the program on reducing the disease burden
and compares the cost effectiveness of the literacy intervention with the most cost-effective health
intervention -- a minimum essential package of clinical services. At US$7.80 per capita, for low-
income countries, an essential package of clinical services would reduce the disease burden by an
estimated 24%. The second best cost-effective health intervention -- an essential public health
package -- is estimated to reduce the burden of disease by 8% at a cost of US$4.20 per capita.
The GOS's literacy program is estimated to reduce the burden of disease by 10-14% at a cost of
US$2.0 per capita, saving an estimated 8.5 (disability adjusted) life years saved, the equivalent of
about 170,000 child deaths.
Table 1. Reduction in Disease Burden */
Intervention                      Cost per        Reduction in disease burden
capita                 (percent) b/
(US$)
Literacy Program                                   2.0                       10-14
Minimum package of clinical services C/            7.8                         24
Essential public health package d/                 4.2                         8
a/ Data on healft interventions is the average for low-income countries from the World Development Report, 1993.
b/ Marginal benefitg.
c/ Includes tuberculosis treatment; management of the sick child; prenatal and delivery care; family planning, STD treatment; treatrnent
of infection and minor trauma; assessment, advice and pain alleviation.
dt Includes expanded program on immunization; school health programs; tobacco and alcohol control; health, nutrition and family
planning infonration; vector control; STD prevention; monitoring and suiveillance.
9.               Table 2 shows the estimated impact of the literacy programs on infant mortality,
the birthrate, and girls' primary school enrollment . Infant mortality for Senegal is predicted to fall
by 10-14%, the number of births by 3-5%, while girls' enrollment is expected to receive a boost of
23%.
Table 2. Impact on Social Indicators
% Reduction in infant mortality    % Reduction in            % Increase in girls' enrollment
births
10-14                          3-5                             23



Annex 2
Page 4 of 4
Cost Effectiveness Relative to Primary Education
II.          Evidence suggests that schooling requires a much higher level of resources per
student than do literacy programs for the same literacy outcomes. In Senegal, over 1,500 hours of
instruction in language and mathematics are required to achieve a fourth grade education, i.e. the
level assumed to be required to acquire a level of skill sufficient to use and retain over time. This
excludes the number of hours invested in students who repeat and those who drop-out before fourth
grade. For adults, 200-300 hours of instruction are generally assumed to be needed to acquire an
equivalent level of skills mainly because adults acquire the skills with considerably less time on
task. Due to the comparatively long duration of primary school, and because teachers' salaries
(excluding benefits) are more than triple the earnings of literacy instructors, the cost of producing a
graduate from an adult literacy program is significantly less that the investment required to obtain
a fourth grade completer. Table 3 shows estimates of the average cost of literacy program
completers at increasing rates of program drop-out. With 0% drop-out, the cost per completer of
an adult literacy program is one-tenth the investment required to obtain a fourth grade completer.
Even at a high drop-out rate of 50%, the cost of an adult literacy program completer is one-third
the investment required to produce a fourth grade graduate.
Table 3. Cost Per Literacy Program Completer Compared with the
Investment Required to Obtain a Fourth Grade Graduate from Primary School
Cost per graduate
Drop-out rate from                    as % of cost of     Number of literacy
literacy program       US$         4th grade completer   participants required
0%                 65               10%                 280,000
10%                72                11%                308,000
30%                93                14%                 364,000
50%                130               19%                 420,000
70%               217                32%                 476,000
Sustainability of benefits
12.          The literacy programs supported by the project address a short and medium-term
need. Unlike prinary education which must become a permanent feature of all countries, the need
for literacy programs should diminish as primary education reaches a larger share of school-aged
children. But like primary education, questions have been raised about the sustainability of the
literacy and numeracy skills acquired. However, experts do not agree that this is a widespread
problem. Some researchers and practitioners argue that relapse into illiteracy may occur when the
immediate environment offers no support for the new literate to apply and improve her/his skills.
Others maintain that the sustainability of literacy skills is a function of the quality of the literacy
program itself. They argue that the skills acquired are maintained in the absence of special
programs to create a literate environment when literacy programs themselves are effective, a key
factor being meaningful content. Still others argue that, although skill retention is enhanced when
programs have meaningful content, post-literacy activities should form part of the literacy
program. Such activities might include village libraries, newspapers, structured group learning,
further training, or the creation of community structures managed by new literates to which reading
materials can be attached. Information on which to assess the effectiveness of such activities is
extremely scarce.



Annex 3
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT
Draft Policy Paper and Action Plan for the Literacy Sector
(1995-2000)
1.    CONTEXT AND JUSTIFICATION
Senegal has one of the world's highest illiteracy rates, estimated in 1988 at 68% of
the population age 6 and over, 59% for males and 77% for females (compared the Sub-Saharan
average of 65% for women). Illiteracy rates are even higher in the rural areas, reaching 95% for
rural women in Diourbel, Tambacounda, Kolda, Louga and 85% for rural women in St Louis,
Kaolack and Fatick, compared with 65% of urban women. The disparities among regions and
between urban and rural areas are due mainly to unequal access to primary schooling, lack of
school buildings or teachers, limited access to adult literacy programs and, in some cases, to the
population's reluctance to enroll their children, particularly girls, in the formal school system.
In the short and medium run, even with the ambitious program (Programme de
Developpement des Ressources Humaines, PDRH) that the Government has embarked upon to
expand access to primary school and promote girls' education, the literacy rate will not increase
noticeably unless greater efforts are made to promote literacy among adults and adolescents who
have never had access to school or have dropped out early. Projections show that, assuming
PDRH objectives are attained by 1998 and the enrollment growth rate continues at the same level
after 1998, only 55% of the female population in the 9-39 age group will be literate in the year
2000, and only 45% in 2005, with literacy rates of 75% and 65% for rural females in 2000 and
2005 respectively.
The advantages of literacy in terms of increasing workers' productivity, family
management capacity and income, improving family health and fmnily planning, and promoting
democracy are well known. Experience in Senegal shows that from the point of view of costs,
literacy programs could be more cost-effective than formal schooling. The average cost for a
literacy learner is esfimated at about 40 000 CFAF or 10-15% of the cost for four years of formal
primary education for children.
II.    GENERAL ORIENTATIONS
The Government's literacy policy is in line with the conclusions of the Etats
Generaux de I 'Education et de la Formation (EGEF), the recommendations of the Commission
Nationale de Reforme de I 'Education et de la Formation (CNREF), the Jomtien World
Conference on Universal Basic Education, the Loi d'Orientation n91/22 of 16 February 1991 and
the September 1993 Kolda symnposium. The Government has adopted the following priorities:
1. Substantially reduce illiteracy among the female population, notably in the 9-39 age
bracket in order to ensure an immediate impact on the social, economic and education
indicators;
2. Reduce imbalances between regions and between urban and rural areas;



Annex 3
Page 2 of 5
3. Promote functional literacy and the development of alternative basic education models
through the medium of national languages in order to improve the effectiveness of
literacy programs;
4. Promote a literate environment in national languages in order to ensure the use,
development and sustainability of acquired skills;
5. Implement a ' faire-faire " policy which would rely on partners in the field (NGOs,
Associations, Groups and Communities) to implement functional literacy programs;
and
6. Coordinate financial partners' interventions so as to gear their efforts towards the
same objectives and within the Government's action plan.
III.   IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGIES
Government intervention in the literacy sector is based on the principle of 'faire faire " by
literacy providers in the field (NGOs, associations, economic and women's groups, communities)
and on the integration of all efforts within the Government's action plan.
The Role of Government. On the basis of these principles, the Government will guide,
coordinate and monitor literacy activities and evaluate the sector's performance in terms of the
objectives defined in the action plan. In the case of unmet needs or disparities in the provision of
programs, the Government would develop pilot operations to correct the disparities.
The Role of Partners. Partners include organized target groups, literacy providers, donors
and other Government structures involved in the sector. The Government's development strategies
for the sector are to help literacy providers expand their programs, coordinate donors and other
partners to collaborate towards the same objectives, and follow the same implementation strategies
in order to avoid dissipation of effort.
IV.   ACTION PLAN 1995-2005
The Government's action plan for the next five years has the following objectives:
I - Reduce the illiteracy rate among the 9-39 age group from 55% to 36.5% (i.e. train an
average of 180 000 persons per year), and redress regional and gender imbalances by:
(a) financing, with public funds, literacy providers' programs for an annual intake of about
80,000 learners. Eligible programs would meet minimum requirements of at least 300
hours of instruction and use of the language desired by the leamers. These programs
would be in addition to ongoing literacy activities provided in existing programs (average
of 50,000 trainees per year).



Annex 3
Page 3 of 5
(b) providing MEBLN's support for organized groups whose demand for literacy training
is not satisfied by ongoing literacy programs as they are not part of the target population
(e.g. operation 1000 classes and PAIS).
2 - Improve the efficiency of literacy programs by: (a) establishing a Literacy Resource
Center which will help providers improve the quality of their programs and strengthen their ability
to identify the population's needs; and (b) regular monitoring and evaluation of Government-
financed programs.
3 - Ensure sustainability of skills acquired by neo-literates by: (a) financing post-literacy
programs for neo-literates, and (b) promoting a literate environment in national languages through:
* institutional, legislative and political measures (amendment of the Constitution and the
Loi d 'Orientation de I 'Education nationale, introduction of national languages in the
Administration, formulation of texts organizing the Ministry, etc.)
- establishment and extension of educational resource centers
- development of the rural press, especially with respect to national languages, by using
UNESCO's international communication development program.
4 - Improve coordination and monitoring of literacy taining at the national level by: (a)
strengthening MEBLN's capacity in the areas of orientation and coordination in order to improve
its leadership in sector activities (definition of policies, development of strategies, sector planning,
follow-up and evaluation), and (b) setting up an information and consultation system betwen the
MEBILN, the providers and Government structures on the one hand and between the MEBLN and
donors on the other.



Projection de lAnalphabdtsme et Cibles
Tranche d'age 10-39
A alphab6tiser
Nombre             % population      Taux d'
b6n6ficiares       analphabbte       analphab6tisme                     Nb. de B6n6ficiares par Source de Financement
Femmes          2000      2005    95-20   20-05    1995   2000    2005    IDA         ACDI    GTZ    UNICEF  Operateur Total    Ecart
Diourbel        36,120    49,215    20%      26%      89%    70%       50%   18,750       -        -
Tambacounda    30,016    35,426    25%       28%      86%    65%       45%       -      11,250
Louga           22,488    32,883     16%     22%      85%    76%       58%   18,750        -
Kolda           22,529    37,699     15%     25%      81%    65%       45%   18,750        -       -
Kaolack         26,114    41,048     14%     22%      77%    62%       44%   20,979        -     7,000
Fatick          17,886    28,157     18%     29%      74%    56%       35%       -       7,500   7,000
St. Louis       25,449    38,976     18%     28%      72%    55%       35%       -      15,000     -
Thies           16,295    28,042     10%     20%      65%    48%       30%       -      15,000     -
Dakar           35,172       -      90%       0%      28%     3%        0%   35,000       -        -
Ziguinchor      21,131       -       90%      0%      41%      6%       0%       -      20,000     -
Total Femmes   253,199   291,444     19%     36%      66%    46%       31%  112,229   68,750  14,000    7,500    40,000  217,905  20,974
Diourbel        12,289    19,416     10%     15%      67%    55%       42%    6,250       -        -
lambacounda      8,825    10,566     10%     12%      67%    54%       42%       -       3,750
Louga            8,714    14,616      8%     14%      67%    55%       42%    6,250        -
Kolda            8,250    16,606      5%     10%      66%    55%       43%    6,250        -
Kaolack          4,021     7,926      4%     10%      55%    41%       26%    4,021       -          0
Fatick           1,206     2,768      2%      6%      55%    40%       25%       -       2,500       0
St. Louis          -         -       0%       0%      51%    35%       19%       -         -
Thies              -         -        0%      0%      43%    26%        10%      -         -
Dakar              -         -        0%      0%      12%      0%       0%       -         -
Ziguinchor         -         -        0%      0%      15%      0%       0%                 -
Total hommes    43,306    71,898      5%      12%     47%    33%       22%   22,771    6,250         0    2,500    10,000   41,521    1,785
Diourbel        48,410    68,631     16%     22%      78%    63%       46%   25,000                                         25,000  23,410
Tambacounda    38,840    45,991      19%     21%      77%    59%        43%             15,000                              15,000  23,840
Louga           31,202    47,499     13%      19%     75%    58%       44%   25,000                                         25,000   6,202
Kolda           30,778    54,305     10%      17%     72%    50%        37%   25,0W                                         25,000   5,778
Kaoiack         30,135    48,974     10%      18%     67%    49%        33%   25,000             7,000                      32,000  (1,865)
Fatick          19,092    30,924     12%      22%     64%    48%        30%             10,000   7,000                      17,000   2,092
St. Louis       25,449    38,976     12%     22%      62%    44%        27%             15,000                              15,000  10,449
Thies           16,295    28,042      7%      16%     54%    36%        19%             15,000                              15,000   1,295                    7 >
Dakar           35,172       -       75%       0%     20%      1%        0%   35,000                                        10,426  10,426
Ziguinchor      21,131       -       90%       0%     28%      3%        0%             20,000                              20,000   1,131
TOTAL          296,505   363,342     16%      23%     56%    37%        25%  135,W00   75,000  14,000   10,000    50,000  259,426  22,759                       w
U,



Program Cost and Financing, 1996-2001
Costs
CFAF billion                                Financing
Components        Sub-components           (US$)        IDA        ACDI      GTZ      Providers   Beneficiaries  Government    Total
1-Adult literacy programs        9          3.6        2.2       0.3        1.5         0.7                     8.3
18.3        7.2        4.4       0.6        3.0         1.4                     16.6
2-Alternative models of basic   2.0                    1.0                                                       1.0
education                     4.0                    2.0                                                      2.0
Programs
3-Pilot post-literacy programs  0.8          0.5       0.3                                                      0.8
1.6         1.0       0.6                                                       1.6
Sub-Total 1                     12.0         4.1        3.5      0.3        1.5         0.7                     10.1
23.9         8.2       7.0       0.6        3.0         1.4                     20.2
Institutional 1- Create national            0.4                    0.2                                                      0.2
Support      resource center              0.8                    0.4                                                       0.4
2- Staff training               0.4          0.2        0.2                                                      0.4
0.8         0.3        0.4                                                      0.7
3- Program management           1.6          0.6        0.4                                          0.6         1.6
3.1         1.1        0.8                                           1.2        3.1
Logistic a/          0.9         0.3        0.3                                           0.4        0.9
1.7         0.5        0.5                                          0.7         1.7
Contractual personnel       0.5         0.3        0.2                                                      0.5
0.9         0.6        0.3                                                      0.9
Regular personnel           0.3                                                                  0.3        0.3
0.5                                                                 0.5         0.5
4- Strengthen capacity          0.4          0.2        0.1      0.0                                             0.3
of providers                  0.8         0.3        0.2       0.1                                             0.6
Sub-totl 2                      2.8          0.9        1.6      0.0                    0.0          0.6         3.1
5.5         1.8        2.6      0.1                    0.0           1.2        5.7
Consultations Consultations with literacy    0.3          0.1        0.2      0.0                                 0.1         0.4                                     (q D
providers, local and national   0.6          0.2        0.3      0.1                                 0.2         0.7
structures and associations                                                                                                                               o
Sub-tota3                       0.3          0.1        0.2      0.0                                 0.1         0.4
0.6         0.2        0.3      0.1                                 0.2         0.7
TOTAL       CFAF                             15.0         5.1        5.0      0.5        1.5         0.7          0.7        13.4
eus                             30.0        12.6       9.9       0.9        3.0         1.4          1.4        28.4
Other        Bilateral TA                                            2.5      0.5                                             3.0
a/ Erurpsnht, furniture, materials



Annex 4
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT
Sub-Project Eligibility Criteria
Criteria for the evaluation of the eligibility of sub-projects for project financing are described im the
Implementation for the project and are summarized below.
1.    With respect to the Operator: (i) the operator exists as a legal entity, with proven capacity and
experience to implement the sub-project; (ii) competent technical, administrative and accounting staff is
available, otherwise a proposal for staff training/upgrading must be included; and (iii) the necessary
equipment and materials to implement the sub-project are available.
2.    With respect to the Beneficiaries: (i) beneficiaries have been identified, have adequately formulated
their need for literacy training, and are organized as a group with a leader; (ii) the number of trainees is at
least 300 and at least 75% female; and (iii) the financial contribution of the beneficiaries (CFAF 2,500
minimum per trainee) has been agreed.
3.    With respect to peagQg: (i) the operator proposes to use a recognized method of literacy
training; (ii) the program contains at least 300 hours of training over not more than an 18-month period,
with a minimum of 20 beneficiaries per class; (iii) teaching/learning materials are acceptable, available on
time, and of reasonable cost; and (iv) staff-student ratios are acceptable, i.e. one supervisor for 10 classes.
4.    With respect to implementation timetables and costs: (i) the project timetable adequately accounts
for start-up needs in terms of training of literacy trainers and other personnel, and the acquisition of
materials; (ii) the sub-project's operational budget ensures that the unit cost of a trainee does not exceed
CFAF 32,500 and overhead does not exceed 15% of total costs.



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL                                                        Annex 5
PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT                                                    Page 1 of I
COUT UNITAIRE DE BASE D'UN SOUS-PROJET D'ALPHABETISATION
A. DONNEES PEDAGOGIQUES / ALPHABETISATION
Nombre dheures de cours/classe                                                                                               300
Nombre moyen d'auditeurs par classe                                                                                           30
Nombre dbheures par seance                                                                                                     3
Nombre de seances par semaine                                                                                                  3
Nombre dheures par semane                                                                                                       9
Nombre total de semaines                                                                                                      33
Nombre de semaines par mois                                                                                                    4
Nombre total de mois instruction                                                                                              I I
Nombre total de mois (y compris formation)                                                                                    13
Nombre de classes supervisees par un superviseur                                                                              10
B. DONNEES GENERALES SUR LE NOMBRE DE PERSONNES IMPLIQUEES
Nombre de classes                                                                                                             10
Nombre total d'auditeurs                                                                                                     300
Nombre total de moniteurs (a)                                                                                                 I 0
Nombre total de superviseurs                                                                                                    I
C. DONNEES GENERALES SUR LA FORMATION DES FORMATEURS
Nbre de jours d'une session de formation des formateurs                                                                       35
Nombre de jours de formation dun superviseur                                                                                  20
D. DONNEES GENERALES SUR LES COUTS
Indemnite travail d'un facilitateur  I classe                                                        Fcfa/mois            25,000
Indemnit6 travail dun superviseur temps plein                                                        Fcfa/mois           60,000
Indemnite travail dun coordinateu cout marginal                                                      Fcfa/mois           30,000
11. COUT PREVISIONNEL D'UN SOUS-PROJET D'ALPHABETISATION
Pfix           Prix     CoOt /auditeur
Quantite      unitair.        total          total
Fcfah          Fof           Fcfa/a
A. MATERIELS DIDACTIQUES                                                                                   1.401.000        8.170
Manuels                       (5/auditeur et moniteur)                         5           900          1,395,000       4,650
Autre                         (cahier,craie,tableau)                          10          105,000       1,050,000       3,500
B. FRAIS DES FORMATEURS                                                                                    4.270,000       14.233
Indemnite moniteurs           (mensuellelI cis)                              110          25,000        2,750,000       9,167
Ind. superviseur               (mensuelle)                                    12          50,000        600,000         2,000
Formation moniteurs            (forfait)                                      10          80,000        800,000         2,667
Formation superviseur          (forfait)                                       1          120,000        120,000         400
C. FRAIS DE GESTION DE L'OPERATEUR                                                                         1.740,000        5800
Frais de fonctionnement        (forfait mensuel)                              12          125,000       1,500,000       5,000
Cout du gestionnaire-comptable  (Cout marginal)                               12          20,000        240,000          800
D. APPUI INSTITUTIONNEL           (forfait)                                                                1.000.000       3 333
TOTAL,                                                                                                    -8,411,000       31,537
usS                                                                                                      18,691          63



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL                                             Annex 6
PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT                                     Page 1 of 8
La Republique du Senegal
Projet d'Appui a l'Alphabetisation - Priorite Femmes
Cout du projet                                                                                           %    % Total
(FCFA '000)                  (USS 000)          Foreign   Base
Local    Foreign     Total     Local  Foreign   Total  Exchang  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Mobilier, Equipement, fourniture           34,920   123,480     158,400      70    247       317       78       2
B. Vehicules                                  21,120   110,880     132,000      42    222       264       84       2
C. Consultants
Contrats de services                     5,511,563         -   5,511,563   11,023      -  11,023         -      80
Consultants locaux                         118,800         -    118,800      238       -      238        -       2
Consultants internationaux                       -   90,000       90,000       -    180       180      100       1
Subtotal Consultants                       5,630,363    90,000   5,720,363   11,261    180   11,441        2      83
D. Formation
Formation locale                           172,500         -    172,500      345       -      345        -       3
Formation a l'etranger                           -   60,000      60,000        -    120       120      100       1
Subtotal Formation                           172,500    60,000    232,500      345    120       465       26       3
E. PPF refinancement                         281,250    93,750    375,000      563    188       750       25       5
Total Investment Costs                       6,140,153   478,110   6,618,263   12,280    956   13,237        7      96
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Frais de fonctionnement                   203,742    74,358     278,100     407    149       556       27       4
Total Recurrent Costs                          203,742    74,358    278,100      407    149       556       27       4
Total BASELINE COSTS                          6,343,895   552,468   6,896,363   12,688   1,105   13,793      8    100
Physical Contingencies                             -         -          -        -       -        -        -       -
Price Contingencies                           47.379    37,722     85,101       95      75      170       44       1
Total PROJECT COSTS                           6,391,273   590,190   6,981,463   12,783   1,180   13,963      8     101



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL                                              Annex 6
PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT                                       Page 2 of 8
La Republique du Senegal
Projet d'Appui a l'Alphabetisation - Priorite Femmes
Comptes de depenses par rubrique              rogramme Renforcement
alpha et      des      Refinancement
post-alpha   capacites       PPF        Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Mobilier, Equipement, fourniture                  -          339              -      339
B. Vehicules                                         -          281              -      281
C. Consultants
Contrats de services                          10,275          748              -   11,023
Consultants locaux                                 -          268              -      268
Consultants internationaux                         -          196              -      196
Subtotal Consultants                            10,275        1,212              -   11,487
D. Formation
Formation locale                                   -          359              -      359
Formation a l'etranger                             -          130              -      130
Subtotal Formation                                   -          489              -      489
E. PPF refinancement                                 -            -           750       750
Total Investment Costs                            10,275        2,322           750   13,347
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Frais de fonctionnement                           -          616              -      616
Total Recurrent Costs                                  -          616              -      616
Total PROJECT COSTS                               10,275         2,938           750   13,963
Taxes                                                -          150              -      150
Foreign Exchange                                     -          993           188    1,180



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL                                            Annex 6
PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT                                     Page 3 of 8
La Republique du Senegal
Projet d'Appui a l'Alphabetisation - Priorite Femmes
Comptes de depenses par rubrique            Programmes Renforcement
en milliers de FCFA                           alpha et       des      Refinancement
post-alpha    capacites      PPF         Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Mobilier, Equipement, fourniture                 -       169,722             -     169,722
B. Vehicules                                        -       140,580            -      140,580
C. Consultants
Contrats de services                       5,137,500     374,063              -   5,511,563
Consultants locaux                                -      133,935              -     133,935
Consultants internationaux                        -       98,218             -       98,218
Subtotal Consultants                         5,137,500     606,215              -   5,743,715
D. Formation
Formation locale                                  -      179,428             -      179,428
Formation a l'etranger                            -       65,234             -       65,234
Subtotal Formation                                  -       244,663             -     244,663
E. PPF refinancement                                -            -        375,000     375,000
Total Investment Costs                         5,137,500    1,161,180       375,000    6,673,680
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Frais de fonctionnement                          -       307,783             -     307,763
Total Recurrent Costs                                 -       307,783             -     307,783
Total PROJECT COSTS                            5,137,500     1,468,963      375,000    6,981,463
Taxes                                               -        75,038             -      75,038
Foreign Exchange                                    -      496,440         93,750     590,190



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL                                              Annex 6
PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT                                       Page 4 of 8
La Republique du Senegal
Projet d'Appui a l'Alphabetisation - Priorite Femmes
Couts estimees par annee
en milliers de dollars                                      Totals Including Contingencies
1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Mobilier, Equipement, fourniture             45      116     116      36      25        -      339
B. Vehicules                                    60      138      61      22        -       -      281
C. Consultants
Contrats de services                        1,063   1.413   2,411   2,711   2,212   1,213   11,023
Consultants locaux                            41      42       44      45      47       48      268
Consultants internationaux                    37      38       39      30      31       21      196
Subtotal Consultants                          1,141    1,493   2,494   2,787   2,290   1,283   11,487
D. Formation
Formation locale                              64      65       66      63      57       43      359
Formation a l'etranger                        25      25       26      27      27        -      130
Subtotal Formation                              89       90      92      90      85       43      489
E. PPF refinancement                           750        -       -        -       -       -      750
Total Investment Costs                          2,086   1,838   2,763   2,936   2,399   1,326   13,347
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Fraisdefonctionnement                       101       97     100     103      106     109      616
Total Recurrent Costs                            101       97     100     103      106     109      616
Total PROJECT COSTS                             2,187   1,935   2,863   3,038   2,505   1,435   13,963



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL                                                   Annex 6
PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT                                            Page 5 of 8
La Republique du Senegal
Projet d'Appui a l'Alphabelisation - Priorite Fem
Couts du projet par source de financement                                                                          Local
en milliers de dollars                  Government        IDA             Other           Total            For.   (Excl.  Duties &
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %              Exch.  Taxes)   Taxes
A. Mobilier, Equipement, fournitures         51    14.9      289    85.1       -             339      2.4    266       23       51
B. Vehicules                                 45    16.0      236    84.0       -       -     281      2.0    236         -      45
C. Consultants
Contratsdeservice                          -0   -0.0  10,184    92.4    839        7.6  11.023    78.9        -   11,023        -
Consultants locaux                          -       -      328   100.0       -       -     328      2.4       -     328
Consultants intemationaux                   -       -      196   100.0       -       -     196      1 4    196         -
Subtotal Consultants                         -0   -0.0   10,709    92.7    839       7.3  11,548    82.7    196   11,351
D. Formation
Formation locale                            -       -      359   100.0       -       -     359      2.6       -     359
Formation a l'etranger                      -       -      130   100.0       -       -     130      0.9    130         -
Subtotal Formation                            -       -      489   100.0       -       -     489      3.5    130      359         -
E. Frais de fonctionnement                  414    74.6      141    25.4       -       -     555      4.0    164      337       54
F. Salaires                                                            -           -       -                             -        -
G. PPF refinancement                          -       -      750   100.0       -       -     750      5.4    188      563
Total                                       510      3.7  12,614    90.3    839      6.0   13,963   100.0   1,180   12,632      150



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT
La Republique d. Senegal
Projet dAppu a rAlphabelisation Pnonle Fenrnes
Table 1 Progaranmes Apcabeisation                                                                                                                                                                    Unk
COsts detaN.s                                                                                                                                                                           Unit Cost   Cosl
en mabers de dolars                                                                                                       Quantillas                                                     (FCFA      (USS              Totals Including Conllngencles (USS w00)
Unit         1996            1997           1998            1999            2000           2001            Total          600)    6000)    1996    1997    199        1999    2000    2001        Total
1. knvestmeat Costs
A. Cortrats d. servIce
I Cortraesopecatewsepgm alpha                             audteur            15.000         20.000          30.000         30.000          25.000          15 000         135 000       32.5   0065        975    1 300    1.950    1.950    1.625     975      8.775
2. Corelts operteurspost-alpha                             uciter -u                                        10,000         20.000          15.000           5.000          50.000         15     003         -        -      300     600      450      150      1.500
3 Coarel de geslion-AGETIP                                 fortail                                                                                                                                          73       98      146      146      122      73       658
4 Servicesdaucits                                          110s                   3               3              3               3              3               3              18      2500         5       15       10       15       15       15       15       90
Subtotal Coitrals a srvice                                                                                                                                                                                 1 063    1.413    2,411    2.711    2.212    1,213    11.023
B. Rentorceeort des capkcies-MCEBLN
1. Moter, equApemnt, tounicu,es
Micro,ordncleas/e /al                                                                          5                             1                                              6      5.500       11                58                12        -                71
Auires egap bureautiqueo lb                             iold                                                                                                                                              41       53      106       22       23        -      246
Coctrals de mairdenance                                lot equp                                                                                                                                            4        5       10        2        2        -       23
Stcaial Mobtler, euipenl,tofumitures                                               *                                                                                                                        40      116      116       36       25               339
2. V dhkules
4x4                                                      uale                   1              2               1                                                              4     19.000       38       39       81       41                                 161
berine                                                   unile                  1                                              1                                              2     10 000       20       21        -                22        -                 43
MdoIs                                                    wmle                   -             15               5                                                             20      1.800      36         -       57       20                                  77
Subtotal Vehicules                                                                                                                                                                                          60      138       61       22                 -      281
3. Cosulcardsirdeatonou /c                                 mo4s                   4               4              4               3              3               2              20      4.500        9       37       38       39       30       31       21       196
4 Consclardsilcam /d                                       mn'os                 18              18             18              18             10              18             108       1.100      22       41       42       44       45       47       48      268
9. Formaatan
Aters regionauoAna1onaux                                 ateLer                 9              9               9               8              6               2              43      1 500        3       28       29       30       27      21         7      143
Voyagedetodes                                            mocs                   4              4               4               4              4                              20      3000         6       25       25       26       27      27                130
SLbtoal Forrnallon                                                                                                                                                                                          03       54       56       54      49         7      273
Suc4dal Renftocomeni ds capaches-MCEBLN                                                                                                                                                                      237      389      316      188      I1t       77     1.358
C. RFlatorcement capcles operalebs
1 Formation locale                                        pers4ow               600            600             600            600             600            600            3600          30     006        36       36       36       36      36       36       216
D Refinancement PPF                                           tolal                                                                                                                                          750         .-                                 .       750
Total knvestmenl Costs                                                                                                                                                                                        2086    1 838   2763    2936    2.399    1 326    13347
Lt Recuwnet Costs
A. Gestlon t sclvi
1 Geslion odsi  - nireau central                          WorlaMl                                                                                                                                           26       27       27       28       29      30       168
2 Gestion el sai - cneau egional                           lortail                                                                                                                                          21       21       22       23       23      24        134
3. Personnelcortracuelo/e                                 mrns                  108              36             36              36             36              36             288        105     021        23        6        8        a        8        a       60
4 Personnel                                                mcs                   36             108            108             108            108             106             576    133 438    0 267       19       29       30       31       32       32       173
5. Locaux (enricten. elec1ncle. eau                        forta4t                                                                                                                                          12       13       13       14       14       14        81
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                                                                                           101      97      100      103      106      109       616
Total                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.187    1 935   2 863    3.038   2 505    1.435    13,963
tI Kilt-desop. iopnmarte. lgociel, etc , coriral de rnardenance
vb 10 ptatocopiers,reea,. retrapro(oclea. cosonarnables.mobilier (chaises, tables. etc I
Ic 6 mois MIS,   etude bnlgitudinle. 8 nois evatclchn
vd MIS, evalualion. eludes
le a/ 3 persandt cr7app  cordrctuel. 6 cheauffews pour FY 96 finncefmeN gouveemernerd apres
we D
(D  (D
x
aE
H,
Ft
tX_



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT
La Republique du Senegal
Prqet d'Appui a rAlphabetisation - Priorite Femmes
Couts detailles
en millers de dollars
The Government
1996         1997          1998          19M           2000          2001          Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Contrats de srvIce
1 Contrats operateurs pgm alpha                              -            -0             -             -            -O                          -0
2 Contrats operateurs post-alpha                                                         -                           -
3 Contrat de gestion-AGETIP                                  -             -             -             -             -             -             -
4 Services d'audfts                               _
Subtotal Conrurts d sarvica                                    -            -0             -             -            -o             -            -o
B. Renforcement des capactts-MCEBLN I/
1. MobNIer, equlpement, fournitures
Micro-ordinateurs /a                                       -            9              -             2             -             -            11
Autresequip bureautique/b                                 7             8             17             4             4             -            39
Contrats de maintenance                                                         -             -             -                                  -
Subto-l Mobliler, equtpemant, fournitures                   7            18             17             6             4                          51
2. Vehicules
4x4                                                       6            13              7                                                      26
berline                                                   3              -             -             4                                         7
Motos                                                      -            9             3              -             -             -            12
Subtal Vehkulcs                                            10            22             10             4             -             -            45
3. Consultants intemationaux /c                              -             -             -             -
4 Consultants locaux Id
5. Fornmdon
Ateliem regionaux/nationaux
Voyage cetudes
Subtotal Formation                                _        ________
Subtotal Renforcement des capacbtes-MCEBLN                   16            40            27              9             4             -            96
C. Rentorcement capacttes operateurs
1 Fofrmation locale
D. Refinancement PPF                                ___
Total Investnent Costs                                         16            40            27             9              4             -            96
IL Recurrent Costs
A. estlon at sulvl
1 Gestion et suM - niveau central                           4             4             4             5             5             5             27
2 GestionetsuM-niveauregional2/                            21            21            22             23           23             24           134
3 Personnel contractuel
4 Personnel 3/                                             19            29            30            31            32             32           173
5 Locaux (entretien, electricite, eau                      12            13            13             14            14            14           81
Total Recurrent Cosht                                          57            67            69             71           74            76           414
Total                                                           73           107            96            81            77            76           510
%a Kn-desitop, impnmante, logicel, etc, contrat de maintenance
%b 10 photocopiers,rfeeur, retroprojecteur, consommables,mobilier (chaises, tables, etc.)                                                                                                   OQ
%c 6 mois MIS, et etude ongitudinale, 8 mois evaluation                                                                                                                                        X h
\d MIS, evaluation, etudes                                                                                                                                                                   _
1/ Partie taxe                                                                                                                                                                                 a
2/Couts de supefvision                                                                                                                                                                      0Fi
3/ Saiaires et indemnites des personnels de rEtat detaches au projet, et 6 chauffeurs commencant a partir de 1997
03



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT
La Republique du Senegal
ProdS crAppuI a rAlphabetisaton - Pkitan Femmes
Coub detal4es
en mil8ers de dollars                                                      Expenditures by Financler (USS 000)
IDA                                                                                       Other
1996         1997           lEo            1999           2000           2001           Total           1996         1997      1999    1999    2000    2001    Total
1. Invetment Coats
A Contrah do service
1. Contrts operateurspgm  alpha                               907          1,209          1,814          1,814          1,511            907          8,161              68        91      137     137      114      68      614
2. Conrtab operateurs post-alpha                                 -              -           255            510            383            128          1,275               -          -      45       90      68       23     225
3 Contr tdegeFst-AGETIP                                        73             98            146            146            122             73            658                                           -       -        -        -
4. Sericesdraudb                                               15             15             15             15             15             15            90               -          -                         -       -        -
SubtotalContrats deerlce                                        995           1,322         2.230          2,485          2,031           1,122        10,184              68         91     182      227     181       91     839
B. Renforcemenr des capactee-MCEBLN
1. Mobtiler, equlpement, foumltures
Mtco-ordinateurs /a                                           -             49              -             10                             -             59                         -        -        -                -        -
Autres equp. bureautique /b                                  35             45             89             1s             19              -            207               -          -                -
Contratsdemslntenance                                         4              5             10              2              2              -             23                     -        -        -       -        -            -
Subtotal Mobiller. aqulpement, fournltures                     39             99             99             31             21              -            289
I Vehicules
4x4                                                          33             68             35              -              -                           136                                 -         -       -
berline                                                      17                             -             1-                                           36
Mobs                                                          -             48             16              -               -             -             65
SubtotalVehlcules                                              50            116             51             19              -              -            236
3. Consultants internationaux/c                                37             38             39             30             31             21            196
4 Consultants bcaux /d                                         41             42             44             45             47             48            268
5. Formation
Ataibn regionau/naltDnaux                                    28             29             30             27             21              7            143
Voyage d'etudes                                              25             25             26             27             27              -            130
Subtotal Formatlon                                             53             54             56             54             49              7            273
Subtotal Ranforcement des capacltes-MCEBLN                      220            349            289            179            147             77          1,263                     -             -               -        -        -
C. Renforcement capacttes opersteurs
t1 Formaton local                                              36             36             36             36             36             36            216
D. ReflnancenmentPPF                                            750               -              -              -              -              -           750
Total lnvetment Cots                                             2,001          1,707          2,555          2,700          2,214          1,235         12,412             68         91     182      227     181       91     839
II. Recurrent Costs
A Gestlon st sulvl
1. Gestion et sui - niveau contral                             22             22             23             24             25             25            141
2. Gaeton at suM - nNeau regiDnal                                -              -             -               -              -              -             -
3 Personnel contracuel/e                                       23              8              8              8              8                                                                 - 60
4. Personnel
5. Locaux (entretien, electcits, eau                           -                                              -
Total Recufrent Costa                                              44             30             31             31             32             33            201
Totel                                                            2,046           1,737         2,586          2,731          2,246          1,268         12.614              68        91      182     227      181      91      839
\a Kn-destop, hmprimiante, logibel, et , contrat de maintenance
\b 10 photocoplers,rellbur, ratroprojecteur, conaommables,mob7ier (chaises, tables, etc.)
ic 6 mols MIS, et etude longttdlnale; 8 nobs evaluation
\d MIS, eluation, etbues
le al 3 personnel dappul contractuel. 6 chauffeurs pour FY 96 financement gouvernement apres
mwm
x
02
00



Annex 7
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT
Stakeholder Participation
1.          The GOS's literacy program was developed through a series of consultations with a broad
spectrum of representatives of government, unions, and literacy providers, including NGOs, language
associations, academic institutions, enterprises and the more loosely knit groups such as women's' and
economic interest groups. A seminar in September 1993 (the colloque de Kolda), which included
representatives from many areas of government, unions, potential donors, and NGOs and other
associations, provided a forum for the MEBLN to solicit feedback on a its action plan, begin to build a
partnership with literacy providers and discuss ways to operationalize its strategy of 'faire-faire", i.e. a
strategy that would support literacy providers to respond to the demand for literacy programs.
2.          In July 1994, des Journ&es de Reflexion sur le Comitf National de Concertation et
D'Appui Technique was held to define elements of a partnership between Government and literacy
providers. The journees were attended by representatives from 4 Ministries, 6 donors and academic
institutions, 5 political parties, 4 unions and 43 NGOs, development projects, and associations, and other
groups. As the title would indicate, much discussion centered around defining what the Ministry's
structures should do. The objectives and activities proposed were largely passive activities, consisting of
data gathering about literacy, collecting documents, developing materials that providers can use, and
motivating compliance with the strategies and program of Government. Issues pertaining to problems of
organization among providers were also discussed. During this meeting, literacy providers agreed to
organize themselves into a committee (comite d'initiative pour la concertation nationale des operateurs)
whose responsibility it was to organize a national conference of literacy providers with the objective of
designating representatives to participate in a regional and national consultative process, provide technical
input into the design of the government's program, and define ways in which providers can work more
collegially and share information.
3.          At this point, the Committee became quite active with the Ministry in the preparation of the
proposed project. The committee solicited feedback and suggestions from its constituency on defining the
modalities of a partnership with the Ministry, addressing issues related to capacity building and
instructional materials, assessing costs and conducting a census of providers.
4.          During this time, however, collaboration among providers was slow and rocky. On the one
hand, some providers were not interested in being represented by the comite d' initiative. The CONGAD
(an association of NGOs), in particular, felt that this was an invasion of its territory. On the other hand,
providers represented by the comite d'initiative were interested in establishing a partnership with the
Ministry, however, they were concerned about what they perceived to be an emphasis of the Ministry on
control to the neglect of support. They emphasized the need for government to help strengthen their
capacity, not control their work.
5.          Differences notwithstanding, technical discussions between the comite and the Ministry
continued, particularly around this proposed project whose main objective is to operationalize the
Ministry's strategy of faire-faire and partnership to expand access to literacy programs. These discussions
centered around clarifying the type of support literacy providers needed, and how to organize it, the role the



Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
Ministry should play in the sector, criteria and processes for channeling financing to providers, and
modalities of supervision and evaluation.
6.           As a first step in the process, in July 1995, the comite d' initiative initiated the
organization of a professional association for literacy providers (La Coordination Nationale des
operateurs en alphabgtisation au SMnggal) whose main objective is to serve as an interlocutor with
Government, organize providers to provide technical support to feUow providers and to establish a network
with a CNOAS representative in each region. Following the establishment of the CNOAS, a joint mission
Ministry-CNOAS was conducted in all regions to explain the Governments' objectives and strategies in the
sector and to survey providers concerning their activities, problems and expectations from the program.
Most suggestions centered around facilitating collaboration among operators, harmonizing programs,
improving instructional materials, and harmonizing salary payments of monitors.



Annex 8
Page 1 of3
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT
Lancement de la Phase Piote du Projet Alphabetisation - Priorite Femmes
Ces points forts et points faibles decoulent des entretiens menes par les
deux equipes d'enqueteurs sur le terrain avec les differents acteurs et partenaires irnpliques
dans le projet et de l'analyse des donnees recueillies par les outils d'enqu&es utilises.
Ils sont presentes dans les deux colonnes, le lecteur tantBt pourrait noter
I'articulation dans la presentation de certains points forts a certains points faibles.
Points forts                                      Points faibles
- La philosophie du projet en matiere d'alphabetisation
est partagee par des operateurs, et correspond a celle du
MCEBLN.
- Manuel de procedures elabore en concertation avec  - Non implication des IDEN aux sessions de formation
plusieurs acteurs.                                 organis6es par les operateurs relais sur le manuel de
procedures
- Dispositif d'information des acteurs mis en place par la  - lnsuffisances d'informations sur le projet aupres de
direction du projet                                plusieurs acteurs sur Ic terrain IA/DEN et autorites
administratives ct techniques locales.
- Bonnes relations entre op*rateurs sur le terrain et
direction du projet
- Ddmocratisation de l'acces au financement des sous-  - Marginalisation des petits op&rateurs par rapport aux
projets d'alphabetisation.                         criteres d'eligibilite.
- Potentiel important operateurs motives a participer aux   - Faible implication des auditeurs dans le processus
phases ulterieurs du projet                        d'6laboration des sous-projets.
- Prise de contact et entretien avec les op6rateurs non  - Faible pourcentage des femmes au scin des personnels
participants au projet durant la phase d'enquete.  des op6rateurs, notamment an mveau de la formation et
des activites de terrain
- L'7valuation a pernis d'ameliorer le niveau      R6sistance de cetains operateurs vis-a-vis des missions
d'information sur le projet aupres des operateurs et  devolues aux operateurs relais.
autres partenaires sur le terrain
- Adhesion des IA/DEN a l'option du 'Ylire-faire" du  - Manque de clarification des r6les des IAWIDEN dans la
MCEBLN.                                            phase pilote du projet
- Faible implication des structures administratives et
techniques sur le terrain (CERP/SDA).
- Non prise en compte suffisnte des disparit6s internes
et int   a tales sur le plan du nombre op6rateurs
et sur le plan linguistique.
- Insufflisance de l'appui technique des operateurs relais
pendant la phase pilote.
insufisance du temps imparti a la prtparation des sous-
projets.
- Manque d'information des acteurs sur les procedures de
restitution des decisions pnses par le comit6 ad hoc.
- Transparence et objectivite dens le travail d'6valuation   - Lancement du projet pendant la periode hivermale
du lancement de la phase pilote avant la phase
d'ex6cution des progammes de formation.
- Constitution d'une 6quipe nationale d'evaluation de la
phase piote au sein du MCEBLN.
- Plan d'evaluation et outils d'6valuation expdrimentts et
developpes smr le terrain



Annex 8
Page 2 of 3
IV.7-RECOMMANDATIONS
MANUEL DE PROCEDURES
1.            Traduire le manuel de procedures dans les six langues nationales pour une
meilleure diffusion accessibilite de l'information sur le PAPF.
2.            Etudier dans les meilleurs delais les observations et les suggestions des operateurs
et operateurs-relais portant sur la forme et le contenu du manuel de procedures afin d'effectuer les
corrections qui s'imposent et qui le rendent plus accessible au plus grand nombre des operateurs.
3.            Souligner dans le manuel de procedures les indications sur les profils des cibles a
alphabetiser pour eviter de prendre comme cible principale des personnes scolarisees ou deja
alphabetisees dans les classes du PAPF.
4.            Revoir les criteres d'eligibilite pour mettre en place de procedures de selection qui
prennent en compte les capacites des operateurs emergeants.
5.            Veiller a ce que le manuel de procedures soit disponible en nombre suffisant dans
toutes les zones cibles par le PAPF.
PROCESSUS D'ELABORATION ET D'EVALUATION DES SOUS-PROJETS
1.            Donner un delai plus long pour l'elaboration des sous-projets pour mieux
determiner avec les autorites departementales administratives techniques les zones prioritaires
avant de proceder a l'etude du milieu.
2.            Elargir le comite ad hoc de selection de sous-projets a un representant du CNOS
sans voix deliberative: cela aiderait a une grande transparence des procedures de selection.
3.            Systematiser la restitution des decisions du comite ad hoc de selection de sous -
projets aux acteurs sur le terrain, tel que: operateurs, operateurs-relais, WA/IDEN.
4.            Mettre en place un cadre de concertation et des m6canismes de partenariat qui
permettent l'implication de l'ensemble des acteurs-terrain dans le processus d'encadrement et de
realisation du projet.
OPERATEURS-RELAIS
1.            Revoir le choix de l'operateur-relais et son profil: disponibilite, competences,
capacites institutionnelles, et dynamisme - en fonction des taches qui lui reviennent dans le cadre
du PAPF.
2.             Etudier en meme temps d'autres formules d'intermediation a experimenter dans le
futur.
3.             Definir les roles des operateurs-relais dans les etapes futures de l'execution du
PAPF.



Annex 8
Page 3 of 3
OPERATEURS
1.            Etudier, en collaboration avec les operateurs a partir des donnees de l'evaluation
du lancement de la phase pilote du PAPF, les meilleures strategies de renforcement de la capacite
institutionnelle des operateurs.
2.            Tendre vers l'assouplissement et la simplification des procedures d'elaboration des
sous-projets et de formulation des requetes pour les rendre accessibles au plus grand nombre des
operateurs.
3.            Formuler a partir des donnees fournies par cette etude, des hypotheses de
recherche action ax6es sur les methodes d'alphabetisation appliquees par les operateurs ainsi que
sur le choix et la formation des alphabetiseurs charges d'appliquer ces methodes.
4.            Identifieren en collaboration avec les operateurs et les structures d'appui
regionales et departementales, les moyens pour mieux repondre a leurs besoins predominants de
formation en matiere de suivi et d'evaluation de programmes d'alphabetisation.
MINISTERE CHARGE DE L'EDUCATION DE BASE ET DES LANGUES NATIONALES
(MCEBLN) (DIRECTION DU PROJET ET STRUCTURES DECENTRALISEES)
1.            Multiplier les visites da terrain pour maintenir le contact direct etabli dans la phase
de lancement du PAPF, pour parfaire le circuit local de l'information sur le PAPF et pour
continuer a stimuler l'adhesion des operateurs au projet.
2.            Renforcer le dispositif d'information mis en place par la direction du projet et
ameliorer le circuit de l'information s'y rattachant au niveau national, regional et departernental.
3.            Clarifier les r6les des LA/IDEN dans l'execution du PAPF pour eviter toutes
formes de concurrence et de double emploi entre les autorites acadeniques et les operateurs-relais.
4.            Elaborer, a partir des resultats de cette dtude sur le lancement du PAPF, les plans
d'evaluation des etapes ulterieures du projet.
5.            Revoir les outils d'evaluation experimentes dans cette phase de lancement pour
effectuer les corrections necessaires les rendant plus performants dans les evaluations a venir.
6.            Continuer l'experimentation de l'approche participative initiee par l'equipe
centrale dans le cadre de cette evaluation.



Annex 9
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT
Assessment of Management Options
1.            Principes. Le montage institutionnel experimente au cours de la phase test du Projet est
base sur la strategie du MCEBLN qui consiste a faire jouer a chaque partenaire le role qui est le sien. Le
montage repond aux caracteristiques suivantes, reconnues comme essentielles par les tous les acteurs: (i)
s6paration entre, d'une part, les fonctions d'orientation, suivi et 6valuation des programmes qui relvent du
Ministere et, d'autre part, les fonctions d'execution des programmes d'alphabetisation par les operateurs;
(ii) contractualisation des missions d'alphabetisation executees par les operateurs sur des fonds publics mis
a leur disposition par le Ministere ; (iii) egalite d'acces aux fonds pour tous les operateurs dont les
propositions de projet repondent a un ensemble de criteres d'e1igibilite reconnus comme justifies par tous
les partenaires ; (iv) impartialite et transparence du dispositif d'allocation des fonds ; (v) rapidite du
paiement des prestations aux operateurs qui, pour 1'essentiel d'entre eux, ne disposent pas de fonds propres
et ont une tresorerie reduite
2.            Dispositif actuel. Les partenaires ayant participe a la phase test, considerent que le
dispositif actuel repond a ces principes. En effet:
i.     La separation des missions entre l'Etat et les operateurs est materialisee par la
contractualisation de la mission d'alphabetisation confiee par l'Etat a l'operateur par le
truchement de l'AGETIP. La mission de l'operateur est d'executer un programme
d'alphabetisation repondant a des normes minimum. Celle du Ministere est de mettre, pour
cela, des fonds a la disposition des operateurs selon des modalites precises reglees dans le
mnanuel de procedures. Parallelement a 1'execution des contrats par les Operateurs
controlee par l'AGETLP, le Ministere assure un suivi des programmes pour mesurer les
performances de chaque operateur en vue de produire, entre autres, des analyses couit-
efficacite.
ii.    Dans le contrat de prestation de services qui lie les operateurs a I'AGETIP pour
l'execution d'un programme d'alphabetisation, tous les elements du programme qui
doivent etre mis en oeuvre par l'operateur sont definis de far,on mesurable: nombre et
caracteristiques des beneficiaires, objectifs d'alphabetisation, methode d'alphabetisation
utilisee, moyens humains et materiels (nombre et competences des alphabetiseurs et des
superviseurs, fonnation prealable de ces derniers), calendrier de mise en oeuvre des
moyens, methodes et documents de suivi et d'evaluation internes. Le paiement de
l'operateur est subordonne au controle physique par I'AGETEP de la mise en place des
moyens et de l'ex6cution des progranmmes par l'operateur .
iii.    L'6galite de chances pour l'acces aux fonds du projet est assure, d'une part par l'existence
d'un mecanisme neutre de selection qui consiste a comparer la proposition de chaque
operateur a un ensemble predefini de criteres minima, connu de tous les operateurs, d'autre
part, par la transparence dans la mise en oeuvre du mecanisme.



Annex 9
Page 2 of 4
iv.    L'impartialite du mecanisme de selection est assure par l'utilisation d'un comint ad hoc
compose 3 membres deliberants dont un expert exterieur, deux fonctionnaires provenant
des Ministeres concemrns (MCEBLN et MFEF) et, pour les phases ult6rieures un
representant de l'organe de gestion des contrats des operateurs (AGETIP). La transparence
est renforcee par la presence aux deliberations dur Directeur du Projet et d'un reprtsentant
du Comite National des Operateurs.
v.     La rapidite des paiements aux operateurs est assuree par l'utilisation d'une agence
specialis6e dans la gestion des petits contrats: I'AGETIP dont 1'experience et la
perfomiance dans ce domaine sont reconnues par tous les partenaires.
3.            Alternatives. Un certain nombre d'altematives ont et etudiees avec le MCEBLN et le
Ministere des Finances, notamment pour examiner dans quelle mesure l'objectif vis6 par la prestation de
service de I'AGETIP peut etre assuree par une autre entite. Les options peuvent etre classees en trois
categories: (i) l'utilisation des services d'operateurs principaux (ONG) a qui seraient confi6 des
programmes d'envergure que ces operateurs pourraient executer par eux-m&ees etlou en collaboration
(sous-traitance) avec d'autres operateurs ; (ii) l'utilisation des services d'un gestionnaire de contrat
appartenant au secteur prive; (iii) la creation d'une Fondation d'Utilite Publique. Pour sa part, le
MCEBLN souhaite que le projet demarre selon les modalites qui viennent d'etre test6es et qui doonent
satisfaction. Toutefois, au cas ou l'AGETIP ne pourrait poursuivre la foumiture de sa prestation, le
MCEBLN souhaite que les principes qui regissent les mecanismes en place soient respect6s par les
nouvelles dispositions. Pour sa part, le Ministere des Finances considere que le projet doit denarrer selon
les modalites actuellement testees avec I'AGETIP, et que le Projet devrait integrer la possibilite, au cours
de sa mise en oeuvre, l'identification d'un mecanisme s'appuyant sur le developpeinent d'institutions
appartenant au secteur. Les avantages et inconvenients des diverses solutions envisagee, telles qu'elles
ressortent des discussions tenues pas la mission, sont indiques ci-dessous.
4.            Solution AGETIP. Cette option est inmmdiatement operationnelle, a I'accord de tous les
partenaires, et comporte un faible degr6 de risque.
a.     Avantases. Cette solution, resultat d'une annee et demi de discussion, est
aujourd'hui partiellement testee. Les resultats sont positifs: le MCEBLN et les operateurs
se declarent satisfaits. La convention n2 qui lie depuis 1993 le gouvernement et
l'AGETIP a et modifiee par avenant en avril 1995 pour elargir les missions de I'agence i
certains secteurs sociaux comme la nutrition des populations pauvres et leur acces aux
services de base (sante, education et alphabetisation). Ayant participe a la prdparation du
projet depuis son debut et mis au point le mnanuel de procedures, I'AGETIP a d6velopp6 sa
connaissance du secteur ainsi que des liens etroits avec les operateurs d'a pbabEtisation et
leurs representants. Le dispositif est en place, il fonctionne correctement, et est pret pour
un demarrage immediat du Projet, ce que souhaite le MCEBLN. Le Ministere des Finances
considere, pour sa part, que I'AGETIP est, aujourd'hui, la seule structure existante
pouvant etre mise en oeuvre imm6diatement pour gerer des fonds publics avec la ce6lrit6
requise pour le projet. L'AGETIP a l'habitude de gerer des comptes speciaux de la Banque
Mondiale et connait ses procedures. En utilisant les services de l'AGETIP pour la gestion
des contrats, le projet peut se concentrer sur l'essentiel : 1'exp6rimentation d'un nouveau



Annex 9
Page 3 of 4
mode de delivrance des programmes d'alphabetisation - qui constitue l'objectif du Projet
pilote. Les services de l'AGETIP etant remuneres sur la base d'honoraires, le coit de la
structure est directement lie aux programmes d'alphabetisation. II n'y a pas de risque de
perennisation des charges de la structure independamment des programmes
d'alphabetisation a gerer.
b.    Inconvenients. En utilisant les services de I'AGETIP, le projet pilote ne contribue pas a
developper d'autres capacites dans le secteur prive pour la gestion de programmes sociaux.
5.            Solution Operateurs princiRaux. Le secteur est encore trop peu developpe pour etre assure,
a ce stade, de la faisabilite de cette option. Le niveau de risque est tres 6leve.
a.     Avantages. Cette solution a l'avantage de lirniter la gestion a un petit nombre de contrats a
passer avec un petit nombre d'operateurs (ONG) d'envergure internationale, nationale ou
regionale qui pourraient eventuellement en sous-traiter des parties a des operateurs plus
petits pouvant ne pas disposer de capacite de gestion. Les paiements aux petits operateurs
seraient assures par les operateurs principaux qui, etant responsables des resultats de leurs
sous-traitants, seront incites a payer leurs prestations avec la celerite voulue. Par ailleurs,
les ONG d'une certaine taille disposent parfois de tresoreries importantes permettant de
reduire les consequences negatives d'eventuels retards de paiement des sommes qui leur
seront dues par le projet. On peut attendre de cette solution une garantie de qualite de la
prestation des petits operateurs dans la mesure ou les comp6tences des operateurs
principaux lui permettent d'assurer une supervision et un soutien des operateurs sous-
traitants. Le Ministere des Finances n'a pas d'objection de principe.
b.     Inconvenients. Le nombre d'ONG ayant la capacite technique et organisationnelle
d'assurer ce type de prestation est extreroment limite. De plus, parmi celles qui ont cette
capacite, il est aujourd'hui impossible de connaitre si certaines d'entre elles sont
susceptibles d'etre intdressees: ces ONG ont en effet leurs propres programmes
d'alphabetisation et sont liees a des objectifs specifiques determin6s par leurs conseils
d'administration. En second lieu, aucune ONG n'a l'experience de gestion d'un ensemble
de contrats de sous-traitance et les etudes disponibles montrent au contraire que le secteur
des ONG est marque par un fort esprit d'individualisme de chacune, lie a la diversite de
leurs caracteristiques propres. Ces elernents portent a penser que nombre d'ONG peuvent
ne pas etre dispos6es a travailler sous la tutelle d'une autre et que, de ce fait, lles peuvent
rester a l'ecart du programme. Troisiemement, le recrutement des operateurs principaux
obeirait a la procedure de passation des marches publics qui est la responsabilite du service
competent du Ministere de l'Education Nationale (DAGE) ou serait log6 le compte sp6cial.
Outre l'inconv6nient des delais habituels de cette proc6dure, du fait de la fragmentation du
D6partement charg6 de l'education, la DAGE releve du MEN et non du MEBLN. Par la
suite, les paiements de l'operateur principal connaitraient les delais habituels des paiements
effectues par l'administration.
6.            Solution Gestionnaire priv6. La faisabilite technique de cette option n'est pas etablie. En
cons6quence, le degre de risque est tres 61eve.



Annex 9
Page 4 of 4
a.     Avantages. Comme pour la proposition precedente, I'avantage de cette solution reside dans
le petit nombre de contrats que l'administration aura a gerer (eventuellement un seul
contrat s'il est possible de trouver une firme ayant la capacite de gestion du programme
total). Cette solution constituerait une evolution positive vers la privatisation de fonctions
de gestion technique et participerait ainsi au developpement du secteur prive dans ce
domaine.
b.     Inconvenients. Seul le secteur des cabinets comptables et des cabinets d'audits ont, au
Senegal, des competences leur permettant de repondre a un appel d'offres de gestion de
contrats. Cependant, meme s'il s'averait possible d'identifier des cabinets ayant les
competences requises pour gdrer le programme, peu d'entre eux ont une connaissance du
secteur associatif et aucun n'a de connaissance du secteur de l'alphabetisation. Le
Ministere des Finances a confirme qu'il n'y a pas d'exemple d'operation de ce type au
Sdnegal, ou meme d'operation qui s'en approche. En l'absence d'inforniation sur les
capacitds des diffdrents cabinets, il serait necessaire de realiser une etude prealable
comportant un examen des capacites du secteur des cabinets de gestion et l'examen de la
faisabilite technique de l'option. En second lieu, le recrutement d'un (ou de plusieurs)
cabinet(s) devrait, conume dans l'option Operateur principal, suivre les procedures de
passation des marches publics par le Ministere de l'Education Nationale avec les memes
inconvenients que ceux indiques pour cette precedent option.
7.            Solution Fondation. Cette option est, sur le principe, interessante dans la mesure ou elle
s'inscrit dans le developpement des capacites du secteur. Cependant, du fait qu'elle constitue une
innovation, elle comporte un degre de risque eleve et demande un temps de mise en oeuvre important,
incompatible avec le calendrier de mise en oeuvre du Projet.
a.     Avantages. L'objet de la Fondation d'Utilite Publique (affectation de biens, droits ou
ressources a une oeuvre d'intdret general dans un but non lucratif) est coherent avec
l'objectif du projet: assurer l'acces des operateurs aux fonds publics pour la rdalisation de
programmes d'alphabetisation respectant des normes de qualite. Emanation du secteur, la
Fondation est un instrument de sa structuration et de son developpement. Comme
I'AGETIP, elle peut se doter des capacites pour gerer de petits contrats avec la celerite
requise. Elle pourrait etre une structure stable du secteur, dont l'existence ne serait pas hee
strictement au Projet. Cependant, sa duree de vie est liee a ses objectifs vises et aux
ressources disponibles pour les atteindre. Si les objectifs sont r6alisds ou cessent d'etre
realisables, ou si le fonctionnement de la Fondation cesse d'etre assure, la Fondation est
dissoute. Enfin, cette structure peut etre utilisee pour canaliser vers les operateurs des
fonds provenant d'autres sources.
b.     Inconvenients. La structure n'existe pas, il faut la creer et l'experimenter. par ailleurs, la
creation d'une Fondation n6cessite l'apport, par les fondateurs, d'une dotation initale. Le
delai de mise en oeuvre d'une telle option est important . II comporte: (i) l'infornation et
l'inplication des operateurs dans le processus, (ii) la preparation et l'adoption du cadre
juridique et la refonte du manuel de procedure, (iii) la recherche du financement de la
dotation initiale.



Annex 10
Page I of I
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT
Project and Sector Monitorin Indicators
1997     1998      1999     2000      2001    2002
Project InDuts
Counterpart finds (millions CFAF) a/    25     25       25       25        25       25
AGETIP Supervision missions per      2         2        2         2         2        2
provider
Proiect OutDuts
Number of additional beneficiaries
Diourbel                         5,000     5,000    5,000    5,000      5,000
Louga                            5,000     5,000    5,000    5,000      5,000
Kolda                            5,000     5,000    5,000    5,000      5,000
Fatick                           3,400     3,400    3,400    3,400      3,400
Peri-urban Dakar                 5,000     7,500    7,500    7,500      7,500
% female
Maximum percent drop-out             25        25       25       25        25
Percent acquiring basic skills b/    80        80       90       90        90
Sector Impact c/
Number of providers
Number of new providers
Average no. of classes per provider
al Counterpart funds that will be deposited into a project account
b/ Data will not be available until the second to third year of the project
c/ Note that these cannot be specified at the outset.



REPULC OF o    EOAL                                               Annex 11
Pop I of I
PILOT FUMALIETOUCY PROJLECT
Work Plan and Procurement Idule
Pr.-prec    P._.              c   Yer /a                     Total  Procu
1906   1995   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   Pay- rement  Remarks
ProjectElements Quarter             1 234 1 234 1 234 1 234 1 234 1 234 1 234 1 234  ment Method
Cred                                                                                                  -m. /bS ........... ...................... .  h
Effectiveness                                  ix
Closing date                                   ix
Goods
Fumniture. Et uiement. Vehicle
Preparation of all Bid Documents             j x
Bidding/Evaluation/Award                     .   x
Contract signature                           I x
Delivery of goods                                  x                                              0.5   ICB
SuDoliesi
Quotation / evaluation / order                    x      x       x       x       x                0.1   OTH
Specialist services
Literacy and Post-Literacy Sub-Projocts
Sensitization                       x    x x   x x   x x   xx  x x
Preparation of submissions                   x  x       x      x   x       x x
Evaluation/Approval/contract          x       x      x       x       x       x
Preparaion work by Lit Providers        x       x      x       x       x       x
Delivery of literacycourses             x x x x xxxx xxxx xxx xx x  x x x x x x x                 7.3   OTH
Evaluation                                        x      x       x       x      x       x
Local and intemational consulbnt
LOI/TOR/Short List for approval             x
Bidding/Evaluarion/Award                      x
Contract reviewed by IDA                     Ix
Contract ignature                               x
* Mgmt Inf.Sys.-Geo.lnf. Syst.                  x
* Evaluation ex-post                            x
Longitudinal Study                            x
* Evaluation of Lit Materials                   x
Execution of Consuttancies
Mgmt Inf.Sys.-Geo.lnf. Syst.                      x x                                           0.2   OTH
* Evaluation ex-post                x         x       x              x               x            0.2   OTH
Longitudinal Study                              x x x x                                         0.2   OTH
* Evaluation of Lit Materials                     x
Traininj,
Local training of Literacy Provders                 x x    x x    x x    x x    x x               0.5   OTH
Incremental Operatlong Code      _
Operating CostsAGETP                          xxx     x xx   x x x x xx x  x x x x x x x x x      0.3   OTH
Operating C4os  Ministry           _          x x x x x xx x x xx xx x x x x x x  x x xx          0.9   OTH
bl ICB: International Compettnv BiddIn; OTH : Ohr Procurent Method;



Annex 12
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT
References
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
1.    Ministere delgue charge de l'alphabetisation et de la promotion des langues nationales
(MCEBLN), Colloque de Kolda "Femmes et alphabgtisation" - compte rendu, September 1993.
2.    MCEBLN, Rapport de synthese des activites du Comite d'initiative
3.    Mamnadou Dia et al. Rapport de mission de sensibilisation des operateurs - Tourn&e nationale.
July 1995.
4.    Coordination nationale des operateurs en Alphabetisation du Senegal (CNOAS), Assemblie
Generale des operateurs,. 12 et 13 July 1995.
5.    Coordination des operateurs en alphabetisation du Senegal (COAS). Reglement Interieur, 1995
6.    COAS, Statuts de la COAS, 1995
7.    Robin Poppe, Consultant du BIT, Projet de developpement des groupements pricoop6ratifs
feminins en milieu rural (SEN/82-004). Rapport de mission: Aides pedagogiques, techniques de
communication et alphabetisationfonctionnelle.
8.    Bilal Samba Ndiaye, Femme Developpement Entreprise en Afrique, Documents d'Evaluation des
modules I et 2 de I'alphabgtisation, January 1994.
9.    Ministere de l'Education nationale, Enqugte sur la demande desfemmes en matiere
d'alphabgtisation December 1994.
10.   Ministere delegue charge de l'alphabetisation et de la promotion des langues nationales, Politique
generale etplan d'action, October 1993.
11.   SODEFITEX, ASPCS, Aide et Action, Rapport d'evaluation Mmre phase, impact des
programmes, August 1994.
12.   MCEBLN, Repertoire des operateurs en mahi're d'alphabetisation, ONG, Dakar, mars 1994.
13.   MCEBLN, Repertoire des operateurs en matihre d 'alphabgtisation, Associations et GIE, Dakar,
mars 1994
14.   MCEBLN Repertoire des operateurs en matire d'alphab&tisation, Projets, Dakar, mars 1994



Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
15.   MCEBLN Repertoire des operateurs en mathre d 'alphabetisation, Societes de developpement
Other Bibliography
16.   MCEBLN, Conclusions des journees de reflexion sur le Comite national de concertation et
d'appui technique (CNCAT), July, 1994
17.   John P. Comings. Cristine Smith and Chij K. Shrestha, Adult Literacy Programs: Design,
Implementation and Evaluation, June 10, 1995
18.   John P. Comings, Literacy Skill Retention in Adult Students in Developing Countries, 1995
19.   World Bank, Project Performance Audit Report - Indonesia - First Nonformal Education Project
(Loan 14867-IND).
20.   Daniel A. Wagner, National Center on Adult Literacy, University of Pennsylvania Use It or Lose
It? The problem of Adult Literacy Skill Retention, July 1994.
21.   UNESCO, Report from a symposium sponsord by the Nordic Association for the Study of
Education in Developing Countries in Stockholm, Women and Literacy: Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow,
June 1989.
22.   Kingdom ofMorocco: Literacy and Schooling in Rural Areas, Volume I: Main Report, October
1993.
23.   UNESCO, Bureau regional de Dakar (BREDA), Le programme regional d'elimination de
I 'analphabetisme en Afrique : Bilan et Perspectives, 1994.
24.   UQM - CECI, Projet d'appui au plan d'action, August 1995.
25.   Amadou Diack, Bureau d'appui a la cooperation canadienne, Projet programme 1000 classes
d'alphabetisation du M C.A.P.L.N., Suivi de P'operation, Rapport de synthese, August 11, 1994.
26.   Ministere charge de l'alphabetisation et de I'education de base, Rapport d 'evaluation du projet
1000 classes d 'alphabetisation dans les regions de concentration: Tambacounda-Kolda-Ziguinchor.
27.   Alain Dunberry, Souleymane Ndiaye, Alred Sicotte, January 1993. Agence canadierme de
developpernent international (CIDA) - Projet Education non-formelle pour le developpement: Evaluation
en cours d'execution, Rapport preliminaire, January 1993



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT
Disbursement Profilb/Profil do D6boursoments
Disbursements/             Prolile/
Dobouasements                                                                 Litafa--   Projct -*- R ueona Secto--
IDA flcal ywa s                                       Ronal                     100%
t            By Ouwtr   Cumilativa    Credit      Sector
Amws budgiakws                                       1ic'f                       90%
IA4 of t,*nast,es I Par edmsit    Cutdief  CMft    ,gwon e
(US$ m  ion   (US$ muon)    1%)       8%)
1997        1            0.1          0.1     0.8%        0.0%
2            0.1          0.2     1.6%        1.5%               1   70%
3            0.1          0.3     2.4%        3.0%
4            0.2          0.5     4.0%        4.5%              *   60%
1998        1            0.4          0.9     7.1%        6.0%                   60%
2            0.6          1.4    11.1%       10.0%
3            0.5          1.9    15.1%       14.0%                   50%
4            0.5          2.4    19.0%       20.0%               &
1999        1            0.6          3.0    23.8%       26.0%              g   40%
2            0.6          3.6    28.6%       30.0%
3            0.6          4.2    33.3%       34.0%               =
4            0.6          4.8    38.1%       40.0%                   30%
2000        1            0.7          5.5    43.7%       46.0%
2            0.7          6.2    49.2%       48.0%                   20%
3            0.7          6.9    54.8%       60.0%
4            0.7          7.6    60.3%       64.0%              E   10o%
2001        1            0.6          8.2    65.1%       58.0%              0
2            0.7          8.9    70.6%       60.0%
3            0.7          9.6    76.2%       62.0%                    0%
4            0.7         10.3    81.7%       66.0%                       sn      2                        8        8
2002        1            0.5         10.8    85.7%       70.0%                       _-      C_                         C4      0
2            0.6         11.4    90.5%       74.0%                                         Fisca Year (Exercice)
3            0.6         12.0    95.2%       78.0%
0.6               12.6   100.0%       84.0%
x
SNDISB.XLS5I7/961581i1



-1'  ,  16                                                1                                                     14
o  VILLAGES                                                                       MAURITANIA                                                   SENEGAL
VILLAGES
REGION CAPITALS                                                     2;PNlbd_GA                                     PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT
CAPITALES REGIONALES                                                                                               PROJET                    I'ALPABETISATIN
* NATIONAL CAPITALS                                                                                 K hr Dlo            R JTD'APPUI A   ALPHL              ABI ETUISAT1hION
CAPITALES                                             I                                                                           PRIORITE FEMMES
RIVERS                               Ndiel
-   FLEUVES                                                                                               "&  11-tt     -A, PERCENTAGE OF FEMALE LITERACY BY REGION:
-16'          REGION BOUNDARIES*                                                                                                        POURCENTAGE DE FEMMES ALPHABETISEES PAR REGION:  16-
LIMITES REGIONALES
40 - 45%
-.   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                  rn
FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES                                                                                                                      65 - 79%
*Rei -o n - oesei ne as the rgo cnft :,u                                                                                                                80-90%
eet.t 1r Cop-WiXt.                                                                                                          0 1>m
._LA
OC,9,                 GIEAN    /7 
Tiysouae0o
CAP-VIERT PAiki j         
DAKAR*          o   we    OThi
KASUEndiemana
(tAbo endkaro)  501110 oThiod  Gsss
0~~~~~~
0   2    40  60  80  100
(or NMoro du Rio
MAURITANIA              THE                                                                                                                   niBt
MALI
THE
GAMBIA                                                            -
3GUINEk                    ZIGUINCHOR 
BISSAU                                                                        GUNE-ISA
<  GUINEA                                                               GUIEA-ISSU                     -)_
I6                   14/                                                  12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1









IMAGING
Report No:       15517 SE
Type: SAR



