                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 27339-SE

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                              (IDA-28730 PPFI-P9340)

                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.7 MILLION (US$12.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL

                                     FOR A

                        PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT




                                   June 19, 2004




Human Development II
Country Department 14
Africa Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective 1995)

                             Currency Unit = CFAF
                              CFAF 1,000 = US$ 2.04
                                     US$ 1 = CFAF 490

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 - December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB           African Development Bank
AGETIP        Executing Agency for Public Works (Agence d'Exécution des Travaux d´Intérêt
              Public Contre le Sous-Emploi)
ALPHA FEMMES  Women's Literacy Project (Projet d´Alphabétisation des Femmes)
ALIA          Adult Literacy Integrated Approach
DAEB          Literacy and Basic Education Directorate (Direction de l'Alphabétisation et de
              l'Education de Base)
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CCS           Coordination and Monitoring Committee (Comité de Coordination et de Suivi)
CIDA          Canadian International Development Agency
CNACT         National Committee for Technical Support (Comité National de Concertation
              et d´Appui Technique)
CNOAS         National Committee of Literacy Providers of Senegal (Comité Nationale des
                       Opérateurs en Alphabétisation au Sénégal)
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
EFA           Education for All
GTZ           German Agency for Technical Cooperation
IA            Education Inspectorate (Inspection d´Académie)
IDA           International Development Association
IDEN          Departmental Education Inspectorate (Inspection Départementale de
                       l´Éducation)
IEPS          Initial Executive Project Summary
KPI           Key Perfomance Indicator
MCALN         Ministry in Charge of Literacy and National Languages (Ministère Chargé de
              l´Alphabétisation et des Langues Nationales)
MDG           Millennium Development Goal
MORA          Regional Literacy Implementing Agency (Maître d´Oeuvre Régional en
              Alphabétisation)
NETF          The Netherlands Education Trust Fund
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
PADEN         Literacy Project for Local Electorates and Dignitaries (Projet d´Alphabétisation
              des Elus Locaux et Notables)
PAIS          Senegal Intensive Literacy Project (Projet d´Alphabétisation Intensive au
              Sénégal)
PFLP          Pilot Female Literacy Project (Projet Alphabétisation Priorité Femmes)
PCU           Project Coordination Unit

PDEF          Ten-Year Education and Training Program (Programme Décennal de
                      l'Education et de la Formation)
PDO           Project Development Objective
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
PRSP          Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QEFA          Quality Education for All
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
UNESCO        United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization

                          Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo
                        Country Director:     John McIntire
                         Sector Manager:      Alexandre V. Abrantes
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Geraldo J. Martins

                                          SENEGAL
                         PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33

Project ID: P035621                                                  Project Name: Pilot Female Literacy Project
Team Leader: Geraldo Joao Martins                                    TL Unit: AFTH2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 18, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Pilot Female Literacy Project                            L/C/TF Number: IDA-28730; PPFI-P9340
   Country/Department: SENEGAL                                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Adult literacy/non-formal education (81%); Central government
                            administration (19%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Gender (P); Social analysis and monitoring
                            (P); Other financial and private sector development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/30/1994                                     Effective: 09/06/1996                09/06/1996
     Appraisal: 12/11/1995                                         MTR: 09/03/1999                  09/03/1999
      Approval: 06/04/1996                                      Closing: 02/28/2003                 02/28/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF SENEGAL/MINISTRY OF BASIC EDUCATION & NATIONAL
                                           LANGUAGE
                      Other Partners:      CIDA, GTZ

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Edward V.K. Jaycox
Country Director:               John McIntire                                  Katherine Marshall
Sector Manager:                 Alexandre V. Abrantes                          Ok Pannenborg
Team Leader at ICR:             Linda English                                  Rosemary Bellew
ICR Primary Author:             Geraldo J. Martins and Johanne
                                Angers


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

     Context and Background. The Pilot Female Literacy Project (PAPF) emerged from the commitment by
the Government of Senegal to expand access to literacy programs to its large uneducated population. Past
literacy projects, including the 1000 class/PAIS, financed by the Government; PAIS, supported by CIDA;
Village Library and Literacy Training, financed by UNESCO; and the Youth Rural Producers Program
supported by the French Cooperation, had enhanced the capacity of various non-governmental providers to
deliver literacy services. By 1994, about 100,000 individuals were estimated to be attending literacy
programs offered by some 94 organizations, most of them using their own resources and cost-sharing
arrangements with beneficiaries. However, most of these programs have been characterized by high
dropout rates and poor learning achievements. The main shortcomings identified were: (i) mismatch
between the program design and beneficiaries' needs; (ii) lack of instructional materials; and (iii)
inadequate instructor training.

     In June 1993, the Government of Senegal launched a broad consultative process open to all
organizations interested in literacy, including potential providers, villagers, local collectivities and
development partners. The main objective was to get a broad consensus on a national literacy policy and
strategy that responds to the growing demand of the population in the context of poverty. The colloque de
Kolda, held in September 1993, culminated this process by establishing a long-term program and by
promoting the concept of "faire-faire" ­ an outsourcing model of partnership where public funds are made
available to private providers to implement literacy services.

     Following a government request, the Bank agreed to support the program through the PAPF, although
with some reluctance in the beginning, due mainly to its lack of experience in the field and the bad
reputation of past literacy campaigns. The project was designed as part of an integrated sector program
financed mainly by a group of donors (IDA, CIDA, GTZ). It was signed in June 1996 and became effective
in September 1996 with a scheduled closing date in February 2003.

     Original Objectives. The project was intended to support the first phase of the Government 10-year
program (1995-2005) which aims to reduce the illiteracy rate of the 10-39 age group from an estimated
55% in 1995 to 25% by the year 2005, and from 66% to 30% for women. The main objective of the first
phase (1995-2000) is to pilot a strategy which supports non-governmental literacy providers to expand
their programs with the aim of lowering the illiteracy rate to about 40% overall and to 47% for women.
This would require reaching about 300,000 beneficiaries, 75% women. IDA project would target 135,000
beneficiaries (75% women). Other objectives of the project are: (i) ensure the sustainability of literacy
skills; and (ii) strengthen the capacity of the private sector to deliver effective programs, and the capacity of
the public sector to monitor, evaluate and coordinate sector investments.

     The Project Development Objectives (PDO) were clear and relevant because:

     (a) They are well aligned with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The CAS (March 2003)
supports the Government's PRSP, focusing on the following axes: (i) wealth creation for economic growth
and capacity building, and (ii) development of social services for more equity. The project promoted equal
access of women to educational opportunities.

     (b) They are consistent with the current Government objectives. The project objectives link closely to



                                                       - 2 -

the Government current objectives to the sector as defined in the PRSP and PDEF. The PRSP (June 2002)
has three fundamental pillars: (i) wealth creation through economic reforms and private sector
development; (ii) capacity building and development of basic social services; and (iii) improving living
conditions of vulnerable groups. By targeting women and relying on private providers, the project sought to
contribute to the improvement of the living conditions of vulnerable groups and to the private sector
development. The PEDF (2000-2010) reaffirms the Government's commitment to support literacy
programs, improve their pertinence and quality, and strengthen the institutional mechanisms of their
implementation.

     Because the project was part of the Government's program, the objective of lowering the illiteracy rate
depends on the achievements of the overall literacy program and on increases in access and completion in
primary schooling. The project does not provide specific indicators for the objectives of strengthening the
capacity of the private and public sectors and ensuring the sustainability of literacy skills. Thus, their
assessment is based on some assumptions. As regard the capacity building of the public sector, the
assumption is that by providing training to the Government's key officials and by developing monitoring
and evaluation tools, capacity would be strengthened. The same applies to assumption that literacy skills
retention would be ensured through the creation of a literate environment (for example, the availability of
newspapers and publications in local languages).

3.2 Revised Objective:

     The original objective of the project remained unchanged.

3.3 Original Components:

     The project has two distinct and interconnected components, which fully reflect the project
development objectives:

     Component 1. Literacy and Post-Literacy Sub-Projects (US$ 9.5 million IDA). This is by far the
most important component of the project both in terms of financing (75% of the credit) and impact on the
beneficiaries. The component clearly reflects the first and second PDO. It aimed to finance eligible literacy
and post-literacy sub-projects prepared and submitted by literacy providers in cooperation with villagers to
reach 135,000 individuals (75% female) in five regions: Diourbel, Louga, Kolda, Fatick and peri-urban
areas of Dakar. Parallel or complementary financing would be provided by CIDA, through the project
PAPA, to reach 75,000 beneficiaries in Tambacounda, Kaolack, St. Louis, Ziguinchor and Louga and by
GTZ, through the projects PADEN and Alpha Femmes to reach 14,000 beneficiaries in the regions of
Fatick and Kaolack.

     With regard to literacy (US$8.2 million), for each cohort of learners (also called auditors), providers
prepare sub-project requests, in collaboration with the potential beneficiaries, based on the needs
assessment conducted by the former. The requests are submitted to IA/IDEN (regional and departmental
levels) to check the information provided and then sent to the Ministry in Charge of Literacy and National
Languages (MCALN). A National Selection Committee composed of representatives of this Ministry, the
Ministry of Social Affairs, AGETIP and an independent literacy expert, provides technical analysis and
decides on eligibility of the sub-projects. The Committee's meetings are also attended by representatives of
the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and CNOAS, a non-governmental professional organization of
literacy providers, as observers. The selected proposals are then approved by MCALN.

     Institutional arrangements, including eligibility criteria of sub-projects and procedures governing



                                                     - 3 -

access to, and management of the funds were described in a procedural manual. The eligibility criteria
include such factors as the quality of the populations' needs assessment, the experience of the potential
provider in the field, the quality of the proposed pedagogical approach (literacy method, instructional
materials) and the commitment of beneficiaries to participate in the program.

    Each sub-project should comprise at least 250-300 participants (10 classes of 25-30 participants). It
should have 250-300 hours of instruction spread out over a period of time agreeable to the beneficiaries,
generally 12-18 months. The literacy course is offered in a local language and its content should match
beneficiaries' needs. In addition to basic skills in reading, writing and problem solving, it may include
topics related to health, nutrition, agriculture, environment and other technical aspects such as
bookkeeping, management and entrepreneurial skills.

    AGETIP, a public works executing entity, serving as the project financial management agency, signed
and managed the contracts with the selected providers and transferred funds to implement the sub-projects.
The scope of providers' activities ranged from upgrading or building education facilities, procuring
equipment and instructional materials, recruiting and training their own staff, providing literacy services as
agreed with villagers, and monitoring and evaluating the learning progress of the beneficiaries. In addition
to the coordinator, the staff of the operator included a facilitator who taught the beneficiaries, a supervisor
in charge of pedagogical control of the providers' literacy centers and an accountant who handled all the
expenditures and organized financial and accounting ledgers.

    Under this approach, there is no direct Government involvement in the management of funds. This
responsibility was transferred to AGETIP, which managed the special account, conducted all procurement
on behalf of the MCALN, established contracts with literacy providers, ensured their payments and verified
the delivery of services according to contract provision. The Government role thus changed from being an
implementing actor to performing policy guidance, monitoring and evaluating the overall program, as well
as coordinating activities with donors and providers. To fulfill this new role, the MCALN created a PCU
under the oversight of the Minister's office. While the Direction de l'Alphabétisation et de l´Education de
Base (DAEB) was assigned to coordinate all the literacy programs and investments in the sector and to
pilot the overall evaluation of the achievements, the PCU was responsible for technical monitoring,
supervision of contract execution and research.

    The post-literacy activities (US$1.3 million) were scheduled to begin in 1997 as a test to support skill
retention of the neo-literates. The activities included: (i) the development of structured learning activities for
neo-literates directly linked to their social and economic activities; (ii) the promotion of local newspapers;
and (iii) the development of publications in local languages.

    Component 2. Project Management and Capacity Building in Program Delivery, Management,
and Evaluation ($ 3.1 million IDA). This component corresponds to the third PDO. It aimed to
complement CIDA's capacity building support to providers and the government by financing activities to
strengthen the capacity of: (i) providers to deliver effective literacy programs, focusing particularly on
improving the quality of their human resources, and (ii) the MCALN to monitor progress in the sector and
establish reliable and valid evaluation designs and procedures for sub-projects financed under the credit.
The component was also supposed to finance client consultations to strengthen the partnership between the
government and providers.

    To strengthen provider capacity the project sought to finance: (i) 9000 person-days of training and
workshops provided by the CNOAS in the areas of project management, human resources and financial
management; (ii) the costs of AGETIP, which would train providers on managing financial records and



                                                      - 4 -

accounts to ensure that they meet the guidelines presented in the project implementation manual; (iii) local
training seminars for about ten literacy publishers and MCALN staff responsible for publishing, marketing,
sales and distribution of literacy materials; (iv) ten person-month of short-term international training for
MCALN staff responsible for the evaluation of literacy materials, and (v) three months of foreign technical
assistance to assist MCALN staff to evaluate the quality of materials used by providers.

     To strengthen the capacity of the MCALN in monitoring and evaluation, the project aimed to finance:
(i) the establishment of a geographic and management information system to map out and systematically
track progress in the sector, and the cost and effectiveness of projects; (ii) an ex-post evaluation of a
representative sample of literacy sub-projects every two years; (iii) a longitudinal study of a sample of
program participants to assess skill retention; and (iv) vehicles, equipment, furniture, supplies and training
for project management staff involved in monitoring progress in the sector.

3.4 Revised Components:

The two components of the project remained unchanged.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

     Satisfactory. The quality at entry is rated satisfactory for the following reasons:

     (a) The project design and preparation are satisfactory. The project design was consistent with the
Government's strategic framework (Lettre de Politique), which laid out the foundations of a partnership
between the private and the public sectors. The project implementation followed two years of preparation
and wide consultation with key stakeholders, including potential providers. It was accompanied by strong
commitment on the part of the Government. During the preparation phase, three background studies were
conducted with support of the Japanese Trust Funds. The studies evaluated: (i) the supply and demand of
literacy courses in Senegal; (ii) the institutional capacity of the MCALN to coordinate and monitor literacy
programs; and (iii) the cost and financing of literacy activities in the country. These studies as well as the
institutional assessment provided useful information that was accommodated into the project design.
However, the absence of indicators for objectives two and three may be pointed out as a shortcoming in the
project design.

     Following the recommendation by the Initial Executive Project Summary (IEPS) review meeting, an
experimental phase, with a limited number of participants, was conducted between August 1995 and
September 1996 in four regions (Diourbel, Kolda, Louga and Tambacounda) to test the operational
procedures, the demand for literacy programs, the provider interest in delivering the sub-projects, and the
capacity of AGETIP to manage contracts. Over 22 sub-projects (10 classes per sub-project) involving
7,260 participants (90% women) were financed under the PPF ($520,000). The results of the test phase
were taken into account in the project design.

     (b) Good risk assessment. The design of the project followed an accurate risk assessment. The risks
included: (i) weak capacity among small providers; (ii) the ability of the Government and providers to
maintain an effective partnership and; (iii) the sustainability of literacy skills. The second and third PDO
(ensuring the sustainability of literacy skills and strengthening the capacity of the actors involved in project
implementation) are key elements of a strategy to mitigate these risks.

     (c) The implementation arrangements were tightened up sufficiently. The project represented an
interesting attempt to circumvent the familiar inadequacies of mass literacy campaigns by piloting an



                                                       - 5 -

alternative approach that relies heavily on private providers. For such an innovative approach, institutional
arrangement was critical. The project was successful in designing an institutional arrangement that defined
clearly the actors and their roles and responsibilities. This arrangement was tightened up around a set of
well-articulated principles ­ partnership, transparence and accountability. Close attention was paid to
management capacity, through evaluation of the capacity of Government and providers. In addition,
different alternatives were assessed for outsourcing contract-management with providers (AGETIP as
executing agency or maître d´oeuvre délégué, a private agency or a foundation). The established
arrangement was found to be an efficient mechanism of rapid transfer of funds while ensuring transparency
in the selection mechanism of service providers and beneficiaries.

     (d) An exemplary partnership with other development partners. Since this was the first attempt by
IDA to address literacy in Senegal, the project design was mainly based on lessons learned from
international experience, the existence of a vision and commitment of the MCALN for the program and of
opportunities that were specific to Senegal. The project was developed using a highly participatory
approach and was implemented through much broader partnership than in past IDA projects in Senegal.
During the preparation stage, the Government and the development partners in the program, brought
together their shared visions and perspectives. The program ensured donor coordination and complementary
of the interventions, using a common approach for delivering literacy services.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

    Satisfactory. Overall achievement of outcome objectives under the project is satisfactory.

         The first development objective is satisfactory. The first phase of the Government program
enrolled about 431,000 individuals (82.7% women) surpassing the 300,000 initially envisaged (Annex 1).
Based on the projection of the project, with this number of beneficiaries, the illiteracy rate of the age group
10-39 would be below 25% (31% women), which were the objectives of the entire program. Specifically,
the PAPF clearly succeeded in piloting an outsourcing strategy for reaching large segments of illiterate
population. A total of 312 literacy sub-projects were provided by many non-governmental organizations.
These sub-projects enrolled about 191,500 individuals (87% women) as opposed to 135,000 (75% women)
initially envisaged, which is 42% higher than the initial target.

         The average dropout rate of the literacy sub-projects was 15%, which is below the expected 25%.
The project established as indicators of learning achievement that 80% of participants would acquire basic
skills during the first two years, and 90% for the remaining three years. Learning assessments conducted by
DAEB, between 1997 and 2001, showed that the quality of literacy training had improved over time, but
most of the scores remained below these rates. In 1997, the proportion of beneficiaries having achieved the
minimal competency required in reading, writing and problem solving was 57%, 28%, and 6%,
respectively. In 2000, this proportion raised up to 75%, 63% and 41%, respectively. The sustainability of
literacy skills is likely because a literate environment was created in the areas where the post-literacy
sub-projects were tested. The project financed newspapers and several publications in national languages.

     The impact of the project on the living conditions of the beneficiaries is still difficult to measure
because of lack of reliable data. However, DAEB's evaluations also indicated the development of epistolary
knowledge among the beneficiaries who now are able to write notes of meetings in local languages.
According to a study conducted in June 2002, 79.5% of beneficiaries have started to use accounting
documents in local languages in the management of their businesses, 8.6% visit health centers more



                                                     - 6 -

frequently, and 58.6% are more likely to follow the rules of hygiene in their day-to-day lives.

     The capacity building of literacy providers is satisfactory. The project stimulated quantitative and
qualitative response by providers to the growing demand of the population for literacy services. From 1994
to 2001, the number of literacy providers participating in the Government program increased from 94 to
420, surpassing the target of 400. The project contributed to the strengthening of providers' capacity to
prepare and implement literacy courses through input indicators such as training and equipment.

     The monitoring and evaluation system is unsatisfactory. This was the weakest aspect of the project.
Despite improvements in the ex-post evaluation tools and several training sessions for key staff of the
MCALN, there are indications that the capacity to monitor, evaluate and coordinate literacy programs has
not been sufficiently strengthened. A number of tools envisaged to adequately play this role were not fully
developed or were not used appropriately. The Geographic Information System (GIS), a key monitoring
tool, never materialized, and the database to register progress of literacy providers and of sub-projects were
not being used by DAEB. These limitations impact negatively on the overall evaluation of literacy
programs and coordination of the sector by the Government.

4.2 Outputs by components:

     Component 1. Literacy and Post-Literacy Sub-Projects (US$9.5 million)

      The overall output of this component is satisfactory. The project performed well in terms of
enrollment (it financed 312 literacy projects in six cohorts, with 191,577 beneficiaries as opposed to
135,000 envisaged) and did reasonably well in terms of quality of the literacy courses. The quantitative
targets were achieved and surpassed in all five regions covered by the project (Annex 1).

      The female participation rate was in the range of 85-90% depending on the geographic zone. The
average dropout rates have steadily decreased from cohorts 1 to 6. It varied according to the sub-project
and between regions. The highest rates were registered in Kolda and Dakar at 15% and 25%, respectively.
Dropout rates seemed to be higher where participatory needs assessments were of poor quality. In many
cases, these assessments were undertaken without any contact between the provider and villagers. In other
cases, the studies involved community participation but were under-financed and of poor quality. This often
resulted in top-down and provider-driven projects that failed to take into account the particular
characteristics of the environment and the learning needs of the beneficiaries. For example in the peri-urban
zone of Dakar, the high dropout rate may have been due to the high opportunity cost for auditors engaged
in petty trade.

      While the vast majority of sub-projects reached and even surpassed their enrollment goals, the quality
of courses varied broadly. DAEB's assessments have shown that although textbooks were adopted in all
literacy centers and providers' personnel were trained, a number of providers revealed weak capacity to
implement and monitor literacy subprojects. To improve the quality of the sub-projects, the procedural
manual was modified to include as a selection criterion past provider performance. Although the intention
may have been to be more selective among the providers based on their performance, there is no indication
that this criterion has been applied. Problems with non-performing providers continued over time. The
emergence of new providers who were eligible for sub-projects made this measure difficult to be effective.

      Forty post-literacy sub-projects were financed out of 89 requests, involving 13,133 individuals (86%
women). Over 180,000 instructional materials and packages were procured and about 140 novels and
technical books on health, agriculture, culture, religion, literature and traditional medicine were published



                                                     - 7 -

in the local languages. Furthermore a television documentary in Wolof was produced, showing the
economic advancement of those who had received literacy training. Five quarterly newspapers, one for each
region covered by the project, were produced in six local languages (Wolof, Pulaar, Sereer, Jola, Mandinka
and Soninke). These newspapers are still produced and sold in local newsstands and widely demanded by
the neo-literates. This component also supported activities that have contributed to the formulation of a
national editing policy in national languages.

       The mid-term review, held in September 1999, marked a transition point for fostering access to and
improving the quality of literacy sub-projects. Since the project had demonstrated capacity to handle an
increasing number of literacy courses and to better meet demand, the government and IDA agreed to
increase the number of beneficiaries from 27,000 to 40,000 for the fifth cohort. This cycle was launched in
2000. However, applications submitted by providers for funding indicated that there were at least 183,000
prospective participants for the fifth cohort. The project ultimately accepted 51,000 beneficiaries instead
of the 40,000 envisaged. This decision had an impact on the high enrollment performance of the project.

       After the mid-term review, a new literacy approach (the integrated approach) was tested with the
fifth and sixth cohorts in a sample of 300 classes in all the five regions of the project, based on the lessons
learned from three years of field experience. This approach represented a link between literacy and income
generating activities, further adapting the learning needs to other local-level development activities. The
findings were encouraging as the approach appeared to be cost-effective (see section 5.4) and had the
advantage of building up a direct relationship between the learning process and the villagers' economic
activities, while boosting a new dynamic among women in these villages. Since 2003, the integrated
approach has been adopted by the ongoing IDA-supported Quality Education for All (QEFA) Project.

     Component 2. Project Management and Capacity Building in Program Delivery, Management,
and Evaluation (US$3.1 million)

     This component is satisfactory. While improvements have been achieved both in terms of providers'
capacity to deliver literacy sub-projects and the Government capacity to manage literacy programs, many
of the instruments to monitor and evaluate the project were not used.

     Each provider who delivered sub-projects received institutional support as grants. This support
averaged US$1,500-2,000 and was used to purchase equipment and logistical material to facilitate the
management and supervision of the project. Providers represented different types of organizations. Many
providers delivered sub-projects for different cohorts over the project life and consequently benefited many
time from institutional support.

     Providers' staff received training managed by both the providers and the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU), at the beginning of each cohort. While the providers conducted training for facilitators and
supervisors, the PCU trained coordinators and accountants on the procedural manual, the management of
literacy programs, and on financial management. From 1997 to 2002, over 12,060 person-days of training
were delivered, surpassing the 9,000 person-days programmed. Part of this training was initially supposed
to be delivered by CNOAS but because of institutional conflict under the CNCAT, a bipartisan structure
made of government and private sector representatives, the CNOAS was unable to accomplish the task. On
the other hand, AGETIP offered continuous advice to providers on the procedures manual, and on
accounting and financial management as part of its supervision missions to control contract's execution. It
also helped in the design of tools for internal monitoring and supervision of sub-projects by the providers
themselves. Other types of training were offered to providers, including seminars for literacy publishers on
press management in local languages.


                                                    - 8 -

       The training enhanced the capacity of providers to deliver sub-projects. At the beginning of the
project, AGETIP and the PCU were able to gather data that allowed the classification of providers
according to their performance. These classifications were published in 1997 and 1998 in the project's
newspaper and generated enthusiastic reactions among providers and the communities. Having performance
classifications published was an unusual good practice for the time. Unfortunately, it was not sustained due
to political pressure.

     The assessment of the capacity building of the public sector is two-fold. The project supported various
training activities for the technical staff of DAEB and PCU. These training covered various topics such as
project management, performance indicators, literacy methods, test and impact evaluation and functional
literacy planning. The project also funded the Ministry's staff participation in several international events
on literacy. Although the training enhanced the capacity of its key technical staff, DAEB experienced
difficulties in developing and using appropriate evaluation tools.

     The evaluation tools comprised the installation of a database on literacy sub-projects, the installation of
a geographic management information system and the development of longitudinal studies. They were
developed in collaboration of the Teacher Training College (École Normale Supérieur) and INEADE.
These assistance followed an earlier mission in November 1996 by the Director of the International
Literacy Institute (ILI) of the University of Pennsylvania. In addition, a local consultant statistician and a
computer firm were recruited in May 1998 to develop a computerized database to register data on
sub-project progress and outcomes.

     Although this technical assistance helped to upgrade the evaluation tools, which appeared to improve
response to demand for data needed for program evaluation, the developed database was not adequately
used because of lack of appropriation. The key staff of DAEB were not trained to fully take advantage of
this instrument after the statistician's departure. Although training was provided to DAEB staff and
computers procured to establish a network among key dpartments of the MCALN, the geographic
information system needed to map out and track progress in the sector was never put in place because of
lack of coordination between DAEB and the office of the Minister, where it was decided that it would
directly manage this activity.

     Finally, the story of the longitudinal study is an example of the overall difficulty that this component
experienced. Under the coordination of DAEB, the first study was launched in 2000, three years after the
scheduled date. The study was applied through an experimental integrated literacy approach instead of the
initially planned literacy sub-projects. The obvious consequence of this delay is that during three years
DAEB did not collect enough data to assess skill retention of the beneficiaries and the impact of literacy
training on their living conditions. However, further progress in this area emerged by the end of the project.
Three out of the five planned studies were completed and published.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

     Annex 3 on Economic Costs and Benefits provides a more detailed discussion on the cost-effectiveness
of the project. The main conclusion is that this type of literacy program appears to be not especially costly.
Taking into account the repetition rate (13.6%) and the completion rate (44.7%) in primary schooling and
in literacy classes (drop-out rate of 15%; unsuccessful completion rate of 50%), the completion of a
literacy class costs about one-fifth of the completed five years of primary education. As the public cost per
graduate of the literacy course is estimated at US$149, this would be equivalent to two years of primary
schooling or less than one year of successful primary schooling (counting dropout and repetition rates).



                                                      - 9 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:

     Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:

      The institutional development impact of the project is rated as substantial. The project represented a
breakthrough in delivering literacy service, by abandoning the traditional model of the past. It helped to
establish new rules of the games in the sector, contributed to the strengthening of capacity among private
providers and to the establishment of a solid partnership between the public and private sectors that
constitutes the basis for better use of resources in the future. The project also helped to gradually identify
and establish best practices through an intensive process of action research. For example, the procedural
manual was developed in a participatory fashion and has been continuously improved with inputs from all
the actors.

      During      project implementation, the number of literacy providers who received training and
institutional support increased. Today, there are about 500 providers with technical and managerial
experience who are willing to deliver programs. They are organized through CNOAS, an organization
created in 1995 with 90 providers. CNOAS has been active in literacy programs, playing a role of
mediation between providers and the government. It has a representative who plays the role of observer in
the sub-project selection committee. This contributes to ensure transparency of the selection process.

      The outsourcing of financial management to an external institution allowed the PCU and DAEB to
concentrate on technical issues. At the same time, competition for funds between providers became a source
of more efficient and sustainable use of human resources. Outsourcing also encouraged good governance of
funds and accountability. By establishing a unit cost per participant and trying to continuously control the
costs, the project created a remarkable opportunity to ensure a more efficient use of financial resources. In
the future, economies of scale are possible, notably through cost reductions on training and textbooks and
adjustments in operational costs. This opportunity, if associated with improvements in the quality of
literacy courses, can reinforce cost-effectiveness of future interventions.

      The project had also an external impact. Several countries in the region (The Gambia, Chad, Burkina
Faso, Cote d'Ivoire, Guinea) have been influenced by the model of the project. They have actively sought
information on how the model is constituted and how it works, seeking to learn from the experience of the
PAPF.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

      Not applicable

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

      The implementation of the project was affected by some political and managerial issues. The most
important political event during project implementation was the presidential election held in
February-March 2000. Following this event, the newly elected President of Senegal issued a decree in
October 2000 to start a new massive literacy campaign. This campaign aimed to enroll 2 million people per
year over a two year period. By the end of 2000, the Ministry of Literacy and National Language was



                                                     - 10 -

attempting to respond to the decree and requested the DAEB and the PCU to provide technical advice in the
organization of the campaign. The effort diverted attention away from project implementation. This
resulted in a three-month delay in issuing formal authorization for start-up of year 2000 operations, put the
project off-cycle with the agricultural season and religious holidays and then forced several adjustments,
including the reduction of hours of training, to put the project back on track.

       On the managerial side, problems arose mainly with monitoring and evaluation. Despite several
Bank's recommendations, DAEB showed hesitations to hire an international technical assistance to help
establishing an efficient monitoring and evaluation system. It is worthwhile mentioning that MCALN was
a small ministry with scarce human resources and little experience in piloting literacy programs.
Monitoring and evaluation turned out to be a weakness, since it negatively influenced the efficiency of the
program. For example, in 1999, before the mid-term review, literacy sub-projects had already enrolled
nearly 85% of the beneficiaries envisaged by the end of the program. Nevertheless, for the 1999-2000
campaign, MCALN decided to limit the number of classes because of its limited capacity to ensure their
supervision and monitoring. Had the project accepted all eligible requests, the total number of beneficiaries
would have reached 134,500 and thus the project target (135,000) would have be achieved in 2000, i.e. two
years before the schedule completion date.

       The monitoring and evaluation component of the project was also affected owing to weak control by
DAEB over the work of AGETIP. The project had developed a system whereby AGETIP became
accountable to DAEB, by producing quarterly reports on supervision and financial management. This
arrangement was expected to include a computerized financial management system connected to DAEB so
that all the process could be closely followed by the Ministry. However, the system was not fully developed
and this resulted in an absence of clear and fruitful dialogue between AGETIP and DAEB. Closer oversight
of AGETIP by DAEB would have opened new avenues for improvement of the monitoring and evaluation
system.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

       The project had privileged the multiplication of small providers to reach large segments of population
who otherwise would not be reached. As sub-projects multiplied, the number of missions required to visit
all the centers increased and AGETIP started to experience increased difficulties in dealing with
supervision. The two technical supervisors could hardly accomplish their tasks adequately, particularly
with limited available logistical support. This resulted in spotty supervision missions by AGETIP during
the last two years of the project. The option of sub-contracting consultants to conduct supervision at the
regional level was discussed, but never implemented.

5.4 Costs and financing:

       The project was approved for an amount of SDR 8.7 million (US$12.6 million equivalent). The
Government provided the required counterpart funds of 150 million CFAF (25 million CFAF per annum)
over the life of the project (Annex 2 of the SAR) while it is estimated that beneficiaries contributed about
US$575,000 (the equivalent of 2,500 CFAF per participant in kind or in currency) for participant's fees to
the literacy sub-projects.

       There has been no significant changes to the estimated project cost at appraisal. In November 1998,
the credit was reallocated and a new category of expenditure added (category 8) to cover for AGETIP
management fees, which was set at 5% of the total amount for sub-project costs. Earlier disbursements for
AGETIP management fees had already been made under consultants services (category 3).



                                                     - 11 -

         The credit fully financed the first five cohorts of beneficiaries. The disbursement rate was
accelerated as a result of positive performance in enrolling beneficiaries. By mid-2000, 75% of the credit
was disbursed. For the fifth cohort in 1999, the project engaged a larger number of providers (137
providers) to accommodate the increase in the number of beneficiaries to 51,000 and the pilot integrated
literacy approach. In order to pay a larger amount than what had been anticipated for the first four
cohorts, AGETIP requested by the end of 1999 an increase of the total authorized amount of the special
account from 500 million CFAF to 1 billion CFAF, and a reallocation of the credit funds. Through an
amendment of Schedule 1, paragraph 1 of the DCA, the ceiling of the special account was therefore raised
accordingly. The financing of the cost for the sixth cohort was shared between this project and the QEFA
project (Cr. 3333-SE) as the remaining credit available could only accommodate for the financing of 23%
of the individuals expected to be enrolled. At project closing (February 28, 2003), 99.2% of the credit had
been disbursed, the remaining SDR 75,000 was cancelled on July 17, 2003.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

      The overall prospect for the sustainability of project activities is likely.

      Technical sustainability is likely. Most providers benefited from institutional support and training
and are well prepared to deliver literacy services. Government key actors also received training but
turnover among the staff is likely to affect the overall technical performance of the MCALN. The improved
understanding of the process as a result of experience-based knowledge is likely to upgrade technical
performance of all the actors in the future.

      Institutionally, partnership is a major challenge. The project succeeded in building up and sustaining
the interest of literacy providers to participate in the Government program. It is likely that providers will
want to take advantage of the current opportunities (financing, training, etc.) to continue to deliver.
However, the willingness of providers will depend on how the government deals with some critical issues.
For example, will the procedural manual continue to be respected? Are the institutional arrangements likely
to be maintained? The approach of faire-faire (outsourcing) is built on the assumption of a relationship of
trust, but is susceptible to political pressures. The risk of political interference on the fairness of the
process represents the major threat to the institutional sustainability. Though this risk is likely to be
mitigated through the on-going decentralization of the selection process, it is still present. An additional
threat is the challenge of retaining any capacity that is built in government, as the alternatives in the private
sector are always attractive once the personnel have built up their management and evaluation skills and
competencies. The decentralization process is still fragile and needs to be further consolidated. This
argument supports the view that institutional sustainability is likely but subject to several risks.

      Socially, the project has responded to a strong demand for literacy programs among the population.
The number of sub-project requests submitted for approval was much higher than what was ultimately
financed. Beneficiaries' strong participation in the sub-projects reinforced the demand-driven nature of the
project, which is a key factor of sustainability. The skills retention of neo-literates could be granted if the
community libraries are well maintained and the grassroots organizations encourage their members to use
them. It is likely that the mobilization of the beneficiaries regarding literacy programs will remain at its
highest levels, particularly if the Government stays committed to the ruling principles of the approach.

      Financial sustainability is likely. The Government has been financing literacy (project PAIS) through



                                                      - 12 -

the budget since 1994, demonstrating its commitment to eradicate illiteracy in Senegal. The program is
managed at the regional level (Conseils Régionaux) using the approach of faire-faire at the unit cost of
5,000 CFAF. Given constraints in budget allocations, an increase in Government financing of literacy
programs is unlikely, especially if we want to see the more costly integrated approach rather than the
low-cost and low-return PAIS-type operation. However, the project strengthened the capacity of providers
to deliver good quality literacy programs which, in turn, could enable them to more easily attract other
financing and sustain their activities over time without relying on the Government budget.

       Financial sustainability in the long term depends on costs not being significantly higher in the future.
The continuous attempt by the government to control costs through studies and new approaches are great
incentives for donors to remain in the sector. For example, under the PAPF, the merging of literacy and
post-literacy activities into an integrated literacy approach having substantially lowered the unit cost could
be an incentive for further investments (see annex 3) . The current picture of donor-funded literacy projects
in Senegal includes projects financed by IDA, CIDA and the AfDB.

       The willingness of the population to pay for literacy services is another element of financial
sustainability. As demonstrated during the program, this willingness exists. It is ascertained by the
successful participation in cost sharing. The growing demand for literacy courses indicates that it is likely
to be maintained in the years to come. Even though the participation fee is rather symbolic, it shows to
what extent the villagers are interested on the program.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

          The mid-term review thoroughly explored the ways of ensuring the transition of the project to the
PDEF. It was decided that the QEFA Project (Cr. 3333- SE) would continue to support literacy activities
initiated by PAPF. The literacy component of QEFA project would provide literacy sessions for 120,000
individuals between the ages of 15 and 49 of which 75% are women, using the integrated approach. For
that purpose, the PAPF co-financed selected activities (training, consultations, etc.) to help prepare the next
phase of the national literacy program. The transition arrangement included the financing of the sixth
cohort of the beneficiaries jointly by the two credits (Cr. 2873-SE and Cr. 3333-SE). In addition, the
project also financed the preparatory activities of the seventh and eighth cohorts to be conducted under the
QEFA. But the transition arrangements did not adequately provide for the role of the Project Coordination
Unit (PCU), leaving its continued functioning uncertain at present as found in many other investment
projects after closing.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

          The Bank Performance is satisfactory. The Bank's team performed very well during the
preparation of the project. It worked closely with the Government and other development partners in every
stage of project preparation ensuring that the design of the project takes into account the Government's
sector strategy and the Bank's CAS. It shared visions and assumptions that helped to address most of the
critical issues that arose at this stage. It helped to revise the Government policy documents, action plan and
the procedural manual. It should be recalled that within the Bank some were skeptical about the project,
arguing that literacy programs do not work and that investing in primary education is the most
cost-effective way to reduce illiteracy. The five previous education projects (Technical and Agricultural
Education Project, SAR 1971; Second Education Project, 1974; Third Education Project, 1979; Primary
Education Development Project, 1986; Second Human Resources Development Project, 1993) had focused


                                                        - 13 -

basically on primary education. One of the merits of the team was the ability to make persuasive
arguments, bringing about lessons learned from international experience and anchoring on a pioneering but
constructive design of the project.

      Between December 1995 and June 1996, several missions carried out field visits to help prepare the
project. These include: evaluation of the test phase (June 1995); preparation of the joint appraisal (October
1995); appraisal of the test phase (December 1995); and supervision mission (June 1996). Upon the Bank
team's urging, the Ministry convened a joint Government/donors meeting in March 1996 to finalize
financing arrangement and complementary approach. The meeting led to an agreement on financing
allocation to achieve maximum coverage and an equitable distribution of resources, while ensuring
continuity in programs already financed by the different partners.

7.2 Supervision:

      Bank performance during the implementation of the project is satisfactory. Despite the turnover of
TTLs (the project had three TTLs) the Bank team was able to ensure continuity and coherence in its
dialogue with Senegalese counterparts, so that the changes did not affect the efficiency of the project. The
changes in TTL were duly communicated to the government by Bank management. Two core team
members (an implementation specialist and an operations officer based in the country office) participated in
nearly all the missions and ensured the institutional follow-up of the project.

      The Bank team participated in the project launch workshop in September 1996. With an average of
two supervision missions per year, most missions were well staffed and included the task team leader
(TTL) and expertises on non-formal education, literacy programs evaluation, institutional development,
instructional materials and human resources management. Some missions integrated training and financial
specialists. In November 1996, the Bank team visited Senegal with the Director of the International
Literacy Institute (University of Pennsylvania) to assist DAEB in designing a general evaluation model. To
promote an exchange of experiences across neighboring countries, the Director of Non-Formal Education
and the Director of Literacy Secretariat of the Republic of the Gambia, joined the June 1996 mission, at the
invitation of the Bank team. The Bank's field office in Dakar, through its operations specialist, actively
participated in all missions and followed up regularly the preparation process of the project.

      In fiscal year 2000-2001, following the mid-term review (September 1999) and the recommendation
from Bank's management to reinforce supervision of the quality aspects of the project, the TTL led three
supervision missions. In addition to these missions, a systematic monitoring of the project was ensured by
the operations specialist based in Dakar. Between May and June 2000, the Bank staff participated in two
regional workshops held in Dakar for 12 Francophone countries on evaluation of literacy programs. The
workshops were financed by the NETF, which also co-financed the missions. They focused primarily on
the case study of the Senegalese outsourcing approach and the Bank team widely shared the experience of
the project.

      Coordination among donors involved in the program was ensured by the Bank team. The team was
efficient in promptly reacting to client's demand, and was proactive in anticipating key management issues
and advising on best solutions. For example, this was done regarding the design of the monitoring and
evaluation tools, the amendment of the credit agreement to create a new category for AGETIP fees and the
amendment made after the mid-term review to reallocate the credit (increase in the amount of the
consultants and administrative costs categories) to better manage the qualitative side of the project.

      The Bank team provided adequate guidance in the preparation of the mid-term review. It ensured that



                                                     - 14 -

the lessons learned from the project were to be integrated into the subsequent Quality Education for All
Project (QEFA). The review was a moment of intensive learning, through studies, seminars and other
exchanges with the government and other partners.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

       The overall Bank's performance is satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

    The Government performance in the preparation of the project is satisfactory. On the whole, the
Government demonstrated commitment to project preparation. It took the lead in the process by launching a
broad consultation process that was highly participative. It was proactive in preparing a policy paper and a
long-term program with clearly defined objectives and targets. Ultimately, Government was successful in
bringing together different donors to finance the program.

       To ensure adequate and timely preparation of the project, the MCALN created three technical teams
to coordinate feasibility studies, prepare the project documents and the procedural manual. Although they
lacked experience in such an innovative project, the team members stayed committed and viewed the
process as an important learning opportunity. The conditions attached to credit effectiveness were quickly
fulfilled. In three months, the Ministry put in place a PCU with appropriate staff, signed an agreement with
AGETIP for contract management of the project, ensured the selection of an auditor and issued a legal
opinion on the project agreement between IDA and AGETIP.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

       The Government's implementation performance is assessed as marginally satisfactory.

       During the project life, the Government made available the agreed annual amount of counterpart
funds (25 million CFAF) on a regular basis. The DAEB was directly responsible for the policy dialogue
with the Bank. It was in charge of the overall monitoring, evaluation and coordination of the project.
However, it experienced significant difficulties in accomplishing this task. For example, as mentioned in
section 4.2, the longitudinal study started after a two year delay. Connection between the DAEB database
and the AGETIP database did not materialize. The second phase of the design of an evaluation mechanism
began hesitantly. According to the PSR rating, the overall performance in monitoring and evaluation
improved over time. Meanwhile, the quality of these evaluations remains to be assessed. For instance, many
providers argued that the evaluation tests applied to auditors were of poor quality and did not adequately
measure literacy and other benefits the program intended to provide in terms of knowledge and skills.

       The DAEB did not take all the requisite measures to address problems raised by project
implementation. For example, the Project Steering Committee, which was supposed to meet regularly to
discuss and address problems raised by implementation, met only rarely. Sanctions and incentives for
providers based on their performance were rarely undertaken. The problem of contract supervision by
AGETIP was identified early on (PSR # 12 reads: "contract management by AGETIP is satisfactory, but
staff are stretched by the number of programs to monitor") but was not addressed. DAEB's poor
performance is partly explained by the turnover in its personnel. In December 1999, a new DAEB's
Director was designated, but shortly replaced in April 2000 (presidential elections) by decision of the new
Minister. These circumstances weakened the institutional stability needed to adequately follow the project.



                                                     - 15 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:

      The main implementing agencies were the PCU and AGETIP.

      (a) The PCU performed in a satisfactory manner.

      The PCU was proactive in managing the project and showed preparedness to assist the Ministry in
taking policy and administrative decisions. It was a small structure (director, assistant director, secretary
and driver) placed under the direct supervision of the Office of the Minister. At the time of project
preparation, DAEB directly managed the PAIS/1,000 classes project financed by the Government, which
was latter transferred to the regional level (Conseils Régionaux) following the 1996 decentralization law.
The creation of the PCU responded to the need to have a flexible but dynamic structure, which could
operate in a fairly independent way. While it was assigned the specific task of close monitoring of the
sub-projects, the PCU concentrated its efforts mostly on technical and pedagogical issues.

    During the project life, the PCU did a good job at the technical level, working with communities, IA
and IDEN and literacy providers, providing training to providers and supervising their activities. It
succeeded in visiting annually almost all the literacy centers. The visits allowed the PCU to, among other
things: (i) control whether or not the courses were provided,; (ii) ascertain that providers'staff were trained;
and (iii) confirm that the pedagogical methods agreed upon were applied. With the scaling-up of the
program, it became necessary to adapt the supervision accordingly. The PCU decentralized supervision
work to the regional and departmental levels, involving IDEN. The new system put in place combined
supervision by PCU staff and by IA, who were supposed to control and approve providers' requests and
verify their quarterly reports before their transmission to the central level.

      The PCU was able to negotiate with key stakeholders whenever the sub-project implementation
schedule experienced delays in order to reach consensus and reschedule the activities. From 2000 until the
end of the project, for different reasons (political, managerial), the sub-projects always started with delays,
but the PCU succeeded in managing well this reality. For example, for the fifth cohort, the authorization for
contracting with providers was not issued until January 2000, as a result of the national election campaign.
Despite this delay, the PCU was able to put the project back on track.

      (b) The performance of AGETIP is satisfactory.

      AGETIP did well in managing credit special account and ensuring timely disbursements, but it did
not perform well in the supervision and monitoring of the contracts. IDA was the only partner under the
program that was using AGETIP financial management service. CIDA for example was using an external
agency. The choice of AGETIP was influenced by its recognized experience in disbursements and
management of contracts under other Bank-supported projects. AGETIP also performed well during the
test phase. However, this was the first large-scale social project to be managed by AGETIP. To perform
the task, it recruited a coordinator, two technical supervisors, an accountant and an administrative staff.

      The contract management is satisfactory. AGETIP was successful in ensuring disbursement of funds
to a large number of small, diverse and geographically scattered private providers. A set of instruments and
procedures were developed to facilitate the task. In December 1996, AGETIP installed a computerized
financial monitoring and accounting system focusing on the delivery of program inputs, expenditures, and
payments. The system was found to be efficient. It allowed quick disbursements and timely transfer of
funds to providers and adequate financial monitoring of all contracts. A delay (five months) in



                                                      - 16 -

disbursements was incurred only once for the fifth cohort, partly explained by AGETIP'S failure to
correctly plan disbursements that year compounded by the departure of the accountant who played a key
role in managing this process. However, on the negative side, AGETIP's report on project expenditures
was irregular. The centralized accounting system that was in use for all projects managed by AGETIP was
at the origin of these difficulties.

       With regard to contract monitoring, the performance is unsatisfactory. AGETIP was expected to
supervise on a quarterly basis a sample of 20% of the literacy centers involved so that by the end of each
cohort all centers had been visited. During the first three years of the project, AGETIP did fulfill this
requirement adequately. During the test phase, AGETIP visited literacy centers on a regular basis to certify
expenditures a posteriori. The quality of supervision also improved over time. A comprehensive set of
indicators was developed on a consensual basis with providers; this allowed providers to understand against
which criteria they would be monitored and evaluated. This process also allowed the providers to carry out
self-evaluation. Starting from 1998, AGETIP adopted a new supervision guide, which was oriented on a
more factual description of the contract status instead of just issuing a general opinion on the providers'
performance.

       Although the quality of supervision improved, the frequency deteriorated over time as the number of
sub-projects increased. Particularly, after the mid-term review, which created a boost in the number of
providers. The number of auditors having doubled, the supervision model appeared to be inadequate. The
fifth cohort required the monitoring of over 1,030 classes. It became evident that AGETIP's capacity with
only two supervisors was insufficient to carry out the supervision work correctly. However, the supervision
model remained unchanged for the remainder of the project.

       The Bank team raised concerns several times about AGETIP's declining performance on monitoring
the contracts and called the attention of the Ministry to this reality. Despite many reminders, the problem
was not properly addressed. The option to outsourcing supervision (through the MORA) was at a time
considered by AGETIP. The MORA could be NGOs, training organizations, consulting firms, etc. that
would execute supervision at the regional level on behalf of AGETIP. However, the idea was not followed
through.

       The PSRs ratings reflect the way AGETIP dealt with supervision during the life of the project.
AGETIP's monitoring performance was rated positively during the initial years of the project, but shifted
from satisfactory to unsatisfactory over time. Had performance been solely rated on the basis of contract
monitoring, the rating would certainly be unsatisfactory. The ICR team considers that AGETIP's performed
satisfactorily on credit and contract management, which are viewed as important factors of success in the
implementation of the project, as such the overall performance of AGETIP is assessed as marginally
satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The overall borrower performance is satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

       Some of the key lessons learned may be summarized into three major themes as follows:

       (a) Outsourcing Approach. The PAPF proved that large scale programs for reaching illiterate
populations can be successfully implemented in a relatively short period of time by using the outsourcing



                                                    - 17 -

approach if the project is well designed and implementation arrangements are appropriately tightened. This
approach needs strong political commitment to ensure transparency and fairness, which are key to building
trust between providers and the Government. The presence of representatives of the providers and/or of the
civil society in the selection process contributes significantly to this trust. To ensure its sustainability, the
outsourcing approach requires appropriate mechanisms to mitigate the risks of political interference on the
fairness of the process. This could include decentralization of decision-making to the regional, local, and
even community levels. The agreements regarding the established triangular relationship between the
Government, the executing agency and the providers must be enforced to ensure close oversight by the
Government over the work of the executing agency. The agreement between the Government and the
outsourcing agency should include sanctions and incentives depending upon the performance of the agency.

       (b) Monitoring and Evaluation System. Mechanisms to simulate and control unit costs, conduct
cost-effectiveness analysis, and follow-up on progress of literacy programs based on an agreed set of
indicators are key to sound monitoring and evaluation system. More specifically, the system should answer
questions such as: Is the cost structure still appropriate? Are the current costs equal to the original? Is the
price adequate to provide quality programs? How does it compare with primary education? Can providers
continue with smaller subsidies? What are the benefits related to increased enrollment, health, income, etc?
Capacity building measures, such as adequate provision of training and retaining of staff, are also key in
ensuring that critical monitoring and evaluation tasks are adequately accomplished. However, the result of
these measures are long-term and they do not guarantee that staff trained will remain. In cases where
monitoring and evaluation skills are not available, the outsourcing of these functions to consulting firms or
specialized agencies, could be considered.

       (c) Participatory Approach. In countries similar to Senegal, it is important to stimulate providers'
participation in the program through a set of incentives (i.e., institutional support and training). These
incentives are of great importance particularly when providers are in limited number or lack the capacity to
deliver this type of sub-projects. The involvement of local women's associations in project implementation
is important for the success of the program. Longitudinal studies show that where these organizations exist
and are well organized, the performance is better. In general, the closer the networking - or the partnership -
the better the results.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

A summary of the Borrower evaluation of the project is presented below. A copy of the complete report is in
project files.

PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT (PROJET D'ALPHABÉTISATION PRIORITÉ FEMMES, PAPF)

1.       The team responsible for producing the PAPF implementation completion report (ICR) in preparation for
the closing of Credit 2873-SE worked from October 2001 to February 2002 in collaboration with World Bank
consultants and staff. The participatory approach used for this operation made it possible to gather a considerable
volume of information through direct observation, on-site interviews, questionnaires and the analysis of various
documents, and to combine them in order to arrive at the conclusions that constitute the substance of the present
report.

2.       The World Bank-supported Pilot Female Literacy Project (PAPF) is part of the literacy campaign that
Senegal has been planning since 1994. Its goal of reaching 135,000 learners, of whom 75 percent would be
women, within five years and in five regions of Senegal, is being pursued in parallel with objectives concerning the
strengthening of the technical and institutional capacities of the actors within a partnership dynamic that has been




                                                        - 18 -

built up over time.

3.       The project achieved substantial results : 168,182 learners trained, 87 percent of whom are women; one
hundred thirty-nine (139) post-literacy titles produced; five (5) regional newspapers published in national
languages; a solid logistical set-up for monitoring, and various other facilities depending on the missions of the
structures in question; training dispensed at the national and international levels; studies and experiments aimed
at documenting the project and the informal sub-sector.

ANALYSIS AND JUSTIFICATION OF RESULTS

A. Literacy and post literacy

4.       Implementation of the outsourcing (faire-faire) mechanism demonstrated that the fundamental
relationship underlying the State/civil society partnership is based on sharing, dialogue and trust, and is facilitated
by transparent selection mechanisms for which the criteria are known to all and set out in a procedures manual.
The strategy is being emulated at the national level (i.e., by other ministries) as well as in the sub-region (e.g., in
Burkina Faso, Mali and Côte d'Ivoire). However, it needs to be better understood (in terms of the rights and
obligations of the co-contractants) in the interest of an integrated literacy effort that can go forward within the
context of decentralization.

5.       The PAPF enrollment 203,599 learners in 6 `generations' (or training cycles), of whom 168,182 (87
percent women aged 15-39 from rural and peri-urban areas) completed their training. The participatory approach
and the strategy of organized groups minimized drop-out rates (which stood at 15 percent) despite the constraints
of poverty (and its implications for learners' survival strategies.) The existence of a signed agreement between the
operators and the women's representatives also boosted attendance rates (since the women are intransigent when it
comes to keeping a promise that has been made).

6.       The operators are organized into a national association (Coordination nationale des opérateurs en
alphabétisation au Sénégal, CNOAS) which serves as an interface between them and their partners. One hundred
seventeen (117) operators are involved in the PAPF. In general, they fulfilled the expectations of the Project and
of the beneficiaries, although some work is still needed to enhance their technical capacities and improve the
quality and professionalism of their interventions.

7.       The PAPF received 99 percent of its financing, or a total of US$ 12.6 million, from IDA. The theoretical
cost per learner was about CFAF 29,500 (CFAF 27 500 paid by the Project and CFAF 2,500 by the beneficiary.)
Analysis of the cost structure reveals that, in some places, staff costs were greater than expenditures for teaching
materials and that the uniform standard cost does not foster competition in the operators' offers of service.

8.       Beneficiaries' contributions usually went toward the purchase of individual supplies or served as initial
capital for a revolving credit fund used by the class [of learners].

9. Provision was made for operators to contribute to unit costs, but these contributions are still difficult to
determine. In any event, the operator `earns' on average CFAF 4,492 per learner.

10.      Each operator under the PAPF trains its own staff. The problem with this is that the quality of training
suffers due to the shortage of specialized resource persons and of appropriate instructional materials. The use of
civil servants to make up the shortfall entails a risk of compromising their impartiality. This arrangement will
need to be reviewed depending on the context.

11.      Teaching materials consist essentially of primers and some basic texts on functional topics. This area
deserves particular attention with a view to a greater variety of teaching materials, greater emphasis on quality and
more careful verification of accounts in order to discourage attempts at misappropriation and fraud.

12.      The instructional programs planned on the basis of area needs assessments (etudes de milieu) are
functional and diverse. Depending on the locale, they address basic proficiencies and life skills related to health,



                                                          - 19 -

hygiene, management, environment, small-scale trade, handicrafts, and fruit and vegetable processing. Tests
administered to former learners (female) indicate that reading/writing in most cases is still slow, but of functional
utility (e.g., in terms of being able to read names and numbers, maintain management documents, fill out meeting
logs, record minutes of meetings, etc.)

13.       The retention of reading/writing skills is supported in more or less all locations by revenue-generating
activities associated with the decentralized micro-credit network, as well as by the titles (140 in number) published
by the Project. Embryonic libraries are being constituted. However, the holdings should be enriched and
diversified so as to offer beneficiaries "what they want and are able to read rather than what others think they
should be able to read".

B. Strengthening of capacities and of evaluation instruments

14.       This component of the PAPF concerns the operators as well as the central and decentralized
administration.

15.       Operators received direct institutional support from the Project equivalent to 15 percent of the amount of
their sub-projects, as well as various types of à la carte or planned training. In all, training was dispensed to 2,954
staff members of operators, and the impact was soon felt in terms of requests [for training], organization of
training sessions and results at the end of training cycles. It is regrettable, however, that the National Committee
for Coordination and Technical Support (Comité national de coordination et d'appui technique, CNCAT) did not
tale full advantage of the 9,000 person/days available to operators under the Project to dispense even more training.


16.       The Administration also performed well in terms of training, equipment, logistics, technical
accompaniment by consultants, etc. Consequently, the quality of its services has increased and a database is being
created at the Department of Literacy and Basic Education (Direction de l'alphabétisation et de l'éducation de
base, DAEB). However, improved targeting of trainees would be desirable in the future in order to maximize the
impacts on the sector and enhance the retention of the skills acquired.

C. Performance of the main Project actors

17.       The performance of the Project actors, i.e., the public works execution agency (Agence d'exécution des
travaux d'intérêt public contre le sous emploi, AGETIP), the Coordination and Monitoring Team (Comité de
coordination et de suivi, CCS), DAEB and CNOAS, improved as implementation progressed.

18.       The CCS, a streamlined, mobile and alert entity, focused essentially on technical and pedagogical matters,
with some time spent documenting field-level operations and the informal sub-sector in order to capitalize on
project results.

19.       AGETIP, the entity selected to handle the Project's financial management, enabled the CCS to carry out
its main planned activities in a timely manner by making the necessary resources available. However, in order to
be more effective in its mandate of monitoring and hands-on oversight, AGETIP must quickly address itself to the
task of decentralizing its structures.

20.       In accordance with their mandates, the DAEB and the decentralized education departments helped
considerably to improve the quality of Project interventions. With the huge increase in numbers of participants,
actors and interventions, however, it is now imperative that they work on effectively decentralizing their
interventions (i.e., the functions of monitoring, evaluation, planning, training, etc.)

21.       As an interface with the public authorities, the CNOAS groups various kinds of structures together. Its
members have brought about a veritable democratization of literacy services. However, this entity has not taken
full advantage, for the benefit of its members, of all opportunities that were made available. It would do well to
better organize itself for optimal operation and to avoid periods of inactivity that are detrimental to the sector.

22.       The World Bank was discrete yet effective during project implementation. It fulfilled its role of partner



                                                          - 20 -

and respected all its commitments. However, it would be advisable for it to accelerate the processing of
non-objection letters and to devote more attention to communication, with a view to enhancing the recognition of
its actual role on the part of beneficiaries (i.e., operators, administration and the population).

D. Project impact

23.      The PAPF served as the laboratory in which several hypotheses were tested. The impact of its results is
visible at several levels.

24.      The Project pioneered the decentralization of the overall literacy training mechanism. Thanks to this
decentralization, a progressive generalization of the partnership approach (i.e., faire-faire, or the outsourcing of
service provision) is occurring in Senegal as well in the countries of the sub-region.

25.      The Project fostered greater professionalism among the operators, which received support resulting in
improved organization, the emergence of local expertise, and job creation (for 9,784 people).

26.      Clear-cut social and economic impacts were also noted in the Project's zones of intervention, in terms of
the emergence within the population of receptive attitudes towards the management of health and hygiene issues,
and the development of community activities, particularly for income generation. The acquired skills generated
new needs (e.g., for more land, money and various resources, including new information and communications
technologies (NTICs).

E. Favorable factors

27.      Favorable factors included the government's commitment, combined with strong social support provided
by women involved in a dynamic associative movement, under the guidance of opinion leaders and prominent
individuals from civil society.

28.      The practice of using national languages for the literacy training was also a plus.

F. Limiting factors

29.      The limiting factors are of various types and at various levels. They include the inadequate technical
expertise of emerging operators, the conservatism of the administration, the status of national languages, the
paucity of materials produced in this area, and the slow and laborious implementation of the frameworks for
collaboration.


G. Lessons learned

30.      All literacy projects must aim to make their target populations increasingly autonomous. They must be
participatory and based upon collaboration and dialogue.

31.      The outsourcing of service provision (faire-faire) assumes that there is a political will and that the
procedures and mechanisms contained in the procedures manuals will be rigorously enforced.

32.      The use of a financial implementation agency ensures the security of the funds and makes it possible to
mobilize them quickly and efficiently.

33.      Literacy is part of the strategic vision of poverty reduction.

34.      Successful literacy efforts generate new needs: e.g., for training, organization and opportunities.

35.      Literacy requires a synergetic intervention on the part of all those who are working toward social
development. The success of a literacy program depends on: the quality of the trainers; the decisions made in
terms of quality; in-service training; research/intervention; and monitoring/evaluation. All of the foregoing must
be supported by good communication.



                                                           - 21 -

(b) Cofinanciers:

Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable

10. Additional Information




                                             - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                                                                 Estimated and actual Number of Beneficiaries

                Region                   Estimated in the SAR        Beneficiaries as of October 1999           Beneficiaries at the end of the project    Average dropout
                                                                                                                                                          rate per region (%)

      Beneficiaries in Diourbel                 25,000                            10,637                                       40,181                              13

       Beneficiaries in Louga                   25,000                            11,721                                       26,600                              12

       Beneficiaries in Fatick                  25,000                            13,605                                       40,312                              10

       Beneficiaries in Kolda                   25,000                            6,202                                        40,765                              15

   Beneficiaries in Dakar, Peri-urban           35,000                            11,135                                       43,719                              25

        Total fo Beneficiaries                  135,000                           54,000                                      191,577                               -

  Average dropout rate of the project             25%                                -                                             -                               15

    Percent acquiring basic skills*              80**                                -                                         50***                                -

Source: Literacy and Basic Education Directorate. Ministry of Education.
* The percentage of beneficiaries who acquired basic skills in reading, writing and problem solving.
** 90% for the last three years of the project
*** The average perentage of beneficiaries who acquired basic skills during the project life


                                     Total Number of Beneficiaries of the Government Program by Source of Financing


                Project                    Source of financing        Total number of beneficiaries                            Female                      Female as % of
                                                                                                                                                                 total

                 PFLP                             IDA                            191,577                                      166,170                            87.0

                 PAPA                           CIDA                             167,036                                      139,302                            83.3

           Alpha Femmes                          GTZ                              9,160                                         8,687                            94.8

               PADEN                             GTZ                              13,735                                        2,844                            20.7

           Other Programs                                                         50,000                                       40,000                            80,1

               TOTAL                                                             431,508                                      357,003                            82.7

Source: Literacy and Basic Education Directorate. Ministry of Education.


                                                                         Outcome Indicators


                        Project                                        At Project Onset                                               At Project Closing

              Number of Beneficiairies                                135,000 (expected)                                                    191,577

        Percentage of Female Beneficiairies                             75% (expected)                                                        87%

               Average Drop Out Rate                                    25% (expected)                                                        15%

                  Competency Rate:
                   (a) reading skills                                        57%                                                              75%
                   (b) writing skills                                        28%                                                              63%
              (c) problem-solving skills                                      6%                                                              41%

           Number of Literacy Providers                                       94                                                              420

Source: Literacy and Basic Education Directorate. Ministry of Education.




                                                                                  - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                           Appraisal          Actual/Latest         Percentage of
                                                                            Estimate             Estimate               Appraisal
                            Component                                      US$ million          US$ million
Literacy and Post-Literacy Sub-Projects                                       10.30                     8.50                     83
Project Management and Capacity Building in Program                             2.75                    3.40                    124
Delivery, Monitoring and Evaluation
PPF refinancing                                                                 0.75                    0.52                     69

Total Baseline Cost                                                           13.80                   12.42
  Physical Contingencies                                                        0.00                    0.00
  Price Contingencies                                                           0.20                    0.00
                               Total Project Costs                            14.00                   12.42
                       Total Financing Required                               14.00                   12.42
Appraisal estimate includes Government's expected contribution for other costs, such as taxes, salaries and indemnities of civil
servants working on the project, and operation and maintenance of offices (source: SAR, Annexes 6 and 10), which were
estimated at US$260,000 equivalent. No information has been provided by Government on the actual amount for other costs,
consequently these are not reflected in the actual/latest estimate.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent):

                                                                                        1
                                                              Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                     ICB
                                                                   NCB                    2                             Total Cost
                                                                                   Other                N.B.F.

1. Goods                                      0.50                 0.00             0.10                 0.00           0.60
                                             (0.40)               (0.00)           (0.10)               (0.00)          (0.50)

                             3
 2. Services contracts                        0.00                 0.00             10.30                0.00          10.30
                                             (0.00)                (0.00)          (9.50)               (0.00)         (9.50)

                                  4
 3. Consultants' Services                     0.00                 0.00             1.20                 0.00           1.20
                                             (0.00)                (0.00)          (1.20)               (0.00)          (1.20)

 4. Training                                  0.00                 0.00             0.50                 0.00           0.50
                                             (0.00)                (0.00)          (0.50)               (0.00)         (0.50)

 5. Incremental Operating                     0.00                 0.00             0.60                 0.00           0.60
Costs                                        (0.00)                (0.00)          (0.20)               (0.00)         (0.20)


 6. PPF Refinancing                           0.00                 0.00             0.75                 0.00           0.75
                                             (0.00)                (0.00)          (0.75)               (0.00)        (0.75)

    Total                                     0.50                 0.00             13.50                0.00         14.00
                                             (0.40)               (0.00)           (12.20)              (0.00)        (12.60)




                                                              - 24 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent):

                                                                               1
                                                       Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                  ICB
                                                            NCB                 2                           Total Cost
                                                                         Other              N.B.F.

1. Goods                                 0.14               0.00          0.29               0.00             0.43
                                         (0.14)            (0.00)         (0.13)            (0.00)          (0.27)

                           3
2. Services contracts                     0.00              0.00          7.92               0.58             8.50
                                         (0.00)            (0.00)         (7.92)            (0.00)          (7.92)

                              4
3. Consultants'Services                   0.00              0.00           1.39              0.00            1.39
                                         (0.00)            (0.00)         (1.39)            (0.00)          (1.39)

4. Training                               0.00              0.00          0.51               0.00            0.51
                                         (0.00)            (0.00)         (0.51)            (0.00)          (0.51)

5. Incremental Operating                  0.00              0.00          1.07               0.00            1.07
Costs                                    (0.00)            (0.00)         (0.99)            (0.00)          (0.99)


6. PPF Refinancing                        0.00              0.00          0.52               0.00           0.52
                                         (0.00)            (0.00)         (0.52)            (0.00)         (0.52)

  Total                                   0.14              0.00          11.70              0.58          12.42
                                         (0.14)            (0.00)        (11.46)            (0.00)         (11.60)

1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank Credit.

2/ Includes goods procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project
   management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the
   project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government unit
3/Includes literacy and post-literacy sub-projects.

4/Includes delegated contract management fees for AGETIP, and other national and international consultants.

  N.B.F. = Participant's fees.




                                                        - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

          The SAR suggests two kinds of analysis on the economic costs and benefits of the program: (i) a
cost-effectiveness analysis of the literacy program compared to primary education; and (ii) the benefits of
literacy on the living condition of the poors, measured by indicators such as income, fertility, child
mortality, malnutrition use of health services, etc.

          Regarding the cost-effectiveness analysis, the SAR argues that in Senegal over 1,500 hours of
training in language and mathematics are required to achieve a fourth grade education. This excludes the
number of hours invested in students who repeat and those who drop-out before fourth grade. The SAR
also argues that for adults, 200-300 hours of instruction are generally needed to acquire an equivalent level
of skills mainly because adults acquire the skills with considerably less time on task. Due to the
comparatively long duration of primary school and because teachers' salaries (excluding benefits) are more
than triple the earnings of literacy instructors, the cost of producing a graduate from an adult literacy
program is significantly less than the investment required to obtain a fourth grade graduate. Even at a
drop-out rate of 50%, the cost of an adult literacy program would be one-third the investment required to
produce a fourth grade graduate.

          Results of an household survey carried out in Senegal in 1994 (SAR) indicates that: (i) children of
illiterate mothers are 50% more likely to die in childhood; (ii) illiterate women want 1.8 more children than
literate mothers regardless of income; and (iii) literate mothers are about 50% more likely to send their
daughters to school ceteris paribus. Based on these assumptions, the SAR estimated that the project would
contribute to a reduction in infant mortality by 10-14%, a reduction in the number of births by 3-5%, and
an increase in girls enrollment by 23%.

          A study on the cost-effectiveness of the PAPF was recently published by the Bank (Managing
Public-Private Partnership - Lessons form Literacy Education in Senegal). According to this study, the unit
cost of the literacy program includes public and private costs. The unit cost to the Government was US$70
per enrollee and US$ 149 per graduate. Private costs consisted of a participant fee of US$3 per beneficiary
and an estimated opportunity cost of US$23. The study argues that the public unit cost (US$70) can be
compared to the yearly unit spending for primary schooling, which is approximately US$72. Taking into
account the repetition rate (13.6%) and the completion rate (44.7%) in primary schooling and in literacy
classes (dropout rate of 15%; unsuccessful completion rate of 50%), completion of a literacy class costs
about one-fifth of the completed five years of primary education. If the public cost per graduate is US$149,
this would be equivalent to two years of primary schooling or less than one year of successful primary
schooling (counting dropout and repetition rates). This analysis from the Senegal experience shows that this
type of education is not especially costly.

          The outsourcing particularly allowed a cost control since it used an estimate of the unit cost for
each enrollee as a basis for the financing formula of the sub-projects. An interesting cost analysis may have
been to compare the unit cost of the different projects under the program to determine their
cost-effectiveness. This analysis, however, may not be useful since fundamental parameters determining
costs, such as the length of the course and the type of textbooks used, varied widely between the different
projects. Among factors contributing to the unit costs are: (i) the salary scale of personnel (facilitators,
supervisors, administrative staff); (ii) the ratio instructor/auditor; (iii) the program implementation
timeframe (number of hours of training); (iv) the training costs of the staff; (v) the cost of textbooks, etc.
For example, the integrated approach, which merged literacy and literacy sub-projects, has seen the unit
cost to increase. However, this increase represents an important economy, since the cost of the integrated
sub-projects is lower than the total cost of literacy and post-literacy sub-projects (55,000 CFAF) alone.



                                                      - 26 -

           While it provided access to basic skills and literacy education for the economically disadvantaged
population, there is little research on the monetary and non-monetary benefits of the project. There is no
reliable data on how the project influenced indicators on living conditions in the target areas. However,
positive externalities of literacy have been noticed in the villages where the program was implemented.
They include higher primary school enrollment of the children, better health for the families, and a better
understanding on means to protect the environment. Many neo-literates are reported to be key members of
the villagers' management committees under the current IDA-financed Social Fund Project.


Table 1. A typical cost structure of the sub-projects ( NDEF-LENG)
(in 000CFAF)
Region              Manuel        Learning     Staff           Training  Supervision Institutional Total
                                  Materials    Salaries & etc.                       Support       Cost
Fatick II           1             1            4,680.00        1,075.600 1428.500    785.100       7969.200
Fatick III          3185.180      1091.050     9020.000        739.375   793.050     2934.000      17762.655
Diourbel III        1636.950      504.300      4260.000        393.000   330.175     1890.970      9023.395
Bambel IV           1518.500      536.700      4320.000        691.335   430.900     1542.425      9039.860
Linguere            1523.500      625.375      4440.000        778.000   656.055     1642.500      9665.430
Fatick              3261.600      1279.500     8135.000        917.850   1575.365    2429.425      17598.740
Foundiougne V       3276.000      1209.775     8085.000        1035.270 1299.115     2321.100      17226.260
Mbacke V            1520.500      581.000      4320.000        607.445   416.485     1534.915      8980.345
Bambey V            1391.500      608.500      4180.000        572.145   363.505     1483.050      8598.700
Diourbel V          1387.000      596.000      4320.000        564.045   454.595     1508.470      8830.110
Total               18700.730 7032.200         55760.000       7374.065 7747.745     18079.955     114694.690
Source: AGETIP. Data from December 1996 to July 2001




                                                                     - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/94-12/95             11     Implementation Specialist,
                                             Evaluation Specialist, Operations
                                             Officer, Disbursement Officer,
                                             Education Specialist


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/95-04/96               5    Implementation Specialist,
                                             Evaluation Specialist,
                                             Operations Officer,
                                             Disbursement Officer,
                                             Education Specialist


 Supervision
              06/96                     0    Initial Summary                        HS             HS
              07/96                     2    Sr. Education Specialist,              HS             HS
                                             Implementation Specialist
              09/96                     1    Sr. Education Specialist               HS             HS
              12/96                     2    Sr. Education Planner,                 S               S
                                             Implementation Specialist
              07/97                     0    Update                                 S               S
              10/97                     3    Implementation Specialist,             S               S
                                             Education Specialist, Sr.
                                             Education Planner
              05/98                     4    Sr. Operations Officer, Sr.            S               S
                                             Training Officer, Sr. Education
                                             Planner, Implementation
                                             Specialist
              11/98                     4    Sr. Education Planner,                 S               S
                                             Operations Officer,
                                             Implementation Specialist,
                                             Education Management
                                             Specialist
              04/99                     3    Education Specialist,                  HS             HS
                                             Implementaiton Specialist,
                                             Operations Officer
              09/99                     3    Education Specialist,                  HS             HS
                                             Implementation Specialist,
                                             Operations Officer
              05/00                     6    Education Specialist, Sr.              HS             HS
                                             Education Specialist, Sr. Literacy
                                             Specialist, Literacy Specialists
                                             (2), Financial Management
                                             Specialist
              11/00                     5    Education Specialist, Literacy         HS              S



                                              - 28 -

                                            Program and Policy Specialist,
                                            Literacy Program Management
                                            Specialist, Literacy Program
                                            Expert, Literacy Policy Expert
               02/01                   3    Literacy Specialist, Education      HS    S
                                            For All Expert, Sr. Operations
                                            Officer
               12/01                   5    Education Specialists (3), Social   HS    S
                                            Protection Specialist, Financial
                                            Management Specialist
               06/02                   0    Update                              HS    S
               07/02                   1    Sr. Operations Officer              HS    S


 ICR
               01/03                  8     Operations Analyst, Sr.             HS    S
                                            Education Specialist, Sr.
                                            Operations Officer,
                                            Procurement Specialist,
                                            Financial Management
                                            Specialists (2), Sr.
                                            Education Specialist,
                                            Operations Officer



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            65.1                             126.9
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 17.0                              33.7
  Supervision                           79.3                             164.7
  ICR                                     9.6                             20.2
  Total                                171.0                             345.5




                                            - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Staff Appraisal Report. Report No. 15517-SE, May 9, 1996.
2. Development Credit Agreement between IDA and the Republic of Senegal, Cr. 2873-SE. June 17, 1996.
3. Project Agreement between IDA and AGETIP, Cr. 2873-SE. June 17, 1996.
4. Africa Region Human Devel. Working Paper Series. Managing Public-Private Partnership: Lessons from Literacy Education in Senegal. May
2004        5. Aide-mémoires and related PSRs.
6. SAP Project Cost Details.
7. Simulation des Coûts Unitaires pour les Programmes dº Éducation Non-Formelle de la Phase II du PAPA. Juillet 2001
8. DAEB- Études Longitudinales. 2001
9. Senegal Country Assistance Strategy, March 2003.
10. Senegal Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). June 2002
11. Government comments on the ICR




                                                                   - 32 -

- 33 -

