Page  1
                                                      CONFORMED COPY
                                              CREDIT NUMBER 2873 SE
                           Project Agreement
                     (Pilot Female Literacy Project)
                                between
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                  and
             AGENCE D'EXECUTION DES TRAVAUX D'INTERET PUBLIC
                     CONTRE LE SOUS-EMPLOI (AGETIP)
                          Dated June 17, 1996
                                               CREDIT NUMBER 2873 SE
                          PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 17, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and AGENCE D'EXECUTION DES TRAVAUX
D'INTERET PUBLIC CONTRE LE SOUS-EMPLOI (AGETIP).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of Senegal (the Borrower) and the Association,
the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to eight million seven hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,700,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that AGETIP agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a Convention entered into between the Borrower and AGETIP,
AGETIP has agreed to carry out Part A of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in said Convention; and
      WHEREAS AGETIP, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                             Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
Page  2
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to
this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                             ARTICLE II
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) AGETIP declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and management practices, and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for Part A of the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and, except as the Association and AGETIP shall otherwise
agree, AGETIP shall carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for Part
A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. AGETIP shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
      Section 2.04. (a) AGETIP shall, at the request of the Association,
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part
A of  the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
      (b)   AGETIP shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by AGETIP of its obligations under this
Agreement.
      Section 2.05. AGETIP shall: (i) in conjunction with the Borrower
and the Association, participate in the annual review and the mid-term
review respectively, referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Schedule 3
to the Development Credit Agreement; and (ii) promptly after completing
such reviews, carry out recommendations arising out of said reviews,
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate
practices.
      Section 2.06. AGETIP shall furnish to the Borrower, for its
review and approval:
      (a)   before the beginning of each Project year, a proposed
annual work program, in respect of Part A of the Project, including
a proposed budget and financing plan, for the forthcoming fiscal
year;
      (b)   semiannual and annual progress reports on the status of
Part A of the Project, including regular Beneficiary feedback and
Subprojects completion reports.
                             ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of AGETIP
      Section 3.01. AGETIP shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
management practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Page  3
      Section 3.02. AGETIP shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and educational
practices.
      Section 3.03. AGETIP shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
                             ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) AGETIP shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices its
operations, resources and expenditures and financial condition in
respect of Part A of the Project.
      (b)   AGETIP shall:
            (i)    have the records, accounts and financial statements
                   (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
                   and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
                   in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                   consistently applied, by independent auditors
                   acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than six (6) months after the
                   end of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
                   financial statements for such year as so audited;
                   and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
                   of such scope and in such detail as the Association
                   shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and financial
                   statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                   Association shall from time to time reasonably
                   request.
                              ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination;
                     Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of AGETIP thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
            (i)    the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
                   shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
            (ii)   the date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Association shall promptly notify AGETIP of this event.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE VI
                      Miscellaneous Provisions
Page  4
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice
or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
      For AGETIP:
            Agence d'Execution des Travaux
            d'Interet Public Contre le Sous-Emploi
            Bd. Djily Mbaye & Berenger Ferraud
            B.P. 143
            Dakar Senegal
                                           Facsimile:
                                           21 04 78
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement
on behalf of AGETIP, or by AGETIP on behalf of the Borrower under the
Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by Director
General or such other person or persons as Director General shall
designate in writing, and AGETIP shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                             Regional Vice President
                                                              Africa
                       AGENCE D'EXECUTION DES TRAVAUX
                           D'INTERET PUBLIC CONTRE LE SOUS-EMPLOI
Page  5
                        By /s/ Mamadou Mansour Seck
                                           Authorized Representative
                              SCHEDULE 1
                Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     General
      Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section,
as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix
1 thereto.
2.    The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B:
      Grouping of Contracts
      To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles and equipment
shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost at least $150,000
equivalent.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
2.    Community Participation
      Goods for Subprojects under Part A of the Project shall be procured
in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Procedures Manual.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance
with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association,
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $150,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Page  6
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guide-
lines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed
by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the
Association shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review
shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments
to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $ 50,000 equivalent or above.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                       Implementation Program
1.    Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects Under Part A of the Project
      Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement, and unless the
Association agrees otherwise, no Subproject shall be eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of this Credit unless AGETIP has
determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance with
the guidelines set forth in the Procedures Manual, that the Subproject
satisfies the eligibility criteria specified below and in more detail
in the Procedures Manual, which shall include, inter alia, the
following:
      (a)   with respect to the Literacy Provider: (i) the Literacy
Provider exists as a legal entity, with proven capacity and experience
to implement the Subproject; (ii) competent technical, administrative
and accounting staff is available, or otherwise a proposal for staff
training or upgrading is included; and (iii) the necessary equipment
and materials to implement the Subproject are available;
      (b)   with respect to Beneficiaries: (i) Beneficiaries have been
identified, have adequately formulated their need for literacy training;
(ii) the number of trainees is at least 300 and at least 75% female;
and (iii) the financial contribution of the Beneficiaries has been
agreed;
      (c)   with respect to pedagogy: (i) the Literacy Provider proposes
to use a recognized method of literacy training; (ii) the program
contains at least 300 hours of training over not more than an 18-month
period, with a minimum of 20 Beneficiaries per class; (iii) teaching/
learning materials are acceptable, available on time, and of reasonable
cost; and (iv) staff student ratios are of one supervisor for 10 classes;
      (d)   with respect to implementation timetables and costs: (i) the
Subproject timetable adequately accounts for start-up needs in terms of
training of literacy trainers and other personnel, and the acquisition
of materials; (ii) the Subproject's operational budget guarantees that
the unit-cost of a trainee does not exceed FCFA 32,500 and overhead
does not exceed 15% of total costs of the Subproject.
Page  7
2.    Terms and Conditions Regarding Subprojects
      Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to Subproject Agreements,
to be concluded between AGETIP and the Literacy Provider, under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, which, inter alia, shall
include the following:
      (a)   financing to be on a grant basis;
      (b)   the obligation to carry out the Subproject in accordance
with the Procedures Manual, with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound environmental, technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expendi-
tures in respect of the Subproject;
      (c)   the requirement that: (i) the goods and services to be
financed from the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance
with the procedures set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii)
such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out
of the Subproject;
      (d)   the right of AGETIP to inspect, by itself, or jointly with
the Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods included
in the Subproject and any relevant records and documents;
      (e)   the right of AGETIP to obtain all information as AGETIP or
the Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration,
operations and financial conditions of the Subproject; and
      (f)   the right of the AGETIP to suspend or terminate the right
of the Literacy Provider to use the proceeds of the Grant for the
Subproject upon failure by the Literacy Provider to perform any of its
obligations under its Subproject Agreement.
AGETIP Personnel
3.    For the purpose of carrying out Part A of the Project, AGETIP
shall employ one Project coordinator, two Project officers, one
accountant, one administrative agent and one driver, in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
