Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2873 SE
                    Development Credit Agreement
                  (Pilot Female Literacy Project)
                               between
                          REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
                                 and
                 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated June 17, 1996
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2873 SE
                    DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 17, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Association has received a letter, dated May 2, 1996,
from the Borrower, describing a program of actions, objectives and
policies designed to increase female literacy in the territory of the
Borrower (the Literacy Program) and declaring the Borrower's commit-
ment to the execution of the Literacy Program;
      (C)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by AGENCE
D'EXECUTION DES TRAVAUX D'INTERET PUBLIC CONTRE LE SOUS-EMPLOI
(AGETIP) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to AGETIP a portion
of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and AGETIP;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
Page  2
                   General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
            expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
            a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
            supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
            any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
            goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
            Charter of the United Nations.".
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "AGETIP" means Agence d'Execution des Travaux d'Interet
Public Contre Le Sous-Emploi, a public works executing entity estab-
lished in accordance with Law No. 66-70 of the Borrower, dated July
13, 1966;
      (b)   "Beneficiary" means an individual, or a group of
individuals, to whom, or for whose benefit, a Sub-Project (as herein-
after defined) is being implemented or proposed to be implemented;
      (c)   "CCS" means Cellule de Coordination et du Suivi, the
Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit within MCALN (as hereinafter
defined);
      (d)   "CNOAS" means Coordination Nationale des Operateurs en
Alphabetisation au Senegal, a non-governmental professional organi-
zation of Literacy Providers (as hereinafter defined) which col-
laborates with the departments, ministries and agencies of the
Borrower, to facilitate the Literacy Providers' carrying out of
technical support to fellow-Literacy Providers;
      (e)   "CNCAT" means Comite National de Concertation et d'Appui
Technique, the national consultation committee established by the
Borrower and consisting of representatives of the Literacy Providers
and MCALN (as hereinafter defined);
      (f)   "Convention" means the agreement entered into between the
Borrower and AGETIP, dated January 7, 1993, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes the Procedures Manual (as
hereinafter defined) and all other annexes, schedules and attachments
thereto;
      (g)   "FCFA" means Franc de la Communaute Financiere d'Afrique,
the currency of the Borrower;
      (h)   "First Project Year" means the twelve-month period
beginning from the Effective Date and ending twelve months thereafter
and "Project Year" means any twelve-month period beginning at the end
of the First Project Year or the end of subsequent Project Years;
      (i)   "First Phase" means the first five year phase of the ten
year Literacy Program of the Borrower referred to in recital B of the
Preamble of this Agreement;
      (j)   "Grant" means a grant made, or proposed to be made, to
Page  3
finance a Sub-Project (as hereinafter defined);
      (k)   "Literacy Provider" means a committee, association, non-
governmental organization, enterprise, youth, women or producers'
groups that organizes or provides literacy programs to Beneficiaries;
      (l)   "MCALN" means Ministere Charge de l'Alphab\02tisation, the
Borrower's Ministry in charge of literacy and national languages;
      (m)   "Procedures Manual" means the Procedures Manual, to be
used by AGETIP to govern its operations and annexed to the Convention,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
any schedules to the Procedures Manual;
      (n)   "Project Implementation Manual" means the implementation
manual containing, inter alia, procedures (other than those in the
Procedures Manual) and criteria governing the operation of the Project;
      (o)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and AGETIP, of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (p)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an
exchange of letters, dated March 16, 1995, and June 29, 1995, between
the Borrower and the Association;
      (q)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (r)   "Subproject" means a specific development project to
promote female literacy, financed, or proposed to be financed, through
grants extended under Part A of the Project; and
      (s)   "Subproject Agreement" means an agreement to be entered
into between AGETIP and a Literacy Provider for the execution of a
Subproject.
                             ARTICLE II
                             The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,700,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement (other than Part A thereof) and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and amounts paid (or if the Association shall
so agree, to be paid) by AGETIP on account of withdrawals made by a
Literacy Provider under a Sub-project to meet the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for a Sub-project and in respect of which
the withdrawals from the Credit Account is requested.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain, in FCFA, a special deposit account on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date
and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
Page  4
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon
be canceled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 2003, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June
30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a)
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from
the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing November
15, 2006, and ending May 15, 2036. Each installment to and including
the installment payable on May 15, 2016, shall be one percent (1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in
constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring
the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise
such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that,
in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph
(a) above.
Page  5
      Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
      Section 2.09. AGETIP is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE III
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall:
            (i)   carry out, with the assistance of AGETIP, Part B of
                  the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
                  conformity with appropriate administrative, financial
                  and management practices and in accordance with the
                  Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this
                  Agreement, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
                  funds, facilities, services and other resources
                  required for such Part B of the Project;
           (ii)   cause AGETIP to carry out Part A of the Project, with
                  due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
                  appropriate administrative, financial and management
                  practices, and in accordance with the provisions of
                  the Convention;
          (iii)   cause AGETIP to perform in accordance with the
                  provisions of the Project Agreement all the obli-
                  gations of AGETIP therein set forth;
           (iv)   take and cause to be taken all action, including the
                  provision of funds, facilities, services and other
                  resources, necessary or appropriate to enable AGETIP
                  to perform such obligations; and
            (v)   refrain from taking or permitting to be taken any
                  action which would prevent or interfere with such
                  performance of AGETIP.
      (b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit,
allocated to Part A of the Project, available to AGETIP on a non-
reimbursable basis and under such terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Association.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Convention
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Convention or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, and consultants' services required for Part
B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the
future operation of Part B of the Project; and
Page  6
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
      Section 3.04 The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and
9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by AGETIP,
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                             ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expen-
ditures in respect of Part B of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out Part B of the
Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in para-
                  graph (a) of this Section including those for the
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six (6) months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
                  report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Association shall
                  have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures,
the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with sound accounting practices, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures are retained until at least one year after
                  the Association has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                  Credit Account was made;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine
                  such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                  the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                  Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditures submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
                  upon to support the related withdrawals.
                              ARTICLE V
                     Remedies of the Association
Page  7
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   AGETIP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improb-
able that the Literacy Program or a significant part thereof will be
carried out.
      (c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that AGETIP will be able
to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (d)   Law No. 66-70 of the Borrower referred to in Section 1.02
(a) of this Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of AGETIP to perform any of its obligations under the Convention or the
Project Agreement.
      (e)   The Borrower, or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of
AGETIP or for the suspension of its operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (d) or (e) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
                             ARTICLE VI
                     Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   AGETIP has, in accordance with the provisions of Section
II of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, appointed the Project
Coordinator and the accountant referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule
2 to the Project Agreement responsible for carrying out Part A of the
Project; and
      (b)   AGETIP has, for the purpose of the Project, appointed an
independent auditor, in accordance with the provisions of Section II
of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Associa-
tion namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by AGETIP, and is legally binding upon AGETIP in accordance
with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE VII
             Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement,
the Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated as
Page  8
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the pur-
poses of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Economy, Finance
             and Planning
            Rue Charles Laine
            B.P. 4017
            Dakar, Senegal
            Cable address:                       Telex:
                  MINIFINANCES                   3203G
                  Dakar
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                       Telex:
                  INDEVAS                        248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.                82987 (FTCC)
                                                  64145 (WUI) or
                                                 197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
                        By /s/ Mamadou Mansour Seck
                                          Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                            Regional Vice President
                                                             Africa
                             SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the          % of
                            Credit Allocated     Expenditures
                              (Expressed in          to be
      Category               SDR Equivalent)       Financed
Page  9
(1)   Goods                      350,000         100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 90% of local
                                                 expenditures
(2)   Grants under             6,050,000         95% of total
      Part A                                     amount of
      of the Project                             each Subproject
(3)   Consultants'               750,000         100%
      Services
(4)   Training                   270,000         100%
(5)   Operating Costs            210,000         90%
(6)   Refunding of               480,000         Amount due
      Project                                    pursuant to
      Preparation                                Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                    of this Agreement
(5)   Unallocated                590,000
                               _________
      TOTAL                    8,700,000
                               =========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of
which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
      (c)   the term "Operating Costs" means incremental expenditures
related to Project implementation including those related to the
contractual personnel, office supplies, travel costs related to
supervision, evaluation and sector monitoring, and fuel for vehicles.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
for goods under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent, and
services under contracts with consulting firms not exceeding $100,000,
and with individual consultants not exceeding $50,000, under such
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                     Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) expand access to
literacy and post literacy programs, particularly for females; and
(ii) strengthen the capacity of the private sector to deliver
effective programs, and the capacity of the public sector to monitor,
evaluate and coordinate sector investments.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
Page  10
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Female Literacy and Post-literacy Subprojects
      Promotion, appraisal, designing, carrying out, supervision and
evaluation of Sub-Projects prepared and submitted by Literacy Providers,
and provision of Grants for the financing thereof.
Part B:     Strengthening of Project Management and Capacity Building
            in Program Delivery, Management and Evaluation
1.    Strengthening of the capacity of Literacy Providers to deliver
effective literacy programs focusing particularly on improving the
availability and quality of literacy materials including: (a) organi-
zation of training and workshops by CNOAS and CNCAT; (b) provision of
technical advisory services to Literacy Providers on the management of
financial records and accounts to ensure that they comply with the
guidelines presented in the Procedures Manual; and (c) organization
of training/seminars and provision of technical advisory services in
the area of human resource development.
2.    Strengthening of the capacity of MCALN to monitor progress in the
carrying out of the Project, and establish reliable and valid evalua-
tion designs and procedures for Sub-Projects carried out under Part A
of this Schedule, and coordinate interventions in the sector, including:
(a) establishment of a management and geographic information system;
(b) carrying out of an ex-post evaluation of a representative-sample of
literacy programs; (c) carrying out of a study of a sample of program-
participants to assess skill retention; and (d) acquisition of vehicles,
equipment, furniture, and supplies for Part B of the Project.
3.    Strengthening of the capacity of MCALN staff through the organi-
zation of training seminars and provision of technical advisory services
in the area of human resource development.
                                * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 2002.
                             SCHEDULE 3
                       Implementation Program
1.    (a)   The Borrower shall, not later than September 30 of each year,
commencing from 1997, carry out jointly with the Association, and in
conjunction with AGETIP, a comprehensive annual project implementation
review aimed at: (i) documenting progress towards realization of the
objectives; (ii) identifying and resolving obstacles to Project
implementation; (iii) adjusting targets and corresponding programs to
reflect progress achieved in the implementation of the Project in the
prior years and ensuring responsiveness to changes to effectively
achieve the objectives of the Project; and (iv) discussing the work
program and budget for the forthcoming year.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks prior to the
review referred to in (a) above, furnish, or cause AGETIP to furnish,
to the Association a report, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, including an evaluation of the progress achieved
in Project implementation.
      (c)   Promptly after completing such reviews, the Borrower shall
carry out, or cause AGETIP to carry out recommendations arising out of
said reviews with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments
thereon.
2.    (a)   The Borrower and the Association shall, not later than
September 30, 1999, undertake, in conjunction with AGETIP, a mid-term
review of the Project, during which they shall exchange views generally
on all matters relating to the progress of the Project and the
performance by the Borrower and AGETIP of their respective obligations
under this Agreement and the Project Agreement, and in particular: (i)
Page  11
the progress achieved by the Borrower and AGETIP, respectively, during
the period reviewed, having regard to the performance indicators agreed
upon between the Borrower and the Association and specified in the
Project Implementation Manual; (ii) the status of financial and pro-
curement performance under the Project; (iii) the proposed budget and
work program for the remaining period; (iv) the adequacy of arrange-
ments for the selection, financing and implementation of different
activities under the Project; and (v) in order to consolidate the
achievements of the Project, details of a proposed plan to ensure the
best use of the resources.
      (b)   Not later than one month prior to the mid-term review
referred to in (a) above, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, a report, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the progress and status of the Project, and
giving details, in particular, of the various matters to be discussed
at the said review.
      (c)   Following the mid-term review, the Borrower shall promptly
take, or assist AGETIP in taking any corrective action deemed necessary
to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project,
or to implement, or assist AGETIP in implementing, such other measures
as may have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of
the objectives of the Project.
3.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, for the purposes
of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) cause AGETIP to apply
the criteria, policies, procedures and guidelines set out in the
Procedures Manual; and (ii) not amend, waive, abrogate, or permit to be
amended or abrogated, the Procedures Manual, and the Project Imple-
mentation Manual or any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the
opinion of the Association, may materially and adversely affect the
implementation of Part A of the Project.
4.    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall cause AGETIP to submit to the Borrower
and to the Association, for their review or approval, as the case may
be:
      (a)   before the beginning of each Project Year, a proposed
annual work program, in respect of Part A of the Project, including
a proposed budget and financing plan, for the forthcoming fiscal
year; and
      (b)   semiannual and annual progress reports on the status of
Part A of the Project, including regular Beneficiary feedback reports
and Sub-Projects completion reports.
                             SCHEDULE 4
                           Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to CFAF 500,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to CFAF 250,000,000 until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pur-
Page  12
suant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to
or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit
or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                  shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
                  into the Special Account at such intervals as the
                  Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
                  this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
                  of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                  each such request, the Association shall, on behalf
                  of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
                  deposit into the Special Account such amount as the
                  Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                  shown by said documents and other evidence to have
                  been paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to
the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
Page  13
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
