                                                Documentof
                                         The World BankGroup

                                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                   ReportNo. T7687-AF




                                          TECHNICAL ANNEX

                                                    ONA

                            PROPOSEDGRANT OF SDR 16.7 MILLION
                                  (US$25.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                  TO THE

                              ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OFAFGHANISTAN

                                                    FORA

                PRIVATE SECTORDEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT




                                            JANUARY 24,2007




FinanceandPrivateSector Development
SouthAsia Region

This documenthas a restricted distribution andmay be usedby recipients only inthe performance of their
     official duties. Its contentsmay not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                 Currency Unit =Afghani (Af)
                           US%1=50.05 Af (As of December31,2006)
                        SDRl = US%1.50382(As of December31,2006)

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                      March21- March 20

                                ABBREVIATION? IND ACRONYMS
AACC Afghan-American Chamber o f Commerce        MIGA Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
ADB Asian DevelopmentBank                        M o C I Ministryo f Commerce and Industry
AICC Afghanistan InternationalChamber o f        M o F  MinistryofFinance
      Commerce                                   MSTQ Metrology, Standards, Testing and Quality
AISA  Afghanistan Investment Support Agency      N C B  National Competitive Bidding
AISA-IPD      Afghanistan Investment Support     NDF National DevelopmentFramework
      Agency - IndustrialParks Department        NEPA National Environment Protection Authority
ANDs Afghanistan National Development            OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation
      Strategy                                          and Development
ANIC Afghanistan National Insurance              PACBP Public Administration Capacity Building
      Corporation                                       Project
ARCS Audit Reports Compliance System             PEFA Public Expenditure and Financial
C A O Control and Audit Office                          Accountability Program
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy                PFM Public Finance Management
DAB Da AfghanistanBank                           PPU    Procurement Policy Unit
DfTD UnitedKingdomDepartmentfor                  PRR    Priority Reform and Restructuring
      InternationalDevelopment                   PSD    Private Sector Development
ESMF Environmental and Social Management         PSDD Private Sector Development Directorate
      Framework                                  PSDSP Private Sector Development Support
FMA FinancialManagement Agent                           Project
FMS   FinancialManagement Specialist             W P    Request for Proposal
GDP   Gross Domestic Product                     SBD     Standard BiddingDocuments
GOA Government o fAfghanistan                    SDU    Special Disbursement Unit
GTZ   German Technical Cooperation Agency        SME    Small and MediumEnterprise
IBRD InternationalBank for Reconstruction and    SOE    State-owned Enterprise
      Development                                UNDP UnitedNations DevelopmentProgram
I C A Investment Climate Assessment              USAID United States Agency for International
I C s Investment Climate Survey                         Development
IMF   InternationalMonetary Fund




                                Vice President: Praful C. Pate1
                              Country Director: Alastair J. McKechnie
                                Sector Director: Sadiq Ahmed
                          Task Team Leader(s):   Samuel Munzele Maimbo/Syed A. Mahmood




                                                1

                                                                 FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                      AFGHANISTAN:PRIVATESECTOR DEVELOPMENT          SUPPORT PROJECT

                                                 ANNEXES

                                         TABLEOFCONTENTS


     Annex -1. Countryand Sector or ProgramBackground                                      1

     Annex -2. Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or Other Agencies               7

     Annex -3. ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring                                               8

     Annex -4. DetailedProjectDescription                                                  14

     Annex -5. ProjectCosts                                                               21

     Annex -6. ImplementationArrangements                                                 24

     Annex -7. FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements                             28

     Annex -8. ProjectProcurement                                                          37

     Annex -9. Economicandfinancialanalysis                                               49

     Annex -10. SafeguardPolicyIssues                                                      52

     Annex -11.ProjectProcessing                                                          64

     Annex -12. Documentsinthe projectfile                                                65

     Annex -13. Statementsof loans andcredits                                             66

     Annex -14. Countryat aGlance                                                         68

     Annex -15. MAP                                                                       70




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                                                         FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
              PRIVATE SECTORDEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
                      GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY

Recipient:             Islamic Republic o f Afghanistan

ImplementingAgency:    Afghanistan Investment Support Agency (AISA)

Amount:                SDR 16.7 million (US$25 million equivalent)

Terms:

FinancingPlan:
                                                           Local   Foreign    Total

                                                                 $US million
                               Government

                               IDA                                 22.10

                               Total                       2.90    22.10      25.0



Objectives and
Description:           The objective o f the project i s to increase the volume o f private
                       investment and productive jobs in Afghanistan.        The specific
                       goals that will contribute to this are:


                           0    Enhance the provision o f land and infrastructural services
                                for enterprise development
                           0    Enhance the capacity o f government agencies to analyze
                                PSD issues, and develop and implement PSD-related
                                strategies, policies and programs
                           0    Enhance the capacity o f government agencies to promote
                                Afghanistan as an investment destination and provide
                                investment facilitation services.

ProjectBenefits:       By helping to address the land constraint this project will attract
                       private investment in a variety o f sectors, including but not
                       limited to manufacturing, agribusiness,         and smaller scale
                       infrastructure projects. The industrial park will help stimulate the
                       local economy, generate employment, and raise much needed tax
                       revenues.

ProjectRisks:          Security remains a concern. If the security situation deteriorates,
                       private investors may shy away from investing in Afghanistan
                       despite the presence o f the industrial parks. Also, effective
                       sanctioning,   monitoring, and legal systems are only just
                       emerging. Effective contract enforcement i s essential to the

                                             ...
                                            111

                    increase o f private sector investment.


ProjectAppraisal    Inlinewith Operational Policy 8.50, there is no ProjectAppraisal
Document:           Document for this Project. A Technical Annex i s submitted with
                    this document as specified inOP 8.50, Annex A.

Disbursement:       The grant i s expected to be fully disbursed by June 30,201 1

Thematic Code:      Infrastructure services for private sector development; Regulation
                    and competition policy.

Sector Code:        Private Sector Development

ProjectIDNo.:       PO90928




                                         iv

                 TECHNICALANNEX1:COUNTRY,SECTOR,AND PROGRAMBACKGROUND

                    AFGHANISTAN:PRIVATESECTOR DEVELOPMENT                   SUPPORT PROJECT


A.       Constraintsto PrivateSector DevelopmentinAfghanistan'

1.       Electric Power. As in many developing countries, inadequate and unreliable power supply i s a
major constraint on private sector activity, particularly in the industrial sector. According to the
Afghanistan Investment Climate Assessment (ICA) carried out in 2005, inadequate power supply i s the
most important constraint faced by Afghan investors. 64 percent o f surveyed firms cited this as a major or
severe constraint; for one city, Le., Jalalabad, this figure i s 90 percent. Due to a combination o f the direct
effects o f war, a lack o f maintenance, and the theft o f spare parts and equipment - the power supply i s
erratic and unreliable. In addition to generation problems, Afghanistan has no national grid and suffers
from severe transmission and distribution limitations. Lack o f adequate power supply increases costs for
private firms who are forced to make alternative arrangements.

2.       Land. Unclear ownership o f land i s a major constraint to investment inAfghanistan. According to
the I C A survey, this is the second most important constraint faced by Afghan investors with 60 percent o f
the surveyed firms identifying this as a major or severe constraint. Land titling in Afghanistan i s difficult
and multiple ownership documents exist for the same piece o f land. The return o f refugees i s
compounding the problem, with disputes being common. The scope for resolving disputes through the
court system i s limited given inadequate court capacity, small number o f judges with necessary legal
expertise and insufficient guidance provided by law. Property rights are thus unclear and insecure. Land
cannot be collateralized easily and hence cannot be used to generate financial resources or set up small
businesses.

3.       Access tofinance. Banking services in Afghanistan remain severely limited. The passage o f the
Central Banking Law and the Commercial Banking Law in September 2003, and the entry o f several
commercial banks mark significant progress. But there i s much to be done before financial services are
restored to a level required for meaningful trade and investment activities. The state financial institutions,
which have the largest national infrastructure, are largely non-functional although Government i s
contemplating measures to revive the good assets in two public sector banks and channel them in ways
that improve access to finance. Some o f the new private banks are lending to industrybut on a very small
scale. Local enterprises suffer from a shortage o f capital, and trading activity and industrial development
have been adversely affected. Access to finance was listed as the fourth most important constraint by
firms surveyed for the Afghanistan Investment Climate Assessment (2005); it was cited by 51 percent o f
the firms as a major or severe constraint.

4.       Labor. Because o f the low literacy levels and lack o f other formal training facilities, qualified
management level staff i s scarcely available and most labor training takes place on the job. This problem
i s exacerbated by barriers against women being employed in certain jobs, as well as a dysfunctional
education system in terms o f preparing students to exploit future labor market opportunities. Because
such formal employment opportunities are very few, hrther skill enhancement, including that for women,
i s not forthcoming. The weak legal framework within the country implies an unclear definition o f labor
rights. As a result, it i s difficult to develop and enforce contracts.



'Thissection  draws uponWorld Bank (2005): TheInvestment Climate in Afghanistan: Exploiting Opportunities in
an Uncertain Environment.


                                                          1

5.         Security. Security remains a major problem for private enterprises in Afghanistan although the
severity may differ between locations. Poor security increases the risks o f investment, and thereby deters
investors, particularly foreign investors, who have other places to invest. Poor security also raises the
costs for existing businesses, e.g., through the need to hire security guards. It also raises transport costs in
general by imposing limitations on operating hours, restricting the flexibility of truck operations,
and sometimes requiring the use of convoy systems. According to the 2005 ICA, firms spend, on
average, 15 percent o f their revenues in addressing security needs. This i s at least five times higher than
the security costs incurredby firms inother countries inthe region.

6.         Risk mitigation. Insecurity as well as other factors such as the country's fragile economic
situation, coupled with weak legal and regulatory frameworks for the private sector, and a hugely
undevelopedjudicial system increases the perceived political risk of doing business inAfghanistan. While
there i s real and substantial interest from foreign private investors inAfghanistan, and strong government
encouragement o f FDI, the political risks will act as a major impediment to FDI flows to the country.
Domestically, also, Afghanistan i s acutely under insured. The Afghan National Insurance Company
(ANIC), the sole insurance company operating in the country, enjoys a monopoly on all insurance
functions, suffers fiom a lack o f trained staff and has a poor track record in paying out on legitimate
claims. Lack o f insurance has a serious effect on private sector activity. For example, most international
shipping lines do not allow their containers into the country. Within Afghanistan, cargo moves under
either owners' risk or carriers' liability (at much higher freight rates), both o f which discourage trade.
Without guarantees against political risks, many investors will be unwilling to do business in
Afghanistan.2

7.         Transport and trade logistics. Transit related trade costs are high in Afghanistan due to
inefficiencies in the present transit system including: a) non-existent, or poor state, o f trade and transit
infrastructure, b) very poor condition o f the road network; c) the short internal hauls on many o f the
transit routes; d) insecurity; and, e) the numerous checkpoints along the routes. With limited exception o f
some direct road transport from Karachi to Kabul, all o f Afghanistan's foreign trade i s transshipped,
which raises costs directly (e.g., handling charges) and indirectly (loss and damage). International
shipping lines do not allow their containers into the country. Most o f the cargo, subjected to multiple
handling, i s thus break bulk cargo, and most vulnerable to handling loss and damage. Coordination
between transporters in Afghanistan and transit countries, and between shippers and customs officials, i s
poor because o f the lack o f professional transit agents and poor communications. A local freight-
forwarding industry existed and was very active prior to 1975, but i s non-existent today. There are no
norms o f accreditation for fieight-forwarders. Some international freight-forwarders are currently
operating inAfghanistan.

8.         Regulatory burden. Although there have been improvements in the regulatory regime, such as
streamlining o f the business registration, customs procedures and trade licensing systems, there are still
numerous examples o f excessive regulatory burdens. For example, the transaction costs o f transporting
goods within Afghanistan are raised directly by multiple fees and taxes, and indirectly by the delays and
uncertainties that the multiple checkpoints along the routes i m p ~ s eProvincial agencies interfere with
                                                                                       . ~
operations by often imposing informal procedural requirements. Dealing with municipalities remains a

 Inresponseto this situation, MIGA, together with the World Bank/IDA, the AsianDevelopmentBank, andthe governments of
Germanyandthe UnitedKingdom, has set up the AfghanistanInvestment Guarantee Facility (AIGF) to providerisk mitigation
tools, to foreign investors (including Afghan Diaspora) investinginAfghanistan.The Facilityhas recentlyissued its first
guarantee.3 Commercialfreight vehicles are still requiredto register with the Ministry ofTransport for everyjourney that they
makewithin Afghanistan.




                                                               2

big hassle. While business registration and overall trade licensing have been streamlined, obtaining
specific licenses, e.g., for operating in certain sector such as pharmaceuticals, may still take considerable
time. Onerous regulatory procedures are often associated with corruption. The 2005 ICA identifies
corruption as the thirdmost important constraint faced by investors with 53% o f the surveyed firms citing
this as a major or severe constraint.

9.       Legal framework for private sector development. Private sector development requires a
conducive legal framework and a fair and effective judicial system. Disputes need to be settled and
contracts enforced. Propertyrights and investment need to be adequately protected. Businesses needto be
able to start up easily, to function efficiently while they are inoperation, and to exit the market in a timely
and efficient manner. Afghanistan has inheritedmany laws, regulations and procedures that tend to inhibit
trade and investment instead o f encouraging it. An active program o f legal reforms i s currently underway
in Afghanistan with considerable donor support although the proposed investment law has faced
considerable delays in gaining approval. Adaptation o f foreign laws to the Afghan context and
translations o f English drafts are important challenges to legislative reform in Afghanistan. Also
important i s the need to enhance the enforcement o f legal decisions; unless such enforcement can be
ensured, the legalreforms underway will not have the desired impact.

10.      Quality and standards. Afghanistan has no metrology, standards, testing and quality (MSTQ)
infrastructure; as a result the country i s often a dumping ground for sub-standard goods. Export
development i s inhibited given the high quality standards now demanded by international markets,
especially for ago-based products. Without a proper MSTQ system, enterprises are unable to access
information related to standards, calibration and product testing facilities. Existing limited arrangements
for quality control are generally ineffective. The Government i s now taking modest steps towards setting
up a quality system with a National Standards, Metrology and Quality Board having been established
recently.

11.      Assets locked up in non-functional state-owned enterprises. Afghanistan has about 65 state
owned enterprises many o f which are defunct and none o f them are operating at full capacity. There are
another 13 state-owned commercial entities that are registered under the Corporations and not called
SOEs but could be considered as SOEs for all practical purposes. In addition, several line ministries have
a wide activities of commercial activities, including real estate, that are organized as budgetary units.
Most SOEs lack resources to carry out major restructuring. Moreover, many are overstaffed and lack
management capability to increase capacity utilization. Many SOEs have considerable amount o f surplus
land attached to them that i s not required to operate the enterprises.

12.      Private sector capacity constraints. The private sector suffers from serious capacity constraints.
One manifestation o f i s in the construction industry,where participation o f Afghan companies has been
constrained by limited experience, insufficient equipment and unfamiliarity with competitive tendering
procedures. In general, the private sector needs assistance in accessing market information, business
development services, technology and managerial know-how. There i s need for a critical mass o f private
sector service providers in these areas. Since many o f these services may not amenable to full-cost
recovery at least not initially, public-private partnerships will be required.

13.      Institutional framework for private sector development policy. Several ministries and agencies
have responsibilities related to private sector development. Coordination among these bodies is critical.
The High Commission for Investment provides a forum for such coordination but procedures and
practices must be in place to encourage coordination without necessarily having to go through the High
Commission. The Government has established AISA with a mandate to promote foreign investment and
facilitate business. Established inAugust 2003, AISA i s faced with the challenge o f attracting investment
ina tough global marketplace that has little positive information about the country. It has made a good

beginning with regard to facilitating investors but i s still in the early stages o f developing its corporate
identity, strategy, andbusiness plan. At the request of the Government, the World Bank Group conducted
an assessment o f AISA in order to identify areas o f comparative strength and constraint. This assessment
was followed by a three-year business plan, developed by MIGA with an aim to identify actions that will
help AISA to become a world-class investment promotion intermediary. Recently, AISA has developed
an organizational restructuringplan, drawing partly upon the business plan.

 14.      An important aspect o fthe institutional framework for PSD is the role o fprivate sector collective
bodies and their interaction with the government. The Afghan Chamber o f Commerce, which has existed
for many years, i s essentially a government agency with a number o f regulatory functions. The future o f
this institutionis under discussion - it appears that the government intends to streamline its functions and
convert it to a truly private sector chamber. Meanwhile, a number o f independent private sector collective
bodies have emerged and are active. These include the Afghanistan International Chamber o f Commerce
(AICC), the Afghan-American Chamber o f Commerce (AACC) and several sectoral associations. The
Government has recently appointed a commission to develop a vision for the development o f chambers o f
commerce in the country, including deciding the future o f the quasi-government Afghan Chamber o f
Commerce.

15.      Export promotion. Greater export orientation i s an important aspect o f the Government's private
sector development vision. This will require a successful export promotion effort involving collaboration
between the public and private sectors. The Export Promotion Department in the M o C has an explicit
mandate to promote and facilitate exports. However, it suffers from weak capacity, including lack o f
many basic shlls, and has lost contacts in developed countries after the shift in trade flows away from
these countries since the mid-1970s. The Government i s seriously considering revamping its export
promotion efforts.

B.       GovernmentResponses

16.      Macro-economic stability and fiscal reforms. The GOA has been remarkably successful in
establishing a stable macro-economic environment. Currency reform was completed in early 2003 and
since then inflation has been around 10 per cent and the currency stable. The government has shown
strong fiscal discipline and has implemented a no overdraft policy where they refrain from printing
money to finance a deficit. The government has also followed a prudent debt policy and has sought most
o f its external assistance in grants or highly concessional credits. The tax code was restructured in 2004
to expand and simplify the code. The gross profit tax rate is now 21.4 percent, compared with 35 percent
for the region and 46 percent inthe Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).

17.      External trade. The government has taken a number o f steps to foster trade and reestablish
relationships with trading partners. Customs tariffs have been rationalized, existing trade agreements
have been renewed and new agreements entered. The government has promised to build a trade regime
that will allow Afghanistan to enter the World Trade Organization within the next few years. Trade has
increased dramatically with the value o f annual exports and imports growing at double digit levels.
However, most o f the exports are re-exports to Pakistan suggesting that the increase in trade does not
reflect an increase inAfghanistan's international competitiveness.

18.      Financial sector reforms. There has been significant progress indeveloping the financial sector.
The D a Afghanistan Bank (DAB) and Banking Laws have been gazetted (i.e., formally enacted) and a
number o f commercial banks licensed. DAB has divested its headquarters-based commercial banking
activities and divestment will be extended to branches in provinces where commercial banks are active.
Three state-owned banks (Mille, Pashtany, and Export Promotion) have been relicensed, with corrective




                                                      4

action provisions to improve performance. Progress has also been made in developing the microfinance
sector.

19.      Emphasis on private sector development. The government has clearly recognized that
Afghanistan's success will depend upon its ability to quickly develop a strong and vibrant private sector.
Private sector development i s one o f the priority areas for the Afghanistan National Development Strategy
(ANDs), which is the GOA's overarching strategy for promoting growth, generatingwealth and reducing
poverty and vulnerability. The World Bank's Interim Support Strategy strongly supports GOA's strategy.
However, to meet this strategy and implement private sector dominance inthe economy, there i s need for
stronger GOA commitment to address private sector constrains pertaining to economic and physical
infrastructure, regulatoryregime and corruption.

20.      Institutions for private sector development.         The Government established the Afghanistan
Investment Support Agency (AISA) in 2003 as an independent institution with its own organizational
structure.   AISA's core function i s domestic and foreign investment promotion. This comprises
registrationo f business to provide a legal identity, facilitation for obtaining other approvals required to set
up or operate a business and investment promotional work within and outside the country, e.g.,
organization o f business workshop and trade fare or road show, etc. The other function that AISA
performs i s to facilitate construction o f industrial parks to alleviate land problems o f the investors. This
function i s undertaken by the Industrial Parks Department, created within AISA. AISA has had a good
track so far in facilitating business entry. It has helped register about 3500 firms since its establishment in
August 2003. It is planning to open regional offices and is preparing papers on sectoral opportunities.
With United Nations Development Program (UNDP) assistance, AISA has also completed work on a
database o f 6000 companies which were registered prior to the establishment o f AISA. The runningcosts
o f AHA are partly funded by GTZ on a decreasing scale. This i s for 4 years and will end in 2007.
However, AISA earns substantial income from licenses which i s adequate to meet its current operational
costs.    Going forward, one o f the main challenges for AISA i s long-term institutional development,
especially inthe area o f investment support and policy advocacy.

21.      The PRR Stage 1 application for the Ministry o f Commerce (MoCI) was approved in August
2005 followed by approval o f the PRR Stage 2 application in June 2006. The restructuring in the
Ministry has led to the creation of a number of directorates. In addition to the functional directorates
dealing with human resources, finance, administration, and research and planning, there are four thematic
directorates dealing with: a) International Trade, b) Transit and Trade Facilitation, c) Private Sector
Development, and d) State-owned Enterprises. The Ministry has come up with a capacity building
program with the objective o f developing the policy formulation, implementation and evaluation skills
and knowledge appropriate to each level o f personnel.

22.      Infrastructure and utilities. A power sector master plan outlining an investment program to help
rebuild the power infrastructure has been adopted. Implementation o f the investment program has started
and has focused on rehabilitation o f damaged generation capacity for Kabul and Kandahar, construction
o f transmission lines from existing hydro plants to Kabul, and the Northern Transmission System, which
will allow import o f lowcost power from Uzbekistan to Kabul (expected completion by end o f 2008). In
addition, there is investment inrehabilitation and expansion o fthe distribution systems inKabul and other
cities. There i s also a proposal for a combined cycle generation turbine plant at Shebergan that could add
lOOMW to 150MW o f generation capacity and is a good opportunity for an international management
contract. There are three private mobile operators (one o f these was recently licensed). Competition
between the privately owned mobile networks has resulted in prices consistent with international noms.
The publicly owned, fixed-line telecom provider, Afghan Tel has been corporatized. Rehabilitating the
roadnetwork has been a top priority for the government, which has developed a large investment program
for major highways, including rehabilitation o f the existing network, completion o f the network, and, over


                                                        5

time; construction o f new roads. Despite some delays there have been noticeable improvements in some
areas with some improvements intravel times already beginning to materialize. Inaddition to work on the
main highways, there have been efforts to repair and improve smaller roads, primarily through public
works employment programs, most notably the National Emergency Employment Program. Nonetheless,
there i s still a long way to go inrehabilitating the highway system and completing its segments including
the remaining "ring" connection in Northwest Afghanistan. In addition, the government has revived
Ariana, the public sector airline and licensed a number o f private airlines.




                                                        6

TECHNICALANNEX-2: MAJOR     RELATED PROJECTSFINANCED THE BANKINAFGHANISTAN
                                                          BY
         AFGHANISTAN:PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT           SUPPORT PROJECT


  Year              ProjectName                             Obiectives
  2003    Emergency Customs Modernization Provide emergency assistance to start
          and Trade FacilitationProject    establishing a more efficient customs and
                                           transit regime. The project will achieve
                                           this through financing improvements in
                                           (a)   key customs and related transit
                                           infrastructure and communications; and
                                           (b) the capacity for customs and transit
                                           administration. This will lay the basis for
                                           a    functioning    customs    service  and
                                           facilitation o f Afghanistan's international
                                           trade. The project will also finance some
                                           key       emergency       assistance     for
                                           implementing the accompanying overall
                                           tax administrationbusiness plan.
  2004    Emergency Power Rehabilitation   Provide an improved and more reliable
          Project                          power supply to the people inKabul.
  2004    Afghanistan Investment Guarantee Assist Afghanistan in its reconstruction
          Facility                         efforts by stimulating foreign direct
                                           investment through a program o f political
                                           risk insurance in an environment where
                                           the perception o f political risk by foreign
                                           investors i s verv hinh.
  2006    UrbanWater Sector Project        Initiate actions to: (i)
                                                                  transform the public
                                           sector water enterprise CAWSS into a
                                           technically viable operation; (ii) establish
                                           the financial sustainability o f the Afghan
                                           Urban Water        Supply  and Sanitation
                                           Company (successor to CAWSS); (iii)
                                           increase access to and reliability o f the
                                           water supply service in Kabul; and (iv)
                                           prepare a follow-up project under which
                                           more      substantial   institutional   and
                                           financial objectives could be achieved and
                                           coverage further expanded in Kabul and
                                           provincial towns.




                                         7

                       TECHNICAL     ANNEX-3: RESULTSFRAMEWORK MONITORING   AND
                         AFGHANISTAN:PRIVATESECTOR DEVELOPMENT                  PROJECT

                                            ResultsFramework




                                       1.Increasedamount o f investment      Non-attainment o f expected project
investment and productive jobs by      andjob creation inthe industrial      outcomes would suggest that either
improving private investor access to   park supported by the project.        the project outputs are not
land and infrastructure and by                                               materializing (an implementation
reducing the costs o f doing business. 2. Decreased amount o ftime taken     deficiency) or that the outputs are
                                       and cost incurred to open a business. not leading to the expected outcomes
                                                                             (design deficiency). Inthe case o f
                                       3. More positive private sector view  non-attainment o f outcomes, the
                                       on policy predictability as captured  project outcome information will be
                                       through enterprise surveys.           used to identify whether the source
                                                                             o f the problemi s an implementation
                                                                             or a designdeficiency and
                                                                             appropriate corrective measures will
                                                                             be taken.

                                es         IntermediateOutcome
                                                    Indicators
Productive enterprises are set up in       Number o f enterprises going      Identify delays, ifany, in
the industrialpark supported by the        into operation inthe industrial   construction o f park and creation o f
project.                                   park.                             conditions to allow firms to set up
                                                                             plants. Identify remedial measures.

AISA articulates a clear and realistic     Buildingblocks for effective
work program for investment                investment promotion (such as
promotion and facilitation, and            sectoral informationbase and
policy advocacy.                           customer relationship
                                           managementprocesses) are in
                                           place.
                                            A monitoring mechanism
                                           established to obtain feedback
                                           on regulatory bottlenecks faced
                                           by the private sector.
AISA-IPD acquires capacity to              Clear institutionalmandate
develop strategic vision and overall       established for AISA-IPD.
program for industrial park                Adequate staffing and other
development, and recommend                 resources given to AISA-IPD.
supporting policies, laws and              AISA-IPD prepares draft vision
regulations.                               and program for industrial park
                                           development.
                                           AISA-IPD prepares relevant
                                           draft laws, regulations and
                                           policies or inputs for these.


M o C I staffs knowledge o f PSD           M o C I staff score on relevant



                                                          8

issues improves.                          assessments ("ho f staff scoring
                                          3 or above on a scale o f 1 to 5)
Effective system inplace for regular      Private sector satisfaction with
consultationbetween government            frequency and structure o f
and private sector                        dialogue (% o f survey
                                          respondents fully or well
                                          satisfied)                                                       I

Arrangements for resultsmonitoring

The Industrial Parks Department and the recently created Policy and Research Department in the
Afghanistan Investment Support Agency will have overall responsibility for implementing the results
monitoring system as well as specific responsibility for monitoring the results o f the industrial park and
AISA-capacity building components o f the project. In addition, the Private Sector Development
Department in the M o C I will implement the results monitoring system for the capacity buildingprogram
in the Ministry.The project will also support the development and implementation of a broader results
monitoring system for PSD issues and results monitoring for the project components will be part of this
process. The specific arrangements for the specific components are discussed below and summarized in
the Table.

i) Industrial park component.       The industrial parks component will support the construction o f one
industrial park as well as the development o f policy, regulatory and institutional capacity for an overall
industrial park development program. The results monitoring framework will cover both aspects. For the
industrial park to be supported by the project, each tenant will be required to submit data on a prescribed
format to the Industrial Parks Department in AISA. While AISA may require more frequent reporting for
i t s own purposes, the project will require quarterly reporting on production, employment, sales and
exports, and annual reporting on investments. The Industrial Park Department will collate the data and
provide them to IDA within a month after receiving them from the enterprises. The Department will also
provide quarterly progress reports to IDA during the construction phase o f the park. These progress
reports will include information on the progress with park construction, allocation o f plots, and
construction o f factory buildings by tenants and commissioning o f plants. This monitoring exercise is
separate from the monitoring o f environmental practices and work place conditions, which will be part o f
the environmental and social management plan (discussed inAnnex 10).

Progress with regardto the policy, regulatory and institutional framework for industrialpark development
will be monitored by examining the drafting and enactment o frelevant policies, laws andregulations.

ii;, AISA institutional development and capacity building. The results monitoring framework for this
component will have two .parts. First, improvements in AISA's investment promotion capacity will be
assessed through third-party surveys, such as MIGA's "mystery investor" surveys. In such surveys
investigators assess performance o f an investment promotion agency, such as responsiveness to investors,
by masquerading as investors. Such surveys will be carried out on an annual basis. In addition, a full-
blown capacity assessment will be carried out by MIGA as a part o f the mid-term review o f the project.
This will be similar to the assessment carried out in late 2004 which will serve as a benchmark. The
second dimension o f the results framework will assess the efficacy o f AISA's investment facilitation
function. The specific indicator to be used is the time taken and cost incurred to open a typical business.
The recently created Policy and Research Department inAISA will oversee the collection o f data for this.
Itwill collaborate with the private sector chambers inthe collection and interpretationo fthe data.

iii) Ministry of Commerce and Industry capacity building. Results monitoring for this component will be
the responsibility o f the Private Sector Development Directorate. The DFID advisors in the Ministrywill



                                                       9

assist in this task. The main objective o f the capacity building exercise in the MoCI i s to help formulate
and implement PSD policies effectively. This i s difficult to measure and hence, the focus will be on two
measurable indicators: a) indices o f staff capacities in a small number o f critical areas (to be determined
later), and b) private sector satisfaction with the policy dialogue and policy formulation process. The
former will be monitored through staff assessments while the latter will be monitored through surveys of
the private sector.




                                                     10

   zm
   0




4ic0
   E
               3
               3




   z
   P-




   O     s
   0
   N     W
         10




   0
   *     s
   10    0
         10




t

1

i
c

I




ee        I !




f
>7
i
:


     F

            m
       x    3


P>I

                          TECHNICALANNEX4: DETAILEDPROJECT                DESCRIPTION

                      AFGHANISTAN:PRIVATESECTOR DEVELOPMENT                   PROJECT


Component1: Developmentof industrialparks(US$24.00m.)

The GOA has identified industrial park development as an important plank o f its private sector
development strategy. It plans to develop industrial parks in various parts o f Afghanistan in an effort to
engender regional balance in industrial growth. It also proposes to involve the private sector in the
development and operation o f the estates.

The emphasis on industrial park development i s a response to the difficulties investors face in acquiring
land with a clear title for setting up production facilities. Industrial parks are also viewed as an effective
means o f focusing the provision o f infrastructural and utility services, currently in short supply in
Afghanistan. The parks will provide physical infrastructure that guarantees a high degree o f self
sufficiency in terms o f essential utilities such as water and power supply, collection ad treatment o f
liquid as well as solid wastes. Given the difficult socio-economic and post conflict conditions in
Afghanistan and the nation's tremendous capital needs for reconstruction investments, the Government i s
anxious to ensure the economical utilization o f scarce funds. Finally, industrial parks will provide a
secure environment to carry out production activities. The concentration o f a critical mass o f industrial
enterprises in a park will also facilitate the provision o f business development services to the firms as
well as generate opportunities for firm-to-firm learning and knowledge diffusion.

The institutional mandate for industrial park development i s in the process o f being clarified.
Historically, the Ministry o f Light Industry was in charge o f the industrial park development program.
With the creation o f a combined Commerce and IndustryMinistry,this mandate has now passed to the
new ministry. The Ministry, however, has very limited capacity to run an effective industrial parks
program. A new department has been created within AISA and given responsibility for developing
specific industrial parks, such as the three parks currently under development in Bagrami (near Kabul),
Mazar-e-Sharif and Kandahar, and the two parks to be supported by this project. AISA expects the
entire responsibility for industrial park development to be vested in them. However, a decision on this
has not yet been taken.

The Government recognizes the importance o f an adequate policy, regulatory and institutional
framework for industrial park development, including private participation in the development and
management o f the parks. In response to a Government request, in 2004, MIGA prepared a set o f
recommendations on these areas in conjunction with an institutional analysis conducted for AISA. The
implementation of the Government's industrial park development program will require a strong
industrial park development agency with adequate mandate and budgets, and qualified staff. The
program should be guided by a clear strategy about the role o f industrial parks in Afghanistan's
development and implementedwithin an appropriate policy and regulatory framework.

Infrastructure development in the first cohort o f industrial parks has commenced, with USAJD support.
Work i s most advanced inthe Bagrami industrial park where 34 plots have been allocated. Physical work
on developingthe 24 hectare park i s near complete and several industrial units are inthe process o f being
built and some are already inoperation. There is additional land adjacent to the site where an expansion
o f the park i s possible. Two additional parks are being developed in Mazar-e-Sharif (with ADB
assistance) and in Sharandow-Kandahar.

Considering the high demand for the allocation o f industrial plots by a number o f growing industrial
entrepreneurs in Kabul, the GOAhas decided to build up additional industrial parks in order to meet

                                                     14

investor needs and support the development o fjob opportunities. AISA has been given the responsibility
for developing two additional parks at Kamari (near Kabul) and at Hissar-e-Shahi (near Jalalabad), in
addition to its current responsibilities for the three industrial parks in Kabul, Mazar-e-Sharif and
Kandahar. This mandate has been formalized through the issuance o f a Presidential order on March 11,
2006.

This component will support the Government's Industrial Park development programintwo areas:

     Infrastructure development at theproposed Hissar-e-Shahi (Jalalabad) industrialpark site:


0    Technical assistance to help build capacity in the AISA to implement industrial park projects and
     develop apolicy, regulatory and institutionalframework for industrialpark development.

It has been agreed with the Government o f Afghanistan that IDA will consider providing an additional
grant to fund the construction o f the proposed 135 hectare industrial park at Kamari after there i s
satisfactory progress with the implementation o f the Hissar-e-Shahi industrialpark and adequate capacity
i s built in AISA to develop and manage both parks. The proposed support to industrial parks will
complement the efforts o f USAID, which i s providing support to the development o f industrial parks on
a limited scale.

Infrastructural investment in the Hissar-e-Shahi industrialpark ($21.1million). The project will support
the development o f the Hissar-e-Shahi industrial park. The total area to be developed i s 106 hectares, o f
which roughly 65% will be industrial plot area (the rest being taken up by roads and common facilities).
There i s scope for expanding the Hissar-e-Shahi Park in the future. However, this expansion will not be
funded by this project.      The park i s expected to house industrial units in the following sectors: food
processing, light engineering, leather garments, and carpet cutting and washing.

The project will fund infrastructural investments such as land leveling and grading, road network, water
supply and fire-fighting system, waste water collection and treatment system, storm water drainage
system, solid waste collection and disposal system, environmental laboratory, and street lighting.4In
addition, provision has been kept for diesel generators with a total capacity o f 12 MW, and electricity
distribution lines within the park. This entire generating capacity may not be required if the power
transmission line linking Kabul to UzbekistadTajikistan i s commissioned by mid-2010 and power
currently diverted to Kabul i s made available to the Jalalabad area, including the industrial park, In that
case, some o f the generators may be used as a stand-by facility.

The 135 hectare Kamari Park, which could later be considered for funding through an additional grant,
i s estimated to cost $32.0 million. Inaddition to the basic physical infrastructure which would be similar
to that for the Hissar-e-Shahi park, this figure includes the cost o f water supply to the Park from the
Logar well field ,and the costs o f connecting the Park to the main power transmission line (including the
cost o f the electricity distribution line and a sub-station to allow step-down o f electricity from the high
voltage transmission line to the low-voltage distribution line). The transmission line to bring power to
Kabul from Uzbekistan and Tajikistan i s expected to be completed by the time the industrial park i s
operational (i.e., mid 2010) and the Park i s expected to be connected to this transmission line. However,
provision has been kept for installing six generators o f 1.2 MW capacity each to meet the needs o f
industrial units should there be a delay inthe commissioning o f the transmission line for import o f power
from Central Asia.




  The cost figure of $21.1million includes provisionfor contingency, equal to 15% o f estimatedcost, as well as
provision for tax payments, equivalent to 8% o f cost.

                                                        15

AISA i s currently in discussion with the Ministry o f Energy and Water on whether Ministry would
assume responsibility for drilling o f well and highpoint surface reservoir for the Kamari area
including the park, and the Electrical Sub-station at Kamari. If the costs o f these investments are
borne by the Ministry, the residual cost for constructing the Kamari Park will be $23.3 million.
A I S A also feels that a provision for four generators, rather than six, i s adequate. Inthat case, the cost
will drop to $21.8 million.

Although the project will fund only the Hissar-e-Shahi Park unless additional funds are made available
later, the design work for the project has laid the ground work for both parks; this includes economic
analysis, environmental and social assessments, and engineering design for the parks. In addition, the
technical assistance to be provided through this project (see below) will help buildadequate capacity in
AISA's Industrial Parks Development Department to handle the development and operation o f both
parks.

ii) Institutional support to AISA in the area of industrial park development ($2.9 million)'.          AISA has
recently appointed a Director for the IndustrialParks Development Department (AISA-IPD). It also has a
small number o f staff with experience in engineering design and construction. However, its capacity i s
limited and insufficient to deal with the challenges o f building additional parks in addition to managing
the USAID-funded park in Bagrami. This component will help address this deficiency by helping to
build capacity in the areas of project management, financial management, procurement, and
environmental management. An implementation supervision consultant will be hired for 30 months to
help AISA supervise the work of the contractors. Other internationalh-egional experts to be hired will
include a procurement specialist, a financial management specialist and an environmental specialist, each
to be hired for a period o f 18-24 months. Local experts will also be funded through the project in the
same areas and also in social management. One o f the important tasks o f the external experts will be to
train the local experts who will implement the procurement, financial management, environmental and
social management systems that they will also be responsible for setting up. While these capacities will
help implement the industrial park to be supported by this project, their benefits will spill over to other,
future, projects o f AISA. This component will also fund environmental and social assessments that will
be required inconnection with project investments to be identified inthe future, such as the land fill site.

Inaddition, short term experts will be funded to provide inputsrelated to the broader mandate ofoverall
industrial park development in the country. The topic areas will be identified by AISA in the future but
may include developing a strategic vision for an industrial park development program, laws and
regulations to encourage private sector participation in industrial parks, defining the optimal role o f
AISA and other' GOAentities in industrial park development, regulation, promotion, and management,
and clarifying the responsibilities o fnational, provincial and local authorities regarding industrial parks.


Component2: Institutionaldevelopmentfor PSD (USSl .OO million)

This component will support institutional development and capacity building in the public sector and
through public-private partnerships to strengthen the legal, policy, regulatory and institutional framework
for private sector development. This will be in addition to the capacity building in AISA's Industrial
Parks Development Department described above. The design o f this component will be guided by the
Government's PI2R exercise at the M o C I and AISA's organizational restructuring plans and i s intended
to support these initiatives. It will take into account the experience with recent technical assistance
programs o f various donors. In particular, it will address government concerns about the cost-


'This includes $0.95 million allocated from the Project Preparation Fund.The bulk of these finds have been used
for carrying out the environmental and social impact assessment.

                                                        16

effectiveness o f previous capacity building programs and the need to build long-standing indigenous
capacity.

This component will support institutional development and capacity buildingingovernment through two
windows:

     i)AISA-investmentpromotion,facilitationandpolicyresearch($0.50million)
     ii)MinistryofCommerce($0.50million)

The detailed design o f the component takes into account the support being provided by other donors in
this area (GTZ inAISA, and DfID,USAID and GTZ inthe MoC). Itwill leverage the presence ofDfID,
GTZ and USAIDfunded advisors inthese agencies.

i) Institutional support to AISA in the areas of investment promotion and facilitation, and policy
research. The institutional support to AISA will entail capacity buildingand advisory assistance to help
implement AISA's organizational restructuringplan developed inAugust 2006, buildingupon a business
plan developed earlier with MIGA assistance in December 2004. It will complement GTZ's technical
assistance program inAISA. A long-advisor, funded by the German Government, i s currently supporting
AISA in the area o f investment promotion. In addition, GTZ i s providing some funding for institution
building activities but its budget is limited. This project will help fill the gap. The technical assistance
programwill cover investment promotion and facilitation, and associated analytic and advocacy work.

AISA was designed to be a one-stop shop for investors in Afghanistan, providing information, guiding
the investor through all government interactions, and eliminating, where possible, bureaucratic delays
and red tape. The Agency was intended to be the investor's primary partner throughout the investment
process.    Ithas achieved a great deal since it was established and began operations inAugust 2003. It
has hired staff, established an office, and moved forward with its first work program: establishing and
implementing procedures for business licensing and registration. Throughout this period, the Agency
received funding from the Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development o f the
Government o f Germany and technical assistance from GTZ. The business registration program i s now
functioning well with Afghanistan now ranking close to international good practice in registering
businesses. AISA has also initiated some investment promotion activities and have developed capacity in
organizing events such as road shows. AISA's promotional and licensing services are reasonably well
developed although there i s considerable scope for improvement. In comparison, although important
beginnings have been made, AISA's investor facilitation function remains underdeveloped. AISA staff
have been helping investors on a selective basis to navigate the regulatory maze in other government
agencies and acquire the clearances and permits needed to start a business. It also has weak capacity in
research and analysis to underpin its promotional, facilitation and policy advocacy role. Here, also, a
beginning has been made through the recent establishment o f a Policy and Research Department but this
needs substantial capacity building.


AISA wants to develop its Investor Support Department, and Policy and Research Department. The
Investor Support Department will provide specialized individual client services for domestic and foreign
investors duringthe pre and post investment phases. This will include: a) provision o f initial information
and advice in areas such as market intelligence, legal framework, customs and taxation, and availability
o f key inputs;b) facilitating support from other government agencies or private bodies; and c) facilitating
interaction with other government regulatory agencies. This support will be provided in both the pre and
post-investment phases. The Department will have staff with both sector and thematic (such as legal,
finance, risk management) expertise.        Currently, AISA has inadequate knowledge o f investments
actually realized. A revamped Investor Support Department will monitor and document the progress in
implementing investments that have been approved by AISA and systematically document the feedback

                                                    17

from investors on their experience in implementingprojects. This feedback will be used by the Policy
and Research Department to identify patterns and recurrent bottlenecks, and will inform AISA's policy
advocacy functions. AISA's effectiveness in these areas will be measured by the decrease in the time
taken and cost incurred to start a business (going beyond simplyregistering).


AISA's current capacity to produce analytic papers on policy issues, fact sheets on market and sectoral
information i s weak with much o f the work being done by AISA's CEOPresident himself with
assistance fkom one international staff. Limited resources are devoted to these tasks. AISA intends to
develop its Policy and Research Department as a specialized unit to effectively carry out the analytic,
monitoring and advocacy functions inclose collaborationwith the other technical departments.

The project will fund practical assistance to AISA staff so that they can undertake both policy analysis
and long-term planning, and hands on assistance to investors. Specific services/activities to be funded
will include:

                a long-term advisor for the Policy and ResearchDepartment (for one year)
                a small number o f short-term experts;
                short-term and long-termtraining programs, and study tours for AISA staff;
                funds for research, analysis and monitoring and;
                small amounts o f equipment.

AISA suggested that short-term expertise will be useful if carefully planned. It was agreed with AISA
and GTZ that the GTZ advisor will help AISA inthis planning and ensure that the recommendations are
followed up and implemented after the experts have left. Examples o f areas where short-term expertise
could be useful include the production o f sector and thematic reports, database development and
development o f a monitoring system.

ii) Institutional support to the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The PRR Stage 1 application for the
M o C was approved in August 2005 followed by approval o f the PRR Stage 2 application in June 2006.
The restructuring in the Ministry has led to the creation o f a number o f directorates. In addition to the
functional directorates dealing with human resources, finance, administration, and research and planning,
there are four thematic directorates dealing with a) InternationalTrade, b) Transit and Trade Facilitation,
c) Private Sector Development, and d) State-owned Enterprises. This component will support capacity
buildingprimarily inthe PSD Directorate (see Box for a description o f the Directorate's mandate). The
Directorate will be headed by a Director, assisted by four Deputy Directors. Inaddition, it i s expected to
have about 15 officers and an equal number o f junior staff. Positions for the Director and Deputy
Director were advertised recently and appointments are expected soon. The positions will be advertised
soon and the newly appointed Director and Deputy Directors will have a role in the selection process. It
i s expected that most, if not all, staff inthe PSD Directorate will be inplace by March 2007.

The objective o f the capacity building program i s to develop the policy formulation, implementation and
evaluation skills and knowledge appropriate to each level o f personnel in the newly formed PSDD. The
capacity building program will also allow staff to develop the general managerial and administrative
s h l l s necessary for the efficient functioning o f the directorate.

DfJD funded advisors have been working with the MoCI to assess capacity building needs in the
Ministry, especially in the PSD Directorate. A preliminary needs assessment has been carried out for
M o C I staff, includingthose in regional offices and in associated agencies. This has highlighted the need
for training in the following areas: a) Basic skills such as language, computer skills and management
skills; and, b) Technical skills, including policy formulation, research and analysis, project management,
report writing and financial management, and c) business and PSD concepts and terminology. The
project will provide support in all areas. Examples o f topical areas to be covered by the training include,

                                                          18

but is not limited to, investment-related legal and regulatory framework, investment incentives, business
development services principles, value chain analysis, small business development, stake-holder
analysis, strategic communications and public-private dialogue.

The DFID-fundedadvisory team in the MOCI, in collaboration with MOCI staff, i s in the process o f
developing the structure and content o f the training modules. Senior staff inthe M O C I as well as Afghan
staff in the advisory team will be involved so that future training programs can be developed without
much external assistance. The sequencing o f the capacity building program i s designed to lead new
recruits through a logical progression o f professional development; starting with induction program, then
moving first to cross-cutting professional skills and knowledge and secondly to department specific
professional slulls and knowledge. Managerial and administrative skills and knowledge will be
developed throughout the period o f the capacity buildingprogram, focusing on essential skills at first6


Ministry of Commerce and Industry: Private Sector Development Directorate

The PSD Directorate with consist o f three departments: a) the Investment Policy Department; b) the Market and
Business Development Policy; and c) PSD Outreach Department.

The Investment Policy Department's mandate is to help create an institutional, legislative and regulatory
environment that encourages investment; work to reduce the regulatory burden on the private sector while at the
same time achieving the goals o f these regulations; work within the M o C and with other Ministries to promote
institutional reform so as to enhance the government-private sector interface; and coordinate with AISA to provide
information to the private sector to facilitate productive investment.

The Market and Business Development Policy Department will complement the work o f the Investment Policy
Department on broader enabling environment issues by facilitating the development o f market systems and
encouraging the formalization o f Afghan businesses. Its mandate includes the development o f policies that promote
fair and equal access to well-hnctioning domestic and international markets for all market participants;
demonstrate opportunities for productive investment by analyzing value chains, identifying and removing obstacles
to value creation; identify incentives and disincentives to formalization and developing a package o f measures to
encourage greater formalization o f the Afghan economy; improve access by Afghan firms to public contracts;
facilitate the development by Afghan businesses o f skills and knowledge needed to compete effectively; and
encourage the creation o f a sustainable private sector market for business development services.

The objective o f the PSD Outreach Department i s to promote effective dialogue between the M o C and other PSD
stakeholders and seek to develop a "shared stakeholder vision" on the role o f government in a free market
economy.      Using communication channels effectively and adopting a systematic approach to dialogue, the
department will help develop a wider public understanding o f the role o f the private sector and the benefits that can
flow from economic growth based on private sector-led development; provide the PSDD and M o C with a better
understanding o f the views and priorities o f the private sector and strengthen the quality o f its policy and law
making based on private ,sector input; disseminate information on PSD policy and reform programs, including
policy and legislative initiatives; and facilitate more effective implementation o f PSD-related mandates o f other
Ministries.

Modalities o f support will include training programs, workshops, study tours and attendance in short-
term courses.      Formal training will be delivered by Afghan trainers drawn from the PSDD using
materials prepared by and with the support o f international advisers. A considerable amount o f training
will be provided in Dari. The formal training program will be carefully structured to give staff rapid
access to learning related to essential professional, managerial and administrative skills, so the
concentration o f formal training in the early months o f the program will be higher than later on, when
other methods will be used more extensively. Formal training sessions will be planned and timetabled in

6Details o f the proposed capacity buildingprogram are provided inGovernment o f Afghanistan, Ministry o f
Commerce, Capacity Building Program, March2006.

                                                           19

advance and a learning culture will be encouraged within the PSDD so that staff are motivated to attend
sessions. Staff will receive a certificate o f satisfactory completion if they attend a certain number o f days
o f training and demonstrate that they have acquired a satisfactory level o f understanding. Seminars and
workshops will be held to develop capacity in response to the workload o f the directorate, addressing
specific needs as they arise.

Study tours will be designed to expose PSDD staff to international best practice in their respective fields.
They will also be used as an incentive to staff to take maximum advantage o f other capacity building
opportunities provided under this program, by requiring staff members to have a certificate o f
satisfactory completion for other elements before they can be eligible to participate in such study tours.
Prior to going on a study tour, staff members will be prepared through their department specific training
program and seminars and workshops to ensure that they are able to take full advantage o f the
opportunity. There will also be a review mechanism to consolidate learning from study tours after staff
return to Afghanistan.

The `Train the Trainer' approach will be used extensively throughout this program. All directorate staff
will at various times be encouraged to participate inthe planning and delivery o f training. Staff who will
demonstrate a particular aptitude will be trained to improve their presentation and training skills.
However, the primary focus will be to train the Director to deliver relevant aspects o f training courses to
Heads o f Departments and for Head o f Departments to become skilled at delivering training to Officers
and other staff intheir Department.

The effectiveness o f the capacity building program in the Ministry o f Commerce and Industry will be
assessed both in terms o f its impact on policy formulation (as measured by private sector perceptions o f
the predictability o f PSD related policy) and on staff capacities to be assessed on several dimensions.
Technical Annex 3 discusses the performance monitoring arrangements in greater detail.




                                                       20

                           TECHNICALANNEX5: ESTIMATED            PROJECTCOST
                     AFGHANISTAN:PRIVATESECTOR DEVELOPMENT                  PROJECT
                             Summarv of costs to be funded bv the proiect




Identifiable taxes and duties are $1-56million and the total project cost, net of taxes i s $23.44million.




                                                   21

Detailsof costs (includinp costsof the KamariIndustrialParkwhich couldbe consideredfor
                                             fundinginfuture)




4    ISurfacedrains                                                I 0.80


1      10x 1.2MW diesel generator                                    6.60
2     HTpanel andother protective equipment& sectionalizing          1.65
      device for O/H line
3     Om,20 KV distribution network along with street light phase.   0.93
4    1Distribution transformers& lamp for street light.            I 2.47
5    IDiesel fuel tank (2Nos)                                      I 0.33




1     Implementationsupervision consultants                          0.60
2  II Caoacitv building of IndustrialPark Deoartment               II0.90




                                                       22

I                      To be considered for additionalfinancing in future          I

 1 Leveling& grading, roadpavement                              5.37       5.37
   (dual carriageway) andflood protectiondyke
 2 Water transmission mainlineandtube wells, high point surface  1.34      4.40
   reservoirandwater network.
 3 Waste water network, waste water treatment plant,             1.95      1.95
   solid waste collection anddisposal system (land fill site)




                                                     23

                        TECHNICALANNEX6: IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS
                        AFGHANISTAN: PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT             PROJECT


The project will be under the oversight o f the High Commission for Investment, which will receive
periodic reports on implementation progress. AISA, the Secretariat o f the High Commission for
Investment, which i s chaired by the Minister for Commerce and Industry, will be responsible for
implementation o f main components of the project. M o C I will directly implement a small technical
assistance component.

A.       AfghanistanInvestment SupportAgency

AISA was established in 2003 as an independent institution and has its own organizational structure. It i s
headed by a President, who i s also the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) o f the Agency. It has two distinct
functions and accordingly the organizational and staffing set up are in place. AISA's core function i s
domestic and foreign investment promotion and facilitation. This comprises registration o f business to
provide a legal identity, facilitation for obtaining other approvals required to set up or operate a business
and investment promotional work within and outside the country, e.g., organization o f business
workshop and trade fairs or road shows. These activities are carried out by the Investment Promotion,
Investment Support and Licensing Departments. Inaddition, AISA has recently established a Policy and
Research Department to carry out analytic and monitoring work, and policy advocacy. The other main
function o f AISA i s the development and operation o f a select number o f industrial parks. This function
i s carried out by its Industrial Parks Development Department (AISA-IPD) and was originally assigned
to AISA to facilitate the construction o f three USAID-funded industrial parks in Bagrami (near Kabul),
Mazar-e-Sharif and Kandahar. Under the USAID project, some capacity was created in AISA-IPD to
support the construction o f three parks. However, this capacity was mainly to complement the work o f
the USAID construction contractors. Inaddition to these five departments, AISA has an Administrative
Department that deals with finance and accounting, procurement, contracting and maintenance, and
personnel administrationand human resource development.

Although AISA will have the overall responsibility to implement the project, its Industrial Parks
Development Department will be responsible for the construction and operation o f the parks, and
implementation o f its own technical assistance component. The other departments inAISA, inparticular
the Investor Support Department and the Policy and ResearchDepartments, will implement the technical
assistance component for enhancing AISA's investor facilitation capacity, and policy and research
capacity. AISA has some in-house capacity to implement its technical assistance component, since it i s
already involved in hiring consultants, arranging training and study tour, procuring office equipments
and vehicles and also organizing various promotional activities ininvestment promotional work.

The Industrial Park Development Department's role will be as follows: (i)      manage the consultant which
i s undertaking the environmental and social assessments and design work; (ii) the design work,
                                                                                     using
prepare bid documents for the industrial parks, invite and evaluate bids, and award contracts; (iii)     hire
implementation supervision consultants to supervise the construction contractors for ensuring quality;
(iv) monitor the work' of the implementation consultants by supervising the progress in terms o f
specification, quality and actual progress o f the work; (v) implement the environmental and social
management plans; (vi) procure consultants, equipment and other services for implementing the
industrial park related technical assistance component; (vii) supervise the consultants' work, and design
and implement training program and study tours; (viii) prepare disbursement application for payments to
consultants, vendors and other purchases; and (ix) manage the financial records for all AISA-IPD
activities and prepare accounts for standard financial reporting and management.




                                                      24

Current management structure and staffing in Industrial Park Department. AISA-IPD lacks capacity
and will require significant capacity buildingfor efficient implementation o f the project. The President o f
AISA has the overall management responsibility for industrial park development assisted by the Director
o f the Industrial Parks Development Department. The Director will be the key contact point for the
World Bank, MoF, MoCI, National Environment Protection Authority (NEPA), contractors and
consultants and other ministries, agencies or entities related to the project. Current AISA staffing i s as
follows: (a) Director (one), b) Deputy Director (one-currently vacant), c) Planning and Maintenance
Engineer (one), who i s responsible for overall design and implementation work; (d) Site Engineer (two),
who are responsible for site inspection to ensure the work progress according to implementation, quality
and target progress; and (e) Administration Office (one) responsible for overall office procurement and
accounts keeping in conjunction with AISA's Administration and Financial Department. In addition,
there i s a small number o f technicians and guards.

Additional staffing required. The current AISA-IPD staffing and skill compositions are not adequate to
undertake the overall implementation o f the industrial park construction and technical assistance
implementation. The Department requires significant capacity enhancement in: (i)      project management;
(ii) procurement; (iii)financial management and disbursement; and (iv) environmental management (see
table below). The project will fund the expatriate positions for the duration mentioned in the table and
the local positions (except support staff positions which will not be funded) for the first two years, after
which they will be absorbed into AISA's payroll. AISA should also fill as soon as possible the Deputy
Director position.




                     Position                                Type           Duration
                                                                            (month)
                     Procurement
                     Procurement Specialist                  Expatriate     24
                     Procurement Officer                     Local          Permanent
                     Support Staff                           Local          Permanent
                     FinancialManagement(FM)
                     FMSpecialist                            Expatriate     24
                     Accounts Officer                        Local        .,Permanent
                     EnvironmentalManagement
                     Environment Specialist                  Expatriate     24
                     Environment Officer                     Local          Permanent
                     Social Development Officer              Local         Permanent
                     ImplementationSupervision              Expatriate      30
                     Implementation Supervision
                     Consultant



Implementation Supervision Consultant. AISA will need to hire an Implementation Supervision
Consultant in order to ensure timely and quality implementation o f the industrial parks. Use o f
implementation supervision consultants i s a standard practice widely used under donor financed
construction projects. It i s not necessary to build such capacity on a permanent basis within AISA as.the
need for implementation supervision i s project specific. However, AISA should have internal capacity to
supervise and monitor the work o f the implementation supervision consultant. The Consultant will be
needed for 30 months to ensure efficient project management and quality o f work according to design
specifications. The Consultant will work with the Planning and Maintenance Engineer report to the
Director o f the Department. AISA will follow a competitive procurement process for this as well as the
other consultant positions listed inTable A6.1.

                                                      25

The specific tasks o f the Implementation Supervision Consultant will include but not limited to the
following: a) prepare construction schedules for the park in consultation with the construction
contractors; b) ensure that work i s done according to the engineering design and on time, and o f specified
quality; c) check bills submitted by contractors and verify that bills match the work specifications; d)
certify bills for payment; and s) prepare reports on implementation progress.

Industrial park management. The industrial park will be managed by AISA's Industrial Park
Development Department for the first three years o f its operation. After this, AISA will use its best
efforts to transfer the maintenance functions o f the industrial park to private management. An Investors
Association will be formed comprising o f the park tenants within the first two years o f operation after a
critical mass o f tenants have moved in. An MOU will be signed between AISA and Investors
Association spelling out the rights and responsibilities o f either party. A management contract will be
signed between the Investor Association and the private management contractor spelling out the
responsibilities o f the contractor, fee structures and penalties for non-compliance. The contract will also
spell out the role o f other supervisory and regulatory bodies such as AISA and the National
Environmental Protection Agency in overseeing the work o f the management contractors. A similar
model i s contemplated for the Bagrami IndustrialPark, which began operations earlier this year. Lessons
from this experience will be taken into account in designing the private management model for the
Hissar-e-Shahi park to be supported by this project.

Pricing and allocation of plots. Prior to the allocation o f the plots, AISA shall prepare and agree with
the World Bank the following: a) the mode o f plot transfer, i.e., whether sales, leases or both; b) the
pricing mechanism, i.e., the price or rent to be charged if these are to be fixed in advance or, if the price
i s to be determined through market forces, b) the payment scheduling, i.e., amount o f down payment and
number and frequency o f installment payments; c) the method o f amving at the price, such as an auction,
including the reservation price; d) the criteria for allocating plots, including the size o f plots, and the
mechanism to apply the criteria, such as the nature and composition o f the evaluation committee. These
modalities will have to be such as to ensure transparency, efficiency and fairness in the pricing and
allocation decisions. Tenants will be fully informed about their responsibilities, and will have to commit
in writing to meeting these, before plots are handed over. These will include environmental and social
management responsibilities.

Land transfer. AISA has provided the World Bank copies o f documentation certifying transfer o f landto
AISA from the Ministry o f Agriculture for the Hissar-e-Shahi Park. Similar documentation will need to
be provided inthe future ifthe Kamari Park i s considered for funding through an additional grant.

During Negotiation, it was agreed with Government that AISA shall appoint the specialists for
procurement and financial management and prepare a financial management manual before
disbursement. It was further agreed that:


(1)       AISA shall, no later than June 30, 2007, hire an implementation supervision consultant with
          terms o f reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA, who shall work under the
          Industrial Parks Development Department to ensure timely and quality implementation o f Part 1
          o f the Project;
(ii) AISA shall, no later than March 1, 2007, hire an environment specialist and a social
          development specialist, with terms o f reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
          Association; and
(iii) AISA shallnolaterthanSeptember30,2007carryoutbaselinesurveysof: (a) privatesector
          views on Afghanistan's private sector policies; and (b) time taken and costs incurred to start a
         business.


                                                      26

B.      Ministryof Commerce andIndustry(MoCI)

M O C I will directly implement the technical assistance component designed for its capacity building.
Technical assistance to M O C I i s earmarked largely for the newly created Private Sector Development
Directorate.   The Director o f the Directorate will have prime responsibility for implementing the
technical assistance component. Hehhe will be assisted in this by the DFID funded advisors to the PSD
Directorate, Adam Smith Institute. Ifneeded, the Ministry o f Commerce will seek assistance from AISA
in areas of procurement and financial management. The Ministry will appoint an advisory committee,
consisting o f some o f the senior advisors and other Directorate heads, to provide overall guidance and
identify areas of synergy between the work o f the PSD Directorate and other directorates, which may
benefit from the TA support.




                                                   27

                TECHNICALANNEX:7: FINANCIAL           MANAGEMENT        AND DISBURSEMENT
                      AFGHANISTAN:PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT                 PROJECT


CountryIssues

The Bank has gained substantial experience and understanding o f the financial management environment
inAfghanistanthrough the large number ofprojects under implementationover the past four years. The
Public Administration Capacity Building Project (PACBP), i s the primary instrument to continue and
enhance the fiduciary measures put in place during the past years to build transparency and
accountability for the fundingprovided by the Bank and other donors.


A PFM performance rating system that was developed by the Public Expenditure and Financial
Accountability (PEFA) multi-agency partnership program, including the World Bank, using 28 high-
level indicators was applied in Afghanistan in June 2005. The system i s structured around six core
dimensions o f PFMperformance: budget credibility; comprehensiveness and transparency; policy-based
budgeting; predictability and control in budget execution; accounting, recording, and reporting; and
external scrutiny and audit.

Afghanistan's ratings against the P F M performance indicators generally portray a public sector where
financial resources are, by and large, being used for their intended purposes. This has been accomplished
with very highlevels of support from international firms; this assistance will continue to be needed over
the medium term ifthese ratings are to be maintained. There i s also muchroom for improvement.


In spite of the undeniable gains made in reconstruction since the end o f 2001, the challenges facing
Afghanistan remain immense, not least because o f the tenuous security situation in the region and
continuedprevalence o f a large illegal and illicit economy. The policy framework benchmarks have not
yet been fully costed so various priorities are funded through the annual budgeting process. The rising
costs o f the security sector constitute the major constraint on attainment o f fiscal sustainability. With
regard to executive oversight, the national assembly will play an increasingly active role. All in all, the
new national strategy has created high expectations o f the executive which could prove to be quite
difficult to meet.

The public sector, in spite o f considerable efforts to reform its core functions, remains extremely weak
outside o f Kabul. The lack o f qualified staff inthe civil service and the absence o f qualified counterparts
inthe government after 30 years ofwar and conflicts is abindingconstraint. Delaysinreforming the pay
structure and grading o f civil servants have severely crippled the public administration o f the country.
Domestic revenues lag behind expenditures by a factor o f ten to one. Large-scale corruption could
emerge to undermine the government's efforts to enhance aid flows through national accounts.
Capacities to track expenditures and monitor expenditure outcomes have improved, but they need rapid
and substantial strengthening if progress toward the attainment o f national development targets i s to be
monitored. Currently, 75% o f external revenues bypass government appropriationsystems.

To help mitigate these risks, the World Bank i s financing a Financial Management Advisor to assist the
MinistryofFinance, an Audit Advisor to assist the Control and Audit Office, and a ProcurementAdvisor
to assist in Procurement-related activities. An Internal Audit Function i s also being developed with
World Bank financing. USAID, continuing support based upon the earlier Indian Aid Assistance
Program, i s financing a team o f consultants and advisors to assist the D a Afghanistan Bank in local as
well as foreign currency operations. The activities carried out under the existing Public Administration
Projects have helped the Government to ensure that appropriate fiduciary standards are maintained for
public expenditures, including those supported by the Bank and the donor community. PACBP i s

                                                     28

helping to ensure that fiduciary standards are further enhanced and that capacity i s developed in the
Government to maintain these standards. The country systems which are in place for externally-aided
projects will be used for all financial management matters of the project.

Risk Assessment and Mitigation

The table below identifies the key risksthat the project may face and indicates how these risks are to be
addressed.
                                          Table A7.1: Key risks

Risk                                 Risk       RiskMitigation Measures        Residual      Condition of
                                   Rating                                       Risk        Negotiations,
                                                                                               Board,


Country Inherent Risk                 M       Source - PFM study                 M                N
Project FinancialManagement            S      Minimize use o f Designated        M                N
Risk                                          Account, maximize direct
                                              payments to consultants; all
                                             procurement through
                                              Procurement Advisor.
Perceived Corruption                  H       Government commitment,              S               N
                                              internal controls and new
                                              internal audit will all help
                                              reduce potential for corruption.
Overall Inherent Risk                                                             S

1.ImplementingEntity                          Weak entity will be supported       S        Y, disbursement
                                             byrecruitment o fnew head o f
                                              Industrial Park Department
                                              (done).
2. Funds Flow                                 This willbe inaccordance           M                N
                                              withthe funds flow
                                              arrangements being utilized by
                                              other projects inAfghanistan.
3. Budgeting                           S      FMS, along with counterpart        M                N
                                              staff, will be responsible for
                                             this function pertaining to
                                              development budgeting.

4. Accounting Policies and            M      AISA i s following                  M         Y, disbursement
Procedures                                   international standards. This
                                             willbe further strengthened by
                                             recruitment o f a new Financial
                                             Management Specialist and
                                             Accounts Officer with TORS
                                             approved by the Bank.
                                             Policies and procedures shall
                                             be documented ina financial
                                             management manualto be
                                             approved by Bank.
5. Internal Audit                      S     Newly created internal audit         S               N
                                             department inM o F will review
                                             project internal control
                                             systems.


                                                     29

Risk                                 Risk         RiskMitigation Measures         Residual     Condition of
                                    Rating                                         Risk       Negotiations,
                                                                                                 Board,
                                                                                              Effectiveness

67 ExternalAudit                       M        Willbe auditedby CAO with           M
                                                supportfromAudit Advisor.
                                                However,AISA's current
                                                externalauditor will audit their
                                                entity financial statements.
7. ReportingandMonitoring              M        Adequate systemsexist in            M
                                                AISA to comply with project
                                                financial reportingand
                                                monitoringrequirements.This
                                                will be supportedat the
                                                country levelby the Financial
                                                ManagementAdvisor at SDU,
                                                MoF whose priority is to
                                                strengthenthe FMsystem.
Overall Control Risk                    S                                            S

DetectionRisk                           S       Adequate accounting,                M              N
                                                recording, and oversightwill
                                                be providedinproject
                                                procedures.
                                                Accountingirecordingloversigh
                                                t by SDU-MOF of all
                                                advanceshl-16 supportedby
                                                FinancialManagement
                                                Advisor at SDU, MoF..
RISK RATING: H=HIGHRISK;
S=SUBSTANTIAL RISK;
kf=MODEST RISK; L-LOWRISK

                                                                                           I




Strengths

The Government provides assurance to the Bank and other donors that the measures in place to ensure
appropriate utilization o f funds will not be circumvented. The Government support for PACBP i s a
strength in itself, strengthening as it does the financial management inTreasury operations, public sector
procurement, internal audit, and external audit in the Auditor General's office. AISA has demonstrated
adequate FM capacity by preparing its first annual financial statements which have successfully
undergone an external audit by KPMG, the entity audit firm. AISA i s also the recipient o f a Project
Preparation Facility for which they were able to meet all FMrequirements, thus their experience inBank
implemented project i s also a strength. AISA currently uses QuickBooks for accounting and reporting
which i s adequate for this project.

Weaknessesand Action Plan

The main weakness in this project, as in many others in Afghanistan, is the ability to attract suitably
qualified and experienced counterpart staff especially for financial management.        AISA presently has
capacity to handle its current FM responsibilities but AISA's staff and systems are not geared up for
effectively managing foreign grants and dealing with donor agencies. To strengthen the FM capacity o f

                                                       30

AISA to implement this project, the proposed measures include:             i)engagement of a Financial
Management Specialist to be appointed in the Finance Department o f AISA, ii)recruitment o f a
dedicated Accounts Officer for Industrial Park Development as the government counterpart to the FMS
who will coordinate between the Finance department o f AISA and MOF, and iii)appointment o f a head
o f Industrial Park Development (the last action has been completeted). Also to address this weakness
and help improve capacity, it i s important to involve AISA staff in this project at multiple levels.
Together with the intensive training programs included in this project, these actions are expected to
enable AISA to handle increasedFMresponsibilities o f donor projects inthe future.



Weakness                  Action                                       Responsable           Completion
                                                                       Person                Date
Financialreporting        Interim Financial Reports formats            IDA/MOF/AISA          Before
needs to meet project     confirmed                                                          negotiations
requirements
Business direction i s    Appoint head o f Industrial Park             AISA                  Completed
needed                    Development                                                        (25`h June
                                                                                             2006)
Additional FM             Appointment o f Financial Management         AISA                  31'`March
capacity i s needed in     Specialist and Accounts Officer                                   2007
AISA

Implementing entity

AISA i s the lead implementing agency for this Project.         There i s on-going Bank Group technical
assistance to AISA under the Investment Guarantee Facility Project. AISA has been able to manage this
well and thus has relative experience in the implementation o f Bank projects. The project will be under
the oversight of the MoC. AISA, the Secretariat o f the High Commission for Investment, which is
chaired by the Minister for Commerce, will be responsible for implementation o f the main components
o f the project. AISA was established in2003 as an independent institution and has its own organizational
structure. It i s headed by a President, who i s also the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) o f the Agency. It
has two distinct functions and accordingly the organizational and staffing set up are in place. AISA's
core function i s domestic and foreign investment promotion. AISA will require significant capacity
buildingfor efficient implementation o fthe project.

Budgeting

The FMS, along with the counterpart in AISA's Finance Department and the Director o f the Industrial
Parks Department, will be responsible for ensuring that the project expenditures forecast to be expended
in a fiscal year are captured inthe Governmental Development budget of that fiscal year. The project
will be includedinthe budget decree or AISA must obtain an approval from the Presidential Office to be
attached to D1forms at the time o f requesting yearly allotments for contracts under development project
to avoid delays when payments are processed.

Fundsflow

The standard mechanism of flow of funds in Afghanistan will be followed in this project. Project funds
will be deposited in the Designated Account (DA) to be opened and maintained at the Da Afghanistan
Bank (DaB) or in a local commercial bank, if approved. The DA, in keeping with current practices for
other projects in Afghanistan, will be operated by the Special Disbursement Unit (SDU) in the Treasury


                                                      31

Department o f MoF. Requests for payments out o f the DA will be made to the SDU by the implementing
entity when needed.

Inaddition to payments out of DA funds, the implementingentities could also request the SDU to make
direct payments from the Credit Account to consultants or consulting firms, and special commitments for
contracts covered by letters o f credit. These payments will follow the World Bank procedures. All
project payments are expected to be made to either international firms or local firms that have bank
accounts in DaB, a local commercial bank, or an overseas bank. All payments will be made either
through bank transfers into the account o f such firms or by check.

                                        FUNDSFLOW CHART




                                                                          Direct payments
                                                                          to suppliers, etc.
                                         \                               after approval o f
                                                                         W.A initiatedby
                                                                           the project and

                                     f               v                      through SDU
                                                                             submitted
                                         Designated Account in
                                          DABdenominatedin
                                                    USD                                     1




                          Project transactions processed through SDU
                                    andpaidinUSD or Afghanis


         Payment                                                              Payment
         Requests                                    t                        Requests
                                            I       AISA        I

Legal requirementsfor authorized signature

Ministry of Finance has authorization to disburse funds from the Grant. Specimen signatures of
authorized signatories inM o F will be submittedto the Bankprior to commencing disbursements.


Accounting policies andprocedure



                                                    32

AISA i s presently beingrun on an autonomous basis with its own revenues and expenses without any
direct budgetary support from the Government. It has successfully prepared its First Annual Financial
Statement and has got it audited from KPMG. The financial statements and the audit opinion have been
reviewed and are of acceptable standards. AISA follows its own Chart o f Accounts with financial data on
QuickBooks.

The project will follow AISA financial management policies and procedures. These have been reviewed
and are o f acceptable international standards. It will use the Chart o f Accounts which has been developed
for previous projects and which will be upgraded to capture the desired heads of financial information
under components and categories so as to meet the reporting requirements o f the project and
Government. A financial management manual shall be prepared by AISA to document its financial
management arrangements; this will be approved by the Bank before disbursement.

AISA's Finance Department will be responsible for coordination with the MOF including obtaining
disbursement and Designated Account bank statements monthly and reconciling these statements to
records maintained for the project at AISA. It will also prepare monthly and quarterly reports. As a
minimum,AISA will report details o f

   i.AllreceiptsandexpenditurescomparedwiththebudgetofAISAundertheNationalDevelopment
      budget

  111. Status o f advances that may be outstanding as of the reporting date.
  ...
  ii.DesignatedAccountreconciliationsand


Financial Management Specialist and hidher counterpart from the Finance Department will be
responsible for coordinating FMactivities o f the project with the SDU.

Annual financial statements will be prepared in AISA detailing activities pertaining to the projects as
separate line items with adequate details to reflect the component and category wise details. These
financial statements would be reconciled to the one prepared by SDU for Government and External
Audit purposes.

Project accounts will also be consolidated centrally in the Ministry o f Finance, through the Special
Disbursement Unit in the Treasury supported by the financial management agent. Consolidated Project
Financial Statements will be prepared for all sources and uses o f project funds.

Internal control and audit

AISA will upgrade its own chart o f accounts which, along with its internal controls, have been reviewed
and deemed acceptable by an external audit firm. The project will follow AISA's customary financial
management policies and procedures and controls. These have been reviewed and are of acceptable
international standards.

The project financial management systems will be subject to review by the newly established internal
audit directorate o f the MoF, according to risk-based work programs to be determined by the Director o f
Internal Audit. As the size and volume o f transactions increases in AISA it will be encouraged to have
its own internal audit arrangements.

External audit

The accounts of the project will be audited by the Auditor General, with the support o f the Audit Agent,
with terms o f reference satisfactory to the Association. The audit o f the project accounts will include an
assessment o f the : (a) adequacy o f the accounting and internal control systems; (b) ability to maintain

                                                      33

adequate documentation for transactions; and (c) eligibility o f incurred expenditures for Association
financing. The audited annual project financial statements will be submitted within six months o f the
close o f the fiscal year. All agencies involved in implementation and holding records o f expenditures
would need to retainthese records as per the IDA retention policy.

The following audit reports will be monitored inthe Audit Reports Compliance System (ARCS):

   TableA.7.3: Audit reportsto bemonitoredinthe Audit Reports Compliance System(ARCS)

    ResponsibleAgency                          Audit                     Auditors                Date

     Disbursementunit             Special Account                                          year)
            AISA                 EntityAudit                         KPMG                  Sept. 22 (of each


Also the IDA project will fund any audit fees for an independent external audit o f the corporate entity in
respect o f all sources and application o f funds. The TOR o f such auditor will be o f an acceptable level to
IDA. The audited financial statements along with the audit opinion will be submitted to IDA within 6
months o f the end o f the fiscal year.

Reporting and monitoring

Financial Statements and Project Reports will be used for project monitoring and supervision. Based on
the FM arrangements o f this project, Financial Statements and Project Reports will be prepared in the
Finance Department o f the AISA. These reports will be produced based on records kept on Quickbooks
and Excel spread sheets after due reconciliation to expenditure statements from SDU (as recorded in the
Afghanistan Financial Management Information System- AFMIS) and bank statements from DAB. The
FMS along with counterpart staff will be responsible for this function.

Quarterly Financial Statements and Project Reports will be produced showing: (i)sources and uses o f
funds by disbursement category and project component and also expenditures consolidated based on
governmental head o f accounts compared with budget; (ii)     physical progress o f project implementation;
and (iii) status o f procurement activities. AISA will forward the relevant details to SDUDBER with a
copy to IDA within 45 days o f the end o f the quarter. The government and IDA have agreed on a
proforma format for all Bank projects, and a final customized format will be agreed prior to project
negotiations.

Annual project accounts will also be consolidated centrally inthe Ministryo f Finance; inparticular, the
Treasury Department, supported by the Financial Management Advisor, and consolidated project
financial statements will be prepared for all sources and uses o f project funds.




                                                     34

Disbursement arrangements

                              TableA.7.4: Allocation of CreditProceeds

             Expenditure Category                    Amount (USD)             Financing
                                                                              Percentape
              Goods                                         12.6                   100
             Works                                          9.4                    100
              Consultant services, training and             3.O                    100
              study tours
              Total                                        25.0                  100%


Financing Percentage.      In line with the current Country Financing Parameters, the disbursement
percentage has been set at 100%. The Government has recently enacted the Income Tax Law o f 2005
and has also issued a finance circular to articulate the Ministry o f Finance policy with respect to the
application o f law. Provisions inthis circular must be reflected in all contracts under this project, where
applicable.

Disbursement Method. Disbursements from the IDA grant include advances, reimbursement, direct
payment, and payments under Special Commitments.

Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs).        Because Afghanistan i s a high-risk environment and
Government's and AISA's ability to maintain and manage documentation related to SOEs has not been
thoroughly demonstrated, most expenditures will require submission o f transaction records. For all
expenditures on contracts exceeding USS20,OOO records are required. For expenditures on contracts less
than US$ 20,000 supporting documentation in the form o f a detailed Statement o f Expenditure i s
acceptable.

Designated Account. A Designated Account (DA) will be opened and maintained in D a Afghanistan
Bank (or a commercial bank, if so agreed with the Ministry o f Finance)           on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association; and, if so agreed with the Ministryo f Finance) and would be operated by
AISA in accordance with the Association's operational policies.

The Authorized Allocation o f the Designated Account would be set not to exceed US$ 500,000.
Applications for reimbursement o f the Designated Account will be submitted monthly, regardless o f
amount.

Minimum application size.        The minimum application size for withdrawal applications for
reimbursement (non-DA), direct payment, or for applications for Special Commitments i s 20% o f the
Authorized Allocation o f the DesignatedAccount or US$ 100,000.

Authority to withdraw Gruntfunds. AISA may receive Ministryo f Finance approval to sign and submit
withdrawal applications to the Association. Specimen signatures o f authorized signatories in AISA will
be approved by the Minister o f Finance and to be submitted to the World Bank prior to commencing
disbursements.




                                                   35

Financial management covenants

            MOF shall submit audited financial statements within six months o f the end o f each fiscal
            year. The audit report will cover the project financial statements, the project special account
        .   and SOEs, inaccordance with terms o freference to be agreed with the Bank.

        .   AISA shall submit financial monitoring reports on a quarterly basis.

            AISA shall submit audited entity financial statements within six months o f the end of each
            fiscal year. The audit report will cover the financial statements o f AISA in relation to all

        .   sources and application o f funds, in accordance with terms of reference to be agreed with the
            Bank.

            AISA shall recruit the following new staff to strengthen the implementing entity and the
            financial management system: Head o f Industrial Park Development (done), Financial
            Management Specialist and Accounts Officer.

            AISA shall prepare a financial management manual to document the financial management
            arrangements, this shall be approved by the Bank before disbursement.


SupervisionPlan

Duringproject implementation, the Bank will oversee the project's financial management arrangements
intwo mainways: (i)   review the project's quarterly financial monitoring reports as well as the project's
annual audited financial statements and auditor's management letter; (ii)    review the project's financial
management and disbursement arrangements (potentially including a review o f a sample o f SOEs and
movements on the Designated Account) to ensure compliance with the Bank`s minimumrequirements;
and (iii)
        review financial management riskrating and compliance with covenants.

Conclusion

The financial management arrangements, including the systems, processes, procedures, and staffing are
adequate to support this project - subject to implementation o f the items inthe action plan.




                                                    36

                             TECHNICALANNEX-8: PROJECTPROCUREMENT
                       AFGHANISTAN:PRIVATESECTOR DEVELOPMENT               PROJECT


A.      Country Context

The Bank has gained substantial experience and understanding o f the procurement environment in
Afghanistan through its involvement in the interim procurement arrangements put in place through
EPAP as well as with the institutions with current responsibility for those and the subsequent
arrangements, namely ARDS.            As part o f the broader review of Afghanistan's Public Finance
Management (PFM) system, the Bank carried out an assessment o f the procurement environment in the
country based on the baseline and performance indicators developed by a group o f institutions led by the
World Bank and OECD/DAC.

The first key issue identified through the procurement assessment was the need for ownership and a
champion in the Government for reform, deepening o f capacity, ensuring integrity in the operation o f
procurement systems, and promoting sound procurement among ministries.

A new Procurement Law has beenadopted inNovember 2005 whichradically transforms the legal and
regulatory framework. While it provides a very modem legal system for procurement, it may be difficult
to implement inthe current context. The Procurement Policy Unit (PPU) has now been established under
the MOF to ensure implementationthrough the creation o f secondary legislation, standardbidding
documents, provision o f advice and creation o f the necessary information systems for advertising and
data collection. It further relies on the development o f an independent complaints review mechanismto
ensure enforcement. These institutional arrangements are yet to be inplace.

 In the absence of adequate capacity to manage procurement activities effectively, some interim
arrangements have been put inplace to improve the procurement management o f the country. A central
procurement facilitation service has been established under A R D S which i s supervised by the Ministry o f
Economy. The Bank and the Government has agreed on a program for country wide procurement reform
and capacity building, leading to the transition from centralized to decentralized procurement services.
The Bank funded Public Administration Capacity Buildingproject (PACBP) i s the primary instrument
for implementing the program to strengthen capacity o f the line ministries to manage public procurement
in an effective, transparent and accountable manner. However, the implementation o f the procurement
capacity building strategy has not made any significant progress yet due to lack o f coordination and
delays in decision making within the Government. The envisaged radical changes to the procurement
management environment expected from the new Law also require the urgent implementation o f a
comprehensive human resources and capacity development program.               The implementation o f the
procurement reform component o f the PACBP should be considered with due priority to ensure that
fiduciary standards are further enhanced and that capacity i s developed in the Government to maintain
these standards.


B.      ProjectProcurement

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated M a y 2004; and "Guidelines:
Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated M a y 2004, and the
provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The general description o f various items under different
expenditure categories i s described below. For each contract to be financed by the Grant, the different


                                                    37

procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for prequalification, estimated costs,
prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Borrower and the Bank project team
in the Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually, more frequently if
required to reflect actual project implementation needs and improvements in institutional capacity. The
Procurement Plan has been drawn up on the assumption that eventually the project may fund the Kamari
Industrial Park, in addition to the Hissar-e-Shahi park, through an additional grant. The expected dates
for award o f contracts for the Kamari Park i s based on the assumption that a decision on the additional
financing will be taken about a year after approval o f the project.


Procurementof Works: Works procured under this project would include: Land leveling, construction
o f boundary wall, and security rooms, construction o f water reservoir, flood protection dyke, road
pavement, waste water treatment plan, and land fill sites for the Hissar-e-Shahi and Kamari parks. The
procurement will be done usingthe Bank's Standard BiddingDocuments (SBD) for all ICB and National
SBD agreed with (or satisfactory to) the Bank for all NCB. Other method o f procurement will be
shopping. Threshold limit for N C B works will be USD 5,000,000 and for shoppingwill be USD 100,000
per contract.

Procurement of Goods: Goods procured under this project would include: (a) Equipment for solid
waste collection and disposal (storage bins, skips etc.), (b) 10~1.2MW diesel generators including fuel
tank, HT panel & protective equipment,         (c) O/H panel 20 KV distribution network, street light
transformer, (d) 4 xl.2 MW diesel generator including fuel tank and HT panel protective equipment, (e)
Monitoring laboratory equipments and equipment for institutional capacity building in AISA and the
Ministryof Commerce. The procurement will be done usingBank's SBD for all ICB and National SBD
agreed with (or satisfactory to) the Bank for all NCB. Other methods will be shopping and direct
contracting. Threshold limit for NCB goods will be USD 200,000 and for shopping will be USD 100,000
per contract.

Selectionof Consultants: This includes consultancy services for design and environmental assessment
(already contracted),    industrial parks implementation supervision, building AISA capacity in
procurement, financial management and environmental management, investment facilitation, research
and monitoring and policy advocacy capacity, and capacity buildingo f Ministry o f Commerce staff. The
selection methods for selection o f consultants will include QCBS, QBS, and CQS, LCB, FBS individual
consultant and Single Source Selection. Single Source Selection may be used when appropriate and prior
IDA agreement shall be obtained. Short lists o fconsultants for services estimatedto cost less than
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants in accordance with
the provisions o fparagraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines.

Operational Costs: Any such costs financed by the project would be procured usingthe implementing
agency's administrative procedures which were reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank.



C. Assessment of the ImplementingAgency's Capacityto Implement Procurement

AISA will have overall responsibility for all procurement under the project including the procurement o f
goods and TA for the Ministry o f Commerce. An assessment o f the capacity o f the Implementing
Agency to implement procurement actions for the project was carried out inMarch 2006.

The Industrial Parks Development Department o f AISA has limited experience in domestic and
international procurement o f works, goods and services. For the three industrial parks funded by USAID,
all procurement responsibilities are carried out by USAID consultants. These construction contracts are


                                                    38

turn-key, where implementation supervision i s being done by USAID appointed implementation
supervision consultants. The role o f AISA's Industrial Parks Development Department has been limited
to making site visits and discuss progress with the implementation consultants. The Procurement Unit o f
AISA i s staffed with two procurement officers. The two procurement officers have experience o f 20 and
2 years each. They have experience o fprocurement under shopping procedure for goods only. They have
no experience in procurement o f works and consultancy services nor do they have experience in
procurement under Bank financed projects. So far, the unit has been involved in procurement o f goods
up to value o f USD 100,000. AISA has had some experience in awarding consultancy contracts for
limited environmental assessment and design work in the past, with substantial assistance o f the Afghan
Reconstruction Development Services (ARDS).

The Department will require substantial capacity building in order to undertake the procurement for two
large industrial parks, i.e., the procurement o f works, goods and services, including the preparation o f
tender documents, technical and financial analysis o f bids, contract award and ensuring procurement
according to the World Bank's Guidelines.         AISA will require a full-time expatriate Procurement
Specialist for a period o f up to 24 months and a local Procurement Engineer to assist the Deputy
Director. It will also require support staff to help with the procurement process. The Procurement
Consultant could be a regional expatriate consultant with substantial experience in domestic and
international procurement, and familiarity with World Bank procurement guidelines, methods and
implementation. The local procurement engineer should have 5-10 years experience on domestic and
international procurement specific to construction industry andor rehabilitation projects. The support
staff could be a technical graduate or diploma engineer, with familiarity o f construction industry
procurement. AISA could seek A R D S assistance in the procurement work, since ARDS i s financed by
the World Bank to facilitate large procurement contracts, good and services in the reconstruction o f
Afghanistan. The Bank has reviewed the TORSfor the Procurement Specialist, Procurement Engineer
and Support Staff.

The following actions have been agreed with AISA to mitigate the risks:


         0   The AISA shall hire a competent Procurement Specialist to support the project and build
             capacity within AISA to carry out procurement actions under the project
         0   Procurement documentation for large value o f goods, works and consultancy contracts shall
             be carried out by the P U o fARDS with technical evaluation support from AISA.

The overall project risk for procurement i s high.


D.       Procurement Plan

The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a Procurement Plan for project implementation which provides
the basis for the procurement methods. This plan has been agreed between the Borrower and the Project
Team on November 13, 2006 and i s available at Shahmahmood Ghazi Watt. Kabul, Afghanistan. It will
also be available inthe Project's database and inthe Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan will
be updated in agreement with the Project Team annually or as required to reflect the actual project
implementation needs and improvements in institutional capacity.

E.       Frequency of Procurement Supervision

Inadditionto the priorreview supervisionto be carried out from Bankoffices, the capacity assessment
o f the ImplementingAgency has recommended two supervision missions to visit the field to carry out
post review o f procurement actions.


                                                    39

    Attachment 1: Details of the ProcurementArrangement InvolvingInternationalCompetition

    1.         Goods and Works andNon-consultingServices

               (a) List o f contract packages which will be procuredfollowing ICB and Direct Contracting

 1                  2                 4           5            6            1            8            9        10


                                     Total                              Domestic      Review      Expected
Ref.            Contact          Estimated     Procur
                                                ement     Prequalific   Preference   by Bank        Bid-     Comme

No.        (Description                                      ation       (Yes/No)   Prior/Post    Opening     nts

                                      M
                                      in       Method       Yes/No                                  Date


       One Bid Package               6.82        ICB          No           Yes         Prior      04/15/2007
       (a) Leveling & Grading

       (b) Roadpavementfor
       Hissar-e-ShahiPark
       (Dual carriageway)

       (c) Floodprotection
       dyke

       (d) Water transmission
       main and tube wells

       (e) Highpoint surface
       reservoir

       (0Waternetwork

       (8) Surfacedrains

       (h) Waste water
       network

       (i) Firefighting
       network



G-2    One Bid Package                9.2        ICB          No           Yes         Prior      0810112007
       (a) 10x1.2 MW diesel
       generator including fuel
       tank, HTpanel&
       protectiveequipment.



SI-1   O/Hpanel20 KV                 3.42        ICB          No           Yes         Prior      08/0112007
       distributionnetwork,
       street light transformer.




      One Bid Package                9.16        ICB
       (a) Leveling and
      Grading

      (b) Roadpavementfor
      KamariPark
      (Dual carriageway)
      Link road (single


                                                          40

       unpaved)

       (c) Floodprotection
       Dyke

       d) Water transmission
       main and tube wells

       (e) Highpoint surface
       reservoir

       (f) Water network

       (9) Waste water
       network

       (h) Surface drains


       (i) Firefighting
       network

Goods  itract under Kamari Ini
G-4    One Bid Package                                                    Yes           Prior      0411512008
        (a) 4x1.2 MWdiesel
       generator including fuel
       tank and HT panel
       protective equipment.



SI-2   O/H panel20 KV                                                     Yes           Prior     04/15/2008
       distributionnetwork,
       street light transformer.




               Note: All contracts for works estimated to cost more than US$ 5,000,000 or equivalent and all
               contracts for Goods estimated cost more than US$ 200,000 or equivalent per contract shall
               follow ICB procedures.

     2.        Consulting Services

               (a) List o f consulting assignments

                                       3             4
                                                                                               Comments
                                 Estimated     Selection     Review       Expected
       Assignment                Cost US%M     Method        by Bank      ProposalsSubmission


c - 2  Environmental and         0.35          QCBS
       Social
       Management
       consultants, studies
       & training


      I
ImplementationSupervision Team

c-3 [ Implementation            I0.3          IIndividual   IPrior       I02/01/2007


                                                          41

I       ISupervision          I              I             I            I                      I
         Engineer
 C -4    Engineeringand        0.1            Individual     Prior        02/01/2007
         Quality Control
         Advisor
 C - 5   Water supply          0.09           Individual     Prior        03/0112007
         Engineer
 C -6    ElectricalEngineer    0.09           Individual     Prior        03101I2007




 c-7     Procurement           0.18           Individual     Prior        08/2112006            TOR agreed with IDA
         Specialist
         JInternational)
 c - 9   FinancialMgt.         0.18           Individual     Prior        08/21/2006            TOR agreed with IDA
         Specialist
         (International)
 c- 11 Environmental           0.18           Individual     Prior        08/21/2006            TOR agreed with IDA
         Specialist
         (international)
 C- 13   Capacity building of  0.4            Individuals    Prior       03101/2007
         AISA.
         Consultants
         (external; long-term
         andshort-term).
         Training and study
         tour andknowledge
         gathering.
 C- 14   Capacity building of  0.5            Individuals    Prior       03/01/2007
         Ministry of                                                                          I
         Commerce
         Consultants,
         Training, Study tour
         and knowledge
         gathering.



               Note: Consultancy services estimated to cost above 100,000 or equivalent per contract for firms
               and individual for assignments estimated cost more than US$ 50,000 will be subject to prior
               review by the Bank.




                                                         42

                                          ProcurementPlan



I. GENERAL

   1,     Projectinformation:
            ProjectName       :AfghanistanPSD Support Project.
            Country           :Afghanistan
            Credit Number : IDA PO90928

   2.     Bank's approvalDateofthe procurementPlan[Original: Revision 1:]

   3 .    Dateof GeneralProcurementNotice:Not Applicable

   4.     Periodcoveredby this procurementplan: Sep. 2006 to June 2009.


11.    GOODS WORKS AND NON-CONSULTING
                   AND                                    SERVICES

   1.     PriorReview Threshold:Procurement Decisions subject to Prior Review by the Bank as
          stated inAppendix 1to the Guidelines for Procurement: Thresholds for applicable procurement
          methods (not limitedto the list below) will be determined by the Procurement Specialist
          Procurement Accredited Staff based on the assessmento f the implementing agency's capacity.

                      Procurementactivity             Prior ReviewThreshold           Commente
 1.      Goods                                      200,000                      Equivalent or more
 2.      Works                                      500,000                      Equivalent or more
 3.      Direct Contracting                         All contracts

   2.     Prequalification.Not Applicable for all contracts


   3.     ProcurementPackageswith Methods and Time Schedule


                  2          I           1   4           5            6           7             8     9


                                Total                             Domestic      Review      Expected co
             Contact          Estimated   Procur    Prequalific   Preferenc    by Bank         Bid-  m
          (Description        Cost inUS$   ement       ation          e                              me
                                  M       Method      Yes/No      (Yes/No)    Prior/Post    Opening
                                                                                               Date  nts




      One Bid Package
      (a) Leveling& Grading

      (b) Roadpavementfor
      Hissar-e-ShahiPark
      (Dualcarriageway)

      (c) Floodprotection


      (d) Water transmission
      mainand tube wells



                                                  43

   1                     2                3          4       5           6         7    I     s      9


                                       Total                         Domestic  Review    Expected   co
 Ref.               Contact          Estimated    Procur Prequalific Preferenc by Bank      Bid-    m
 No.            (Description         Cost inUS$    ement   ation         e                          me
                                         M        Method   YeslNo    (YeslNo)  PriorRost Opening
                                                                                           Date     nts



           (e) Highpoint surface
           reservoir

           (f)Water network

           (9) Surfacedrains

           (h) Waste water
           network

           (i)Firefighting
           network

 w-2       One Bid Package               1.2        ICB  No            Yes

           (a) Waste water
           treatment plant

           (b) Solid Waste
           collection and disposal
           (land fill site)




                                                                    l-
                                    iiIndustrialPa
 G-1       (a) Equipment for solid      0.125      NCB      No                   Prior   09/0112007
           waste collection and
           disposal(storage bins,
           skips etc.)

                                                                    +
 G-2       One Bid Package               9.2        ICB     No                           08/01/2007
           (a) lOxl.2 MW diesel
           generatorincluding fuel
           tank, HTpanel&
           protectiveequipment.




 SI-1      O/H panel20 KV               3.42       ICB      No                   Prior   08101/2007
           distribution network,
           street light transformer.

Works contract under Kamari IndustrialPark

 w-3       One Bid Package
           (a) Leveling and
           Grading

           (b)Roadpavementfor
           Kamari Park
           (Dual carnageway)
           Link road(single
          unpaved)

          (c) Floodprotection
          Dyke.




                                                        44

                                                                                                   -
 1                  2                     3       4        5           6         7           8       9
                                   ~~




                                        Total                      Domestic   Review    Expected    Co
Ref.           Contact               Estimated  Procur Prequalific Preferenc by Bank       Bid-     m
No.        (Description              Cost inUS$ ement    ation         e                            me
                                         M     Method   Yes/No     (Yes/No)  Prior/Post  Opening
                                                                                           Date     nts


       d) Water transmission
       main and tube wells

       (e) Highpoint surface
      reservoir

       (0Waternetwork

       (g) Waste water
       network

       (h) Surfacedrains

       (i) Fire fighting
       network

w-4    One Bid Package                           ICB      No         Yes        Prior    10/15/2008
       (a) Waste water               0.90
      treatment plant

      (b)Solid waste
       Collection and disposal
       system




      act under Kamari Indu ,ialPark
       (a) Equipment for solid          0.125                         No        Post
      waste collection and
      disposal (storagebins,
       skips etc )


G-4   One Bid Package                   5.33   t                     Yes        Prior
       (a) 4 x 1.2 MW diesel
      generatorincluding fuel
      tank and HTpanel
      protectiveequipment.

SI-2  O/H panel20 KV                    5.00                         Yes       Prior
      distribution network,
      street light transformer.




G-5   Equipment for capacity            0.5                          No        Prior    03/01/2007
      building equipmentin
      AISA and MoCI
      SeveralPackages

G- 6  Monitoringlaboratory              0.1                          No         Post
      equipments




                                                      45

   111.    SELECTION OF CONSULTANTS

   1.      PriorReview Threshold:Selection decisions subject to Prior Review byBank as stated in
   Appendix 1to the Guidelines Selection and Employment o f Consultants:

   2.      Short listcomprisingentirelyof nationalconsultants:Short list of consultants for services,
   estimated to cost less than $ 50,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely o f national consultants
   inaccordance withthe provisionsofparagraph2.7 ofthe Consultant Guidelines.

   3.      Any Other Special SelectionArrangements: [including advance procurement and retroactive
   financing, ifapplicable]

   4.       ConsultancyAssignmentswith SelectionMethodsand Time Schedule



    1                                                               5                  6                   7

Ref. No.  Descriptionof            Estimated Selection        Review         Expected                Comments
          Assignment               Cost in   Method           by Bank        ProposalsSubmission
                                   US$M                       (Prior / Post) Date


c -1      Design and               0.5989    sss              Prior          26/02/06               The consultant
          Environmental                      Firm                                                   has been hired
          Assessment                                                                                inFeb 06.
          (Firm)

c-2       Environmental and        0.35      QCBS             Prior          03/01/06
          social management
          consultants, studies &
          training

ImplemeI

C - 3     Implementation           0.3       Individual       Prior          02101/2007
          SupervisionEngineer
C -4      Engineering and          0.1       Individual       Prior          02101/2007
          Quality Control Advisor
C - 5     Water supply Engineer    0.09      Individual       Prior          03101/2007

C - 6     ElectricalEngineer       0.09      Individual       Prior          03/01/2007




C - 7     Procurement Specialist   0.18      Individual       Prior          08/21/2006             TOR agreed
          (International)                                                                           with IDA

C-8       Procurement Officer                Individual       Post           09/06/2006             TOR agreed
          (Local) permanent        0.048                                                            with IDA
C -9      Financial Mgt.           0.18      Individual       Prior          08/21/2006             TOR agreed
          Specialist                                                                                with IDA
          (International)
C - 10    FinanceOfficer (Local)   0.048     Individual       Post           08/21/2006             TOR agreed
                                                                                                    with IDA
C - 11    Environmental            0.18      Individual       Prior          08/21/2006             TOR agreed
          Specialist for 24 months                                                                  with IDA
          (international)




                                                       46

C- 12  Environmentaland        0.048         Individual       Post         0812112006             TOR agreed
       SocialDevelopment                                                                          with IDA



C- 13  Capacity building of     0.4          Individual
       AISA.
       Consultants(external;
       long-termandshort-
       term). Training Study
       Tour andknowledge
       gathering.

C- 14  Capacity building of     0.5          Individual
       Ministry of Commerce
       Consultants,Training,
       Study Tour and
       knowledgegathering.




 SECTION   IvAGREEDPROCEDURESFORNATIONAL                     COMPETITIVE BIDDING


 In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the provisions of
 Section Io f the Procurement Guidelines, the following criteria shall be followed in procurement under
 National Competitive Biddingprocedures:

                  Standard biddingdocuments approved by the World Bank shall be used;

                  Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated national daily
                  newspaper and biddingdocuments shall be made available to prospective bidders, at least
                  twenty eight (28) days prior to the deadline for the submission o f bids;

                  Bids shall not be invited on the basis o f percentage premium or discount over the
                  estimated cost:

                  Biddingdocuments shall be made available, by mail or inperson, to all who are willing
                  to pay the required fee;

                  Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding;

                  Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) shall be stated on
                 the bidding documents, and if a registrationprocess i s required, a foreign firm determined
                  to be the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given reasonable opportunity o f registering,
                  without any hindrance;

                 Bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either inperson or by courier service or by mail;

                 All bidders shall provide bid security as indicated inthe biddingdocuments. A bidder's
                 bidsecurity shall apply only to a specific bid;

                 Bids shall be opened inpublic inone place preferably immediately, but no later than one
                 hour, after the deadline for submission o fbids;




                                                       47

       Evaluation o f bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria disclosed in the
       bidding documents, in a format, and within the specified period, agreed with the
       Association;

(xi)   Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an official estimate
       without the prior concurrence o f the World Bank;

(xii)  Split award or lottery in award o f contracts shall not be carried out. When two (2) or
       more bidders quote the same price, an investigation shall be made to determine any
       evidence o f collusion, following which: (A) if collusion i s determined, the parties
       involved shall be disqualified and the award shall then be made to the next lowest
       evaluated and qualified bidder; and (B) if no evidence o f collusion can be confirmed,
       then fresh bids shall be invited after receivingthe concurrence o f the World Bank;

(xiii) Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the initial period o f bid
       validity so that extensions are not necessary. Extension o f bid validity may be sought
       only under exceptional circumstances;

(xiv)  Extension o f bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence o f the World
       Bank (A) for the first request for extension if it i s longer than eight (8) weeks, and (B) for
       all subsequent requests for extensions irrespective o f the period;

(XV)   Negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other bidders;

(xvi)  Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the World Bank's prior concurrence; and

(xvii) All contractors or suppliers shall provide performance security as indicated in the
       contract documents. A contractor's or a supplier's performance security shall apply to a
       specific contract under which it was furnished.




                                            48

                        TECHNICAL ANNEX9: ECONOMIC              AND FINANCIAL       ANALYSIS
                         AFGHANISTAN:PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENTPROJECT


Scarcity o f data and the high level o f uncertainty in Afghanistan make it difficult to cany out a rigorous
financial and economy analysis o f the project. The problem i s compounded by two additional factors.
Firstly,given the current low incidence of industrial activity inAfghanistan, the emergence o f about 200
small and medium scale enterprises, clustered in two important locations, i s likely to have a wide range
o f spill over effects. While industrial activity anywhere has a spill over impact, the impact i s usually
substantial where the initial base i s small. Such spill over effects are difficult to measure, especially in a
country with little track record and paucity o f data. Thus, while this analysis tries to take into spill-over
effects, the results will most likely grossly underestimate the true returns from the investment. The second
source o f an underestimate i s the difficulties o f assessing returns from capacity buildingactivities, which
account for an important part o f the project. Because o f such difficulties, the capacity buildingcomponent
o f the project has not been included in the quantitative analysis that follows. Again, in a country where
the initial base (of capacity) i s low, capacity building efforts, especially in important agencies, strategic
agencies, i s likely to have a significant spill over impact going beyond the agencies themselves. These
caveats needto be kept inmindwhile assessing the results o fthe financial and economic analysis.
The analysis focuses on the Hissar-e-Shahi industrial park to be supported by the project and covers a
time period o f 20 years. The costs include the cost o fbuildingand operating the park. The benefits stream
relate to the most important stakeholders o f the project and include the following:

          Industrial enterprises. Profits earned from the operation o f the enterprises

          Employees of the enterprises. Wages and salaries earned

          Other businesses: Wage income created due to spill over impact

          Government. Taxes earned.


Basecase assumptions
 1.       Development costs. Cost o f developing the park amounts to $19.5m without taxes. The financial
cost o f land i s not included since these will be merely transferred from one government agency to another
and the opportunity cost o f land i s taken as zero because currently these plots o f land are unused.
2.        Operating costs. The following costs o f operating the park are considered: a) utility costs, b)
administrative costs o f AISA related to industrial park operation, c) depreciation o f equipment and
physical infrastructure.
3 .       Number of enterprises in the parks. It i s assumed that, when the park i s fully occupied, it will
host a total o f 100 enterprises    .'This   i s based on an assumed plot size o f roughly 7000 sq. m. per
enterprise (the size o f the Hissar-e-Shahi Park will be 106 hectares or 1,06,000 sq. m., o f which about
two-thirds will be devoted to industrial plots). It i s assumed that the cumulative number o f enterprises in
production will increase in the following manner: 20% at end o f year 4; 50% by end o f year 5, 75% by
end o f year 6 and 100% by end o f year 7. It i s assumed that it will take 2 years to build the park and two
years for an enterprise to commence operations after it starts construction o f the factory building.



7Given the huge demand for industrial land, the industrial park i s expected to be fully occupied within a few years

surveyed inJalalabad - the highest proportion for any city - cited access to land as a major or severe constraint to
o f being built.,Inthe survey carried out in2005 for the Afghanistan Investment Climate Assessment, 88% of firms

investment.




                                                         49

4.    Capacity utilization. Enterprises are not expected to attain full capacity utilization immediately after
commencing production. It i s assumed that on average an enterprise will have an average capacity
utilization o f 40% duringits first year o f operation, 60% duringyears 2-4 and 75% after that.
5.       Average investment levels and proJit rates. It i s assumed that average initial investment in the
enterprises will be $0.5m and that an average enterprise will earn profits equal to 10% o f initial
investment by year 7 when it is operating at 75% capacity. Profits will be proportionately lower in
previous years due to a lower rate o f capacity utilization.
6.       Average employment and wage rates. It i s assumed that the enterprises will employ, on average,
100 employees at 75% capacity utilization. The employment level will thus increase during the initial
years o f an enterprise till it reaches this level o f capacity utilization. It i s assumed that the average annual
wage inthe industrial park enterprises will be $1500. This i s assumed to remain constant over the 20 year
period, in other words it i s assumed that the annual rate o f increase inthe wage rate expressed inAfghanis
will equal the rate o f depreciation o fthe Afghani currency vis-a-vis the dollar.
7.       Spill over impact. It i s assumed that every job created in the industrial park will be associated
with two jobs created in other sectors, including, activities related to the supply o f raw materials to the
industries, activities usingthe output o f the industries as inputs,businesses involved inthe distribution o f
the industrial park outputs and businesses providing other services to the industrial enterprises and
workers. It i s assumed that thesejobs will have an average annual wage rate o f $ 1000, i.e., 33% less than
those o f the workers inthe industrial park since the latter are expected to be more productive on average.
9.       Government's tax revenues. It i s assumed that there will be a 15% tax on the profits earned by
the enterprises operating inthe industrial park.

10.      Income earned by industrial park authority. It i s assumed that the plots inthe industrial park will
be sold at a unit price o f $25 per sq. m. This i s the price charged for plots inthe existing Bagrami Park. It
i s assumed that this will be paid in five equal installments over a five year period, starting from year 3
(for 75% o f the enterprises) and year 4 (from 25% ofthe enterprises).


Summary of results, including sensitivity analysis
Base case results
The analysis, which is based on a discount rate o f lo%,       indicates that the industrial park project generate
an economic NPV of US$198m, corresponding to an ERR o f 61% per cent.




Sensitivity tests
Ten sensitivity tests were carried out by changing the values o f the critical variables. These tests reveal
that the base case results are robust for a wide range o f the parameter values. The economic returns will
not undergo any qualitative change under any of the assumed scenarios.




                                                         50

                               Table A9.2 Sensitivity Tests


                Base case   Discount rate       Discount rate       Average profit   Average profit
                            increased to 15     increasedto 20      rate of          rate of
                            per cent            per cent            enterprises i s  enterprises i s
                                                                    reduced to 5     reduced 2.5
                                                                    percent          percent
  Economic NPV 198.0        123.4               79.8                185.6            179.4
  (US$ million)

  ERR (%)       60.9        60.9                60.9                59.2             58.3




                            Average wage        Average wage         Total wages     Total wages
                            rates inthe         rates inthe          and profits     and profits
                            industrial park     industrial park      generated       generated
                            enterprises i s     enterprises i s      through         through
                            15 percent           15 percent          spillover       spillover
                            higher              lower                impact i s 25   impact i s 25
                                                                     percent higher  percent lower
                                                                     228.8           183.0
  (US$ million)
                                               I
  ERR (%)                   62.4               I59.4                 64.2            58.8




                  Base case         The sale price of      The sale price of
                                     industrial park       industrial park
                                    plots i s $15 per sq.  plots i s $30 per sq.
                                    m.                     m.

                   198.0             193.1                 202.9

I ERR(%)
  (US$million)
                  60.9             I 57.9                  64.1




                                              51

                              TECHNICALANNEX10: SAFEGUARD POLICY ISSUES
                          AFGHANISTAN:PRWATESECTOR DEVELOPMENT                       PROJECT



The bulk o f the project funds will be spent on an industrial park at Hissar-e-Shahi, near Jalalabad.
Additional financing could be considered in future for a second industrial park at Kamari, near Kabul.
This section is written on the assumption that eventually both these parks may be funded through this
project. The industrial park component o f the project will trigger two safeguard policies o f the Bank, OP
4.01 on Environmental Assessment and OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement. The environmental and
social impact assessment and environmental and social management plans summarized in this section
relate to this component. N o environmental and social issues are expected to arise with regard to the
capacity building components o f the project. The only exception i s the capacity building related to
environmental and social management in AISA which will have a positive environmental and social
impact.

The proposed Hissar-e-Shahi Industrial Park will cover an area o f 106 hectares and will be located about
25 km from Jalalabad City on the northern side o f the main highway to Torkham.'                         The proposed
industrial park will comprise o f the following industries: a) light engineering; b) food processing; c)
leather garments; and d) carpet washing and finishing. The specific industries that private investors will
establish within the broad categories o f light engineering and food processing i s not known at this stage.
Hence, the calculation o f pollution loads at this stage is relatively generic and will needto be refined once
the specific nature o f the industries and technologies to be used are known. However, this i s not expected
to require any substantial change inthe design of the proposed environmentalmitigation plans.

The proposed Kamari Industrial Park will be located in Bagrami District, about 10 km east o f Kabul on
the Kabul - Jalalabad road just beyond the existing Bagrami Industrial Park. The proposed park will
cover an area o f 135 hectares. This piece o f land originally belonged to the Ministry o f Defence and has
been transferred to AISA. The proposed park will have an industrycomposition broadly similar to that o f
the Hissar-e-Shahi Park except that it will also include carpet weaving.

Roughly 60% o f the land inthe two parks will be industrial area, about 30% will be taken up by roads and
10% by public uses and utilities. The industrial plot sizes will range from 2000 sq. m. to 12000 sq. m.
Currently, it i s envisaged that most plots will be between 2000 sq. m. and 6000 sq. m.. Although all the
industries suggested for the parks are quite similar in terms o f processes involved & compatibility, some
zoning will be done to minimize environmental problems. This will be particularly true o f the food
processing industry,which may require a more exclusive location.

Environmentaland SocialImpactAssessment

The environmental and social impact assessment (ESIA) has been prepared at the basic planning and
preliminary design stage o f the project. The Master plan o f the proposed industrial park has been
approved by AISA and the preliminary design o f the basic infrastructure has been finalized. The ESIA
identifies the pollution sources anticipated at the preliminary design stage and provides some estimates of
various wastes expected to be generated and pollution abatement measures for these anticipated wastes.
Some estimates and assumptions will needto be updated as project design i s finalized. Specifiedpollution
abatement measures for each industrial unit to be set up in the parks will be spelt out in the enterprise-
specific assessments that will be carried out by the individual project sponsors and assessed by the
Afghan .National Environmental ProtectionAgency (NEPA) and AISA.

* There                            ~




        i s scope for future expansion o f this park to 200 hectares, though not necessarily with support from this
project. The environmental and social assessment covers this future expansionpotential.


                                                            52

 The ESIA process involved the collection o f primary and secondary data as well as consultations with
 relevant stakeholders. The ESIA has identified the environmental and social impact for both the
 construction and operational stages o f the project (details below). On the social front, the construction of
 the Hissar-e-Shahi park involves resettlement o f 26 migrant families who had been temporarily living in
 mudhouses in one corner o fthe proposed site. Thisresettlement with adequate compensation has already
 taken place, inAugust 2006 (details below). Actions to deal with the environmental and social impact are
 detailed in the Environmental and Social Management Framework prepared for the project. This i s
 available as a separate document; a summary discussion i s provided below.

 Anticipatedenvironmentalimpacts

 Duringconstruction

Ambient air quality and noise pollution. Construction activity will generate noise, particulate matter
 (PMlO), smoke, dust, CO, and NOx in the ambient air. Similarly activities like excavation, compaction
 dumping and storage o f excavated material will also create dust, noise and vibration. Such pollution will
 be greater ifold, ill-maintained vehicles and equipment i s used. Due to increased anthropogenic activities,
 ambient air quality o f the site will decrease considerably. However, this impact will be o f temporary
 nature as the ambient air quality will improve with the completion o f the construction stage. Noise and
 vibration will increase in the project area and adjacent areas due to inflow o f trucks and other vehicles.
 Residents o f the nearby settlements will be affected especially at night time.

 Surface water quality. The main impact duringthe construction phase will be the increase insediments to
 the surface water during clearing and grubbing, filling as well as the potential release o f any chemicals
 and oil spills at the site duringthe construction stage. Ifthese are allowed to be deposited on the site, they
 will be absorbed in the storm water and ultimately contaminate the surface water quality o f Nangarhar
 canal, which runs by the proposed park site. Sewage will be generated at the construction camps. If the
 generated sewage i s not properly treated or disposed of, this may have a negative impact on the surface
 water quality.

 Solid waste. Solid waste generation, comprising o f waste from construction camps and other waste, will
 increase considerably during construction. Residential waste comprises all the waste generated from the
 Workers Camp area. The major components o f this waste are garbage, putrescible wastes, rubbish and
 small portion o f ashes and residues. Immediate attention i s required for such type o f wastes as these are
 degradable and cause odor. The other waste generated i s mostly composed o f rubbish, ashes and residues,
 demolition materials and hazardous wastes. These wastes will be generated due to the construction
activities and materials used for construction.

Natural drainagehlope: Excavations o f trenches for laying o f the water supply pipeline will generate
excavated materials which will be used for filling works. However, some o f the excavated material will
not be reused and, if left at places o f excavation, will cause dust pollution and hindrance to the natural
drainage o f the area. Another source o f spoils on construction sites i s discarded construction materials that
include chemicals, wires, plastics, cut pieces o f pipes, pieces o f empty fuel and lubricants tins, cardboard
packing and other discarded materials.

Soil contamination. The type o f industries planned in the industrial park will produce hazardous waste
such as toxic metals, chemicals, plastic material, batteries, aluminum, steel, oil, grease etc. the industries
will not produce waste like radioactive, pesticides etc., which are very dangerous and requires great care
in handling, storage and transportation. Some of the chemicals used in the laying of water supply pipe
joints are hazardous and toxic. The sheathing on electric wires and cables are made from hydrocarbon
compounds and are toxic, as are paints and varnishes used in the construction industry.Ifadequate care i s


                                                      53

not taken for handling, storing and transportation o f these toxic substances, it may damage the health o f
the workers as well as contaminate the soil. The waste from the proposed project should be properly
treated, stored, recycled (if possible) and disposed off through appropriate technical measures. The
treatment, storage and disposal o f hazardous waste should follow strict requirements. Workers must be
made familiar with the Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) o f each chemical used at site.

Biological environment. Flora is sparse in the area. Not a single tree exists and only degraded forms o f
grasses and some small shrubsherbs exist in the Project Area. The grass cover and the shrubby growth
shall be removed during the construction phase, which will have a negligible effect on the status o f
existing flora. Fauna in the Project Area shall be disturbed to some extent, as the reptiles like snakes and
lizards, living in the holes or long tunnels, shall either get killed or shall move to adjoining areas, on
account o f use o f heavy machinery for construction o f roads and other infrastructure. Their hideouts shall
be destroyed or filled up during the process. This i s a moderate negative impact. Similarly birds like
Mynah, House Sparrows, who build nests in the small bushes in the area, shall be negatively impacted
and will have to leave for adjoining areas. During the construction phase excavations, construction o f
roads and buildings will involve transportation and movement o f heavy constructional machinery in the
area. Personnel employed for this purpose will not only visit the area fkequently, but some will also stay
on the site, which can cause harassment to Avifauna besides noises which will scare away birds and other
biota. However, these activities will occur for a limited period as it i s only a temporary phase, will not
have any significant effect on the surrounding floralfauna and habitat o f the region.

Duringoperation

The following emissions and wastes are expected to be generated from the proposed industrial parks
duringthe operation o f the various industrial units.The wastewater shall be generated mostly from the
industrial units (industrial wastewater) and partially from commercial and institutional activities.

Ambient air quality. It i s anticipated that industries will generate air pollution in the form o f various
gases. These include SOX, NOX, CO, and PM10. This will deteriorate the quality o f ambient air. The
impact will be o f permanent nature and needs mitigation measures. Emissions o f these air contaminants
will have to be controlledat source to avoid air pollution.

Noise pollution.         Industrial units will create noise and vibrations. The noise levels will be maximum
inside the industrial units and will impact the technicians the most. Noise levels will usually be kept to
below 85 dB (A). Where the noise levels will exceed this, use o f PPE's such as ear muffs will be required.
Duringthe full plant operation, anticipated noise levels outside the factory buildingswill be below 60 dB
(A) at a distance o f 100 meters and beyond. The direct affectees o f this noise pollution will be the
workers worlung in the industrial parks. Residents o f nearby villages will also be affected by the noise
and vibration generated.

Solid waste. Based on the planned industry composition, the expected solid waste generation will range
from 0.25 to 0.5 tons per hectare per day, i.e., in the range o f 20 to 35 tons / day for each park.g It i s
proposed that the solid waste collection, transportation and disposal system for each park should be
designed for 50 tons / day.


  Giventhe type of industriesexpectedto be established, the solidwaste compositionmay containfollowing main components:
constructionmaterial, carpet fiber, leatherpieces, waste andusedpaper, emptyplasticdrums of chemicalsusedto be usedinthe
various industrialfor process water treatment, corrosioninhibitors,oil and grease, lube oil empty drums, air, oil, fuel andtube
filters, auto and crane tyres (redundant), rubber andplasticmachinebelts, iron scrap, woodenboxesand scrap, paper, glass,
redundantmetallic wires, old tents, heat exchangers (redundant), dish antenna(TV), metallic drums, plywood sheets (redundant),
fluorescent tubes (used), electric fans (used), packingmaterial-wood, paper etc., roomcoolers (redundant), organic waste from
kitchenactivities.




                                                                54

Surface Water Quality.         A considerable amount o f wastewater is anticipated to be generated due to the
operation o f the industrial units. In the Hissar-e-Shahi park, any contamination from the proposed
industrial area in future may pollute the Nangarhar canal water and shallow aquifer along the left bank o f
the canal. The characteristic o f the wastewater depends on the type o f industrial units since each type o f
industryhas different wastewater quality parameters depending on its processes. The waste water quality
expected to be generated from the proposed industries i s described in the Box below. It i s proposed that
collection o f wastewater system shall be combined, i.e., sanitary and industrial wastewater shall be
collected through a single pipeline. Therefore, a mixture o f sanitary and industrial wastewater shall be
produced."


    Expected waste water generation by industrial activity

              Industry                      Nature of material typically             Waste water specifications
                                             contained in waste water
    Food Processing                   Energy rich organic compounds, such          BOD5 (mg/l)        150 - 750
                                      as proteins, peptides, amino acids, sugar    Suspended Solid    200 - 1000
                                      and carbohydrates, animal and                (mg/l)
                                      vegetable fats and lower organic acids       COD (mg/l)         250 1000
                                                                                                          -

    Light engineering, leather        Normal waste water                         I BOD5    (mg/l)    I200to400       I
    garments,       construction
    material, carpet
    weaving,                                                                       COD (mg/l)         350 to 600

                                                                                  PH                  6 to 8
    Commercial       areas     and Normal waste water                              BOD5 (mg/l)        200 to 400
    institutional areas                                                            SuspendedSolid     150 to 350
                                                                                   ( m g 4
                                                                                   COD (mg/l)         350 to 600

                                                                                  PH                  6 to 8



Groundwater Contamination. Presently the Project Areas are totally barren. The groundwater tables in
the areas are deep, no water ponds or industry are present in and upstream o f the Project Area, except a
small plastic factory in Hissar-e-Shahi, which i s currently not in operation. Therefore, no contamination
source to groundwater aquifer i s foreseen inand around the Project Areas.

Biological environment.          Various industrial units, like food processing, light engineering and leather
industries will emit gases and discharge chemical laden water, which if allowed untreated will adversely
effect flora, fauna and surrounding environments resulting in air and water pollution. This will also
adversely affect vegetation due to heavy chemical concentration in water and noxious gases interfering
with photo synthesis and growth o f plants. Such gases will kill avifauna also. On account o f permanent
construction o f roads and industrial units wild life present in the Project Areas such as snakes, lizards
shall move to the adjoining areas and the birds that have their nesting in the low bushes in the area will
move to the nearby trees or fields. This i s a minor negative impact.



loThe expected characteristic of this mixed wastewater shall be as follows: BOD5 = 100 to 600 mg/l; COD = 200 to 900 mg/l;
SuspendedSolid = 200 to 1500mgil; pH = 6 to 10.




                                                             55

   Water requirementsandwater supply system

   It is estimated, based on the expected industry composition, that each o f the parks will need about 0.25
   MGD o f water for a 75 hectare park size. In addition, firefighting will require an additional reserve of
   120,000 gallons.

   Two water sources are available at Hissar-e-Shahi: surface water from Nangarhar Canal and groundwater.
   The canal i s located near the northern boundary o f the project area. According to officials inthe irrigation
   department, water from the canal will not be available for industrial use over the year since the canal
.  remains closed for some months each year for clearing. The quality o f water during the raining season
   further degrades due to the quantity o f sediments. Moreover, the analysis o f canal water indicates that
   while it can be used for firefighting and other purposes it i s not fit for drinking. The water has to be
   treated to make it fit for drinking and other industrial use. This option may prove costly and i s not
   considered.

   The option o f usingthe other source, i.e. ground water, was investigated. Duringreconnaissance survey o f
   the project area it was observed that shallow tube wells exist within the project site and its adjoining areas
   and ground water i s available at a depth o f about 40m to 50m. Samples o f existing water samples were
   collected from the site and tested against the WHO drinking water quality parameters. The results were
   found satisfactory. Hence, at Hissar-e-Shahi, water will be supplied from shallow tube wells within the
   project site and its adjoining areas where ground water i s available at a depth o f about 40m to 50m.. Three
   tube wells o f 1.0 cfs. capacity will be installed and each is expected to operate about eight hours daily.
   This will be sufficientto meet the daily requirements o fthe park.

   For the Kamari Industrial Park, water will be supplied from the Logar Well Fields, about 4 km. to the
   west o f the proposed Park site. The Logar Fields are being developed to supply water to Kabul city and
   adjacent areas. This will involve the sinking o f several wells, o f which two (LG22 and LG23) will be the
   source o f water supply for Kamari. A main water pipe line will connect the wells to the nearby township
   o f Arzan Kimat and a second pipe will connect the Kamari park to this main line. The Afghan Water
   Supply Authority (AWSA) will be responsible for the sinking o f the wells. Consultants working on the
   design o f this project have confirmed that the wells will be able to meet the water requirements o f the
   industrial park without jeopardizing supply to the other customers. The land over which the pipeline
   connecting Kamarito the main line has not yet been identified.

   Water works. Similar water works will be developed for both parks. The water works shall comprise o f
   undergroundtank, pumproom, overhead tower and generator. Water obtained from the tube wells will be
   stored in covered RCC under-ground tanks, to be located in the water works area. Water from the
   underground storage tanks shall be pumped to the overhead towers. For this purpose, pumps shall be
   installed in the pump rooms, proposed to be constructed on the underground storage tanks. A gravity
   flow water distribution network comprising o f pipes, gate valves, air valves, washouts etc. will be
   provided in both parks. The system will be connected to the overhead tower and underground tank
   respectively for low and highpressure zones. The pipe network will be connected to the industrial units
   and other facilities.

   Social assessment

   Hissar-e-Shahi

   The Hissar-e-Shahi Project Area has no agricultural activity and, with the exception o f 26 migrant
   families, no habitation either. The resettlement issue regarding these 26 families, and its resolution, i s


                                                        56

discussed below. The Study Area for the proposed park, Le., the adjoining area where an impact i s likely
to be felt, contains four settlements (see box for a brief description o f each). A socio-economic survey
was carried out in three o f these settlements covering the 26 households in the Project Area and 256
households in the Study Area. The Study Area households were distributed as follows: a) Hissar-e-Shahi
Camp (48), Kabul Camp (88) and Chora Gali (120). The field survey data was complemented by data
collected from relevant departments in Jalalabad. The variables covered by the survey related to
demography, occupation, education, housing, health, family income, expenditure and debt, basic
amenities, livestock, role o f women and cultural values. The survey also covered the perceptions o f
different stakeholders about the project (duringand after the construction stage).

Interviews were conducted with notables (Maliks) and stakeholders and group discussions were held with
a cross section o f the people from the different settlements. Stake holders were interviewed in the field,
through structural questionnaires with the help o f local interpreter having good command on Pashto
language. The detailed results are provided in the ESIA for the Hissar-i-Shahi Park. The main findings
withregardto household characteristics are as follows.

The dominant family size group inthe project area has between 3 and 4 family members and, inthe study
area, between 5 and 6 members. The female population i s about 49 per cent. Illiteracy rates are high,
about 80% and most working members o f the households work as laborers or servants. 95% o f the
households in the project area use water from community tube wells on payment and only 5 % carry
water from Nangarhar Canal. In the study area, 50% households obtain their water from the community
tube wells and 50% from Nangarhar Canal. N o household in either the project or study area has access to
electricity. N o proper sanitatioddrainage facilities are available and waste water i s disposed o f in the
open spaces just outside the houses. Telephone, Post Office, Metalled road facilities are not available in
the Project and Study Area. However, these facilities are available in Jalalabad city. There i s only one
school inthe Study Area located inthe Kabul Camp; it i s usedbothby girls and boys. The buildingo f the
school i s in poor condition. There are only two dispensaries in the Study Area and only two private
clinics.

Prejudice against female education i s strong and most o f the respondents. Female respondents in the area
informed that there was no lady doctor, trained lady health visitors or maternity homes inthe area and are
constrained by the Pardah (veil) system from going outside and receiving treatment. They travel outside
the village only in a serious condition to get treatment from the hospital in Jalalabad City or to attend
weddings o f relatives. Three maternal death cases have been reported during the last one year. The
women have no formal role inthe authority structure o f the villages inthe Project and Study Areas.


     Settlements around Hessar-e-Shahi Industrial P a r k

    Hissar-e-Shahi Camp.The Hissar-e-Shahi camp is partly located inthe Project Area and partly inthe Study
    Area. The people living in this camp are Pashto speaking Afghan Muhajreen (refugees), originally from
    Kunar Province (Afghanistan), and residing at this site for the last one and a half year. Their main
     occupation is labor. The camp i s located at an approximate distance o f a half kilometer (km) from main
    road is accessible through a dirt track. The camp completely lacks infrastructural facilities. The residents
     fetch water from an existing tubewell located about 1 km from the site by paying Rs.50 /month to the
     contractor. The residents are prone to water borne diseases due to lack o f sanitation facilities.

    26 families were residing inthe area o f Hissar-e-Shahi camp that lies within the Project Area limits. During
    the focus group discussion conducted by the environmental and social consultants in the camp area, it was
    revealed that the people are happy about the proposed project but requires compensation for relocation.

    Kabul Camp. The Kabul Camp i s located in the Study Area o f the proposed Park and was constructed in
    the early nineties. The camp comprises nine blocks and each block has 170 houses with an approximate



                                                          57

     population o f 1050 people. The main occupants o f the camp are refigees from Pakistan and originally
     belonged to the Pashtoon and Tajik tribes. The camp is accessible through a dirt track. There i s only one
     primary school for both boys and girls near the Kabul Camp. The camp lacks in institutional and civic
     facilities. Water for domestic use i s self carried from a community tubewell by paying Rs.50 /month to the
     contractor. The influential people have their own water taps in their houses and pay Rs. 350Imonth water
     charges to the contractor. The pressing needs o f the Kabul Camp residents, as articulated through a survey,
     are hospital, high school, transport, electricity and water etc.

     Chora Gali. The village Chora Gali i s located on the right bank o f Nangarhar Canal about 25 km from
     Jalalabad city and 3 km from the main road (Thorkham-Jalalabad). The people living in Chora Gali are
     Afghan Muhajreen from the following tribes: Mola Khail, Mian Khail and Mulla Khail. Pashto is the only
     language spoken inthis village. Around 650 houses exist inthe village which has a population o f 5100. As
     inother cases, the village lacks ineducational, institutional andcivic facilities. A few residents usually shift
     to Kabul City during the summer season. The residents use Nangarhar Canal as the main source o f water
     for both domestic as well as drinking purposes. The main diseases afflicting the villagees are Malaria,
     Typhoid, Diarrhea and Tuberculosis etc. Maliks are the influential people o f this village. Pure drinking
     water, hospital, school, transport and electricity are the pressing needs o f this village.

     Nachaabad. The Nachaabad village i s located northwest o f the proposed industrial park at an approximate
     distance o f 4.5 km. The Pashto speaking people living in this village are basically from Rodat District and
     are locals. The village is accessible from the proposed Industrial Park through a dirt track whereas an
     independent road connects this village to main Torkham-Jalalabad road. The main source o f income i s
     through agricultural activities. The only and the nearest source o f surface water i s Nangarhar Canal and
     agricultural activities are dependent on this source. For drinking purposes, mostly community shallow
     pumps are being utilized. The village altogether lacks inbasic amenities, infrastructure etc. however, the
     living conditions o f residents of this village are much better in comparison to other villages described
     above.



The sample survey findings show that the average monthly income i s US$69 in the Project Area and
US$121 in the Study Area. Several households had expenditures greater than incomes and most o f them
reported to be under debt. 52% o f the respondents in Study Area borrowed US$ 1,000 US$ or less while
30% borrowed more than US$2,000 duringlast year. The money borrowedby the residents o f the Project
and Study Area was mainly used for meeting the household needs (i.e. marriage, household expenditure,
construction o f house and business).

The area has no archaeological importance except one grave yard which i s about 50 to 70 years old.
However, this i s located far away from the proposed IndustrialPark location.

Kamari

There are six villages in the Study Area o f the proposed Kamari Park. These are (with number o f
households inparentheses): Karaz Bakar (350), Daminah (700), Hussain Khel (600), Kila Mohsin (125),
Kamari (100) and Arzan Kemat (650). A socio-economic survey similar to that for Hissar-e-Shahi was
carried out covering 50 households, including seven in the Project Area and 43 in the Study Area. The

exceptional findings are the following: a) higher average household incomes - $220 per month in the
socio-economic profile as revealed by the survey i s broadly similar to that in Hissar-e-Shahi. The main

Study Area compared to only $69 in Hissar-e-Shahi; b) a higher proportion o f households involved in
farming (16.3%) and trading (25.65) than in Hissar-e-Shahi; c) 95% of houses are cemented compared to
very few in Hissar-e-Shahi. 56% o f the households obtain water from community hand pumps and the
rest from dug wells. No households have access to electricity and there are no proper sanitatioddralnage
facilities. One of the villages has a primary school and two have a middle school. Boys and girls use the
same schools. Illiteracy rates are lower than inHissar-e-Shahi, i.e., 43%. This reflects the relatively better




                                                            58

educational opportunities due to proximity to Kabul. There i s not a single dispensary and no Lady Health
Visitor i s available inthe Study Area. As i s Hissar-e-Shahi, there are strong biases against women.


Resettlement issues

The land acquisition for the parks will be carried out according to the land acquisition laws o f
Afghanistan, Section-40 o f the Constitution o f Afghanistan contains relevant legal provisions for the
compulsory acquisition o f land in the public welfare. Land being used for the development o f Hissar-e-
Shahi IndustrialPark belongs to the government (Canal Department), therefore no compensation for land
i s foreseen.

There are some resettlement issues regarding the Hissar-e-Shahi site. Twenty six families had been
residing inthe Project Area o f the Hissar-e-Shahi site. They were living intemporary mudhuts with a tent
or plastic cover as ceiling. All o f them are immigrants and had been residing at the site on a temporarily
basis (a list o f the affectees i s provided in the Environmental Management Plan document). Almost all
the affected persons are relatives o f each other and their huts are located in isolation from nearby
settlements.

AISA started consultation with these affectees for the evacuation of site prior to the issue o f the Draft EIA
report. Three major meetings between AISA and the affectees were held. The first meeting was held on
June 19, 2006 which was also attended by the environmental consultants. As per the demand o f the
affectees, a compensation payment o f U S $100 per family plus one tent worth $ 100 for each family was
approved by AISA. This i s a fairly generous compensation since the mud walls for one hut can be put
together by two unskilled laborers in one day, which would cost in labor terms US$5 given the current
wage rate o f US$ 2.5 per day for unskilled workers. The evacuation process was completed on August
18, 2006 as per agreement between AISA and the affectees. The families have been relocated to an
adjacent government land. The process i s documented inthe EIA.

There are only three permanent structures in the project area. These are constructed o f burnt brick
masonry walls in cement mortar with precast concrete roof. They were constructed for the Administration
o f the Kabul Camp but are now abandoned with no doors and windows and the concrete roof largely
removed. These are to be demolished but no compensation will be required to be paid to anybody. There
i s a possibility that during the project construction, the contractor or the client may rehabilitate the
structure for their use and remove them at the end without any cost to the client.

There are four structures wholly on the proposed site; three at the Northern boundary and one at the
south-west comer boundary. Details o f these buildingsare provided inthe ESIA. One o f the buildingsi s a
de-mining stores building. It i s in a bad condition and needs to be demolished although, after some
renovation it could be used as a site office duringthe construction o f the park and eventually demolished.
There i s a small room close to the De-mining Stores building which could be used as a store during
construction and then demolished. There i s an observation tower and office building, also in poor
condition which could be used temporarily during construction and then demolished, All these buildings
are inpoor shape and owned by the Government; hence, no compensation i s required.

Two structures are partly within the original site demarcation. These include the boundary wall o f one
cemented house and part o f a residential compound. As first household i s unwilling to remove the
boundary wall, and the second i s unwilling to relocate, the site demarcation was slightly modified to by-
pass these structure. Hence, there are no resettlement issues in Kamari. However, as in Hissar-e-Shahi,
there could be opportunities to generate a range o f benefits for the households in the Study Area o f the
Kamari Park (see discussion inAttachment 4 under Social Management Plan).




                                                      59

The Environmental and Social Manapement Plan

Environmental Management Plans have been prepared for both parks, based on the environmental and
preliminary social assessments. These plans lists the mitigation and remedial measures to be implemented
during the construction and operation o f the parks to minimize, redress and alleviate the impact o f water
and air pollution, noise, chemical & biological pollution from industrial activities, and the impact o f the
requisite services network including on land use. Specifically, the EMPs:

      outline the mitigation measures requiredto avoid or minimize the negative impacts.
      develop a monitoring mechanism and identify the monitoring indicators for assessing effectiveness
      o f the mitigation measures.
      define the roles and responsibilities o f the implementing agency, AHA, in implementing the EMPs
      and identify areas where these roles and responsibilities can be shared with other parties involved in
      the execution and monitoring o fthe Project.
      define the requirements necessary for documenting compliance with the E M P and communicating it
      to all concerned regulatory agencies.
      prescribe the mechanisms for            on-going consultation with stakeholders during project
      implementation.

The EMPs will be part o f contract and tender documents to ensure that the cost o f EMP implementation i s
built into the contractor costs. The Contractor will be legally bound for the execution and implementation
o f the EMP. AISA with the help o f an independent monitoring company (see below for details on the
company) will ensure that coordination with project stakeholders on environmental and social matters as
requiredby the EMP i s maintainedthroughout the implementationperiod o f the project.

For each park, the EMP includes a detailed Mitigation Management Matrix that summarizes the
mitigation measures for both the construction and operational stages and, for each measure, identifies the
agencies that would be responsible for monitoring and management. Athough the responsibilities for
executing and monitoring the mitigation measures has been delegated to different organizations, AISA
will hold the primary responsibility for ensuring the full implementation o f the EMP. AISA and the
contractors will ensure that the mitigation measures mentioned in the Mitigation Management Matrix
(MMM)are followed duringimplementationofthe proposedproject.

A broad-based social assessment will be carried out in early 2007 to build upon the preliminary
assessment. The issues faced by women and their needs will be assessed separately in this report (the
preliminary assessment that has been done did not involve separate interviews with the women members
o f the households). Female social specialists will be part o f the team. A Social Management Plan (SMP)
will be developed based on this assessment. The broader assessment will identify the specific training
needs o f the households, in particular women, and the SMP will identify appropriate training programs
that may help them obtain jobs in the industrial park in the construction and, inparticular the operational
phase. The SMP will also provide recommendations on how the industrial park operations may help
improve the supply o f social services, inparticular for women who, as the preliminary assessment shows,
are severely deprived o f these services. Strategies for introducing good working practices inthe industrial
units to be located in the parks, including the treatment of women workers and child labor will also be
spelt out. The implementation o f the SMP will require dedicated attention to this.

An Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) has beenprepared for the project and
identifies the specific measures to be taken to implement the EMP and the SMP. In addition to dealing
with the impact already predicted based on currently known design parameters, the Framework also
outlines an approach to deal with environmental and social impact o f sub-projectshnfrastructural
interventions that will be identified later, such as land fill sites, location o f power distribution line linking


                                                       60

the parks to the main transmission lines, location o f water pipeline linkingthe Kamari Park to the main
water transmission line. The ESMF contains a summary o f the EMP, plans for an SMP, the Mitigation
Management Matrices for the two parks and an action plan to operationalize the EMP and SMP.

An international expert will be hired as an Environmental Manager in AISA for 18 months to help
implement the ESMF. The project will provide funding for this. He/she will be assisted by two local
experts, an Environmental Officer and a Social Development Officer, who will be funded by AISA.

The Institutional Arranpements for Imdementinpthe EMPand the SMP

The overalllegal and regulatory framework

The EMP and SMP will be implemented in the context o f the overall legislative and regulatory
framework for environmental management in Afghanistan. Two important aspects o f this framework are
the Environmental ProtectionAct approved by the Afghanistan cabinet inDecember 2005 and the Afghan
National Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA) established in 2005. The Act spells out frameworks
for managing natural resource conservation, biodiversity, drinking water, pollution control, and
environmental education, and clarifies the administrative roles at the national level and coordination with
provincial authorities. NEPA i s a regulatory authority and mainly responsible for developing and
implementing national environmental policies and strategies in order to integrate environmental issues
and sustainable development approaches into the legal and regulatory frameworks. NEPA i s also
responsible for assessing the effectiveness o f implementation o f the environmental legislations and
regulations and related measures. NEPA i s expected to actively coordinate and cooperate with Ministries,
Provincial Councils and District and Village Councils, public bodies and private sector on all
environment related issues. The Afghanistan Environmental ProtectionAct empowers NEPA to take legal
action against non-compliance o f environmental legislations and regulations and impose penalties. NEPA
i s a newly established agency and lacks the capacity to carry out its mandate effectively. This i s
particularly true o f its provincial offices."

Environmental and social managementcapacity inAISA

AISA, in collaboration with NEPA, will be responsible for ensuring the overall implementation o f the
EMP and SMP. It will ensure that the contractor carries out all project activities as per provisions o f EMP
and other applicable environmental laws and regulations. During the operation o f the industrial park,
AISA's Industrial Parks Department will be responsible for ensuring that the individual tenants comply
with the EMP and SMP. An independent monitoring agency will be contracted to monitor the
implementation o f the EMP and SMP during the construction stage and initial operational period o f the
project.

Environmental and Social Policy. AISA currently doesn't have any environmental or social policy. AISA
will formulate an environmental and social policy that: a) states its commitment to prevent pollution,
continuously improve environmental performance, and comply with applicable laws and international
health, safety and environmental practices; b) states its commitment to ensuring that the industrial parks,
including the individual enterprises, operate in a manner that i s consistent with social good practices, and
c) state how AISA will implement its environmental protection and management plan, and its social
management plan. The formulation o f the policy should take into account the stated goals and the level o f


11 These offices lack qualified staff, environmental monitoring equipment, laboratories, computers and other office
equipment. There i s also lack o f awareness among provincial office staff about the roles and functions o f the NEPA.
Itis necessary to buildcapacity inthe regional offices through logistic support, providing qualified technical staff,
and in-house and external training to key staff on environmental management, monitoring and auditing.



                                                         61

resources that AISA i s willing to commit to achieve them. Once established, the environmental and social
policy will help communicate AISA environmental and social management commitment to its staff,
customers, government officials and others.

Suggested institutional set-up within AISAfor implementation of the EMP and SMP. AISA will set up an
Environmental Management Unit (EMU) within the Industrial Parks Department. It will be headed by an
Environmental Manager with an adequate number o f environmental specialists. For the first year o f its
operation, the EMUwill be provided with the services o f an external environmental advisor who will help
set up the environmental management system and train the local environmental staff. The EMUwill work
inclose coordinationwith the other unitsinthe IndustrialParkDepartment that will beresponsible for the
construction and operational phases o f the park projects. The Planning Section in AISA's Industrial Park
Department has the primeresponsibility for supervising the engineering related aspects during design and
infrastructure development o f the industrial parks and the construction o f industrial units. Environmental
staff will work with this section in order to implement the EMP at the construction stage. AISA will also
appoint a Social Development Officer to design and implement social management initiatives and ensure
social compliance by the tenants o f the parks.

AISA will operate the parks for the first three years o f its operation. After this, the industrial park
management contract will be transferred by AISA to the Investor's Association, comprised o f the tenants
o f the parks. The Association will appoint a private firm management firm for the operation and
maintenance o f the park, to be designated as the Industrial Park Manager. The Manager will be
responsible for environmental and social management, monitoring and compliance within the EMP and
SMP, including operation and maintenance o f the waste water treatment plant. During the operational
stage, the EMUand the Social Officer will work with the Operations and Maintenance Section o f AISA
inensuringthat the IndustrialParkManager is carrying out itsresponsibilities adequately.

The major role and responsibilities o f the environmental staff are listedinthe Box.

    Role and responsibilities o f the environmental staff

          ensure the project's compliance with environmental regulations and donor requirements; and
          stakeholder participation inthe project design
          ensure that the terms o f reference for Supervisory Consultants adequately cover environmental issues
          acquire approval for environmental mitigation and monitoring budgets
          set up systems for environmental management
          ensure that the Contractors develop and carry out environmental implementation plans that are
          consistent with the EMP
          coordinate with regulatory agencies including NEPA and local NGOs that could assist AISA in
          independent reviews o f the environmental compliance
          assist inobtaining EIA approvals from the NEPA
          supervise and provide technical guidance to the project monitoring staff at regional office to help
          ensure compliance with the E M P
          coordinate with private investors and regional EnvironmentalProtection Directorate during
          preparation o f EIA(s) for their specific industries.

          supervise all environmental management and monitoring activities during the operation o f the parks.
          coordinate with the staff to monitor environmental compliance duringindustrialpark operation
          develop and sustain a working partnership between AISA, NEPA, provincial agriculture and canal
          departments, district administrations, NGOs and other related publiciprivate sector organizations.
          report on the progress o f environmental compliance to the federal and provincial offices o f NEPA.




                                                           62

Role of other players

NEPA.     As a regulatory authority, NEPA's main function is to develop and implement the national
environmental policies; hence, its role vis-a-vis the industrial parks will be that o f an independent
monitoring agency. NEPA will inspect the parks at its own convenience or on receipt o f complaint from
any person or NGO about non-compliance o f any environmental legislation or its part. As NEPA will be
the issuing authority o f NOCs for the industrial units to be located in the parks, it will be kept informed
about the implementation o f suggested mitigation and remedial measures through EMP. AISA will keep
close liaison with NEPA.

Implementation Supervision Consultant. AISA will appoint an implementation supervision consultant to
oversee the work o f the contractors. The Consultant will be responsible for: a) Supervising the works o f
Contractor; b) Ensuringthat the day-to-day construction activities are carried out in an environmentally
and socially sound and sustainable manner; c) Assisting the environment staff in coordinating with the
NEPA, Provincial Environmental Protection Directorate, and provincial agriculture and canal
departments, district administration, NGOs and other publidprivate sector organizations.

Project Contractors. For the proposed project, AISA will appoint Contractors for the construction and
other project activities. The Contractors will be responsible for the implementation of, or adherence to, all
the provisions o f the EMP and SMP and with any environmental and other code o f conduct required by
NEPA. Overall responsibility for the Contractor's environmental performance will rest with the Director
IndustrialParks, AISA.

Independent Monitoring Contractor (IMC). To fulfill the monitoring requirements set out in the EMP and
SMP, AISA will appoint an independent monitoring contractor (IMC). Functioning as an independent
organization, the I M C will be responsible for carrying out monitoring according to the requirements o f
the EMP and SMP. It will directly report to the AISA and closely liaise with NEPA, other concerned
government authorities and the World Bank. It will prepare compliance report and documents as
suggested in the EMP and SMP and submit them to AISA. The I M C will also be responsible for the
review and updating o f EMP and SMP as and when required. The I M C will be responsible for the
implementationo f EMP and SMP only for the first year o f the operational stage.




                                                     63

                      TECHNICALANNEX 11:PROJECTPROCESSINGSCHEDULE
                                           -
                      AFGHANISTAN:PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT           PROJECT


           ProjectSchedule            Planned                     Actual
   Project Concept Note Review        03131/2005                  03131/2005
   Initial PID to PIC                 0411512005                  12I2Ol2005
   Initial ISDS to PIC                0411512005                  12/2012005
   Appraisal                          02121/2006                  10/1512006
   Negotiations                       07/01/2006                  0111712007
   Board Approval                     08/15/2006                  02/22/2007
   Planned date o f effectiveness     1010112006                  0313112007
   Planned date o f Mid-term          01/03/2009                  06/30/2009
   review
   Planned closing date               06/30/2011                  06/30/2011


2. Key institutions responsible for preparation of the project. The Ministry o f Commerce and
Industry,andthe Afghanistan Investment Support Agency.


Bankstaff andconsultantswho workedonthe project:


  Task Teammembers                Title                                         Unit
  Samuel Munzele Maimbo           Co-Task Manager                               SASFP
  Syed A. Mahmood                 Co-Task Manager                               SASFP
I M. Reazul Islam               I Senior Private Sector DeveloDment SDecialist I SASFP      I
 Nazir Ahmad                      ET Consultant                                  SASFP
  Sheila Braka-Musiime            Counsel                                       LEGMS
  Deepal Fernando                 Senior Procurement Specialist                  SARPS
  UrujAhmad S. Kirmani            Consultant (Procurement)                       SARPS
I Rahimullah Wardak             I Procurement Analvst                          I SARPS      I




                                                   64

                  TECHNICALANNEX-12: DOCUMENTSTHE PROJECTFILE
                                                          IN
                   AFGHANISTAN:PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT            PROJECT

A.    ProjectImplementationPlan


B.    BankStaffAssessments
1. World Bank: PSDNeeds Assessment, May 2002
2. World Bank: PSD Support Project, Project IdentificationAide Memoire, March 21,2005
3, World Bank: PSD Support Project, Project Pre-Appraisal Mission, May 21,2005
4. World Bank: Afghanistan InvestmentClimate Assessment (ICA), December 2005


C:    Other
1. AISA: Business Plan, April 2005
2. MIGA: AISA Needs Assessment, October 2005
3. Government of Afghanistan, Ministryof Commerce: Capacity Building Programfor PSD Directorate,
   March2006
4. ADB: Private Sector Assessment for Afghanistan, April 2005
5. DFID: ASIL MOC InceptionReport, September 2005
6. World Bank: Country Study: Afghanistan - State Building, Sustaining Growth, and Reducing
  Poverty, dated September 2004




                                               65

                     TECHNICALANNEX 13: STATEMENTOFLOANS CREDITS
                                       -                                      AND

                        AFGHANISTAN:PRIVATESECTOR DEVELOPMENT                  PROJECT
                                        -
Eecipiemt                               -Grant     APcIcliJ oare                            UMObUrSEa   DLIDUIW
                                        umber ryieernmt Dare     By 06DO m
                                                           Date   cosrqoae
mpct aescnpbon              N O M

''FULLY-DWRSEDIDASDRGKANIS
ISUMICSTATEOFAFGHANISTAN                 H m O    06104102                          10m           0.E       1146
EMERGENCYPUBLICAMrllNISTRA11CI                    04/09/02            OI,+bd106        OM
                                                  0hJ07(02            09YW06

ISWMICSTATEOFAFGHANWAN                   HW.0     OW06102                           ism           0.a:      17 19
EMERGENCYEDUCAION REHABD N                        0h108102            1111WO6          om
                                                  ow11102             rn1rn'OS

ISLAMICSTATEOFAFGHANISTAN                HOW0     0006/02                           42 m          0.E       46 05
EMERGENCYCOMMUNITTEMWIMRMT                        QWOB102             Ci3/0?106        108
                                                  06/11/02            1Z/Jl/Od

ISLAMICSTATEOf AFGHANISTAN               HOW-0    Oh'24?fO                             E4C        0.a:       9 05
2ND EMERGENCYPUBLICADMINIST                       OEI30+43            W/1410b          om
                                                  07115&3             12131107

ISLAMICSTATEOF AFGHANISTAN               H072.0   12/23/03                          9s m          0.a:      96 30
EMERGENCYNATIOMLSOLIDARITY                        01120101            07/31/06         om
                                                  04/05&4             01131107

ISIAMICSTATEOFAFGHANISTAN                Hll4-0   OEd30105                          28 m          0 %       2r OD
EMERGENCYNATIOWL SOLla4RITY                       07/13&5             12115105         OM
                                                  0R116!05            03/31!07

ISUMICSTATEOFAFGHANISTAN                 Hl81.O   1113105                           aoom m        O W       79 18
AF PROGRPMMSUPWRT-INSTELDG                        12'15tb5            12/29/05
                                                  I2/2?105            C3/D'06

TOTALSFOR FUUY.MSBURSEDIWi SDR GRAMS                                               P I R 40       Offi     z m 53
                                                                                       1OB

* ' MSBUWNG IDA SDR GRANTS
ISLAMICSTAIE OF AFGHANISTAN             HM7.O     OW06tW                            33 m          0.96      37 46
EMERGENCYINFPASTRLmLlRERECON                     Q008102              121?2106         OM
                                                 O&Jll&               W5/30106

ISLAMICSTATEOF AFGHANISTAN               H(143.0 06105/03                           50 60         16.m      40 50
HEPLIHSECTOREhlERGENWRECrJN                      06/28/03             12l13106        O M
                                                  07117/03            01131108

ISLAMICSTATE OFAFGHANISTAN              H054-0   0026103                            18 Bo         1 38      10 76
NATLEMERGENCYEMPLOYMENT PROG                     0U30&3               03/17105        om
                                                 01/22/03             W/yJ/O?

ISWMICSTATEOF AFGHANISTAN               -
                                        H119.0   0712Ptbt                           35 m         26.69       9 39




                                                  66

                TECHNICAL      ANNEX 13: STATEMENTOFLOANS CREDITSCONT..
                                    -                  AND                         .

~)cipient                                 Grant                                          DbbUsed
                                         #umbel

FTOJQCtDQSCtIptIon          Notes                    I

EDUCATIONQUALINIMPROVEMENT                               12#06           OW
                                                         C13fJll09

ISIAMICSTATEOFAFGHANlSTAN                                               27 m       n45         5 96
PUEUCAOMINISTRAIONCAP WlL                                 I2f27/0        om
                                                         0615a106

ISLAMICSTATE OFAFGHANISTAN                                              40 U3      31 6b       165
STRENGTHENINGHGHER EDUCATION                             09/18/06        Om
                                                       c6/wia

ISLAMICSTATE OFAFGHANISTAN                                              45 m       25 38      1534
EMERGENCYTRANSPDRIREHAB                                  12/27/06        om
                                                         CbfW07

ISLAMICSTATE OFAFGHANISTAN                                              30 m       21 05      10 44
HEALTH SEC EMERGNU RECO(SUPP1                            12/28/0         om
                                                         OX/31101

ISLAMICSTATE OF AFGHANISTAN                                             40 m        4 38      36 72
EMERGENCYNATIONALSOLILMRRY                               09111/06        om
                                                         03/31/07

ISIAMICSTATEOFAFGHANISTAN                                               40 m       41 86       0 00
UFSANWATERSECIOR PRQJECT                                                 Om
                                                       ce/wia

ISLAMICSTATE OFAFGHANISTAN                                              20 m       21 05       0 DO
EMERGENCYHORTICULTRE&LREESlK                                             om
                                                         lZ/Jl!OB

ISLAMICSTAEOFAFGHANISTAN                                                50 m       28 81       2 15
SUSTP.INBLEEVOF NAl RESOURCE                              11I 14105      om
                                                         07/1)1/11

ISLAMICSTATE OFAFGHANISTAN                                             izom       122 11       0 OD
II EMERGENCYNAlNLWLIOARITY                                               om
                                                        OalWOti

TOTALSFOR DBEURSINGILMSDR GRANTS                                       535.443
                                                                         ow       366 OB    193 36


TOTALSFORla4SDR GRANTS                                                81683       366 06    18188
                                                                         1 OB

COUNTRYTOTW FOR ALL GRANTS                                            ai6.m       366 08    i s i a9




                                                67

   TECHNICALANNEX - 14: COUNTRYAT A GLANCE

AFGHANISTAN:PRIVATESECTOR DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT




                    7.5



                    2 3



                     2#
                     45
                    166

                     4.2
                     19
                     Y




                   ia&




                                   I  -
               6.7                     1
               .-
                   gDbl

                    a5

                    -28



             1142  nu




                            zms

                             11.3
                              16A
                              1 0 0
                              14.3
                             m.3
                              140
                              4.9
                            ;zJ




                        68

1EM   tllL  mol
  6 U      l%Q
l W 6      IJP
 dY      - 311%




          69

          TECHNICALANNEX 15:MAP
                          -

AFGHANISTAN:PRIVATESECTOR DEVELOPMENT
                                   PROJECT

               MAPATTACHED




                    70

MAP SECTION


                       60E                                                                        65E                                                                                            70E                                                                 75E
                                                                                           Amu                                                                                                               To

                                                                                              Darya                  UZBEKISTAN                                                                        Dushanbe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Murghob
                                                                                                                                                                            TAJIKISTAN
                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                         Chardzhev                                                                      To                                                TAJIKISTAN
                                                                                                                                        To                                             Kulob                                        To Shazud
                                                                                                                                    Dushanbe                               To
                                                                                                                                                             Qurghonteppa
                           AFGHANISTAN                          TURKMENISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Faisabad
                                                                                                              JOWZJAN
                                                                                                              JAWZJAN
                                                                                                                                                                          Pyandzh
                                                                                                                                B A L K H                                KONDOZ
                                                                                                                                                                         KUNDUZ                                                      ir
                                                                                                                                                                         Kondoz
                                                                                                                                                                         Kunduz
                                                                                                                                                                                           TTaloqan
                                                                                                                                                                                              aloqan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Pam             h
                                                                                                                 Sheberghan
                                                                                                                                      Mazar-e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             s
                                                                                                                                       Sharif
                                                                                                                                       Sharif                                           TAKHAR            BADAKHSHAN                    u
                                                                                                                   Saripul                                                                                                         TTirich Mir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    irich
                                                                                                                                             Samangan                           Baghlan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              K   (7690 m)
                                                           To                                      Meymaneh
                                                        Mary                                                                            SAMANGAN                               B A G H L A N  
                                                                                         F A R YA B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    u
                                                                                                                                                                                                              d                   To
                            To                                                                                                                                                                                                    Chitral
                        Mashad                                                                                SAR-E POL
                                                                                                                SARIPUL                                                                                              
              35N                                                                              Morghab                                                                                          i      nNURESTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                          NURISTAN
                                                                                                                                                      Darya-yeQonduz


                                                                         B A D G HI S
                                                                                                                                                                                      H
                                                                                                                                                                          Mahmud-e Raqi
                                                                                                                                                                                    Raqi                                                                                35N
                                      P                                                                                                                                                  KAPISA
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Nuristan
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Nurestan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                          a r                           Qal`eh-ye Now
                                                                        Qal`eh-ye                                                             Bamian
                                                                                                                                              Bamyan
                                                                                                                                                
                                               o                                                                                                               PARWAN                                                    Asadabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                       Charikar
                                                                                                                                                                                       Charikar
                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                   p                                                                                                                                                LAGHMAN                       To
                                                       a                                                                                                                                                            KUNAR
                                                          m    i                     a  ng   e                                 BAMYAN                                       KABUL
                                                                                                                                                                                     KABUL                Mehtarlam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mardan
                                                        Herat     s
                                                                      u     s   R                    Chaghcharan                                                                                                                PAKISTAN
                                                                Harirud
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Jalalabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                     WA R D A K Meydan                 Shahr                                                                      INDIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Khyber Pass
                                   H E R AT                                                                                                                                     LOGAR              NANGARHAR       
                                                                                         G H O R                                                                                                                             To Peshawar
                                                                                                                                                                                     Pol-e `Alam
                                                                                                                                                                                            `Alam
                                                                                                                                                                                       PAKTIKA
                                                                                                                                                                            Ghazni
                                                                                                                                                                            Ghazni         Gardiz
                                                                                                                                                                                            Gardiz
               ISLAMIC                                                                                                 Helmand        G H A Z NI                                                KOWST                               Indus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kowst       Kohat 0    50          100   150 Kilometers
              REPUBLIC                                                                                  O
                                                                                                        U R U Z G A N

                                                                                                                                                                               Sharan
               OF IRAN                                    Farah
                                                             F A R A H                                                                                                                                                  0            50          100 Miles
                                                                                                      Tarin
                                                                                                      Tarin Kowt                                            PA K TI K A             
                                      Harut
                                        
                                                     Farah
                                                       
                                                                                                                           Z A B OL
                                                                                                                                   U
                                                                                                                            Qalat
                                                                                                                               
                                                                       
                                                                    Khash
                                                                                                                      Tarnak
                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                     Kandahar
                                                                              Lashkar Gah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AFGHANISTAN
                          Hamun-e
                                                                                              Arghandab
                            Saberi                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                         Zhob

                                                    D a s h t - I M a r g o                                                                                                                                                                PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                              Zaranj

                                             N I M R O                                                                                                                                                                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                        U Z
                                                                  H E L M A N D
                                                                   H I L M A N D            K A N D A H A R     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RIVERS
                                                Helmand                                                                       To
                                                                                                                              Quetta                                                                                                       MAIN ROADS
              30N
                                            Gowd-e
NOVEMBER                                    Zereh                                                                                                                                                                                          RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                          30N                                                               IBRD
                                                                                                                              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                              PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                              shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES              33358
        2004                                                                                                                  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any

               60E                                     PAKISTAN                                                              endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                              65E                                                                                                     70E

