Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H275-AF 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Private Sector Development Support Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
AFGHANISTAN INVESTMENT SUPPORT AGENCY 
 
Dated March 8, 2007  
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H275-AF 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated March 8, 2007, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
“Association”) and AFGHANISTAN 
INVESTMENT SUPPORT AGENCY (the “Project Implementing Entity”) (the “Project 
Agreement”) in connection with the Financing Agreement of same date between Islamic 
Republic of Afghanistan (the “Recipient) and the Association 
 
(the “Financing Agreement”).  The Association and the Project Implementing Entity 
hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing 
Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Project 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement or 
the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II - PROJECT
 
2.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project.  To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out Part 1 and 
Part 2(a) of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions, and shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for its Respective Parts of the Project. 
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Association and the Project Implementing Entity shall otherwise 
agree, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out its Respective Parts of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - TERMINATION 
 
3.01. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(c) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
provisions of this Agreement shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
4.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Representative is the President and Chief 
Executive Officer of AISA. 
 
Page  3
-2- 
4.02. The 
Association
’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
4.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Address is: 
 
Afghanistan Investment Support Agency (AISA) 
Opposite Ministry of Foreign Affairs 
Kabul 
Afghanistan 
Tel.: 93 (0) 20-210 3404 
e-mail: 
info@aisa.org.af
AGREED at Kabul, Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  
 
/s/ Mariam J. Sherman 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
AFGHANISTAN INVESTMENT SUPPORT AGENCY 
 
By  
/s/ Omar Zakhilwal 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  4
-3- 
SCHEDULE 
 
Execution of the Project 
Implementing Entity’s  
Respective Parts of the Project 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A.  
General 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall be responsible for implementing Parts 1 
and 2(a) of the Project under the oversight of its President and Chief Executive 
Officer. 
 
2. 
(a)  
With respect to Part 1 of the Project, the Project Implementing Entity 
shall vest responsibility for implementation and monitoring in the 
Industrial Parks Development Department. To that end, the Project 
Implementing Entity shall ensure that the Industrial Parks Development 
Department is maintained, with functions, staffing and resources 
satisfactory to the Association. Specifically, the Industrial Parks 
Development Department shall be responsible for: (i) managing and 
overseeing the environmental and social assessments and design work; 
(ii) preparing bid documents for the industrial park, inviting and 
evaluating bids, and awarding contracts; (iii) hiring implementation 
supervision consultants to supervise the construction contractors so as to 
ensure quality; (iv) monitoring the work of the implementation 
supervision consultants by supervising the progress in terms of 
specification, quality and actual progress of the work; (v) implementing 
the Environment Management Plan and the Social Management Plan; 
(vi) overseeing the procurement of consultants, equipment and other 
services for implementing Part 1(b) of the Project; (vii) supervising the 
consultants’ work, and designing and implementing the training program 
and study tours; (viii) preparing withdrawal applications for payments to 
consultants, vendors and other purchases; and (ix) managing the financial 
records for all industrial parks activities and preparing accounts for 
standard financial reporting and management. 
 
(b) 
Within the first two years of the operation of the industrial park, the 
Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that tenants of the industrial 
park form an investors association with terms of reference, duties and 
responsibilities clearly spelt out in a memorandum of understanding 
(“MOU”) to be entered into between the investors association and the 
Project Implementing Entity.  
 
(c) 
After the first three years of the operation of the industrial park, the 
Project Implementing Entity shall use its best efforts to transfer the 
maintenance functions of the industrial park to private management by 
entering into a management contract, satisfactory to the Association, 
with such private management with respect to the industrial park. The 
Page  5
-4- 
management contract shall spell out the functions, rights and 
responsibilities of the private management 
vis-
à-vis
 the Project 
Implementing Entity and the investors association, including general 
maintenance and cleaning, environmental and social management, 
property inspection, reporting on the state of the property, and security. 
The private management shall collect utility service charges from tenants 
but not the lease rents or sales installments, which shall remain 
responsibilities of the Project Implementing Entity. The Project 
Implementing Entity shall retain the authority/responsibility to market 
industrial plots, award leases or sale industrial plots, draw up, negotiate 
and re-negotiate sales/lease agreements, cancel leases, collect installment 
payments on sales and rentals, and prepare operational and capital 
budgets.   The private management may sub-contract certain activities, 
subject to approval of the Project Implementing Entity. The private 
management shall employ and supervise the maintenance, cleaning and 
security staff employed at the park. The private management shall be 
paid a management fee for its services.
 
B. 
Environment and Social Safeguards  
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall no later than September 30, 2007 adopt a 
Social Management Plan acceptable to the Association in accordance with the 
Environment and Social Impact Assessment. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the Environment Management Plan and the Social Management 
Plan, and that the implementation of the Environment Management Plan and the 
Social Management Plan are adequately monitored and supervised throughout 
Project Implementation. 
 
3. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Project Implementing Entity 
shall not amend or waive any provision of the Environmental Management Plan 
or the Social Management Plan if, in the opinion of the Association, such 
amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the 
Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
4. 
 
In implementing and monitoring the Environment Management Plan and the 
Social Management Plan, the Project Implementing Entity shall coordinate and 
work closely with NEPA, which shall also assist in developing the environmental 
management and monitoring capacity of the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
5. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that no land acquisition is carried 
out under the Project without prior consultation with the Association, and that 
any resettlement of people, property or businesses is carried out in accordance 
with a plan approved by the Association prior to the commencement of such 
resettlement or the payment of any compensation related thereto.  
 
Page  6
-5- 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress of its 
Respective Parts of the Project and prepare Project Reports for its Respective 
Parts of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08(b) of the 
General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  
Each such Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall 
be furnished to the Recipient not later one month after the end of the period 
covered by such report for incorporation and forwarding by the Recipient to the 
Association of the overall Project Report.  
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall provide to the Recipient not later than  
four (4) months after the Closing Date, for incorporation in the report referred to 
in Section 4.08(c) of the General Conditions all such information as the Recipient 
or the Association shall reasonably request for the purposes of such Section. 
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports, Audits 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain a financial management system 
and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, both in a manner adequate to 
reflect the operations and financial condition of the Project Implementing Entity, 
including the operations, resources and expenditures related to its Respective 
Parts of the Project. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have its financial statements referred to 
above audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association.  Each audit of these financial statements shall cover the period of 
one fiscal year of the Recipient.  The audited financial statements for each period 
shall be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the end of 
the period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for the Project (including for the Project 
Implem
enting Entity’s Respective Parts of the Project) and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 
to the Financing Agreement. 
 
Section IV. 
Other Undertakings
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall, no later than June 30, 2007, hire an 
implementation supervision consultant with terms of reference, qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Association, who shall work under the Industrial 
Page  7
-6- 
Parks Development Department to ensure timely and quality implementation of 
Part 1 of the Project. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall, no later than March 1, 2007, hire an 
environment specialist and a social development specialist, with terms of 
reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association. 
 
3. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall no later than September 30, 2007 carry out 
base line surveys of: (i) private sector views on the Recipient’s private sector 
policies; and (ii) time taken and costs incurred to start a business. 
 
