Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.: AB2060  
Project Name 
Private Sector Development Support Project 
Region 
South Asia 
Sector 
Private Sector Development 
Project ID 
P090928 
Borrower(s) 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Commerce/ Afghanistan Investment Support 
Agency (AISA)  
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD  
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[X] S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD 
 
Date PID Prepared 
December 19, 2005 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
February 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 2006 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The growth of private enterprise is key to poverty reduction in Afghanistan. Donors have thus far 
aided in establishing the pre-conditions for a developing economy but aid alone cannot build 
long-term nor lasting economic growth.  The private sector must be engaged in order to preserve 
the gains made so far.  There is considerable private entrepreneurial activity in Afghanistan but 
much of this is informal. The challenge of private sector development is to expand legal 
entrepreneurial activity and a shift from an informal and often illicit business environment to a 
formal contract-based private sector.  
 
Presently, there are considerable opportunities for expanding legal entrepreneurial activities by 
reviving traditionally important products, such as carpets and dried fruits. Moreover, the 
Government is keen to see a broadening of the production and export base of Afghanistan 
through the emergence of new products. However, several constraints stand in the way of 
realizing these opportunities, the most important being limited formal access to finance; scarcity 
of land available for development, deficient infrastructure services, lack of management and 
technical business skills in the private sector, and the perceived high political and business risk 
associated with Afghanistan. These relate to four broad reform challenges (Table 1). 
 
Table 1 
: 
Summary of Private Sector Development Constraints 
 
Constraints (see Annex 2 for Details) 
Reform Challenge 
Scarcity of serviced land for development.  
Inadequate and unreliable power supply 
1. Providing land and infrastructure 
Poor security  
High political and business risk environment 
2. Reducing and mitigating political 
and business risks and uncertainty 
Page  2
Lack of management and technical business 
skills 
Limited formal access to finance 
3. Providing financial and non-
financial business development 
services 
Costly and inefficient transportation and 
trade logistics 
Absence of metrology, standards, testing and 
quality infrastructure 
4. Forging external links 
·
Providing land and infrastructure. 
There is an urgent need to make land accessible and 
provide basic infrastructure 
–
power, roads, water and telecommunication. Multiple 
disputes on land title severely restrict the purchase and sale of commercial property. This 
challenge can be addressed on parallel tracks – overall improvements in the state of 
infrastructure and in availability of land (which is a long-term agenda) and targeted 
provision of land and basic infrastructural services through an enclave/zone approach. 
 
·
Providing financial and non-financial business development services. 
There is a need to 
make available credit and non-financial business services that are critical to enterprise 
growth. The latter includes supply of trained labor and managers, business advisory 
services, quality testing and improvement services, and logistical services. 
 
·
Reducing and mitigating political and business risks and uncertainty. 
It will be important 
to reduce and mitigate the risks faced, or perceived, by investors. This includes not only 
the risks associated with political instability, poor law and order and overall insecurity 
but also the uncertainties caused by other factors such as unclear property rights (esp. on 
land), and lack of clarity and predictability in the policy, legal and regulatory framework 
for private sector development.  
 
·
Forging external links. 
The development of the enterprise sector will depend 
considerably on the growth of external linkages in both trade (developing export markets) 
and investment (attracting foreign, including Diaspora, investment). Added to this will be 
Afghanistan’s success in becoming a land bridge between Central and South Asia and 
beyond.  
 
Despite the involvement of many donors in facilitating private sector development activities, 
large gaps remain. The proposed Private Sector Development Support (PSDS) project is 
designed to fill gaps left by other donors and help Afghanistan address the most important 
constraints to private investment. The interventions proposed are based on the World Bank 
Group’s on-going analytic and advisory program on PSD issues, national priorities articulated in 
the Government’s National Priority Program on PSD, and specific requests from the Government 
for assistance. It takes into account the work of other donors and complements their activities.  
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
The over-arching objective of the project is the creation of productive jobs and broad-based 
growth. The specific goals that will contribute to this are:  
Page  3
·
Enhance the provision of land and infrastructural services for enterprise development 
·
Enhance capacity in the private sector to develop and implement projects 
·
Foster innovations (such as new products, processes and markets) and linkages between 
enterprises (between foreign and domestic enterprises, and within the domestic enterprise 
sector, between large and small, and urban and rural, enterprises) 
·
Enhance the capacity of government agencies to analyze PSD issues, and develop and 
implement PSD-related strategies, policies and programs   
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
To achieve these objectives, the project would include four main components: 
 
Component 1:  Development of industrial estates. 
The Government of Afghanistan has 
identified industrial estate development as an important plank of its private sector development 
strategy. It plans to develop industrial estates in various parts of Afghanistan in an effort to 
engender regional balance in industrial growth. It also proposes to involve the private sector in 
the development and operation of the estates. This will require an appropriate policy, regulatory 
and institutional framework. The government has requested World Bank Group assistance in 
developing such a framework. A new department has been created within AISA to manage the 
Government’s industrial estate development program. Infrastructure development in the first 
cohort of industrial parks has commenced, with USAID support.  
 
This component will support the Government’s industrial estate development program in two 
areas: 
 
·
Technical assistance to help develop a policy, regulatory and institutional framework for 
industrial park development, including private sector participation in the development 
and maintenance of such parks. 
 
·
Infrastructure development in selected industrial parks: At present funding is being 
considered for the proposed park at Kamari.  
 
Component 2:  Business Development Services. 
Private sector representatives and government 
officials repeatedly identify the lack of basic business skills in the private sector as a major 
constraint to enterprise development. There is significant demand for business development 
services (BDS) in Afghanistan but there are few providers – mostly NGOs - and among those 
that do exist there is a general lack of capacity in terms of quality and scope.  Most of the 
training is for simple vocations (e.g. sewing and carpentry) with very little for business plan 
development, marketing, customer services or strategic planning.   On the demand side, the 
single most important need revealed by the above-mentioned assessment is assistance with 
business plan development. In regions with strong industrial and/or domestic trade sectors, there 
is considerable demand for marketing training. There is some demand for specialized training 
(such as in computer science, agricultural management, construction services etc.).  
Page  4
This component will support the provision of business development services. The facility will be 
designed such that, over time, it spins off activities to private providers. It may also serve as a 
clearing house where providers already exist. The design of this component will be coordinated 
with IFC’s PEP-MENA facility, the TA facility for SME development in the Middle East and 
North Africa region. Some of the BDS will focus on the enterprises located in the industrial 
parks but the services will be available to the broader enterprise sector.  
Component  3:  Institution building for private sector development.
 
This component will 
support institution building in the public sector to strengthen the legal, policy, regulatory and 
institutional framework for private sector development.  It will help build long-standing capacity 
to formulate and implement policies and programs aimed at supporting private sector 
development. The component will be designed such that it ensures the development of long-
standing indigenous capacity. Support will be provided through two windows. The first window 
will support capacity building for two pre-identified agencies, the Ministry of Commerce and the 
Afghanistan Investment Support Agency (AISA). The second window will consist of a 
competitive fund, which is not earmarked for particular uses but will be allocated to government 
agencies according to pre-determined criteria. A central ministry, such as the Ministry of Finance 
or Commerce, will administer this fund to which individual government agencies may apply. 
MIGA has developed a business plan for AIDA based on a detailed needs assessment carried out 
in the fall of 2004. The project will fund the implementation of several elements of the plan. The 
Ministry of Commerce has prepared a restructuring plan as part of the Priority Reform and 
Restructuring (PRR) process. The plan lists three major objectives for the ministry: a) 
establishing the legal, regulatory and institutional framework for enhanced private sector 
development, b) providing the enabling physical infrastructure for PSD (including industrial 
parks); and c) promoting business creation and business development (including export 
promotion). This component will provide support in implementing the plan. In particular, it will 
support the proposed PSD directorate that will deal with the legal and regulatory framework, and 
promotional policies and programs, for PSD. The design of the component will build upon the 
work of DFID advisors working in the Ministry.    
 
Component 4:  Start-up costs of a Fund for small and medium enterprises. 
 The project may 
provide funds to the Government of Afghanistan to finance its contribution to a Fund being set 
up, with OPIC assistance, for small and medium enterprises. The Government contribution is 
intended to cover the start-up costs of the Fund.  
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment 
would be triggered. The project involves the building of 
an industrial park. Associated environmental and social impacts would be identified and 
addressed in an Environmental Assessment (EA) and Environmental Management Plan (EMP), 
which are expected to bring out the site specific issues and ways of mitigating them.  
 
10. 
OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement
 may be triggered. Due to expansion/construction 
works, resettlement issues may arise, but they are expected to be limited. A Social Assessment 
Page  5
(SA) will be carried out to identify the adverse impacts can be anticipated. The SA will include a 
mitigation plan for the rehabilitation of those affected. 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower Nil 
International Development Association 
20 
 Total 
20 
 
6. Contact 
point 
 
Contact:  
Syed A. Mahmood, Senior Private Sector Development Specialist 
Samuel Munzele Maimbo, Senior Financial Sector Specialist  
 
South Asia Finance and Private Sector Development Department 
The World Bank 
1818 H St., NW 
Washington DC, 20433 
 
Tel: 1-202-473-6856 (Syed Mahmood) 
 
1-202-473-3115  (Samuel Munzele Maimbo) 
Email: 
smahmood@worldbank.org
;
smaimbo@worldbank.org
