Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  11/28/2006 
Report No.:  AC2302
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Afghanistan 
Project ID:  P090928 
Project Name:  Afghanistan PSD Support Project 
Task Team Leader:  Syed A. Mahmood 
Estimated Appraisal Date: October 10, 
2006 
Estimated Board Date: January 30, 2007 
Managing Unit:  SASFP 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  General industry and trade sector (100%) 
Theme:  Regulation and competition policy (P);Other trade and integration (P);Analysis 
of economic growth (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
25.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.00
0.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [X] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The objective of the project is to improve the investment climate in Afghanistan for 
foreign and domestic firms by:  
 
a) Enhancing the provision of land and infrastructural services for enterprise 
development  
 
b)
Enhancing the capacity of government agencies to analyze PSD issues, develop and 
implement PSD-related strategies, policies, projects and programs  
 
c) Enhancing the capacity of government agencies to promote Afghanistan as an 
investment destination and provide investment facilitation services.   
 
3. Project Description 
Component 1:   Development of industrial parks (US$23.05 million)  
 
The Government of Afghanistan (GoA) has identified industrial park development as an 
important plank of its private sector development strategy. The emphasis on industrial 
park development is a response to the difficulties investors face in acquiring land with a 
clear title for setting up production facilities. Industrial parks are also viewed as an 
Page  2
effective means of focusing the provision of infrastructural and utility services, currently 
in short supply in Afghanistan, as well as provide a secure environment for productive 
activities. The Government plans to develop industrial parks in various parts of 
Afghanistan in an effort to engender regional balance in industrial growth. It also 
proposes to involve the private sector in the development and operation of the estates.  
 
This component will support the Government's industrial park development program in 
two areas:  
 
a) Infrastructure development at the proposed Kamari (near Kabul) and Hissar-e-Shahi 
(near Jalalabad) industrial park sites;  
 
b) Technical assistance to help develop a policy, regulatory and institutional framework 
for industrial park development and capacity building in the Industrial Park Department 
of AISA for project management, including in the area of environmental and social 
management.  
 
The project will support the first phase of development of these two parks. The first 
phase will involve an area of 135 hectares for the Kamari Park and 78 hectares for the 
Hissar-e-Shahi Park. In each Park, roughly 65% will be industrial plot area (the rest being 
taken up by roads and common facilities). The composition of industries will be broadly 
similar in the two parks, i.e., food processing, light engineering, leather garments, and 
carpet cutting and washing. In addition, the Kamari Park will house carpet weaving 
factories.  
 
Industrial park development will include infrastructural investments such as land 
leveling and grading, road network, water supply and fire-fighting system, waste water 
collection and treatment system, storm water drainage system, solid waste collection and 
disposal system, environmental laboratory, and street lighting. In addition, for the Hissar-
e-Shahi Park, provision has been kept for diesel generators with a total capacity of 12 
MW, and electricity distribution lines within the park.  This entire generating capacity 
may not be required if the power transmission line linking Kabul to Uzbekistan/Tajikistan 
is commissioned by mid-2010 and power currently diverted to Kabul is made available to 
the Jalalabad area, including the industrial park. In that case, the some of the generators 
may be used as a stand-by facility.  
 
The project design for the Kamari Park also includes provision for water supply to the 
Park from the Logar well field as well as connection of the Park to the main power 
transmission line ($5m ? this includes the cost of the electricity distribution line and a 
sub-station to allow step-down of electricity from the high voltage transmission line to 
the low-voltage distribution line). Generators will not be required on a large scale for 
Kamari since the transmission lines to bring power to Kabul from Uzbekistan and 
Tajikistan are expected to be completed by the time the industrial park is operational (i.e., 
mid 2010). The Kamari Park is expected to be connected to this transmission line. 
Provision will be kept for installing two generators of 1.2 MW capacity each to meet the 
Page  3
needs of industrial units should there be a delay in the commissioning of the transmission 
line for import of power from Central Asia.  
 
The funds currently allocated in the project for industrial park physical infrastructure 
development, i.e.,  US$21.3 million, is not sufficient to meet the entire cost of building 
the two parks, i.e., US$43.1 million. There is a shortfall of US$ 21.8 million. The 
Government has indicated that it will mobilize the additional resources from a 
combination of its own resources and donor funding. This is consistent with the high 
priority accorded to industrial park development in the Government?s PSD strategy.  
There remains a risk that the additional resources required to meet the shortfall, after the 
expected EU contribution, may not be mobilized. This risk will be addressed in the 
following manner. Construction will initially start at the Hissar-e-Shahi Park. It will be 
followed by work at Kamari 8-12 months later, if it is established by then that the 
additional resources are forthcoming. If not, the remainder of the funds will be allocated 
for expanding the Hissar-e-Shahi park to about 100 hectares. This staggering will also 
help avoid over-burdening the limited capacities in AISA.  
 
The project will also help build capacity in the Industrial Parks Department in AISA in 
the areas of financial management, procurement, and environmental and social 
management. In addition, an implementation supervision consultant will be hired for 30 
months to help AISA supervise the work of the contractors. While these capacities will 
help implement the two industrial park projects to be supported by this project, their 
benefits will spill over to other, future, projects of AISA.  
 
In addition, short term experts will be funded to provide inputs related to the broader 
mandate of overall industrial park development in the country. The topic areas will be 
identified by AISA in the future but may include developing a strategic vision for an 
industrial park development program, laws and regulations to encourage private sector 
participation in industrial parks, defining the optimal role of AISA and other GoA entities 
in industrial park development, regulation, promotion, and management, and clarifying 
the responsibilities of national, provincial and local authorities regarding industrial parks.  
 
Component 2: 
Institutional development for PSD (US$1.00 million)  
 
This component will support institutional development and capacity building in 
government through two windows:  
 
i) AISA - investment promotion, facilitation and policy research ($0.50 million)  
 
ii) Ministry of Commerce and Industry ($0.50 million)  
 
The design of this component will be guided by the Government?s PRR exercise at the 
MoCI and AISA's organizational restructuring plans, and is intended to support these 
initiatives. The detailed design of the component takes into account the support being 
provided by other donors in this area (GTZ in AISA, and DfID, USAID and GTZ in the 
MoCI). It will leverage the presence of DfID, GTZ and USAID funded advisors in these 
agencies.  
Page  4
i) Institutional support to AISA in the areas of investment promotion and facilitation, 
and policy research. AISA was designed to be a one-stop shop for investors in 
Afghanistan, providing information, guiding the investor through all government 
interactions, and eliminating, where possible, bureaucratic delays and red tape.  It 
achieved a great deal since it was established and began operations in August 2003.  Its 
business registration program is now functioning well and it has also initiated some 
investment promotion activities and have developed capacity in organizing events such as 
road shows. In comparison, AISA's investor facilitation function remains 
underdeveloped. It also has weak capacity in research and analysis to underpin its 
promotional, facilitation and policy advocacy role.  
 
The project will help build AISA's capacities in investor facilitation, policy analysis, 
and monitoring and evaluation. Specific services/activities to be funded will include:  
 
a) a long-term advisor for the Policy and Research Department (for one year)  
 
b)
a
small number of short-term experts;  
 
c) short-term and long-term training programs, and study tours for AISA staff;  
 
d)
funds for research, analysis and monitoring and;  
 
e) small amounts of equipment.  
 
ii) Institutional support to the Ministry of Commerce and Industry.  The PRR Stage 1 
application for the MoC was approved in August 2005 followed by approval of the PRR 
Stage 2 application in June 2006.  The restructuring in the Ministry has led to the creation 
of a number of directorates, including one for Private Sector Development (PSDD). 
Recruitment is currently underway and it is expected that most, if not all, staff in the PSD 
Directorate will be in place by January 2007.  The objective of the capacity building 
program is to develop the policy formulation, implementation and evaluation skills and 
knowledge appropriate to each level of personnel in the newly formed PSDD. The 
capacity building program will also allow staff to develop the general managerial and 
administrative skills necessary for the efficient functioning of the directorate.  
 
Modalities of support will include training programs, workshops, study tours and 
attendance in short-term courses.  Formal training will be delivered by Afghan trainers 
drawn from the PSDD using materials prepared by and with the support of international 
advisers. A considerable amount of training will be provided in Dari. Study tours will be 
designed to expose PSDD staff to international best practice in their respective fields. 
They will also be used as an incentive to staff to take maximum advantage of other 
capacity building opportunities provided under this program, by requiring staff members 
to have a certificate of satisfactory completion for other elements before they can be 
eligible to participate in such study tours. The "Train the Trainer" approach will be used 
extensively throughout this program.   
 
Page  5
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The bulk of the project funds will be spent on two industrial parks, at Hissar-e-Shahi 
(near Jalalabad)  and Kamari (near Kabul). These project components will trigger two 
safeguard policies of the Bank, OP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment and OP 4.12 on 
Involuntary Resettlement.  No environmental and social issues are expected to arise with 
regard to the capacity building components of the project. The only exception is the 
capacity building related to environmental and social management in AISA which will 
have a positive environmental and social impact.  
 
The proposed Hissar-e-Shahi Industrial Park will cover an area of 78 hectares and will 
be located about 25 km from Jalalabad City on the northern side of the main highway to 
Torkham.  The proposed industrial park will comprise of the following industries: a) light 
engineering; b) food processing; c) leather garments; and d) carpet washing and finishing. 
The specific industries that private investors will establish within the broad categories of 
light engineering and food processing is not known at this stage. Hence, the calculation of 
pollution loads at this stage is relatively generic and will need to be refined once the 
specific nature of the industries and technologies to be used are known.  However, this is 
not expected to require any substantial change in the design of the proposed 
environmental mitigation plans.  
 
The proposed Kamari Industrial Park will be located in Bagrami District, about 10 km 
east of Kabul on the Kabul - Jalalabad road just beyond the existing Bagrami Industrial 
Park.  The proposed Project site will be 135 hectares in size. The proposed park will have 
an industry composition broadly similar to that of the Hissar-e-Shahi Park except that it 
will also include carpet weaving. Roughly 60% of the land in the two parks will be 
industrial area, about 30% will be taken up by roads and 10% by public uses and utilities.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Asta Olesen (SASES) 
Mr Mohammad Arif Rasuli (SASES) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
Page  6
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Anticipated environmental impacts  
 
Construction activity will generate noise, particulate matter (PM10), smoke, dust, CO, 
and NOX in the ambient air. Similarly activities like excavation, compaction dumping 
and storage of excavated material will also create dust, noise and vibration. Such 
pollution will be greater if old, ill-maintained vehicles and equipment is used. The main 
impact during the construction phase will be the increase in sediments to the surface 
water during clearing and grubbing, filling as well as the potential release of any 
chemicals and oil spills at the site during the construction stage. If these are allowed to be 
deposited on the site, they will be absorbed in the storm water and ultimately contaminate 
the surface water quality. Sewage will be generated at the construction camps. If the 
generated sewage is not properly treated or disposed of, this may have a negative impact 
on the surface water quality.  
 
Solid waste generation, comprising of waste from construction camps and other waste, 
will increase considerably during construction. Excavations of trenches for laying of the 
water supply pipeline will generate excavated materials which will be used for filling 
works. However, some of the excavated material will not be reused and, if left at places 
of excavation, will cause dust pollution and hindrance to the natural drainage of the area. 
Some of the chemicals used in the laying of water supply pipe joints are hazardous and 
toxic. The sheathing on electric wires and cables are made from hydrocarbon compounds 
and are toxic, as are paints and varnishes used in the construction industry. If adequate 
care is not taken for handling, storing and transportation of these toxic substances, it may 
damage the health of the workers as well as contaminate the soil.  
 
Flora is sparse in the proposed industrial park areas. Not a single tree exists and only 
degraded forms of grasses and some small shrubs/herbs exist in the Project Area. The 
grass cover and the shrubby growth shall be removed during the construction phase, 
which will have a negligible effect on the status of existing flora. Fauna in the Project 
Area shall be disturbed to some extent. However, these activities will occur for a limited 
period as it is only a temporary phase, will not have any significant effect on the 
surrounding flora/fauna and habitat of the region.  
 
During operation, it is anticipated that industries will generate air pollution in the form 
of various gases. These include SOX, NOX, CO, and PM10. This will deteriorate the 
quality of ambient air. The impact will be of permanent nature and needs mitigation 
measures.  Emissions of these air contaminants will have to be controlled at source to 
avoid air pollution.  Industrial units will create noise and vibrations. The noise levels will 
be maximum inside the industrial units and will impact the technicians the most. Noise 
levels will usually be kept to below 85 dB (A). Where the noise levels will exceed this, 
use of PPEs such as ear muffs will be required.  
 
Page  7
Based on similar type of industrial units, the expected solid waste generation will range 
from 0.25 to 0.5 tons per hectare per day. It is proposed that the solid waste collection, 
transportation and disposal system should be designed for 100 tons / day.  A considerable 
amount of wastewater is anticipated to be generated due to the operation of the industrial 
units. In the Hissar-e-Shahi park, any contamination from the proposed industrial area in 
future may pollute the Nangarhar canal water and shallow aquifer along the left bank of 
the canal.  It is proposed that collection of wastewater system shall be combined, i.e., 
sanitary and industrial wastewater shall be collected through a single pipeline. Therefore, 
a
mixture of sanitary and industrial wastewater shall be produced.  Presently the Project 
Areas are totally barren.  The groundwater tables in the areas are deep, no water ponds or 
industry are present in and upstream of the Project Area, except a small plastic factory in 
Hissar-e-Shahi, which is currently not in operation.  Therefore, no contamination source 
to groundwater aquifer is foreseen in and around the Project Areas.   
 
Various industrial units, like food processing, light engineering and leather industries 
will emit gases and discharge chemical laden water, which if allowed untreated will 
adversely effect flora, fauna and surrounding environments resulting in air and water 
pollution. This will also adversely affect vegetation due to heavy chemical concentration 
in water and noxious gases interfering with photo synthesis and growth of plants. Such 
gases will kill avifauna also.  
 
Water requirements and water supply sources: It is estimated, based on the expected 
industry composition, that each of the parks will need about 0.25 MGD of water for a 75 
hectare park size. In addition, firefighting will require an additional reserve of 120,000 
gallons.  
 
Two water sources are available at Hissar-e-Shahi: surface water from Nangarhar Canal 
and groundwater. However, water from the canal will not be available for industrial use 
over the year since the canal remains closed for some months each year for clearing. 
Also, the analysis of canal water indicates that while it can be used for firefighting and 
other purposes it is not fit for drinking.  The option, i.e., ground water will thus be used. 
In Kamari, no perennial or non-perennial surface water source passes through the 
proposed industrial area. A detailed inventory of the groundwater points and analysis of 
the topography of the area indicates very limited groundwater potential within the Kamari 
industrial park area. However, the proposed Kamari industrial park area is a part of the 
Logar basin which supplies water to Kabul city. Water from this source will be used.  
 
Resettlement issues: There are some resettlement issues regarding the Hissar-e-Shahi 
site. Twenty six families had been residing in the Project Area of the Hissar-e-Shahi site. 
They were living in temporary mud huts with a tent or plastic cover as ceiling. All of 
them are immigrants and had been residing at the site on a temporarily basis.  AISA had 
three consultation meetings with these affectees for the evacuation of site. The first 
meeting was held on June 19, 2006 which was also attended by the environmental 
consultants.  As per the demand of the affectees, a compensation payment of US $100 per 
family plus one tent worth $ 100 for each family was approved by AISA. This is a fairly 
generous compensation since the mud walls for one hut can be put together by two 
Page  8
unskilled laborers in one day, which would cost in labor terms US$5 given the current 
wage rate of US$ 2.5 per day for unskilled workers.  The evacuation process was 
completed on August 18, 2006 as per agreement between AISA and the affectees. The 
families have been relocated to an adjacent government land. The process is documented 
in the EIA.  
 
No resettlement is required for the Kamari park. There were a few possible cases of 
resettlement according to the original demarcation of the park site. The demarcation has 
been modified to by pass this small number of households.  
 
For either Park, there may be minor land acquisitions in connection with supply lines for 
water and power, transmission towers and for the landfills for solid waste, the locations 
of which are not yet decided.  The Environmental and Social Management Framework 
prepared for the project identifies the actions to be taken to address any environmental 
and social impact associated with these project activities.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
None.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
The demarcation of the Kamari park site was modified to by pass a small number of 
households.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Environmental Management Plans (EMP) have been prepared for both parks. The plans 
were prepared keeping in view the requirements of the Environmental Act of 
Afghanistan, EIA guidelines as well as the World Bank Operating Procedure 4.01. The 
plans lay out the mitigation and remedial measures to be implemented during the 
construction and operation of the parks. Specifically, the EMPs:  
 
*
outline the mitigation measures required to avoid or minimize the negative impacts;  
 
*
develop a monitoring mechanism and identify the monitoring indicators for assessing 
effectiveness of the mitigation measures;  
 
*
define the roles and responsibilities of the implementing agency, AISA, in 
implementing the EMPs and identify areas where these roles and responsibilities can be 
shared with other parties involved in the execution and monitoring of the Project;  
 
*
define the requirements necessary for documenting compliance with the EMP and 
communicating it to all concerned regulatory agencies;  
 
*
prescribe the mechanisms for on-going consultation with stakeholders during project 
implementation.  
 
The EMPs will be part of contract and tender documents to ensure that the cost of EMP 
implementation is built into the contractor costs. The Contractor will be legally bound for 
Page  9
the execution and implementation of the EMP.  AISA with the help of an independent 
monitoring company will ensure that coordination with project stakeholders on 
environmental and social matters as required by the EMP is maintained throughout the 
implementation period of the project.  
 
A
Social Management Plan will be developed on the basis of a broader, in-depth social 
assessment to be carried out for both parks in the next few months. The issues faced by 
women and their needs will be assessed separately in this report (the preliminary 
assessment that has been done did not involve separate interviews with the women 
members of the households). Female social specialists will be part of the team. The social 
management plan shall include measures for facilitating income generation for the 
households in the Study Area and improving the provision of social services. Particular 
attention will be given to the needs of the female members of the households.  The 
broader assessment will identify the specific training needs of the households, in 
particular women, and the Social Management Plan (SMP) will identify appropriate 
training programs that may help them obtain jobs in the industrial park in the construction 
and, in particular the operational phase. The SMP will also provide recommendations on 
how the industrial park operations may help improve the supply of social services, in 
particular for women who, as the preliminary assessment shows, are severely deprived of 
these services. Strategies vis-a-vis child labor in the parks will also be spelt out. The 
implementation of the SMP will require dedicated attention to this. It is thus planned to 
hire a full-time Social Development Officer at AISA. The SMP will spell out the TOR for 
this position.  
 
Although the responsibilities for executing and monitoring the mitigation measures has 
been delegated to different organizations, AISA will hold the primary responsibility for 
ensuring the full implementation of the EMP. AISA and the contractors will ensure that 
the mitigation measures mentioned in the Mitigation Management Matrix (MMM) are 
followed during implementation of the proposed project.  
 
An Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) has been prepared for 
the project and identifies the specific measures to be taken to implement the EMP and the 
SMP. In addition to dealing with the impact already predicted based on currently known 
design parameters, the Framework also outlines an approach to deal with environmental 
and social impact of sub-projects/infrastructural interventions that will be identified later, 
such as land fill sites, location of power distribution line linking the parks to the main 
transmission lines, location of water pipeline linking the Kamari Park to the main water 
transmission line.  The ESMF contains a summary of the EMP, plans for an SMP, the 
Mitigation Management Matrices for the two parks and an action plan to operationalize 
the EMP and SMP.  
 
AISA currently has very limited capacity to implement an Environmental or Social 
Management Plan.  The industrial parks will host number of industries, some of which 
may have potential for creating environmental and pollution hazards. It would be 
important for AISA?s Industrial Park Development Department to have full information 
for such industries in order to monitor and mitigate such hazards. It will build some in-
Page  10
house capacity to carry out primary monitoring and it will work actively with the 
National Environment Protection Authority (NEPA), the Government agency responsible 
for environment protection, the carry out its responsibilities. It will hire an expatriate 
Environmental Specialist for up to 24 months to build the environmental management 
capacity and also train a locally recruited Environment Specialist and a Social 
Development Officer.   The Environmental Management Plan describes in detail the 
institutional framework, including the role of other players, for environmental 
management.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The following organizations would be involved in the implementation of the proposed 
project:  
 
*
Afghanistan Investment Support Agency (AISA), as the project proponent and owner 
of Environmental Management Plan (EMP);  
 
*
Project contractor as the executor of the EMP; and  
 
*
National Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA) and Independent Monitoring 
consultant (IMC) as the monitor of the execution of the EMP during the construction 
stage.  
 
The project's Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework was developed on the 
basis of an overall Framework for World Bank-funded emergency operations in 
Afghanistan which was prepared in consultation with the principal NGOs and 
development partners participating in reconstruction activities in Afghanistan.  
Consultation and disclosure requirements have been simplified to meet the special needs 
of these Afghanistan operations prepared under emergency recovery procedures (OP 
8.50).  Prior to approval of the project by the World Bank Board, it will be disclosed by 
the Government in Dari and Pashto, as well as English, and it will also be made available 
at the World Bank?s Infoshop   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
11/15/2006 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
12/10/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
12/05/2006 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
11/15/2006 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
12/10/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
12/05/2006 
 
Page  11
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement 
 
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process 
framework (as appropriate) been prepared? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
No 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
Page  12
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Samuel Munzele Maimbo 
11/28/2006 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Mohammad Arif Rasuli 
 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Asta Olesen 
10/24/2006 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Frederick Edmund Brusberg 
 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Simon C. Bell 
 
Comments:   
