                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR2136



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                                         ON A

                                    GRANT
                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 16.70 MILLION
                       (US$ 25.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                    ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                                         FOR A

            PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT




                                  March 21, 2012




Finance and Private Sector Development
South Asia Region
              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

        (Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2011)
              Currency Unit = Afghani (AFN)

                  USD 1.00 = AFN 45.86

                AFGHAN FISCAL YEAR

                   March 21 – March 20

          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACCI:           Afghanistan Chambers of Commerce and Industry
ADB:            Asian Development Bank
AISA:           Afghanistan Investment Support Authority
ANDS:           Afghanistan National Development Strategy
DB:             World Bank’s Doing Business Report
DFID:           UK’s Department for International Development
EMP:            Environmental Management Plan
ESIA:           Environment and Social Impact Assessment
ESMF:           Environmental and Social Management Framework
GoA:            Government of Afghanistan
GNI             Gross National Income
GTZ:            German Technical Cooperation Agency
HIP:            Hissar-e-Shahi Industrial Park
ICR:            Implementation Completion and Results Report
ICA:            2005 World Bank Investment Climate Assessment for
                Afghanistan
IDA:            International Development Association
IRD:            International Relief Development
IPDD:           Industrial Parks Development Department
ISN:            Interim Strategy Note for Afghanistan 2009
ISR:            Implementation Status and Results Report
M&E:            Monitoring and Evaluation
MoCI:           Ministry of Commerce and Industry
MoF             Ministry of Finance
MTR:            Mid Term Review
MW:             Mega Watts
NEPA:           National Environment Projection Agency
PAD:            Project Appraisal Document
PCD:            Project Closing Date
PDO:            Project Development Objective
PPP:            Public Private Partnership
PSD:            Private Sector Development
QER             Quality Enhancement Review
SAR:         South Asia Region
SME:         Small and Medium Enterprise
SMP:         Social Management Plan
TA:          Technical Assistance
UNOPS:       United Nations Office for Project Services
USAID:       United States Agency for International Development



            Vice President: Isabel M. Guerrero
          Country Director: Josephine M. Bassinette
           Sector Manager: Ivan Rossignol
         Task Team Leader: Guillemette Jaffrin
         ICR Team Leader: Parth Shri Tewari
                            ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

               PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT


                                                  CONTENTS




           Data Sheet
           A. Basic Information
           B. Key Dates
           C. Ratings Summary
           D. Sector and Theme Codes
           E. Bank Staff
           F. Results Framework Analysis
           G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
           H. Restructuring

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................ i
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 13
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 16
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 18
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ………………………………………………..22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component (from last ISR: Dec 29, 2010 ) ................................ 23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 24
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 25
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 26
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................... 27
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 28
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 29
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 30
Annex 10. List of People Met in Kabul during ICR Mission…………………………31
MAP…………………………………………………………………………………..32
A. Basic Information
                                                                             Afghanistan PSD
Country:                  Afghanistan                 Project Name:
                                                                             Support Project
Project ID:               P090928                     L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-H2750
ICR Date:                 03/29/2012                  ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                             GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:       SIL                         Borrower:
                                                                             AFGHANISTAN
Original Total
                          XDR 16.70M                  Disbursed Amount:      XDR 9.18M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:           XDR 16.70M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Afghanistan Investment Support Agency (AISA)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
     Process                Date                Process           Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:           03/31/2005       Effectiveness:           06/10/2007       06/10/2007
Appraisal:                10/10/2006       Restructuring(s):
Approval:                 02/22/2007       Mid-term Review:         06/30/2009       06/06/2010
                                           Closing:                 06/30/2011       06/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                             Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                          High
Bank Performance:                                     Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                 Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                            Ratings
                                                                             Moderately
Quality at Entry:         Unsatisfactory              Government:
                                                                             Unsatisfactory
                          Moderately                  Implementing           Moderately
Quality of Supervision:
                          Unsatisfactory              Agency/Agencies:       Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank              Moderately                  Overall Borrower       Moderately
Performance:              Unsatisfactory              Performance:           Unsatisfactory




                                                      i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                       5                  15
General industry and trade sector                                      13                  70
General transportation sector                                          25
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                  27
Power                                                                  30                  15


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                                    10
Infrastructure services for private sector development                 40                  70
Other financial and private sector development                         20                  10
Regulation and competition policy                                      40                  10

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                    Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          Josephine M. Bassinette               Alastair J. McKechnie
Sector Manager:            Ivan Rossignol                        Simon C. Bell
Project Team Leader:       Guillemette Sidonie Jaffrin           Samuel Munzele Maimbo
ICR Team Leader:           Parth Shri Tewari
ICR Primary Author:        Gilles Marie Veuillot
                           Shiori Onishi
                           Kiran Afzal




                                                   ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Private Sector Development Support Project was to increase the
volume of private investment and productive jobs in Afghanistan by enhancing the
provision of land and infrastructural services for enterprise development, and by
enhancing the capacity of government agencies to analyze private sector development
(PSD) issues and to develop and implement PSD-related strategies, policies, projects and
programs. The project aimed to strengthen the capacity of relevant government agencies
to promote Afghanistan as an investment destination and provide investment facilitation
services.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not Applicable. The PDOs did not undergo any revision.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target        Completion or
                                               documents)           Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of jobs created in the industrial park supported by the project
Value
quantitative or   0                         3500                               0
Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/24/2007                  06/30/2011                       06/30/2011
Comments          Not achieved as no long-term jobs were created by the Hissar-e-Shahi Industrial
(incl. %          Park (HIP). The industrial park was not completed and the private sector could
achievement)      not begin its operations in the park.
                  Amount of investment by enterprises located in the industrial park
Indicator 2 :
                  (US$ millions).
Value
quantitative or   0                         25                                 0
Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/24/2007                06/30/2011                         06/30/2011
Comments
                  Not achieved. Investments could only happen once the land was allocated to
(incl. %
                  potential investors, and once HIP was ready for takeover by the private sector.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Time required for business start-up (days)
Value
quantitative or   Not available             30                                 7
Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/24/2007                   06/30/2011                       06/30/2011
Comments          Achieved. The Doing Business (DB) 2012 report indicates that it takes seven
(incl. %          days to start a a business in Afghanistan. However, this positive outcome cannot
achievement)      be attributed to the activities of this project.
Indicator 4 :     Formal cost required for business start-up (% of GNI per capita)
Value             Not available                40                               25.8


                                                 iii
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/24/2007                  06/30/2011                            06/30/2011
Comments
                Achieved. This has been reported by the DB 2012 report. However, this positive
(incl. %
                outcome cannot be attributed to the activities of this project.
achievement)
                Private sector assessment of policy predictability as captured through enterprise
Indicator 5 :
                surveys (% of respondants saying that policies are predictable)
Value
quantitative or 14                        85                                    14
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/24/2007                  06/30/2011                            11/30/2008
Comments        Not achieved. The 2008 Enterprise Survey confirmed that the percentage of
(incl. %        respondents was still 14%. A follow up survey was not done to update the
achievement) findings of the 2008 survey.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                              Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                 approval                         Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                documents)                        Target Years
                  Number of enterprises going into operation in one industrial parks (% of targeted
Indicator 1 :
                  number actually in operation)
Value
(quantitative     0                         100                                0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/24/2007                06/30/2011                         06/30/2011
Comments
                  Not achieved. No enterprise could commence operations as HIP was incomplete
(incl. %
                  till project's end date of June 30, 2011.
achievement)
                Building blocks for effective investment promotion (such as sectoral information
Indicator 2 :
                base and customer relationship management processes) are in place.
                                                                             AISA's Policy
                                                                             Research
                                                                             Department created
                                                                             data base for
                Minimal sectoral           Adequate sectoral
Value                                                                        customers.
                information base.          data base. Fully
(quantitative                                                                Arbitration and
                Rudimentary CRM            functioning CRM
or Qualitative)                                                              Support Unit within
                processes in place.        system in place
                                                                             the Investment
                                                                             Support
                                                                             Department is
                                                                             providing services
Date achieved 01/24/2007                   06/30/2011                        12/29/2010
Comments
                Fully achieved. Afghanistan Investment Support Agency (AISA) has a fully
(incl. %
                operational Customer Relationship Management (CRM) system.
achievement)



                                                  iv
                A monitoring mechanism established to obtain feedback on regulatory
Indicator 3 :
                bottlenecks faced by the private sector
                                                                               AISA conducts
                                                                               periodic meetings
                                                                               with the private
                                                                               sector and business
                                             Monitoring                        associations to
Value                                        mechanism fully                   obtain feedback on
                Limited monitoring done
(quantitative                                functional;                       regulations. These
                by AISA
or Qualitative)                              producing regular                 are then discussed
                                             reports.                          at the High
                                                                               Commission for
                                                                               Investment
                                                                               meetings for
                                                                               remedies.
Date achieved 01/24/2007                     06/30/2011                        12/29/2010
Comments
(incl. %        Fully Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Clear institutional mandate established for AISA-IPD
                                                                               The Industrial Park
                                                                               Development
                                                                               Strategy approved
                                                                               in August 2010
                                             Institutional
                Institutional mandate not                                      clarifies IPD's
Value                                        mandate for
                fully clarified. Ministry of                                   mandate, however,
(quantitative                                AISA-IPD
                Commerce and Industry                                          there is an overlap
or Qualitative)                              clarified and is
                also claims responsibility.                                    of responsibilities
                                             satisfactory
                                                                               between AISA-IPD
                                                                               and Ministry of
                                                                               Commerce and
                                                                               Industry (MoCI)
Date achieved 01/24/2007                     06/30/2011                        06/30/2011
Comments        Partially Achieved. MoCI still has responsibility for several industrial parks and
(incl. %        views this as one of its key responsibilities. An independent authority for the
achievement) development of industrial parks has not been created.
Indicator 5 : Adequate staffing and other resources given to AISA-IPD
Value                                                                          The IPD is
                7 staff, including the       25 core staff at
(quantitative                                                                  adequately
                Director                     AISA-IPDD
or Qualitative)                                                                staffed with 20 staff
Date achieved 01/24/2007                     06/30/2011                        06/30/2011
Comments
                Fully achieved. AISA-IPD had its core staff, office space and equipment at the
(incl. %
                time of project completion.
achievement)
                AISA-IPD prepares relevant draft laws, regulations and policies or inputs for
Indicator 6 :
                these
Value           Legal, regulatory and        Private sector                    IPD prepared the
(quantitative   policy framework is          investment in the                 Industrial Park
or Qualitative) inadequate.                  development of                    Development


                                                 v
                                           industrial parks                     Strategy which
                                           initiated.                           contains draft
                                                                                regulations. A
                                                                                critical evaluation
                                                                                of these regulations
                                                                                is imperative but
                                                                                beyond the scope of
                                                                                this document.
Date achieved 01/24/2007                    06/30/2011                          06/30/2011
Comments        Partially achieved. A critical evaluation of this Strategy is imperative but beyond
(incl. %        the scope of this document. Also, as noted in Bank's letter to the MoF dated July
achievement) 7, 2009, the strategy should be accompanied by policy reforms.
                MoCI staff score on relevant assessments (% of staff scoring 3 or above on a
Indicator 7 :
                scale of 1 to 5)
Value           Base line was to be
(quantitative   established in the PSD      90                                  not done
or Qualitative) Directorate
Date achieved 01/24/2007                    06/30/2011                          06/30/2011
Comments        Not achieved. There was generally slow movement on the TA component. MoCI
(incl. %        was also restructured in between, and hence the training programs and
achievement) subsequent assessments remained incomplete.
                Private sector satisfaction with frequency and structure of dialogue (% of survey
Indicator 8 :
                respondents fully or well satisfied)
Value
(quantitative   20                          85                                  Not Available
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/24/2007                    06/30/2011                          06/30/2011
Comments
                Not achieved. Since a survey could not be done by MoCI, so the final outcome
(incl. %
                on this indicator as of June 30, 2011, is unknown.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     06/18/2007          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                           0.00
  2     12/09/2007          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                           0.31
  3     06/13/2008          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                           0.69
  4     12/22/2008          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                           1.56
  5     05/01/2009      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                    2.65
  6     11/23/2009      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                    7.17
                                                     Moderately
  7     06/30/2010      Moderately Satisfactory                                            11.04
                                                   Unsatisfactory
                                                     Moderately
  8     02/14/2011      Moderately Satisfactory                                            13.20
                                                   Unsatisfactory




                                                 vi
H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                            vii
Introduction

The Private Sector Development Support Project, approved in 2007, aimed at supporting
the establishment of an industrial park (IP) near the city of Jalalabad, a major business
center and trade route in the eastern part of Afghanistan. Due to various delays, this IP
never became operational. In June 2011, considering the works that still had to be done,
the expected cost overruns and overall issues to allow for a completion of the IP, the
Bank decided not to approve an extension of the Closing date – and the Project was
closed on June 30, 2011. This clearly is a disappointing outcome. In addition, since the
performance indicators for the main component were tied to an operating IP (e.g. jobs
created, investments realized), those are of little use to precisely assess the outcome of
the Project and what might have worked or not in this Project. In order to draw lessons
from this Project, relating to both post-conflict environments and Afghanistan, it is,
therefore, necessary to focus on the assumptions that might have prevailed when
preparing the Project and what, at implementation stage, might have affected those. This
Project and its outcome might also offer substantive lessons on the broader issue of IPs.



1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.1.1 Overall context: in 2006, Afghanistan had just emerged from close to a decade of
turmoil. Presidential and parliamentary elections were held in 2004 and 2005 and
encouraging economic indicators were noted. This, together with a general sense of a
strong popular support for peace, created a momentum and a general consensus emerged
that this context offered an opportunity for a strong reengagement in non directly
“conflict related? activities.

1.1.2 Private Sector Development issues: in one of the poorest countries in the world,
where drug revenues still represented about 30% of the economy, Private Sector
Development (PSD) was identified as having an important role to play for the
reconstruction of Afghanistan, in particular to provide jobs and drive growth. The
Afghanistan National Development Strategy (ANDS) thus listed PSD as a priority area
for the Government of Afghanistan (GoA). Similarly, the Bank’s Interim Strategy (ISN)
for Afghanistan adopted in 2006 identified “enabling PSD? as a strategic pillar.

1.1.3 More specifically, the 2005 Afghanistan Investment Climate Assessment (ICA)
had identified a series of constraints to the growth of the private sector, including weak
factor markets, scarcity of commercial land with clear title, deficient infrastructural
services, and lack of technical and business management skills. The ICA underlined that
the issue of access to land with clear title and sufficient basic infrastructure (also
identified as the main constraint to PSD in the 2004 Country Economic Memorandum
(CEM) for Afghanistan) could be addressed through an industrial park approach.


                                            1
Industrial parks were viewed as an effective means of providing secured land and
infrastructural and utility services. Designed to accommodate small, medium and large-
size firms, these parks could help investors avoid costly title disputes, and reduce risks
and delays associated with land acquisition, zoning and permitting.

1.1.4 Consultations with authorities: in 2003, an entity was established with the support
of various international donors to facilitate investments in Afghanistan: the Afghanistan
Investment Support Agency (AISA). Its mandate included the promotion of foreign and
domestic investment and the development of IPs. Three IPs were thus developed by
AISA, with the support of USAID, in Kabul, Mazar-e-Sharif and Kandahar1. Through a
presidential order of March 2006, the title of the land for two new parks was transferred
to AISA, one in Kamari, near Kabul, and one in Hissar-e-Shahi in the vicinity of the city
of Jalalabad. The choice of those two additional locations seems to have been based on a
country assessment by GoA – and the choice of Jalalabad justified by its strategic
location on a major trade route to Pakistan. The sites had been retained as GoA had clear
titles on the land2. Project preparation documents show that the Bank initially envisioned
supporting the construction of these two new IPs – but that this proved too costly. As a
result, it was decided that the Bank would only support the construction of the Hissar-e-
Shahi Indusrial Park (HIP) based on a preference expressed by GoA.

1.1.5 Consultations with other donors: the choice of activities to be supported under
this Project seems to have been made in consideration of the work already supported by
other donors, in particular the development of other IPs by USAID. Both the UK
Department for International Development (DFID) and the German Gesellschaft für
Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) were also active in capacity building support to the
Afghan Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MoCI) and to AISA, respectively.

1.1.6 Proposed design: while appraisal was carried out on the two IPs mentioned above,
the Project finally approved consisted of: (a) a large component to support the
development of the HIP; and (b) one smaller component aimed at strengthening the
capacities of the relevant government departments in their efforts to alleviate the
constraints faced by the private sector.

1.1.7 In terms of implementation arrangements, it was decided that AISA would be the
main implementation unit, despite capacity issues that were to be addressed during
project implementation. This design was considered fit with lessons learnt from previous
Bank projects, in particular selectivity and focus on local capacity.



1
  It should be noted that USAID approach to industrial park development was significantly different than
the proposed approach under this project. USAID would directly undertake the construction of the parks
and would then hand over the parks to AISA, once the construction was completed.

2
 The land for the proposed Kamari park belonged to the Ministry of Defense, while the land for the
proposed Hissar-e-Shahi park belonged to the Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation and Livestock.



                                                    2
1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

1.2.1 The objective of the project was to increase the volume of private investment and
productive jobs in Afghanistan by enhancing the:
 provision of land and infrastructural services for enterprise development;
 capacity of government agencies to analyze PSD issues, develop and implement PSD-
    related strategies, policies, projects and programs;
 capacity of government agencies to promote Afghanistan as an investment destination
    and provide investment facilitation services.

1.2.2 The achievement of the development objective was to be determined by
measuring the number of jobs created by the HIP; the amount of investment attracted by
the industrial park from the private sector; the reduction in the time taken, and cost
incurred, to start a business; and change in the views of the private sector on policy
predictability by conducting enterprise surveys.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and Reasons/Justification

1.3.1 Neither the PDO nor the key indicators were revised. The Bank team considered
a restructuring of the project after it received a request for a two-year extension of the
Project and for additional financing from the Ministry of Finance (MoF) in October 2010.
Considering the cost overruns implied and the uncertain achievability of the PDO even
under this proposed restructuring (see below), the decision was made not to restructure
the project and not to extend the Project Closing Date.

1.4 Original Components

1.4.1 The Project had two components:

Component 1: Development of Industrial Park (USD 24.0 million): The development
of the HIP was the main component of the Project, with support provided in two areas:

(a)     Infrastructural investment (USD 21.1 million): land was to be provided by GoA
and the Project was to fund infrastructure work, including: land-leveling and grading, a
road network, a water- supply and fire-fighting system, a wastewater collection and
treatment system, a storm water drainage system, solid waste collection and disposal
systems, an environmental laboratory, and street lighting – as well as diesel generators
with a total capacity of 12 Mega Watts (MW) and electricity distribution lines within the
park.

(b)     Institutional support to AISA in the area of industrial park development (USD 2.9
million): This component aimed at building capacity in AISA, both (i) in terms of Project
implementation (including on procurement, financial management and environmental
management); and (ii) in terms of policy formulation for, and promotion of, IPs.

Component 2: Institutional Development for PSD (USD 1.0 million):


                                            3
1.4.2 This component aimed to support the institutional development and capacity
building through two windows;

(a)     AISA – investment promotion, facilitation and policy research (USD 0.50
million): This consisted of helping implementing AISA’s organizational restructuring
plan (developed in 2006) and strengthening its Investor Support Department and Policy
and Research Department. Assistance was to be provided primarily through the funding
of advisors and training of AISA’s staff.

(b)    Ministry of Commerce and Industry (USD 0.50 million): The objective of the
capacity building program was to develop the policy formulation, implementation and
evaluation skills appropriate to those staffed in recently formed Private Sector
Development Directorate (PSDD) within MoCI.

1.5 Revised Components

None of the Project components was revised.

1.6 Extensions in Project Closing Date

The Project closed on June 30, 2011 without any extension. The GoA requested on
October 27, 2010 an extension of the grant closing date and additional financing for the
project. In its response dated November 24, 2010, the World Bank indicated that it was
prepared to initiate the process for an extension of the closing date, but that additional
financing would require a comprehensive appraisal.

After careful analysis and extensive discussions with stakeholders, between December
2010 and May 2011, the World Bank concluded that with a two-year project extension
the project would still be unable to reach a satisfactory outcome because of the following:

   (i)   Reliable grid power is critical for the viability of the project park. At that stage,
         reliable grid power supply could not be guaranteed and therefore would
         significantly and negatively affect the demand for the project park from private
         firms;
   (ii) Because of the long delays, the other necessary infrastructure including the
         wastewater treatment plant and the landfill site would remain incomplete even
         with a two-year extension;
   (iii) The project implementation mechanism appeared, in hindsight, inappropriate
         for the effective development of the park and therefore there was little
         indication that a rapidly improved implementation process could be initiated;
   (iv) The prediction for park take-up by private firms indicated that utilization of the
         park would take significant time, beyond the timeframe proposed for a project
         extension. The demand analysis undertaken by AISA in 2011 confirmed that the
         supply of reliable grid power was critical for the success of the park. Under the
         base case scenario, with full power supply from the grid, Phase 1 of the Hissar-



                                             4
           e-Shahi Industrial Park (107 ha.) would be fully occupied 11 years after the
           initial plot allocation. With no grid power, the park would have an occupancy
           rate of 62 percent after 20 years.

The World Bank therefore informed the Government of Afghanistan on June 10, 2011
that it was unable to extend the closing date beyond the scheduled date of June 30, 2011.

1.7 Reallocation of Credit Funds

No reallocations were processed during the course of the Project.

1.8 Waivers

No waivers of covenants and disbursement conditions are reported to have been sought,
although some of the agreed actions were late to be complied with.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.1 Choice of financing an IP: the choice of IPs as a preferred instrument to promote
PSD and address its constraints seems to have been supported by substantive (and
unanimous) analysis at the time of Project preparation. This approach was also supported
both by the donor community and the GoA.

2.1.2 Identification of IP: as indicated above, the development of two new IPs in
addition to the three IPs already under construction with USAID’s support seems to have
been made by GoA based on a country-wide assessment of needs (and the choice of HIP
site based on the availability of secured land and on its strategic location along a major
trade corridor). There is no indication in the Project files of whether and how this
particular site might have been appraised (rationale, merits or weaknesses) by the Bank 3.
Similarly, the economic analysis in the Technical Annex, while recognizing the challenge
of ascertaining results given the scarcity of baseline data, provides little information on
the specifics of HIP. In particular, while the economic analysis is said to be based on 20-
year projections, no real analysis of the cost of using diesel generation for HIP was
provided – nor were the prospects of other sources of power explained (in particular
under the Afghan Power Master Plan that is mentioned without explaining how HIP
might integrate under this Plan).

2.1.3 Choice of activities to be financed for the HIP: activities to be financed consisted
primarily of goods and technical assistance, with the provision of power equipment


3
  The only substantiated analysis of this park is a business implementation plan undertaken between April
and June 2011 to help inform the decision on the future of the project (closure or extension with additional
financing).



                                                     5
(diesel generators and internal distribution network) representing about 50% of the total
project costs. Here again, and even if the use of generators might have been the only
available option in 2007, the importance of amounts allocated to address this issue
(identified as the primary constraint to investment in Afghanistan) would probably have
justified more developments in the Project documents (where the presentation of this
issue is actually ambiguous in stating that: “provision has been kept for diesel generators?
that might not be used if the transmission line to Uzbekistan was to be “commissioned? –
with several possible completion dates mentioned for this, 2008 or 2010). No specific
technical analysis of the proposed power supply issue can be found in Project documents.

2.1.4 Choice of Technical Assistance activities: the choice of activities to be supported
on this front seems to have been supported by significant analytical work and discussions
with other donors. However, it should be noted that the outcomes expected from these
activities might not have been very clear (on indicators, see below). In addition,
responsibilities between AISA and MoCI as regards IPs were not clearly explained. The
question of “institutional mandates? on IPs is mentioned in the Project documents – and
said to have been clarified prior to negotiations – but this is not well explained.

2.1.5 Choice of implementation arrangements: the choice of AISA as primary
implementation agency for the Project seems to have been the result of a strategic
decision (a “lesson learnt? from previous Bank projects: build local capacity) – and a
demand by GoA that capacity be built locally instead of relying on ad hoc implementing
institutions or donors. At the same time, the limited capacity of AISA to manage such a
project (in particular the construction component) was stressed at appraisal: procurement,
financial management and environmental management. As a result, AISA was identified
as being both an implementation agency and a “recipient? of capacity building under the
project – with several covenants and disbursement conditions set for the recruitment of
necessary fiduciary and environmental support. The appointment of a procurement
specialist, a financial management specialist, an account officer, and the adoption of a
financial management manual were thus made disbursement conditions. In addition, the
following actions were agreed to (although these are not expressly mentioned as
covenants in the financing agreement): (i) March 1, 2007: hire an environmental
specialist and a social development specialist; (ii) June 30, 2007: hire an implementation
supervision consultant; and (iii) September 30, 2007: carry out surveys on private sector
views on private sector policies and on time and cost to start a business. On the other
hand, the implementation of other technical assistance activities seems to have been
supported by the presence of external advisors (in particular a GTZ advisor at AISA).

2.1.6 Safeguards issues: the project seems to have undergone significant diligences on
safeguards at preparation stage. The proposed set-up on this front consisted, in summary,
of the following: (i) an ESIA (Environment and Social Impact Assessment), completed in
November 2006, identified potential environmental risks at construction and operation
stage (including the resettlement of 26 families that was completed in September 2006);
(ii) an EMP (Environment Management Plan) listed mitigation and remedial measures
based on the risks identified in the ESIA; a broad-based social assessment was to be
completed in 2007 to complement the preliminary assessment – which was to include an



                                             6
SMP (Social Management Plan); and (iii) an ESMF (Environment and Social
Management Framework) to identify specific measures to be taken to implement the
EMP and SMP and outline an approach to deal with environmental and social impact of
sub-projects/infrastructural interventions to be identified later. It should be noted that
linking the park to the main power transmission line was mentioned as one of those
possible issues to deal with. On the other hand, the use of diesel generators is not
specifically mentioned (although it might have been included in the assessment).

2.1.7 The monitoring of safeguards was also to be carried out by AISA – whose limited
capacity in this field is once again underlined – in collaboration with NEPA (the National
Environment Protection Agency, established in 2005, also with limited capacity). The
Project documents referred to the adoption of an environmental and social policy by
AISA. In addition, in order to support AISA, the following measures were to be
undertaken: (i) establishment of an Environmental Management Unit within AISA, to be
headed by a manager – and to be supported by an external environmental advisor during
the first year; (ii) recruitment of an implementation supervision consultant, to supervise
the works of the contractor and ensure compliance with environmental and social norms;
and (iii) the recruitment of an independent monitoring agency to monitor the
implementation of the EMP and SMP. As indicated, those were not made specific dated
covenants for the Project.

2.1.8 Risks identified and mitigation measures: The following risks were identified in
the Project documents: (i) worsening of security which could deter investors; (ii) lack of
efforts or delays in adopting legal reforms critical to investors; (iii) lack of commitment
in Government agencies to implement capacity building; (iv) inappropriate legal
institutional basis for IP development; and (v) weak capacity of AISA to manage the
development and operation of IPs. It is interesting to note that security was identified as
a threat to investment in the IP – but not as a threat to its construction. In addition, no
reference was made to the supply of power – which, here again, seems somewhat
disconnected from both the importance of this issue for PSD and the amounts allocated to
power under this Project. In addition, while possible delays in the construction of the IP
were mentioned in the Results Framework, it simply referred to the identification of
“remedial measures?. In fact, it seems that mitigation measures for this Project were
envisioned from a global PSD point of view (i.e. to attract investors – through “a strong
commitment to PSD? by the local stakeholders and the existence of a World Bank
supported investment guarantee facility that covers non-commercial risks) rather than,
specifically, in consideration of the activities financed. Similarly, no exit strategy was set
forth.

2.1.9 Choice of indicators: five indicators were retained to measure attainment of the
PDO: (i) number of jobs created in the HIP; (ii) amount of investment by enterprises
located in the HIP; (iii) time required for business start-up; (iv) formal cost required for
business start-up; (v) private sector assessment of policy predictability as captured
through enterprise surveys. A series of intermediate indicators were also agreed upon
(e.g. number of enterprises going into operation in HIP, building blocks for effective
investment promotion, monitoring of feedback on regulatory bottlenecks, institutional



                                              7
mandate and staffing of AISA Industrial Park Promotion Department (IPPD), preparation
of relevant laws and policies, assessment of MoCI staff familiarity with PSD, and
satisfaction of private sector with public-private dialogue). Project documents provide
for an estimate of two years to complete the HIP (the basis for this estimate is not
explained). While focusing on an operating park might be understandable as projects are
expected to provide outcomes (not simply outputs), this approach might have been
overambitious. The same goes for indicators on the capacity building activities
considering the recognized very limited capacity of the target institutions and nature of
the support provided (mostly training).

2.1.10 Processing: the PSDSP was prepared over a period of about 24 months (concept
review meeting in March 2005; appraisal mission in February 2006, decision meeting in
April 2006 and negotiations in January 2007). This Project was prepared under OP 8.50
(Emergency Lending) and, therefore, not subject to a Quality Enhancement Review
(QER). In addition, no Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was prepared (instead, a
Technical Annex was prepared). The Project was approved by the Board in February
2007, the legal agreements signed in March 2007 and the Project was declared effective
in June 2007.

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation

2.2.1 The construction of the HIP was considerably delayed and significant cost-
overruns occurred, so that the park never became operational during the life of the Project.
A series of factors contributed to these delays and cost overruns: (a) technical design
issues in connection with the construction of the HIP; (b) deterioration of the security
situation; (c) power supply for the Park; (d) overall implementation capacity issues, in
particular in the field of procurement; and (e) safeguards.

Preliminary design issues for the construction of the HIP

2.2.2 As part of Project preparation, AISA recruited a consulting firm in March 2006.
The scope of work comprised of: (i) environmental and social impact assessment, (ii)
basic planning study of the IP, (iii) preliminary design study, (iv) financial planning, (v)
final design and tender documents. It seems that those studies were to be completed
within 200 days, and prior to the Project’s effectiveness scheduled for June 2007.
However, the consultant only completed the ESIA in November 20064. It should be noted
that neither the MOP nor the Technical Annex supporting the Project refer to those
incomplete studies (except for the need to complete a broad social assessment). The
possibility of those being delayed and possible consequences over the Project also do not
seem to have been assessed, or addressed.


4
  The difficulties with the consultant started with the first draft of the ESIA, which was considered of very
low quality by the World Bank safeguards team. Several meetings took place between AISA, the consultant
and the World Bank team, with a view to improve the consultant’s performance. AISA also requested the
consultant to change its technical team.



                                                     8
2.2.3 While the consultant completed the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
(though with delays), it terminated its assistance without notice to AISA in August 2008
leaving significant gaps in the technical design work for some important components of
the HIP, in particular: the supply of diesel generators and electricity distribution
equipment; the construction of a wastewater treatment plant and retention pond; and the
provision of waste disposal equipments. This made it necessary to seek additional
assistance to complete the design and technical specifications for those components, in
turn resulting in considerable delays in procurement.

2.2.4 By the time the Mid-Term Review (MTR) was conducted (June 2010), civil
works for the construction of HIP had just been completed. However, technical
specification work was still needed for: (i) the supply of power (purchase of diesel
generators proved twice more expensive than initially envisioned and uneconomic – on
this issue of power, see below); (ii) the construction of a wastewater treatment plant and
retention pond; and (iii) the development of an appropriate landfill for waste disposal.
For the supply of power and wastewater treatment only, a deadline of 24 months and 20
months, respectively, was deemed necessary to complete the works, i.e., well over the
Closing Date.

Security Issues

2.2.5 Soon after the Project’s commencement, the overall country security condition
deteriorated. This led to a decrease in the interest of international firms to bid for
contracts in Afghanistan and to an increase in prices, although it seems that costs under
this Project were generally underestimated considering the overall Afghan context. This
situation also affected supervision of works by the Bank as no travel mission was
authorized for Bank teams to Hissar-e-Shahi for a period of over two years.

2.2.6 It should be noted that no reassessment of the achievability of the HIP in this
context (relevance of, and private sector demand for, an IP in a region affected by
insecurity) seems to have been carried out at the time (although this was suggested by the
Sector Manager as of late 2008).

Power supply for the Park

2.2.7 Under the initial Project design, power was to be supplied to the HIP through the
purchase of 12 MW diesel generators. However, upon completing the bid evaluations for
the diesel generator power plant in late 2009, AISA informed the Bank of a significant
cost overrun for the purchase of generators (while the cost was estimated at USD 10
million, the prices of bids received by AISA ranged from USD 16 to 27 million), also
underlining the fact that diesel-generated source of power is 4 to 5 times costlier than
hydro-power, which made the cost of production uncompetitive.

2.2.8 Alternative options for the supply of power were explored. It was thus proposed
to replace the diesel power supply by connecting the HIP to a 110 KV transmission line
(running from Naghlu, Kabul’s Eastern district, to Jalalabad) under construction with the


                                            9
support of the ADB. Under this option, an extension of this line to the park and the
installation of a sub-station were to be financed by AISA, using Project funds initially
allocated to the purchase of diesel generators. Little can be found in the Project files on
how this proposal might have been assessed by the Bank from a technical and economic
point of view, although reference is made5 to discussions on extending the contract of the
contractor building the transmission line from Naghlu to Jalalabad, so as to include the
extension of the line to the HIP. However, this did not prove feasible both for cost and
procurement reasons – and the conclusion was reached, in the MTR aide memoire, that a
contractor would need to be internationally recruited to carry those works out. This would
also require the hiring of a consultant to undertake the technical design. As at June 2010,
it was estimated that completing the design and technical specifications and awarding the
main contract for the extension of the transmission line to HIP could occur no earlier than
May 2011.

2.2.9 In July 2010, the Bank approved the cancellation of the bids to acquire diesel
generators power plant. In late October 2010, as part of a request to extend the Project
and obtain additional funding, GoA submitted a revised estimate to implement this new
power supply option, amounting to USD 19 million (of which USD 9 million in
additional financing). In response, the Bank indicated in November 2010 that it would
consider an extension of the Closing Date, but that additional financing would require a
comprehensive appraisal, including on costs, benefits and ability to meet development
objectives, as well as the preparation of an action plan to implement the development
strategy for HIP. Between December 2010 and May 2011, the World Bank undertook a
thorough review of the project and of its ability to meet its development objectives. In
order to guide these discussions, AISA hired two consultants to undertake a business
implementation plan for HIP. These discussions also included a review of the proposal to
extend the transmission line from Jalalabad to the industrial park. Following this further
analysis, it was estimated that a 24 km 110 kV transmission line would cost up to USD
25 million. In addition, the lack of clarity on the supply and demand for power in
Afghanistan in the coming years and on the amount of power that would be available in
the Jalalabad was also raised as a key concern, as there was a risk that there would be
insufficient power in the country to provide reliable electricity to the project even if the
transmission line was built.

Implementation capacity issues

2.2.10 AISA’s limited capacity to implement the Project, in particular in the fields of
procurement and supervision of works for HIP, was identified at Project preparation
stage. In addition, the difficulty to attract competent and qualified local staff was listed
as a risk. While actions were identified to address those capacity shortages (recruitments,
preparation of financial management manual), significant problems seem to have




5
    MTR Aide-Memoire (June 2010)




                                            10
materialized, mostly relating to the difficulty to keep fiduciary staff in place and to
promptly address Project implementation issues.

2.2.11 This high staff turnover is said to have negatively impacted on the implementation
of the Project in several ways: (i) in contributing to delays in the procurement process
(already affected by incomplete technical designs); (ii) possibly, in recruiting ill-suited
(or not best-suited) contractors (although the availability of qualified contractors is
mentioned as an issue in the Afghan context); and (iii) in resulting in a series of financial
management problems (including late or lacking reports and non-compliance with agreed
financial management arrangements). As regards procurement, it is worth noting that the
initial Project documents provided, to address AISA’s limited capacity, that procurement
documentation for large value of goods, works and consultancy would be carried out by
the Afghanistan Reconstruction and Development Services (ARDS, a central
procurement oversight and facilitation unit in the Ministry of Economy), with technical
evaluation support from AISA. However ARDS itself had limited capacity and was not
able to provide the significant support required by ASIA.

2.2.12 In addition to affecting the implementation of Project activities, the staff turnover
is said to have resulted in limiting the transfer of sustainable know-how to local
institutions, which also was an objective of the Project. This, plus the changes in
leadership in local institutions, is considered to have negatively impacted on the overall
achievement of the technical assistance component of the Project.

Safeguards

2.2.13 While no safeguards violations are reported as such in the Project files, it should
be noted that the handling of safeguard issues seems to also have contributed to delays at
implementation stage, in particular: (i) the delayed completion of environmental design
issues in connection with civil works (including the identification and development of an
appropriate landfill for waste disposal, and the construction of a treatment plant for waste
water); (ii) the late completion of the social assessment; and (iii) the late completion of a
series of additional studies to be completed under the EMP and SMP.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1 The security situation has made it impossible for the Bank team to physically
monitor the progress of construction at the HIP site. Arrangements were made for
supervision first by the United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) in 2008 and
by two local engineers working for USAID in 2009. A physical inspection of the
completed work was also undertaken by International Relief and Development (IRD) in
December 2011, in the context of this ICR6, which concluded that quality ranks at the
middle level.



6
    Under direct World Bank contracting.



                                             11
2.3.2 Indicators for the main component of this Project were tied to an operating Park,
which (despite the incomplete technical design issues mentioned above) was expected
about two years after effectiveness. Similarly, performance indicators pertaining to the
technical assistance component were largely tied to outcomes, such as the adoption of
PSD related policies and satisfaction of the private sector with the same or the reduction
of days to start-up a business. Given the delays on both components (construction and
capacity building), and while regular monitoring appears to have taken place, those
indicators seem to have been of little use to actually measure progress made under the
Project. Maybe more realistic output intermediate indicators could have been retained to
at least assess progress during implementation (including, for example, on power, had
this clearly been identified as an issue at preparation). Finally, it should be noted that, at
no point in the life of the Project did the Bank task team include a power specialist, with
the exception of one supervision mission.

2.4      Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environment and Social Safeguards

2.4.1 The Project has been rated as Satisfactory on safeguards through the end of 2009,
being then rated “Moderately Unsatisfactory? in mid-2010 before moving back to a
“moderately satisfactory? rating six months later. No serious safeguards concerns were
reported over the life of the Project, possibly due to the fact that the HIP never became
operational. However, the recruitment of an environmental management specialist and
environmental protection officer, to be completed by March 2007 according to the
Technical Annex, did not occur before September 2008. While staff turnover seems to
have been less of an issue as regards safeguards, slow progress is reported in the
implementation of the Project on this front, including the preparation of environmental
studies. As mentioned above, this was aggravated by the fact that technical designs were
not complete by Project start for significant parts of the Project (including the wastewater
and solid waste management)..

2.4.2 Fourteen studies were planned under the environmental and social management
plans of HIP. Of that, eight studies were to be undertaken internally by AISA (by project
closure, five were completed). Six studies were planned to be outsourced, with only one
completed by project closure. Recruiting qualified consultants for these studies proved
particularly difficult, with the several failed procurement attempts7.

2.4.3 At project closure, the waste water management technical design was not
completed and the contract with the consultant was cancelled (due to the closure of the
project) and the technical design for the landfill site had not started.

Procurement


7
 No Afghan firm had the technical capacity to undertake the studies, while the size of the contract was too
small to attract international firms.



                                                    12
2.4.4 Overall procurement performance of the Project is rated Moderately
Unsatisfactory. While the procurement measures agreed upon at preparation were
complied with, procurement is an area that has been particularly problematic in this
Project – here again due both to high staff turnover and difficulty to attract qualified
personnel, and to the incomplete technical designs at Project effectiveness. Handling of
procurement issues seems to have often been slow (time to prepare satisfactory
procurement packages, time to prepare bid evaluation reports and quality of information
provided, promptness in taking corrective measures when needed). It should also be
noted that the option of getting assistance from the ARDS identified as a remedial
measure at preparation (and mentioned again in 2010) was not effective, due to limited
capacity within ARDS to provide the level of support required by AISA. Limited
sustainable procurement capacity has been built within AISA by project closure.

Financial Management (FM)

2.4.5 The FM performance of the Project is also rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The
financial management arrangements were not adequate at times due to lack of staff
during the course of the implementation of the project, as the project had problem in
recruiting and retaining FM staff. The internal controls and staffing were also inadequate
during the life of the project. Annual audited financial statements were submitted
regularly though there were some delays in the initial years. Nevertheless, the audit
opinion of the Control and Audit Office of Afghanistan was unqualified throughout the
project. Audit observations for all project years were addressed except for FY 2010-2011.

2.5    Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation

2.5.1 IP remains high on GoA’s agenda and GoA is seeking funds to support their
development. MoCI is leading a National Priority Program on Integrated Trade and SME
Facility, which includes USD 200 million for IP development across the country. The
World Bank has however indicated to MoCI that, based on the HIP experience, it would
not provide financing for development of industrial parks directly implemented by the
Government, but would encourage public private partnerships to develop these. The Bank
also indicated that it could consider providing technical assistance to pilot such
development.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

3.1.1 At the time of Project’s preparation, PSD seems to have been unanimously
considered as an important issue to support Afghanistan’s reconstruction. In this respect,
the IP approach was considered an appropriate response to address the two main
constraints to PSD: access to basic utilities (especially power) and access to land – and
this approach was also supported by important donors present in the country. From this
point of view, there is, little ground to question the decision to support the construction of




                                             13
an IP as a way to address Afghanistan’s PSD needs – nor to question the need for an IP in
the Jalalabad region.

3.1.2. As mentioned in 2.5.1, the development of industrial parks is still a high priority
for the Government of Afghanistan. There is however a debate with development
partners on the role of the Government in the development of industrial parks, the
Government advocating for a direct implementation role, development partners
advocating for public private partnerships, with the private sector leading the
development and management of parks.

3.1.3 The design, as such, seemed a coherent mix of civil works and provision of
equipment for the Park – as well as capacity building in terms of Project implementation
and overall PSD policy formulation and facilitation. However, it also seems to have been
characterized by unpreparedness, in particular in connection with: (i) proper evaluation of
the HIP site (appropriateness, strengths, weaknesses); (ii) proper technical and economic
analysis of the power supply issue; and (iii) timely availability of technical design
studies. As regards implementation mechanisms, the decision to use AISA, despite its
recognized limited capacity to drive the development of an industrial park, was more a
strategic decision to help build local capacity. That decision was also justified by the fact
that there was no alternative at the time and that AISA was considered as one of the best
performing Afghan public institutions. Finally, the choice of indicators pertaining to an
operating park (within two years) was probably overoptimistic – and the lack of an exit
strategy unrealistic.

3.1.4 The effect of design and low capacity issues was compounded by the deterioration
in the security situation. The lack of an exit strategy and, probably, the lack of realistic
assessment of the security situation seem to have led to continuing implementing the
Project as designed, whilst questions on the achievability of the DO within the time and
budget initially envisioned very quickly arose.

3.1.5 In hindsight, following the failure of the consultant to complete the technical
design for the industrial park, the decision to rely on AISA (supported by individual
consultants) to develop the technical specifications proved problematic, as it over-
estimated the capacity of AISA and of individual consultants hired under the project. This
decision was taken as recruiting a new engineering firm would have taken significant
time and recruiting individual consultants was quicker.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

3.2.1 The project closed in June 2011 without achieving its development objectives.
The HIP never became operational during the life of the Project – and the power issue
remains unresolved to this day. While some capacity building had been recorded with
AISA in the fields of procurement, financial management and safeguards management,
efforts to strengthen the capacity to develop and manage IPs have had disappointing
results, as have the activities that were designed to strengthen the capacity of facilitating




                                             14
PSD, including policy formulation by MoCI. Only half of the Project funds were
disbursed and an amount of USD 12.0 million was cancelled at project closure.

3.2.2 Project indicators in connection with its largest component were tied to the
completion of the HIP. These are, therefore, not met. Indicators tied to the capacity
building activities appear largely unmet, but for one where Project contribution is
actually difficult to precisely assess. A summary of Project Outcome Indicators is
provided below:

       (i) Number of jobs created in the industrial park supported by the project: 0. Not
       achieved.
       (ii) Amount of investment by enterprises located in the industrial park: 0. Not
       achieved.
       (iii) Time required for business start-up (days): 7 days. Achieved;
       (iv) Formal cost required for business start-up (% of GNI per capita): 25.8%
       Achieved;
       (v) Private sector assessment of policy predictability as captured through
       enterprise surveys (% of respondents saying that policies are predictable): Data
       not available.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Unsatisfactory

3.3.1 The PDO was not achieved. The Project only completed basic civil works for
HIP, with no prospects of the HIP being used in the short time until the issue of power
supply is resolved. Only a part of the funding allocated to capacity building has been
used and with limited results.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development:

Not applicable.

Institutional Change/Strengthening

3.4.1 In spite of the difficulties noted at implementation stage, some capacity
strengthening was noted at AISA, in particular within its IPDD. When the project started,
IPDD had only 3 staff. During project implementation, the capacity of IPPD increased in
project implementation, procurement, financial management and social and environment
safeguards – through national and international consultants. However, IPDD suffered
from high staff turnover, because of the growing insecurity for international staff and
because of tight labor market for qualified national staff. IPDD currently has 15 technical
staff. IPDD is now receiving support from DFID to develop an Industrial Park in


                                            15
Helmand. DFID has expressed satisfaction with IPDD performance. The World Bank and
DFID had a number of discussions on their respective experience with industrial park
development and DFID has taken into account the lessons from the disappointing
experience with HIP and has, in particular, decided to start with a relatively small
industrial park. In addition, AISA benefits from the collaboration with an international
engineering firm, hired by DFID, for the construction of the industrial park in Helmand.
USAID has also agreed to finance the extension of the Bagrami Industrial Park in Kabul
(11 hectares, with 20 plots), with US$5 million coming from USAID and US$2 million
coming from AISA development budget.

Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts:

None

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: High

As indicated above, the PDO was not achieved and there is little indication that the HIP,
which was the main component, can be used in the short term and until the complex issue
of power supply is resolved.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Unsatisfactory

5.1.1 There is insufficient documentation in the Project files to evaluate how the power
issue was assessed / addressed by the Bank team at preparation from a technical and
economic point of view – but it clearly was not sufficiently documented in the Technical
Annex for the Project. The same applies to the lack of available technical studies for the
construction of HIP. None of these issues – which are the main reasons for the Project
derailing – were identified as risks. The risks associated to AISA’s low capacity, on the
other hand, were identified. The security situation in Afghanistan, and its possible effects
over the Project, also seems to have been somewhat underestimated both as regards
Project costs and availability of an exit strategy.

Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.1.2 The security situation had a significant impact on the supervision of the main
component of the Project, as Bank teams were not allowed to visit the HIP site for over
two and a half years. Otherwise, regular supervision seems to have been conducted with




                                            16
the help of AISA and significant Bank resources allocated to address implementation
capacity issues.

5.1.3 No power specialist seems to have ever been made part of the core team for this
Project (not even at preparation) and only one supervision mission seems to have
included one over the life of the Project. Changes in the team also occurred soon after
Project’s effectiveness, which might have been too soon given the challenges of this
complex Project.

5.1.4 Positive ratings through late in the Project can seem surprising, although ISRs
show that this might have been “formal? optimism that things will improve – rather than
a lack of understanding, or disclosing of, the issues at stake. However, the Bank’s
assessment of whether the HIP component remained achievable was slow, or maybe not
“candid?. Problems with initial technical designs, significant cost-overruns, the likeliness
of completion delays and even questions on the source of power supply for HIP are
mentioned as early as 2008. The MTR took place in May 2010, about one year before
the Closing Date – and recommended a major change in approach for the power supply to
the park, as highlighted previously.

Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.1.5 The Project seems to have been both underprepared on some essential features
(access to power, technical designs) and overoptimistic (costs, deadlines, exit strategy).
The choice of relying on AISA supported by individual consultants to develop the
technical specifications was also, in hindsight, an error of judgment. However, the
complexity of operating in the Afghan environment (relating in particular to the security
situation and the capacity constraints) should not be under-estimated.

5.2 Borrower Performance

Government’s Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.2.1 GoA appears to have been a strong supporter of this Project and to have extended
full cooperation to the Bank during preparation. However, given the challenges of this
Project, a more focused support might have been expected on some levels at
implementation stage, which, in turn, could have helped alleviating some of the problems
encountered. This applies in particular to: (i) the establishment of a clear development
strategy for IPs and of a clear institutional framework for the management of IPs; (ii) the
coordination and continuity of leadership on PSD related issues (changes in leadership
are mentioned both with AISA and MoCI, as well as debates over respective mandates);
(iii) oversight over Project implementation by AISA.

Implementing Agency’s Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


                                            17
5.2.2 The initial assessment was that AISA’s capacity to implement this Project was
limited in terms of procurement, financial management and safeguards management –
and significant support was financed on this front under the Project. As explained, the
Project has suffered from a high staff turnover, for which AISA probably cannot be held
responsible. In addition, as mentioned, the decision by the World Bank to rely on AISA,
supported by individual consultants (following the termination of the contract with the
consulting firm), to develop technical specifications and to monitor works and
consultants, under-estimated the complexity of overseeing the construction of an
industrial park. Nevertheless, implementation by AISA was characterized by a series of
problems and delays in particular in the fields of procurement and financial management.
Similarly, AISA seems to have been slow in processing the procurement of capacity
building activities for MoCI, in turn contributing to the disappointing results on this front.

Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.2.3 Despite strong support by the GoA at preparation, the implementation of the
Project has been problematic – and none of the development objectives were met. Some
flaws at design and the security situation in Afghanistan are probably the main causes for
those disappointing results. However, the slow implementation by AISA has also been a
factor. The time taken to establish a clear strategy and institutional framework for IPs,
and to effectively improve PSD facilitation as designed under the Project were also
disappointing, but it should be noted that these were not the primary causes of the failure
of the project.

6. Lessons Learned

6.1     As indicated above, the overall assessment is of a Project that was both
underprepared on some important features, and overambitious/optimistic. In so saying,
neither the pressure to deliver on a country like Afghanistan in 2007 nor the realities of a
conflict-affected environment (which always make it necessary to balance analysis and
action) should be underestimated. With this in mind, the following lessons might be
drawn from this Project.

IP Design

6.2     Availability of power: the main benefit of an IP is generally to make some
services and infrastructure that are not readily available elsewhere in the country
available to investors. In low income countries, power is generally rated as the first
constraint to economic development. Therefore, the availability of power should not be
handled as “a feature among others? when developing an IP but as a Project viability
issue. In the present case, where 50% of Project funds were allocated to power supply
equipment, no information can be found on specific technical or economic analysis of
this issue in the short and medium term. Similarly, no power specialist seems to have
been included in the core team at any point in time. By the Project Closing Date,



                                             18
supplying power to HIP was estimated to equal the entire Project cost. And as of today,
even the funds disbursed under Project (site construction) might prove of little use if the
power connection issue cannot be sorted out.

6.3     Size of park and operational aspects: the HIP site covers about 106 hectares – and
was expected to host about 100 businesses. At the time of preparation, the approach was
to build a large IP given the overwhelming land-titling issue in the country. However, in
such a fragile and somewhat unpredictable environment, starting with a smaller park
might have been a better approach. As an illustration, the average size of donor-funded
IPs across the country is 30 hectares (and the smaller Bagrami IP, 9 hectares, in Kabul is
showing positive results). On a separate note, the economic viability of an IP depends, to
some extent, on the rules for its operation (including land allotment, common costs and
management structure). While the impact of this issue cannot be measured in the case of
HIP, since it never started operating, it would have been important to also give proper
consideration to these institutional issues, rather than focusing exclusively on
infrastructure issues. It appears therefore surprising that no detailed feasibility study for
the park was undertaken during the life of the project. One possible explanation is that the
difficulties and delays in the construction of the park absorbed all the attention of the
project team.

6.4     Role of Governments: recent reviews and studies on international experience
relating to industrial parks (and special economic zones) also suggest that a more
efficient approach to the development of IPs is to rely on public private partnerships,
where the private sector is responsible for the construction and management of parks.

Conflict-Affected Environment

6.5      Readiness of technical designs at Project start: interventions in conflict-affected
environments require to quickly assess needs and respond and, therefore, to balance
analysis and action. This is partly what the Bank OP 8.50 aims to address in streamlining
reviews and approval processes. However, the development of infrastructure projects,
which can be a challenge in a “regular environment?, is even more challenging in a
conflict context – and there is no reason to believe that technical design issues can be
resolved quicker and more easily in that context. In the present case, preparation time
was not particularly short. Discussions seem to have mainly covered strategic
orientations (which regional IP to support, whether or not to support a small business
initiative, etc) – while little can be found on how specific Project funded activities finally
retained were assessed. This proved problematic. Having technical designs of
reasonable quality available should probably have been ensured at project appraisal.

6.6    Flexible Project design and exit strategy: “flexibility in design? can seem an
evasive concept in an infrastructure Project. However, the deterioration of security (or
the lack of long term visibility and possible change of environment) should probably
always, at least, be considered a risk in a conflict context. In this respect, options to
quickly reorient the use of Project funds might have been identified at preparation, for
example, to support other IPs already under construction with the support of other donors.



                                             19
6.7     Cost analysis: a majority of projects in conflict contexts (and more generally
infrastructure projects) are subject to cost-overruns. Reasons for such overruns typically
include: difficulty of physical access, cost of transport, limited availability of suppliers,
cost of raw materials, etc. Given the experience gained by the Bank in Afghanistan as of
2006, it is surprising that none of those factors were tailored in – whereas overruns
materialized immediately after Project start. In addition, it seems that no funds were kept
unallocated in this Project. A good practice in such projects/environments could consist
of either a more candid cost evaluation upfront, or to keep funds unallocated and ready to
use in the Project.

6.8     Response to implementation capacity issues: as mentioned, the decision to use
AISA, supported by individual consultants, to undertake the construction of the industrial
park appears, in retrospect, to have been ill-informed. Building an industrial park requires
a variety of highly specialized expertise that only an engineering firm can mobilize.
While the focus on building AISA’s capacity was well founded, the approach to build its
capacity – through individual consultants – was not appropriate, when it came to building
a large industrial park.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

Borrower/Implementing agencies

7.1 Comments were received from AISA on an earlier version of the ICR. AISA clearly
feels very strongly and negatively about the outcome of this Project, and the decision
taken by the Bank not to extend the closing date and approve an additional financing.
They consider that the delays in implementation are mainly the result of design flaws and
subsequent changes (including on power) and inadequate evaluation of costs and time
required to complete the Project. In this respect, AISA considers that the indicators
pertaining to an operating HIP cannot be used to rate the Project. Moreover, they consider
that a solution to the power issue is within reach. As regards implementation, they also
underline that staff turnover is a general issue in Afghanistan and that the Bank showed
little flexibility as to the solutions AISA made to address this problem (increase
compensation and/or use of local staff). They consider their performance to have been
satisfactory.

7.2 AISA’s disappointment is probably understandable and several of their comments are
actually in line with the findings of this ICR. While the Bank’s evaluation of the
achievability of the PDO (and of resolution of the power supply issue) even under an
extension of the Project and with additional financing differs from AISA’s views, the
dialogue on the Project continuation might have contributed to AISA’s frustration.
Changes in technical designs seem to have always been part of Project supervision and
costs overruns and delays were identified early on. It also appears that the World Bank
team provided questionable guidance on the supply of power to the park, as the guidance
kept evolving, with earlier suggestions proving impossible to implement. Finally, it is



                                             20
also unfortunate that the final decision on the future of the project was made only 20 days
before the closing date of the project. As regards AISA’s performance, while it cannot be
found objectively “satisfactory?, given the problems encountered and overall outcome of
the Project, it is true that this is probably the result of issues that were identified at
preparation but never properly addressed.

Other partners and stakeholders

7.3     The ICR team met with the teams of DFID and USAID in their Kabul offices to
seek their views on the project and on GoA’s strategy for developing IPs. DFID is
actively involved in developing an IP in Helmand, where efforts are underway to
complete the physical works. It has commissioned several feasibility studies to support
the further development of the site and its effective marketing to the private sector.
USAID is sponsoring the extension of the now functional IP in Bagrami, as well as the
connection to the power grid of the IP in Mazar-e-Sharif. While discussing the Bank’s
PSD Support Project, those two agencies emphasized that it was important to address the
issues pertaining to power in a timely manner. Other issues include access to the nearest
marketplace through road networks, and the area’s degree of security. A broad consensus
also seems to exist on confining the role of the GoA/AISA to the provision of secured
land, and supporting the private sector lead for the development and maintenance of the
IPs.

7.2     Other stakeholders, including the Afghanistan Chambers of Commerce and
Industry (ACCI) and the USAID funded Trade and Accession Facilitation for
Afghanistan (TAFA) project, confirmed that access to land titling and access to power (as
well as access to finance) remain important issues to facilitate PSD.




                                            21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing (Numbers provided by AISA)

    (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                                            Actual/Latest
                                      Appraisal Estimate                           Percentage of
           Components                                       Estimate (USD
                                       (USD millions)8                              Appraisal
                                                               millions)
Industrial Park Development
(Physical Infrastructure)                     21.10                 10.06               47.67

Industrial Park Development
(Technical Assistance)                         2.90                  2.03               70.00

Institutional Development       and
Capacity Building o f AISA                     0.50                  0.02               4.00

Institutional Development and
Capacity Building in Ministry of
                                               0.50                  0.05               10.00
Commerce

              Total Project Costs             25.00                 12.16


    (b) Financing
                                             Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                                                                           Percentage of
           Source of Funds                    Estimate       Estimate
                                                                             Appraisal
                                          (USD millions) (USD millions)
Borrower                                 0.00           0.00            0.00
IDA Grant                                25.00          12.16           48.68%




8
 Technical Annex 5: Estimated Project Cost. Technical Annex. Afghanistan PSD Support Project. July 24,
2007


                                                 22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component (from last ISR: Dec 29, 2010)



Summary             Performance          Baseline         End of Project Value
                    Indicator            Value            (30/06/2011)   Achieved
                                         (24/01/2007)                    (30/06/2011)
Measuring           Number of jobs                      0          3,500              0
increase in the     created in the HIP
volume of private   Amount of                           0             25             0
investment and      investment by
productive jobs     enterprises
                    located in the HIP
by enhancing the
                    (USD).
provision of land   Time required for    Not                          30             7
and                 business start-up    determined
infrastructural     (days)
services through    Formal cost          Not                          40           25.8
HIP                 required for         determined
                    business start-up
                    (% of GNI per
                    capita)
                    Private sector                    14              85            14
                    assessment of
                    policy
                    predictability as
                    captured through
                    enterprise surveys
                    (% of respondents
                    saying that
                    policies are
                    predictable)




                                            23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


A3.1 As noted in paragraph 3.3 of the main section, the project outcome indicators
could not be achieved. Of the 3,500 jobs envisioned, none was created. As for the USD
25.0 million anticipated investment inflows, there were no benefits from the funds, since
both indicators were subject to private-sector operations in the HIP.




                                           24
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
            Names                              Title                           Unit
Guillemette Sidonie JaffrinSr Private Sector Development Specialist           SASFP
Syed A Mahmood             Lead Investment Policy Officer                     CICBR
Samuel Munzele Maimbo      Lead Financial Sector Specialist                   AFTFE
                           Sr Private Sector Development Specialist
Md. Reaz-ul-Islam                                                             SASFP
                           (Retired)
Deepal Fernando            Sr. Procurement Specialist                         SARPS
Asha Naryan                Financial Management Specialist                   SARFM
Asta Olesen                Senior Social Development Specialist              SASDS
Nazir Ahmad                Research Analyst                                  SASFP
Abdul Qadeer Jawad         Consultant                                        SASFP
Richard George Andrew Nash Counsel                                           LEGJR
Parwana Wawreena Nasiri    Program Assistant                                 SASFP
Kyoo-Won Oh                Underwriter                                       MIGOP
Kenneth O. Okpara          Sr Financial Management Specialist                SARFM
Mohammad Arif Rasuli       Sr Environmental Specialist                       SASDI
Mustafizul Hye Shakir      Consultant                                        SASFP
John F. Speakman           Lead Private Sector Development Specialist        SASFP
Rahimullah Wardak          Procurement Specialist                            SARPS
Mohammad Arif Rasuli       S. Environmental Specialist                       SASDN
Abdul Mohammad Durani      Social Development Specialist                     SASDS


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                                                    11.67
  FY06                                                                   157.77
  FY07                                                                   206.74
  FY08                                                                     0.00
                              Total:                                     376.18
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                                                     0.00
  FY06                                                                     4.14
  FY07                                                                     0.37
  FY08                                                                    90.36
                              Total:                                      94.87




                                           25
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


Not Applicable as this is a Core ICR.




                                        26
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable as this is a Core ICR.




                                        27
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

See section 7 in main body of the ICR.




                                         28
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Not applicable as there were no co-financiers and partners in the project.




                                            29
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   1. Technical Annex of PSD Support Project – Report No. T7687 – January 24, 2007.
   2. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the IDA to the Executive
       Directors – Report No. P7687 – January 24, 2007
   3. Project’s 8 Implementation Status and Results Report
   4. UNOPS Report – 2008
   5. Afghanistan National Development Strategy
   6. Governance of IP Development in Afghanistan, ASI/MOCI – July 2011 [Draft]
   7. Industrial Park Development Strategy – 2009
   8. Bank’s Project Closure Letter – June 2011
   9. Business Implementation Plan – Components 1 and 2, Sector Assessment -
       Demand Analysis - Financial Analysis by James Ku and Yar M. Taraky, June 15,
       2011
   10. Business Implementation Plan – Components 3 and 4, Institutional Framework –
       Action Plan – Land Allotment Process by James Ku and Yar M. Taraky, June 15,
       2011
   11. International Relief and Development (IRD) Report – December 2011
   12. AISA’s letter to Bank dated July 2010
   13. Bank’s Management Letter dated July 2010
   14. Bank’s 2010 Mid Term Review (MTR) – Aide Memoire
   15. Afghanistan Interim Strategy Notes (ISN)




                                        30
Annex 10. List of People Met in Kabul during the ICR Mission (Oct 1- 4, 2011)

1. Noorullah Delawari, Minister Advisor to the President & Chief Executive Officer
    Afghanistan Investment Support Agency (AISA)
2. Baryalay Malyar, Director, Industrial Parks Development Department (IPDD), AISA
3. Naseem Akbar, Vice President, Investment Promotion, AISA
4. Abdul Wahab Sidiqi, Project Manager, Implementation Supervision Engineer, AISA
5. Abdul Rahim Fiazan, AIU Board Member, President of JMMIA, Afghanistan
    Industrial Union
6. Mary Beth Theisen, PSD Advisor, Growth and Livelihoods Team, DFID
7. Colin Gourley, Infrastructure Advisor, Helmand Provincial Reconstruction Team,
    DFID
8. Dashanta Hewavitarne, Helmand Program Manager, DFID
9. Zdravko Sami, Business Development and Privatization Team Leader –Private Sector
    Advisor, Economic Growth Office, U.S. Agency for International Development,
    (USAID)
10. Amanda Fong, Economic Policy Advisor, Office of Economic Growth, USAID
11. Gerald R. Andersen, Chief, Business Development and Trade, Office of Economic
    Growth, USAID
12. Sayed Khalil Behrami, Project Management Specialist, Office of Economic Growth,
    USAID
13. Fred Witthans, Trade Facilitation Component Leader, Trade and Accession
    Facilitation for Afghanistan (TAFA)
14. Nimai Ghose, Public Private Partnership Senior Advisor, TAFA




                                        31
                        60°E                                                                                       65°E                                                                                                                70°E                                                                               75°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                          U Z B E K I STA N                                                                                 Dushanbe                                                   hob




                                                                                                     Am
                                                                                                      uD
                                                                                                           ar y                                                                                                                                                                                   Murg
                                                                                                               a
                                                                                                                                                                                                         TA J I K I STAN
                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                           Chardzhev                                                                                       To                                                               TAJ IK IS TA N
                                                                                                                                                                     To                                                    ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kulob                                                       To Shazud
                                                                                                                                                                  Dushanbe                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                            ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                           Qurghonteppa
                               AFGHANISTAN                                 TUR KM E N I S TA N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Faisabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                h
                                                                                                                                     ¯
                                                                                                                                     ¯
                                                                                                                                JAWZJAN                                                                    ndz
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Pya
                                                                                                                                                             BALKH                                     ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                   KUNDUZ                                                                          mi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Taloqan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ¯ ¯                                              Pa
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Kunduz
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Kondoz
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ¯                                                                                             h
                                                                                                                                      Sheberghan
                                                                                                                                              ¯                     Mazar-e
                                                                                                                                                                      ¯
                                                                                                                                                                    Sharıf
                                                                                                                                                                        ¯                                                     TAKHAR                      ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BADAKHSHAN
                                                                                                                                         Saripul                                                                                                                                        u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tirich Mir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (7690 m)
                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                          Samangan
                                                                                                                                                                                ¯                                   Baghlan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ¯                                                  K
                                                                                                                   Meymaneh
                                                              Mary                                                                                                         ¯
                                                                                                                                                                     SAMANGAN                                         ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BAGHLAN
                                                                                                       ¯    ¯
                                                                                                     F A R YA B                                                                                                                                               u
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ndu
                                                                                                                                                                                                            z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I R      d                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SH
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ¯o
                                                                                                                                                                                                 eQ                                    J                                         Chitral
                             To
                                                                                                                                  SAR IP
                                                                                                                                  SARIP UL                                                   y                                              n
                35°N
                         Mashad
                                                                                                             Mor
                                                                                                                   gh¯                                                             Da
                                                                                                                                                                                    ¯   ry
                                                                                                                                                                                           a-                         Bazarak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         H        PAiN             ¯    ¯¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NURISTAN
                                                                                                                     ab
                                      P
                                                                                       ¯
                                                                                     B A D G H ¯S
                                                                                               I                                                                                                          ¸ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Mahmud-e Raqı
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ¯¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ¯ ¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KAPISA Nuristan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ¯ ¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          35°N
                                           a                                                                                                                               Bamyan
                                                                                                                                                                            ¯ ¯¯                      ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                 PARWAN                                        Asadabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ¯ ¯
                                                r o             Qal‘eh-ye Now                                                                                                                        ¯                Charıkar LAGHMAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ¯¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            KUNAR      To
                                                    p a                          e                                                                                                                                     ¯
                                                                         R a n g                                                                               ¯    ¯
                                                         m i s u s                                                                                                                                                                 Mehtarlam           Mardan
                                                                                                                         Chaghcharan
                                                                                                                                  ¯                          B A M YA N                                         KABUL KABUL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ¯                        ¯
                                                       Herat
                                                          ¯
                                                                              ır¯d
                                                                           Har¯
                                                                                u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Jalalabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ¯¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PAK IS TAN
                                                                                                                                                                                 WA R D A K                         Meydan Shahr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ¯




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INDIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ¯                       Khyber Pass
                                        ¯                                                                                                                                                                           LOGAR                NANGARHAR
                                  H E R AT                                                           GHOR                                                                                                                                                                  To Peshawar
                                                                                                                              DAY KUNDI                                                                                 Pol-e ‘Alam
                                                                                                                                  Nili                                                                                        PAKTIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ghaznı
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ¯              Gardız
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ¯




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      us
                                                                                                                                                         d
                                                                                                                                                      an
                                                                                                                                                                   G H A Z N¯




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ind
                ISLAMIC                                                                                                                          He
                                                                                                                                                    lm                      I                                                       KOWST                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kowst          Kohat 0          50              100     150 Kilometers
                REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                                         Sharan
                                                                     rah
                                                                      ¯
                                                                                                                            ¯
                OF IRAN                                            Fa
                                                                             ¯                                            URUZGAN                                                                                                                                   0                  50             100 Miles
                                                                        FA R A H                                         Tarın Kowt
                                                                                                                            ¯
                                          ut
                                       ¯r
                                      Ha
                                          ¯
                                                           Farah
                                                              ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                            P A K T¯K A
                                                                                                                                                     ¯
                                                                                                                                                    ZABUL
                                                                                                                                                     Qalat
                                                                                                                                                        ¯
                                                                               h




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AFGHANISTAN
                                                                             Kh¯ s
                                                                               a




                                                                                                                                                ak
                                                                                                                                              rn¯
                                                                                                                                            Ta

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PRIVATE SECTOR
                                                                                                                     Kandahar
                                                                                                                           ¯
                                                                                       Lashkar Gah
                                                                                                ¯           Arghandab
                           Hamun-e
                            ¯ ¯
                             Saberı
                             ˛¯ ¯                                                                                                                                                                  To


                                                           Dasht-I Margo
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Zhob
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DEVELOPMENT
                                                  Zaranj

                                                                              HILMAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SUPPORT PROJECT
                                                       ¯
                                                N ¯M R O Z
                                                  I                                                         ¯
                                                                                                      KANDAHAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                   Helm                                                                                                  To
                                                        and                                                                                              Quetta                                                                                                                              NATIONAL CAPITAL
                30°N
                                               Gowd-e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RIVERS
                                                Zereh                                                                                                                                                                                             30°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MAIN ROADS
NOVEMBER 2011




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 38950
                                                                                                                                                           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                   RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                 60°E                                         PA KI S TA N                                65°E
                                                                                                                                                           endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           70°E                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
