Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H275-AF 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Private Sector Development Support Project) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated March 8, 2007  
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H275-AF 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated March 8, 2007, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF 
AFGHANISTAN (the 
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the “Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as 
follows: 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
sixteen million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 16,700,000) (the “Grant”) to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the “Project”); 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollars. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out Part 2(b) of the Project through MOCI and 
cause Part 1 and Part 2(a) of the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
The Articles of Association of the Project Implementing Entity have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE V 
–
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient and the 
Project Implementing Entity. 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient 
and the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Recipient 
and the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms. 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
5.04. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
Agreement shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
Kabul 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
 6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS  
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
AGREED at Kabul, Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
By 
/s/ Anwar-ul Haq Ahady 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Mariam J. Sherman 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in improving its investment 
climate for foreign and domestic investors. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1
:
Industrial Park Development 
(a) 
Increasing access to land, infrastructure and utility services, through the 
construction of an industrial park at Hissar-e-Shahi. 
(b) 
Provision of technical assistance to AISA to: (i) strengthen its capacity 
for the management, implementation and supervision of industrial park 
development, including construction supervision, financial management, 
procurement, and environment and social management; and (ii) develop 
a
policy, regulatory and institutional framework for industrial park 
development in Afghanistan. 
Part 2
:
Institutional Development and Capacity-Building for Private Sector Development
(a) 
Strengthening AISA’s capacity in investment promotion, facilitation and 
policy research, including: (i) enhancing the analytical, monitoring and 
advocacy functions of AISA’s policy and research department; and  
(ii) enhancing the delivery of specialized individual client services for 
domestic and foreign investors by AISA’s investor support department.  
(b) 
Capacity building of MOCI to develop the policy formulation, 
implementation and evaluation skills of its Private Sector Development 
Directorate and to strengthen the managerial, technical and 
administrative skills of its staff. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Subsidiary Financing; Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Subsidiary 
Agreement
 
1.
 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part 1 and Part 2(a) of the Project, the
 
Recipient 
shall make part of the proceeds of the Grant available to the Project 
Implementing Entity under a subsidiary agreement (the 
“Subsidiary Agreement”) 
between the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and 
conditions approved by the Association, which shall include the following: 
(i) 
that the Recipient shall make available to the Project Implementing 
Entity proceeds of the Grant for the financing of Eligible Expenditures 
under Parts 1 and 2(a) of the Project; 
(ii) 
that the Project Implementing Entity shall open an account for the 
Project in a commercial bank acceptable to the Recipient and the 
Association; 
(iii) 
that the right of the Project Implementing Entity to withdraw the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be subject to the right of the Recipient to 
withdraw the proceeds of the Grant under the Financing Agreement; 
(iv) 
that the Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 1 to the Financing 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency; 
(v) 
that the Project Implementing Entity shall carry on its operations and 
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, 
environmental and investment practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers; 
(vi) 
that procurement of goods, works and services required for the carrying 
out of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
shall be governed by the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; 
(vii) 
that the Project Implementing Entity shall prepare, not later than  
four (4) months after the Closing Date of the Financing Agreement or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose with the Recipient and 
Page  7
-
6
-
the Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of 
the Project’s objectives; 
(viii) 
that the Project Implementing Entity shall establish and maintain a 
financial management system, prepare quarterly interim un-audited 
financial reports and ensure that its accounts are audited on an annual 
basis; and 
(ix) 
that if the right of the Recipient to obtain disbursements from the Grant 
is suspended or terminated by the Association pursuant to the provisions 
of the Financing Agreement, the right of the Project Implementing Entity 
to obtain disbursements from the Grant shall, likewise and 
simultaneously, be suspended or terminated, as the case may be. 
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Grant.  Except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or
waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any of its provisions. 
B. 
Project Implementation  
 
1. 
The Recipient shall vest responsibility for the implementation of Part 2(b) of the 
Project in MOCI through its Private Sector Development Directorate.   
 
2. 
To this end, the Private Sector Development Directorate shall be responsible for 
designing and organizing training programs, preparing training budgets, financial 
planning and control, monitoring and evaluation, and carrying out procurement 
and financial management with the assistance of AISA.  
 
3. 
Part 1 and Part 2(a) of the Project shall be implemented by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with Section I of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association. Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
Page  8
-
7
-
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the 
end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the Project 
Preparation Advance was made.  The audited Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding* 
(b)  Shopping 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
*
National Competitive Bidding
 shall be subject to the following additional procedures:
 
(i) 
Standard bidding documents approved by the Association will be used. 
(ii) 
Invitations to bid will be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated 
national daily newspaper and bidding documents will be made available 
to prospective bidders, at least twenty eight (28) days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids. 
(iii) 
Bids will not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount 
over the estimated cost. 
(iv) 
Bidding documents will be made available, by mail or in person, to all 
who are willing to pay the required fee. 
(v) 
Foreign bidders will not be precluded from bidding. 
(vi) 
Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) will 
be stated on the bidding documents, and if a registration process is 
required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated bidder will 
be given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any hindrance. 
(vii) 
Bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier 
service or by mail. 
Page  10
-
9
-
(viii) 
All bidders will provide bid security as indicated in the bidding 
documents. A bidder’s bid security will apply only to a specific bid. 
(ix) 
Bids will be opened in public in one place preferably immediately, but 
no later than one hour, after the deadline for submission of bids. 
(x) 
Evaluation of bids will be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format, and within the specified 
period, agreed with the Association. 
(xi) 
Bids will not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Association. 
(xii) 
Split award or lottery in award of contracts will not be carried out. When 
two (2) or more bidders quote the same price, an investigation will be 
made to determine any evidence of collusion, following which: (A) if 
collusion is determined, the parties involved will be disqualified and the 
award will then be made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified 
bidder; and (B) if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh 
bids will be invited after receiving the concurrence of the Association. 
(xiii) 
Contracts will be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the 
initial period of bid validity so that extensions are not necessary. 
Extension of bid validity may be sought only under exceptional 
circumstances. 
(xiv) 
Extension of bid validity will not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the Association: (A) for the first request for extension if it 
is longer than eight (8) weeks; and (B) for all subsequent requests for 
extensions irrespective of the period. 
(xv) 
Negotiations will not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other 
bidders. 
(xvi) 
Re-bidding will not be carried out without the Association’s prior 
concurrence; and 
(xvii)  All contractors or suppliers will provide performance security as 
indicated in the contract documents. A contractor’s or a supplier’s 
performance security will apply to a specific contract under which it was 
furnished. 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used f
or
consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  Quality-Based Selection 
(b)  Single-Source Selection 
(c)  Least-Cost Selection 
(d)  Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e)  Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(f)  Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:  (a) each contract 
for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; (b) each contract for 
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; (c)  each contract for goods 
or works procured on the basis of Direct Contracting regardless of value; (d) each 
contract for consultants’ services with firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 
or more; (e) each contract for consultants’ services with individual consultants estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (f) each contract for consultants’ services 
procured on the basis of Single-Source Selection regardless of value. All other contracts 
shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
Page  12
-
11
-
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant
 (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated  
(Expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(1) Goods, Works, 
Consultants’ Services, 
training, audit costs, and 
Incremental Operating 
Costs* 
 
16,055,000 
 
100% 
(2) Refund of Project 
Preparation Advance 
 
645,000 
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 2.07 
of the General 
Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
16,700,000 
 
*
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the 
incremental expenses incurred on account of Project implementation and management, 
including the operation and maintenance of vehicles, office supplies, communication 
charges, advertising costs, insurance costs, office administration costs, banking charges, 
utility charges, domestic travel and per diem allowances, but excluding salaries of the 
officials of the Recipient’s civil service. 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; 
(b) 
unless a financial management specialist and accounts officer has been 
appointed by the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with the 
provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
Page  13
-
12
-
(c) 
unless a Financial Management Manual, satisfactory to the Association 
has been adopted for the Project; and 
(d) 
unless a procurement specialist and a procurement officer, with terms of 
reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association, 
are hired for the Project. 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2011. 
Page  14
-
13
-
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“AISA” means the Afghanistan Investment Support Agency, a limited liability 
company established under the laws of Afghanistan and operating pursuant to the 
Articles of Association. 
2. 
“Articles of Association” means the Articles of Association of AISA which set 
out, 
inter alia
,
the mandate, organizational structure, duties and authorities of 
AISA and its officers. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
5. 
“Environment and Social Impact Assessment” or “ESIA” means the Recipient’s 
Environment and Social Impact Assessment dated November 13, 2006, 
satisfactory to the Association, including any amendment made to such document 
from time to time with the Association’s approval that identifies potential 
environment and social impacts during the implementation and operation of the 
Project such as pollution, expected waste to be generated, and resettlement, as 
well as mitigation measures to address any adverse environmental and social 
impacts arising from carrying out the Project. 
6. 
“Environment Management Plan” means the Recipient’s environment and social 
plan attached to the ESIA and satisfactory to the Association, setting forth 
measures for mitigating the potential environmental impact of the construction 
and operation of the industrial park, including monitoring mechanisms, 
institutional responsibilities, on-going consultations with stakeholders, training, 
and grievance mechanisms, as the same may be updated from time to time with 
the agreement of the Association. 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
8. 
“Hissar-e-Shahi” means the proposed Hissar-e-Shahi industrial park to be located 
in Rodat District of Nangarhar province, Afghanistan, on the Torkham-Jalalabad 
road, about 25 km east from the city of Jalalabad. 
9. 
“Industrial Parks Development Department” means the department of AISA 
charged with overseeing the construction and operation of the industrial park 
including any technical assistance related thereto. 
Page  15
-
14
-
10. 
“MOCI” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Commerce and Industry, or any 
successor thereto. 
11. 
“Ministry of Finance” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance or any 
successor thereto. 
12. 
“NEPA” means the Recipient’s National Environmental Protection Agency. 
13. 
“Private Sector Development Directorate” means the department within MOCI 
responsible for creating an institutional, legislative and regulatory environment 
that encourages investment in Afghanistan, facilitating the development of 
market systems, encouraging the formalization of Afghan businesses and 
promoting effective dialogue between the Government and other stakeholders on 
private sector development issues. 
14. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
15. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient and AISA’s procurement plan for the 
Project, dated November 11, 2006, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs. 
16. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means AISA. 
 
17. 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 of 
the General Conditions, granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to 
the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Association on October 11, 2005 and 
on behalf of the Recipient on October 24, 2005. 
18. 
“Social Management Plan” means the plan, satisfactory to the Association, to be 
developed by the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with Section I 
paragraph B.1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, which includes 
measures for facilitating income generation and improving the provision of social 
services to households in the areas affected by the proposed industrial park, 
especially women. 
19. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make the 
proceeds of the Grant available to the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
