Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5028-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
GUJARAT HEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
May 18, 1984
Regional Projects Department
Irrigation II Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
USS1.00     =  Rupees (Rs) 10.8
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM) 11
1 meter (m)                              =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                         =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)             3             =  2.47 acres (ac)
1 million cubic meters (Mm )             =  810 acre-feet (ac-ft)             3
1 cubic foot per second (cfs or cusec) =  0.028 cubic meters per second (m Isec)
1 kilogram (kg)                          =  2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (mt)                        =  2,205 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
GOI; GOG;               April 1  -  March 31
1/ The metric system has been used in most cases. However, India is still
in the process of transition to the metric system; non-metric units are
still widely used and have been used in this report where a conversion
to the metric system may confuse the reader.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                India, acting by its President (GOI)
Beneficiarv:            Goverment of Gujarat (GOG)
Amount:                  IDA Credit:  SDR 164.3 M
(US$172.0 M equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard
Re-Lending Terms:        From GOI to GOG as part of central assistance
to states for development projects on terms and
conditions applicable at the time. GOI would bear
the foreign exchange risk.
Proiect Description:    The proposed project is a follow-on to the Gujarat
Irrigation Project (Credit No. 808-IN of July 17,
1976). It would (i) complete construction of 27 out
of 29 subprojects begun under the first time slice,
and bring the remAining 2 to an advanced stage,
including a lined canal system to the 8-ha subchak
level and field channels to individual fields;
(ii) introduce efficient, reliable, and equitable
water management systems in each subproject based on
the village service area; (iii) establish an
appropriate institutional framevork for extending
improved water management activities in the state;
(iv) strengthen the project organization for quality
control, monitoring and the design of minor networks;
(v) provide mechanical skill training for about
30 artisans; (vi) provide training for about 200
professional, 400 subprofessional Irrigation Depart-
ment staff and 8,800 progressive farmers; and
(vii) provide vehicles, plant, and communications
equipment for the construction, maintenance and
operation of the subprojects. The project would
create about 241,000 ha of additional irrigated area
and provide a more reliable water supply for
133,000 ha of existing irrigation. Possible risks
under the proposed project are those normally
associated with irrigation projects in India.
ITis document has a restricted distrbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AC      -  Appraisal Committee
ARDC    - Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CAD     -  Command Area Development
CADA    -  Command Area Development Authority
CCA     -  Cultivable Command Area
CRU     -  Chak Rotational Unit
CWC     -  Central Water Commission
DAFP    -  Directorate of Agriculture and Food Production
ERR     -  Zconomic Rate of Return
FSL     -  Full Supply Level
GOG     -  Government of Gujarat
GOI     -  Government of India
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
I&PD    -  Irrigation and Power Department
ID      -  Irrigation Department
IDA     -  International Development Association
LCB     -  Local Competitive Bidding
M&E     -  Monitoring and Evaluation
KIP     -  Medium Irrigation Project
NABARD  -  National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
OFD     -  On-Farm Development
O&M     -  Operation and Maintenance
R&D     -  Research and Development
RWS     -  Rotational Water Supply
SCMC    -  State Coordinating and Monitoring Committee
UNDP    -  United Nations Development Program
VSA     -  Village Service Area
WMC     - Water Management Committee



GLOSSARY
main, branch,         - main conveyance channels
distributary canals
minor                 -  channel serving one or more villages
watercourse           -  small channel (lined) below  the outlet serving a
or subminor              chak of 40-60 ha divided into 5-8 ha blocks
(subchaks), with capacity to taken full outlet
discharge from head to tail
field channel         -  small channel (unlined) below the watercourse
serving 5-8 ha block, down to farmers' fields, with
capacity to take full outlet discharge
adjustable            -  outlet structure that will give a discharge to a
proportional             minor or watercourse proportional to the flow in the
module (APH)             parent canal.  Not affected by conditions in the
minor or watercourse
outlet                -  structure discharging from watercourse to 5-8 ha
block, designed to take full watercourse discharge
and be either open or shut
chak                  - watercourse CCA
subchak               - watercourse CCA below the 5-ha turnout
varabandi             -  a rotational water supply (RWS) system of allocating
vater among farmers by fixed turns and time periods;
flow rate is constant, and time periods are
proportional to land holding size
on- farm              -  small works needed for efficient water control at
development              the chak level (e.g., watercourses and drains); most
such works are actually off-farm
village service area  -  a block of 200-500 ha served by a minor with the
preferably with the same boundaries as the village
administrative area.



INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page No
I.  BACKGROUND  ...................-          ............ .    1
Introduction..                        ..                     1
Agriculture and Irrigation in Iudia......                    1
The State of Gujarat ..                      ............    1
Performanoe Under Phase I ........ . ..      ...             3
Rationale for Bank Involvement in Phase II       ..6
II. THE PROiE6T AREA. ..                      .. ............       6
General .*oo..  .e...............  . 6
Climate.. .....                                              7
Topography and Soils. .....................                  7
Land Use .       ........             ...... ...             7
Population and Land Tenure           ..........              8
Crops and Yields                 ......                      8
Inputs Used. . ..                                            9
III. THE PROJECT ............................................   10
General       ..............................................   10
Objectives and Scope ............ ...................  10
Detailed Features   ....................................  10
Construction Activities ............. ...............   10
Training, Studies, Institutional Strengthening and
Introduction of RWS .       .......................   13
Design and Implementation Criteria ...................   15
General .................. 000.0.0 .... 9-0.....o   15
Water Supply and Demand ............................   15
Design of Conveyance Network .......................   16
Design of the Minor (VSA) Network ..................   16
Dam Safety. ........ . .  17
Construction Methods          ..............   17
Status of Project Preparation    .................   18
Implementation Schedule ............................   18
Rehabilitation .................... 19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
India in January/February 1984 and comprised of Messrs. C. Helman,
B. Albinson, Y.K. Choi, Ms. G. Leithmann (Bank) and Mr. L. Shanan (Consultant).
Word processing was done by Ms. S. Douglas with the assistance of
Mmes. Kalinger and Bromley.



-11-
IV.   COST  ESTINATES AND  FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS                         ..............    21
Cost  Estimates             ...................         ....................    21
Financing           .....................          .......................    22
Procurement  ..........................................    22
Disbursements             ...................         .....................         23
Accounts  and Audits  . ....................... ...... ....                         24
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ............................    25
The  Irrigation Department  (ID)  .........                ..       ............    25
The  Central  Water  Commission  (CWC)                     ...................      27
Supporting  Services  ..................................    27
Monitoring  and  Evaluation  (M&E)  ........               ..       ............    29
VI.   ORGANIZATION OF WATER  SUPPLY  ...........                  ..       ..............    31
Present  Situation              .................         ...................    31
Rotational  Water  Supply  .............               ..      ...............    32
Water Allocation  ....... ...........                     ...................    33
Operation  and Management  of  Subprojects  ......                      ........    33
Training  in  Rotational Water  Supply  ...............                     O..     34
Operation  and Maintenance  Cost  .........                ..      ............    34
Narmada and Gujarat Medium Irrigation II Project                                    35
VII.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION. FARM INCOMES. AND COST RECOVERY   36
Agricultural  Production  ...........               ..       .................    36
Market  Prospects  and  Prices  ..........              ..       ..............    38
Cost  Recovery            ...................         .....................    38
VIII.  BENEFITS AND  JUSTIFICATION  .............................    40
Project  Impact  ....... ............                   ....................    40
Economic Analysis               .................        ...................    41
Sensitivity Analysis  and Risks  .......                       ................    42
Environmental  Impact  ..............               ..       .................    43
IX.  AGREEMENTS  TO  BE REACHED AND  RECOMMENDATIONS  ..... ......    43
Schedule A:   Rehabilitation                   ..........................    46
Schedule  B:   Introduction  of Rotational Water  Supply..    47



-iii-
TABLES
1   Status of MIPs at end of Phase I
2a Quantities of Civil Works for the Canal System - Main System
2b Quantities of Civil Works for the Canal System - Distribution System
2c Target for Implementation of Rotational Water Supply
3   Salient Features of MIPs
4a Rehabilitation
4b Progress of Land Acquisition
5   Climatic Data
6   Cultivable Comnand Area and Irrigability Class
7   Land Use
8   Distribution of Holdings by Size
9a  Cost Estimates - Summary Account Cost Summary
9b  Cost Estimates - Project Cost Summary
9c  Cost Estimates - Summary Account by Project Component
9d  Cost Estimates - Summary Account by Time
9e  Cost Estimates - Project Component by Time
9f  Cost Estimates - Water Management Training
9g  Cost Estimates - Mechanical Technician Training
9h  Cost Estimates - Farmers Training
9i  Cost Estimates - Vocational Training
9j  Cost Estimate  - Monitoring/Development/Studies
10   Estimated Schedule of Expenditures and Implementation
11   Estimated Disbursement Schedule
12   Credit Allocation
13a  Equipment Summary
13b  Equipment for Construction
13c  Equipment for O&M - Dams and Canals
13d  Equipment for O&M - Standby Generators for Spillway Gates
13e  Equipment for O&M - Telecommunications
13f  Equipment for Hydrology and Drafting
13g  Equipment for Construction
14a  Details of Organization set-up:  Existing and Future Requirements
14b  Organization Set-up for a Typical 16000 Ha Irrigation Management Unit
15a  Farmers Training (Block Leaders)
16a  Crop Water Requirements by Zone
16b  Results of Water Simulation
17   Present and Projected Cropping Patterns
18   Area, Yields, and Production
19   Incremental Crop Production and Value
20   Summary of Prices for Economic and Financial Analysis
21   Derivation of Economic P-ices for Major Crops and  Inputs in Gujarat
22   Crop Financial Budget
23   Crop Economic Budget
24   Estimated Financial Farm Budgets
25   Estimated Farm Budgets and Project Rent at Full Development
26   Estimated Project Rent and Cost Recovery



-iv-
TABLES (cont)
Cost and Benefit Streams, Including Sunk Costs
27a Watrak
27b Sukhi
27c Und
27d Zankhari
Cost and Benefit Streams, Excluding Sunk Costs
28   Modernization Project (Shetrunji)
ANNEXES
1   Economic Analysis
2   Documents in Project File
CHARTS
1    Implementation Schedule
2a   Irrigation Department
2b   Typical Irrigation Circle
2c   Typical Project Staff Chart
3    Central Water Commission
MAPS AND DIAGRAMS
Index to Map 18107
IBRD 18107 Major and Minor Irrigation Schemes
IBRD 18109 Isohyets, Irrigation Needs and Tracks of Storms
IBRD 18108 Agricultural Zones
IBRD 18182 Village Service Area (layout for Rotational Water Supply)
5 Precast Trough Construction
6 Precast Tile Canal Lining
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA VOLUME I
ANNEXES
3 Design
4 Agricultural Aspects of RWS
5 Rehabilitation



INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.01    The Government of India (GOI) has requested Bank Group assistance
to finance a second timeslice of Gujarat's development program for medium
irrigation projects (MIP). The first timeslice has been assisted by IDA
under the ongoing Gujarat Irrigation Project (Credit No. 808-IN), which is
nearing completion (referred to here as Phase I). The proposed Gujarat
Medium Irrigation II Project (referred to here as Phase II) would support
primarily the completion of ongoing subprojects and the introduction of an
efficient, reliable, and equitable water management system in each MIP. It
was prepared by the Government of Gujarat (GOG) with the participation of
GOI's Central Water Commission (CWC).
Agriculture and Irrigation in India 1/
1.02    India has a population of about 750 M (mid-1984) that is growing at
an annual rate of about 2.1Z. Agriculture, which is the dominant sector of
the Indian economy, contributes about 40X of GNP and engages about 70X of the
labor force. GOI has devoted considerable resources to agricultural develop-
ment, especially irrigation, which has accounted for at least three-quarters
of the agricultural growth since 1960.
The State of Guiarat
1.03    General.  The state of Gujarat covers an area of 18.8 M ha, and has a
population of about 36 N (1983) that is growing at an annual rate of 2.5%.
It is relatively urbanized and has a large and fast-growing manufacturing
sector. Between 1960 and 1982 the state's income grew at an annual rate of
3.7% and per capita income reached in 1983 a level of US$320, which is con-
siderably higher than the all India level (US$260). Agriculture accounts for
more than one third of the state's income and for more than 60% of the work-
ing population (1981). Moreover, agriculture-based industries account for
more than 50Z of all factory employment. Agricultural production largely
depends on weather conditions since much of Gujarat is characterized by low
and highly variable rainfall. This, and the limited irrigation facilities,
have made the state susceptible to drought and famine. Since 1900, severe
food shortages due to drought have been experienced at least 25 times. Con-
sequently, GOG has given a high priority to irrigation development.
1.04    The Irrigation Subsector.  The ultimate irrigation potential, and
the potential created and utilized are summarized below:
1/ A more dctailed review is incorporated in numerous SARs of Indian irriga-
tion projects, of which the most receit one is the SAR for Periyar Vaigai
Irrigation II Project (Report No. 4913-IN, April, 1984).



-2-
Ultimate
Irrisation Potential   Potential Created   Potential Utilized
…--------------------(million ha)-------------------------
Major and
medium projects         1.46                    1.13                 0.63
Minor schemes            0.25                    0.15                 0.09
Narmada basin            1.87                       -                    -
Groundwater              1.80                    1.60                 1.38
5.38                   2.88                 2.10
Source: Government of Gujarat, Draft Annual Plan 1984/85, p. 119
(Data as of June 1983).
As can be seen, only about 54% of the ultimate potential has been developed,
and about 75% of the undeveloped potential is located in the Narmada Basin.
Consequently, irrigation development in the second half of the 1980s and in
the 1990s will focus on Narmada. However, GOG gives a high priority to
completion of ongoing major and medium irrigation projects.
1.05    Utilization of the potential created in medium and major schemes has
been unsatisfactory and was estimated at only 56% in 1983. A special Working
Group was appointed by GOG to investigate the reasons for underutilization.
Its main recommendations were:l/
(a) Planning of new projects should be improved and more realistic
assessments should be made at the planning stage of the net
irrigable area to be served under each project.
(b) Conveyance efficiency of canal systems in completed schemes
should be improved.
(c) Field channels should be constructed at government cost.
(d) Operation of e!xisting schemes should be improved.
These recommendations were taken into account in the design of this project.
1.06    Bank Group Support.  The Bank Group has provided significant support
for Gujarat's irrigation development. Its first loan/credit for irrigation
financed the construction of Shetrunji's canal system (Credit No. 13-IN,
1961, US$4.5 M). Like other Indian irrigation projects financed at about the
same time, the project failed to achieve its agricultural potential due to
inadequate agricultural supporting services and lagging construction of field
channels and drains. The lesson learned was taken into account in the
preparation of the Kadana Irrigation Project (Credit No. 176-IN, 1970,
XJ  Report of the Workinx Group appointed by High Power Committee for Maxi-
mizing the Utilization of Created Irrigation Potential on Maior and
Medium Irrigation Schemes of Guiarat State. April 1983.



-3-
US$35 M). In this project much greater emphasis was given to on-farm
development and the agricultural support program. The project wah completed
about two years behind schedule due to two extreme floods that seriously
disrupted dam construction and to other construction problems. Although the
actual rate of return estimated in the project completion report was lower
than anticipated at time of appraisal (12% vs. 14%), the project area is now
one of the most prosperous and productive areas in Gujarat.
1.07    Two credits are presently under implementation in the state:  the
Gujarat Irrigation Project (Credit No. 808-IN, 1978, US$85.0 M)l/ and Gujarat
Irrigation II Project (Credit No. 1011-IN, 1980, US$175.0 M). Together, these
two credits finance about four-fifths of Gujarat's annual irrigation invest-
ments outside the Narmada Development. Project components include, inter
alia: operational improvements and modernization of existing irrigation
systems, construction of new schemes, small scale watershed development,
reclamation of saline coastal lands, and establishment of a water management
training institute. New planning procedures and improved standards for
design and construiction of irrigation projects are introduced. Partly due to
the complex and innovative nature of many components, initial project
implementation suffered from weak management and lower than expected quality
of design and construction. However, implementation performance is gradually
improving and the expected results of the two credits is a significant
strengthening of Gujarat's ability to plan, design, construct, and operate
irrigation projects that can deliver a timely and reliable water supply that
is a prerequisite for the cultivation of high-yielding, high-value crops.
1.08    Bank support of the Narmada River Development in Gujarat is presently
under consideration. The first phase will consist of two projects: {i)
Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power Project will support the construction of the
Sardar Sarovar Dam, which will be a joint venture of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh,
and Maharashtra; (ii) Water Delivery and Drainage Project will support a
three-year time slice construction of the main canal, branches, and distribu-
tion network for which Rajasthan will share a small percentage of the main
canal costs.
Performance Under Phase I
1.09    Gujarat Irrigation Project (Credit No. 808-IN) was the second in a
series of three state-based timeslice/sector line of credit projects.2/  This
type of project was to enable Bank involvement in the development of medium
irrigation projects that individually are too small to justify Bank par-
ticipation.
1.10    The project was to finance the following:  (i) construction of new
MIPs; (ii) modernization of existing schemes; and (iii) a network of
automatic discharge measuring stations. The SAR stipulated the criteria for
1/ The proposed project will be a follow-up (phase IT) to Credit No. 808-IN.
ZJ The first was Orissa Irrigation Project (Credit No. 740-IN) and the third
was the Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project (Credit No. 1108-IN).



-4-
preparation and appraisal of MIPs as well as design criteria. The distribu-
tion system was to be designed for rotational water supply (RWS) and be lined
to the 8-ha outlet. Appraisal and supervision of individual MIPs were to be
undertaken by an Appraisal Committee (AC), especially established in the CWC
for appraisal of MIPs in Bank-financed line of credit projects. The AC was
authorized to approve MIPs meeting the technical criteria, costing less than
Rs 70 H (excluding price contingencies) and having a benefit/cost ratio
higher than 1.0. All other MIPs were to be approved by IDA.
1.11    The project cost was estimated at Rs 1,466 M (US$170.5 M at
appraisal's time exchange rate) and IDA credit approved was US$85 M. In
December 1978, the U.S. Government approved US$30 H of USAID funds for the
project. Consequently, the project scope was extended to cover an
accelerated MIP program and the project cost estimate was increased from
Rs 1,466 M to Rs 1,849 M. USAID agreed to disburse against 17% of the
eligible civil works while IDA disbursement for that category was reduced
from 60% to 47%. Appraisal estimate of the cost of developing irrigation
through MIP averaged about Rs 19,000/ha of CCA while the average cost based
on CWC appraisals of the MfIPs was about Rs 18,000/ha. The revised estimate
(January 1984) is about Rs 25,000/ha (32% above appraisal estimate). The
higher than estimated costs are mainly due to (i) revision of hydrology and
dam design; (ii) increase in the cost of cement; and (iii) higher than
estimated cost of lining. IDA disbursements by mid-March 1984 amount to
about US$79 M (about 93% of the credit). GOG expects to complete by March
1984 the works required to fully utilize both IDA and USAID funds.
1.12    Twenty-nine subprojects have been cleared by the AC (the 29th has
been approved subject to clearance by the Forestry Department of the GOI).
In most of the MIPs, work concentrated on the headworks (dam, main canal)
with the result that secondary canals in some of the MIPs and works on the
minor distribution system in most of them are lagging behind. Construction
of the dams in some MIPs was delayed because the flood hydrology had to be
revised following an unprecedented cyclonic storm in 1979 in the Saurashtra
(Machhu-I) region. This revision resulted in provisions for larger flood
ways and higher freeboard to ensure the safety of the structures and has
delayed the completion of many dams by about a year. The anticipated comple-
tion of the various components by the end of Phase I is summarized below
(details are in table 1):
Percentage Completed                                Distribution
UD To 3/84         Dam        Canal         System Up To 8 ha
Nil              -           1                     2
0-10             1           -                     4
10-25             -           2                     6
25-50             2           9                    10
50-75             4           3                     3
75-100           17          14                     4
24a/        29                    29
a/  Five modernization projects have no dam construction works.



-5-
The network of automatic discharge measuring stations (para 1.10) has been
established.
1.13    The main problems encountered during implementation were related to
staffing, technical standards, cuality control, and management. During the
first two to three years, the most serious constraint was shortage of staff.
This was largely resolved at the beginning of calendar 1982 following
recruitment of new staff by GOG. The technical standards, especially design
and construction of minors and watercourses were initially inadequate, but
improved considerably following Bank intervention and through short training
courses in WALMI. Quality control and construction standards were also
improved folloving the issuance of new standards by GOG. The project has
suffered from poor management which was reflected especially by the fact that
work programs were seldom implemented in accordance with the plans. Despite
continuous revision of implementation schedules the revised targets have
frequently not been met. The assessment of Bank staff was that management
could be improved considerably if systematic planning and monitoring are
introduced. In order to improve these points, a study aimed at improving the
planning through the use of a small computer has been undertaken by the
Operations Research Group (consultancy group located at Baroda).
1.14    Water Management.  The MIPs were to be designed to enable introduc-
tion of RWS. The Bank has provided assistance (under UNDP Project
8IND/78/047) with the design of the minor system through establishment of
pilot water management areas in the Panam MIP especially in the Sansoli
distributary. Based on the experience gained, training courses for design
engineers were conducted (about 30 have been trained). The design standards
developed are being used in most of the project MIPs. Additionally, the
Water Management Team (NDO) and GOG have initiated pilot RWS activities in
the Dantiwada (modernization subproject). A Water and Land Management
Institute (WALMI) has been established (under Credit No. 1011-IN) in tem-
porary buildings and 530 trainees completed 18 training courses by the end of
January 1984. Guest lecturers were drawn from local engineering and agricul-
tural universities. The WALMI faculty will include 7 engineers and 10
professors; a permanent campus is being constructed on 57 ha near the
Agricultural University at Anand.
1.15    Rehabilitation.  Under Phase I, about 8,500 displaced families were
rehabilitated as of November 1983 and about 44% were compensated in land.
There were considerable difficulties with land acquisition due to farmers'
objections, until GOG introduced in 1979 improved rehabilitation standards
applicable to all major and medium irrigation projects (para 3.30).
1.16    Conclusions.  Overall, the project achieved most of its objectives.
Subprojects were appraised in accordance with Bank guidelines. The MIPs
approved under the project cover a total area of 213,300 ha of CCA, and those
in which over 50% of the distribution system had been completed cover about
72,800 ha. These compare favorably (on completed ha equivalent) with the
appraisal target of completed 63,000 ha. The area in which modernization
works have been completed is about 22,000 ha and such works are underway at
various stages of completion on about 140,000 ha. This compares favorably
with the appraisal estimate of completed 55,000 ha. Finally, the water



-6-
management studies conducted under the project resulted in development of
detailed design and operation criteria which were incorporated in Phase II.
Rationale for Bank Involvement in Phase II
1.17    The main rationale for Bank involvement in irrigation development in
India is to assist with the establishment of reliable, equitable, and effi-
cient irrigation systems that satisfy the requirements of modern agricultz;re.
In the typical project this is achieved in two stages:
(a) Design and construction. During this stage the objective is
to construct the project to standards that will enable efficient
operation and management.
(b) Operation. In this stage the objective is to introduce improved
water management practices to ensure that each farmer will obtain
a tinely and reliable water supply.
Both stages are important. Unless the system is constructed to standards
that enable adequate controls, its operators would be unable to provide
reliable supplies. On the other hand, a good design does not fully guarantee
an efficient operation, especially when water is in short supply, since
strong farmers usually try to obtain more than their fair share of the water.
Moreover, the investment in improved systems would not be fully justified
if the operation is deficient.
1.18    Many of the project MIPs are now at an advanced construction stage
and in some, water deliveries have already begun. By the end of Phase II
construction of all (except two) of the MIPs will have been completed, and
they will have progressed well into the operation stage. Although the MIPs
have been designed for RWS mode of operation, this mode is considerably
different from the existing modes (see discussion in chapter 6), and is
likely to require skillful, extended conmissioning actions. Consequently,
Bank involvement and active support would be essential to ensure its success-
ful adoption.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
General
2.01    Gujarat is divided into three geographical units:  the Gujarat main-
land, the Saurashtra peninsula and Kutch. Of the 29 MIPs under the project,
17 are located in the Gujarat mainland and 12 are located in the Saurashtra.
The project area totals about 375,000 ha (net CCA), of which about 135,000 ha
(36Z) are commanded by modernization schemes. Throughout the project area,
water is the major constraint to increased agricultural production and
experiences recurrent water shortages due to low and highly variable rain-
fall. Access to most of the project areas is generally good through a
well-developed road system of national highway, district, and village roads.



-7-
Climate
2.02    Gujarat has a tropical monsoon climate with temperatures suitable for
year-round cropping. Mean monthly temperatures ranges between 180C - 230C in
January and 320C - 340C in May.  Annual rainfall ranges from less than 300 mm
in the northwest to over 2,000 mm in a small area in the southeast. Most
parts of the state receive between 500 and 800 mm (map IBRD 18109). However,
most of the inland area where the proposed MIPs would be constructed, the
rainfall ranges between about 580 mm in northern Gujarat and about 1,680 m
in southern Gujarat. About 95% of the rainfall occurs during the
June-September monsoon. Variations in amount and timeliness of rainfall are
substantial, which makes supplementary irrigation during the kharif season
necessary for stable and high crop yields. Intensive cropping in the rabi
and hot seasons (November - April) is not feasible without irrigation because
of low and uncertain rainfall (table 16b).
Topography and Soils
2.03    Gujarat mainland comprises extensive alluvial plains flanked by hill
terrain in the eastern fringe. The area is flat and forms a gently inclined
plain from west to south, with a land slope range between 0-3%. Most of the
southern mainland has deep black soils. The soils in the northern mainland
are coarser in texture (loamy sand to sandy loam) and are comprised of deep
alluvium. The central mainland is marked by nearly level lands (slope less
than 1Z) and inadequate surface drainage. The soils vary from clay loam to
clay in texture, and are mostly covered under single paddy cultivation in the
kharif season. The central part of the Saurashtra is elevated and the land
slopes gently towards the coast and the plains of the Guiarat mainland. The
area has medium deep soils (1-2 m) with texture ranging from loamy to clayey.
Most of the MIP areas are well provided with a network of large number of
natural drains and the soils are underlain by porous disintegrated rock
substratum and are thus well drained.
2.04    The soil surveys carried out in the 29 MIP areas indicate that most
of the areas have been classified by all India Soil and Land Use Standards
as I, II, and III for irrigation, indicating their suitability to various
intensities of irrigation (table 6). The soils are free from salinity and
alkalinity problems and are suitable for cultivation of food and nonfood
crops under irrigation.
Land Use
2.05    Of the 18.8 M ha of total geographical area in the state, about 9.6 M
ha (51%) is under cultivation. The forest occupies about 2 M ha (11%) and
cannot be reduced further for cultivation without disturbing the ecological
balance. About 3.5 M ha (18%) are either barren, uncultivable or put to
nonagricultural uses. Cultivable wasteland accounts for 2 M ha (11Z) but
most of this land is located in Kutch and has extremely low production poten-
tial without irrigation. The remaining 1.7 M ha (9%) are either fallow or
used as permanent pastures and grazing land. In practice, there is little
scope for increasing the net cultivated area in Gujarat. The cropping inten-
sities between 1970 and 1980 were low, averaging about 109%. About 18Z of



-8-
this intensity is cultivated with two seasonal and perennial crops. Given
the low and irratic rainfall pattern, the intensity of cultivation cannot be
increased without irrigation.
Population and Land Tenure
2.06    The farming population of the subprojects' areas is estimated at
about 866,000 (1981). The total number of housebolds is estimated at 112,000
with an average family size of about 7.7 persons per household. The mean
farm size is 3.4 ha, varying from about 4.1 ha in Saurashtra areas to 3.0 ha
in the Gujarat mainland. In general, the farmers in the low rainfall areas
possess more land than in high rainfall areas. According to 1977 agricul-
tural census, practically 100% of all holdings were fully owned and
self-operated. The socioeconomic surveys conducted in the 29 NIP areas in
the course of preparation for CWC appraisal, indicate that about 55% of the
farmers, having less than 2.5 ha, operate 25% of the land in Gujarat main-
land, and about 45% of the farmers operate nearly 15% in Saurashtra. The
distribution of holdings by size is summarized in the folloving table.
MIPs in Guiarat  Mainland           MIPs in Saurashtra
Farm              Z of                x of           Z of            Z of
Size (ha)         Household             Area         Household         Area
below 1.0            17.9                4.3           10.0              2.3
1.1 - 2.5           36.7                20.6           33.5             11.4
2.6 - 5.0           28.9                29.9           27.3            22.6
above 5.0           16.5                45.2           29.2             63.7
100.0              100.0          100.0            100.0
Average Farm
Size                        3.0                             4.1
Crops and Yields
2.07    Gujarat has three cropping seasons:  kharif (June-October), rabi
(November-February), and hot weather (March-May). Most of the cropping takes
place during the kharif season, utilizing the monsoon rainfall. In rabi,
crops are grown on residual moisture or with pump irrigation.  Excep. in
limited areas with perennial irrigation (wells and pumps), no cultivation is
practiced during the hot season. The project area can be broadly classified
into five crop zones: zone I - pearl millet, wheat, and castor bean; zone II
- groundnut, wheat, and cotton; zone III - paddy/sorghum, grams, and cotton;
zone IV - maize, cotton, and tobacco; and zone V - paddy/sorghum, wheat, and
cotton. The weighted average cropping intensity of these zones is about
109%, varying from 128% in northern Gujarat (zone I) to 103% in the
Saurashtra area (zone II). Weighted average irrigation intensity of all
zones is low at 21% (table 18).



-9-
2.08    The most widely grown cereals in the project area are pearl millet
and sorghum. GHB-J-1399, CJ-104, and GHB-32 are the most popular pearl
millet varieties. Yields of the rainfed average about 0.6 t/ha and the
irrigated about 1.8 t/ha. Sorghum varieties recommended for kharif include
the hybrids CSH-5, CSH-6, and the composites CSV-3 and G-108. Because of low
yields of fodder and poorer grain quality, only about 52 of the cropped area
is covered with HYVa. Yields of sorghum average about 0.5 t/ha for rainfed
and 0.9 t/ha for irrigated. About 8% of the total cropped area is grown with
paddy. Local early maturing varieties like Sathi and Sukhvel (100 days) are
grown under rainfed with a yield of about 1.1 t/ha. Ratna, GR-ll, Jaya, and
Masuri are the most popular transplanted varieties and give yields of about
2 tlha. About 50% of the cropped area in Saurashtra (zone II) is occupied
with kharif groundnut. It is mostly grown under rainfed conditions and the
yield averages 0.7 tlha. Some irrigated groundnut is grown in the hot season
and becoming increasingly popular wherever water is available. Maize is an
important crop of tribal areas (zones IV and V) and is grown under rainfed
conditions. The popular varieties grown under residual moisture are A-206
and A-206-3-13 and yield about 0.6 t/ha. This low yield is constrained by
available moisture. Kalyansona and Sonalika are the two major wheat
varieties grown for irrigated area, yielding about 2.1 t/ha. Yield can be
improved if wheat is sown around mid-November. Mustard is mainly grown in
the northern area (zone I). Irrigated mustard yields about 1.1 t/ha and
residual moisture about 0.8 t/ha. Pigeon pea (kharif) and chick pea (rabi)
are the two major pulse crops grown under unirrigated conditions. The
average yield is low at 0.6 t/ha.  There are varieties of vegetables grown
under irrigated conditions in both kharif and rabi seasons. As they are
grown under intensive cultivation, yields are relatively high. The yield of
ctaili is about 0.7 t/ha and potato 20 t/ha.
2.09    About 18% of total cropped area (68,000 ha) is occupied with seasonal
cash crops mainly cotton, tobacco, and castor bean, of which cotton occupies
about 90%. The main rainfed cotton varieties are of medium staple and
include Digvijay, V 797, and Sanjay (275-day varieties), yielding about
0.6 t/ha of seed cotton. Hybrid 4 (long staple 210-day variety) is a popular
variety grown under irrigated conditions. Anand 2 and Anand 119 are the two
major bidi tobacco varieties. Irrigated tobacco yield about 1.6 t;ha and
rainfed about 0.9 t/ha. Castorbean is grown in the low rainfall area of
command (zone I). Hybrid varieties (GCH 3 and Gauch 1) with a duration of
about 160 days are commonly grown. Yields under rainfed conditions average
1.1 t/ha and under irrigation about 1.5 t/ha (table 18).
Inputs Used
2.10    In 1982/83, sales of fertilizers amounted to 234,000 tons of
nitrogen, 114,000 tons of phosphate and 33,700 tons of potash in nutrient,
which corresponds to the use of about 22 kg of nitrogen, 11 kg of phosphate
and 3 kg of potash per ha cropped. This is slightly more than the average
fertilizer usage in India (31 kg/ha in 1981). Most of the fertilizers are
used on irrigated paddy, wheat, vegetables, and irrigated cash crops. A
small amount of plant chemicals is applied to major crops grown in the area,
but largely limited to cotton, sugarcane, and vegetables. In 1981/82, chemi-
cals valued about Rs 309 M were sold to farmers, which amounts to about Rs 29



-10-
for each ha cropped. The farmers in Gujarat are well aware of the benefits
arising from the use of high-quality seeds. In 1980/81, about 77% of pearl
millet grown in the state consisted of high-yielding varieties, wheat 71%,
paddy 612, castor 68%, and cotton 192. In general, for self-pollinated
crops, the seeds were renewed every four years. The bullock population
density, estimated at 2.2 bullock per ha (4.4 M bullocks over a net area of
9.6 H ha in 1981), is considered adequate for cultivation activities.
III. THE PROJECT
General
Obiectives and Scope
3.01    The main objectives would be to:  (i) complete the construction of
the subprojects to adequate standards; and (ii) adopt in the subprojects a
rotational water management system based on predetermined scheduling and
equitable water allocation. The criterion for including subprojects in
Phase II is approval by the AC prior to Bank appraisal of Phase II. Accord-
ing to this criterion 29 subprojects would qualify. While construction
activities would account for most of the costs, the focus of the project will
be on achievement of the latter objective. Consequently, the main criterion
for determining the success of each subproject and the project as a whole
would be implementation of system management satisfying the water management
objective. Similarly, the main criteria for assessing success of the con-
struction activities would be (i) design to standards that would facilitate
system management and minimize operational costs; and (ii) high quality of
works to ensure their durability and minimize maintenance costs. The main
expenditures would be on the following:
(a)  Construction activities - completion of dams; completion of
the distribution netwoA'c to 8-ha outlet, field channels, and
drains in 29 subprojects.
(b)  Introduction of RWS, training, studies, monitoring and evaluation,
and institutional strengthening.
Detailed Features
Construction Activities
3.02    Medium IrriRation Projects.  Each of the 23 MIPs include the follow-
ing works:
(a)  a storage dam, usually earthfill with a gated reinforced concrete
spillway and canal headworks;



-11-
(b) a fully lined canal network that delivers water through outlets
serving 8-ha subchaks; and
(c) a drainage network connected to natural drains.
These works are at various stages of construction on all subprojects except
Zankhari, where only site investigation and construction of access roads have
started (table 1).
3.03    Of the 23 dams, 16 have been completed and work on seven is in
progress. Work on all dams will be completed under the project except for
Zankhari and Sipu dams. Zankhari main works will start in 1987 and are
expected to be completed in 1992. 1/ Sipu dam is under construction but
foundation problems have caused delays. A concrete diaphragm cut-off wall is
required and consequently the entire dam construction is expected to take
four more years. Guhai dam also has difficult foundation geology, a concrete
diaphragm cutoff is specified under the main embankment and a 6m thick rein-
forced concrete raft is required over a fault zone on the left side of the
spillway.
3.04    Modernization.  Modernization works that are underway in six schemes
include the lining of existing main and branch canals of the existing,
unlined distribution system originally designed to serve 40-ha chaks. The
systems are being extended with fully lined minors to supply regulated out-
lets serving 8-ha subchaks. Improved control structures are included to
allow better regulation. The modernization works include also a major
modification to the Dantiwada storage facilities involving the construction
of an auxilliary spillway. This work is in progress and will be completed by
1989. All the modernization works will be completed during the project.
3.05    Summary of Canal Construction Works.  The volume of the distribution
system works is summarized in the following table:
Phase I     Phase II       Total
Main Canal System
Earthworks (M m3)                     13.3           4.6        17.9
Lining (M m')                          7.1           5.3        12.4
Structures (no.)                     1,812        1,429        3,241
Minor Distribution System
Earthvorks (M m3)                      7.1          13.7        20.8
Lining (M m2)                          5.4          11.5        16.9
Structures (no.)                    17,032       54,394       71,426
(including outlets)
1, This KIP has been approved by the AC of CWC, subject to a clearance by
the Forestry Department of GOI.



-12-
As can be seen, concentration during Phase I was on main canal works (and
dams, see tables 2a, 2b). Under this project (Phase II), the emphasis will
shift to the minor distribution system. The large number of small structures
will make standardization essential and precasting techniques will be used
wherever possible.
3.06    Field Channels and Field Drains.  Unlined field channels linking the
8-ha outlet in nonpaddy areas with each individual holding, or where the
holding is smaller than l ha to groups of holdings averaging about 1 ha, will
be constructed as a part of this project. Field drains will also be provided
where necessary. About 200,000 ha will be provided with these facilities
from the credit at an average cost of Rs 1,000/ha for field channels and Rs
600/ha for field drains. The balance of about 175,000 ha in Panam, Dan-
tiwada, Bhadar (M), Shetrunji, Machhu and other subprojects will be financed
under ongoing GOG programs.
3.07    Main Drainage.  In 23 of the subprojects, located north of the Nar-
mada River and in Saurashtra, there are no widespread drainage problems,
since the soils are light, the rainfall less than 600 mm and the land surface
has sufficient slope to be largely self-draining.JI] Of the remaining six
subprojects, Fatehwadi and Kharicut are mainly rice areas and require
improved drainage and Amli, Jhuj, and Kelia, which have heavier soils and are
located in the higher rainfall area to the south, will require more extensive
drainage works. The natural drainage channels (nullahs) are used extensively
as farm-access tracks that before irrigation is provided are useable for nine
months of the year. With the field drainage from irrigation turned into the
nullahs, they will become impassable for most of the time, and an alternative
track will have to be provided on a reserved strip of land. Provisions have
been made under the project for drainage improvements over about 30,000 ha at
an average cost of Rs 2,000/ha.
3.08    Roads.  All weather-access roads will be provided along all main and
secondary canals down to the 40-ha chak outlet. Motorcycle access will be
provided to the 8-ha subehak outlet. No rural roads were included either in
Phase I or in this project since the existing network is largelv adequate for
the initial stages of development. GOG has a program to construct 2,100 km
of rural roads in the 7th Plan periods and plans to give priority to roads
serving the project areas. An agreement was reached with GOG, that it would
by March 31, 1985 Zurnish to IDA for comments a plan, including an implemen-
tation schedule for construction of feeder road network in the project area.
3.09    Communications.  Provision is included for a radio telephone network
for each subproject. Communication within each project will be available
from the dam or diversion down to the 2,000-ha level. Professional advice
1/ However, localized pockets of poor drainage exist in every subproject
and will require attention.



-13-
from the Department of Posts and Telecommunications of GOI will be obtained
before purchasing the equipment. Agreement was reached with GOI that it will
issue all the authorizations and permits required fcr improvement of the
telecommunication network not later than six months prior to the completion
of each subproject.
3.10    Equipment and Vehicles.  Equipment totalling about Rs 177 M
(US$16.4 M) would be provided under the project. This includes heavy con-
struction plant, small scale compaction machines that will be required for
the minor networks, O&M equipment for spillway standby diesel generators,
general maintenance equipment, communications equipment, and equipment for
training.
Training. Studies. Institutional Strengthening and Introduction of RWS
3.11    Training.  Provisions have been made for the following training
activities:
(a) Mechanical Plant maintenance courses for about 26 mechanical tech-
nicians (skilled fitters) in the maintenance of construction plant.
The training would be practical shop floor instruction for three to
six months preferably conducted by the manufacturers of equipment
currently in use. The mechanical equipment organization now operates
and maintains about 750 items of heavy equipment valued at US$50 M,
and this training will provide key maintenance personnel with direct
contact with manufacturers approved maintenance, overhaul, and repair
methods. The cost is estimated at US$240,000 (table 9i).
(b) Training in Rotational Water Supply. Appropriate short training
courses will be arranged for all concerned with irrigated agriculture
in the subprojects (paras 5.06, 6.11). About 200 professional level,
400 field level, and 8,800 progressive farmers (subchak leaders) will
be trained. Study tours for six senior officers will be provided in
India and abroad.
(c) Demonstration Farm. Provisions have been made for improving the
facilities of the demonstration farm at Thasta in order to make it
suitable for training farmers in RWS (para 6.11).
(d) Vocational training for displaced persons (para 3.32).
3.12    Studies.  Provisions have been made for the following:
(a) Zankhari subproject--to study some alternative concepts, including:
- Linking the reservoir with the Doswada Reservoir;
- Omiting some marginal areas with shallow soils and slopes
exceeding 32;



-14-
- Preparing detailed soil surveys; and
- Considering integration of high-value crops like sugarcane
and irrigated eucalyptus.
(b) Monitoring and evaluation studies:
- Farmers likely response to irrrigation (para 5.21);
- Interim evaluation surveys in MIPs (para 5.22);
- Evaluation of the rehabilitation process (para 5.23);
- Establishment and monitoring of water-users' associations
(para 7.10);
- Effectiveness of RWS in at least three subprojects (para 5.21);
- Special studies (para 5.22).
Cc) Dam fisheries potential. A study will be done to determine the
potential of the reservoirs for supporting a fish capture industry.
3.13    Institutional Strengthening.  Provisions have been made for the
following:
(a) Creation of a new minor system design cell (para 5.06);
Cb) Strengthening the Quality Control Unit of the ID in Gandhinagar
to facilitate quality control of minor system works (para 5.07);
Cc) Creation of a Water Management Unit under the CE (CADA) (para 5.08);
'd) Strengthening of the Project Planning and Monitoring Cell of the ID
to assist monitoring of rehabilitation (para 5.23); and
(e) Assistance with planning and monitoring of construction activities
(para 3.29).
3.14    Technical Services.  Provisions have been made for using the services
of universities and other specialized institutions and groups, such as the
ORG and the National Informatic Center of GOI (NIC), for introduction of
computerized systems, data analysis, and other specialized tasks. In addi-
tion, specialist technical services of individual short-term consultants
would be provided through GOI under the UNDP project titled "Advisory Serv-
ices for Modernization of Land and Water Schemes" (8IND/78/047) or its follow
up .
3.15    Introduction of Rotational Water SuPPlY. Provisions of Rs 350/ha
were made for introduction of rotational water supply in the project area.



-15-
Design and Implementation Criteria
General
3.16    The entire irrigation network consists of three main parts:
Ci) the conveyance network that consists of main canals, branches, and
distributaries and conveys the water from the headworks (dam) to
village service areas (VSA) of 200-500 ha whose boundaries will
conform to the extent feasible with village boundaries;
(ii) the service area (minor) network conveying the water from the
VSA outlet to subchak (8 ha) outlets; and
(iii) field channels from subchak to individual holdings.
Both the conveyance and minor networks will be fully lined and sized from
"head-to-tail" according to the areas served downstream with the layout
taking into account topographic conditions. The field channels will not be
lined.
3.17    The following is a brief description of the hierarchy of the
irrigation network in a typical subproject (figures in brackets indicate
typical flows in cfs): water is delivered from the dam through main
canal (200), branch canals (100), and distributaries (50) leading
to VSA outlets. Within the VSA, water is delivered through minors (6) to
chak outlets, from chak to subchak through watercourses (or subminors) (1)
and from subchak to individual holdings through field channels. No direct
offtake from a main, branch or distributary canal will be permitted except
through a VSA outlet. (Map IBRD 18182)
3.18    The irrigation system will operate as follows (more details are in
chapter 6): water will be rotated between VSAs in turns of 7 days with
intervals between turns predetermined according to anticipated crop water
requirements. During the turn, the flow reaching the VSA will be subdivided
automatically into chak rotational units in an equitable manner and serve
simultaneously all the chaks. Within the chak the entire flow will be
rotated during each turn between the subchaks. Within the subchak water will
be rotated equitably between the farm holdings. The timing of all the turns
(down to individual holding) will be determined before the beginning of the
season and, for a given season, will be at same day(s) and hours. Conse-
quently, water supply will be predictable and farmers will be able to
optimize production.
Water Supply and Demand
3.19    Long term monthly rainfall records are available for most of Gujarat.
Using the available data weighted mean rainfalls for the dam catchment areas
were computed. This was then correlated with gauged runoffs to produce
20-year runoff series. Where no stream gauging was available the nearest



-16-
gauged catchment in the same climatic zone was used. Water requirements were
vorked out based on the Modified Penman method. Effective rainfall was
calculated using FAO Publication No. 24. Field application efficiency was
assumed at 90% for paddy and 70% for upland crops (both kharif and rabi).
The conveyance loss was taken as 30% for kharif and 25% for rabi. A monthly
reservoir operation simulation study was done for each project using a com-
puter and, by trial and error, a cropping pattern was found that could be
satisfactorily irrigated for 15 out of the past 20 years. The results are
shown in table 16b. Crop water requirements in the five crop zones are shown
in table 16a. The conveyance and minor networks are designed to serve the
propsed cropping pattern. The improved hydrological network will permit
refinement of the design and enable operation to be planned with reliable
flow data.
Design of Conveyance Network
3.20   The main canal, branch canals, and distributaries will be designed
for a minimum perimeter section and lined with precast tiles bedded in a
layer of mortar over a polythene sheet. The minimum size of tile found
satisfactory for local conditions is 50x25x5 cm. Embankments will be
properly machine compacted. (Diagram 6)
3.21    Canal Structures.  Cross regulators and precalibrated structures
would be constructed to ensure full control of the flows at all take-off
points and maintenance of full supply level (FSL) so that discharge at any
take-off would not vary more than + 10% from the design discharge. At all
take-off points FSL in the main system would be controlled by undershot or
overflow gates and the take-off flows by undershot gates. Overshot control
in the main channel together with undershot flow to the branch can be
arranged to produce a better module than both using undershot flow.
Design of the Minor (VSA) Network
3.22    The layout will take into account topography, roads, tracks, village
boundaries, and specialized crop requirements (particularly paddy and sugar-
cane). Existing village tanks will be integrated into the system whenever
possible and the design will minimize multiple parallel channels. Minor
networks will drain directly to drains or be tailended through field channels
to drains so that surplus water will not be discharged into farmers' fields.
Where field drains are constructed to discharge into nullahs alternative
access along reserved strips of land will be required.
3.23    Open watercourses (subminors) will be constructed from standard
precast lightly reinforced trough sections bedded on mortar laid over a
100-micron polythene sheet (Diagram 5). Embankments will be machine com-
pacted in one section and then reexcavated for the trough (pad construction).
Structures will be precast. VSA outlets will have calibrated adjustable flow
devices lockable in a given setting and combined with an on/off gate. Chak
rotational units will receive fixed and constant flow through adjustable
proportional modules (APM) or proportional dividers. Subchaks will receive



-17-
full flovs through simple on/off field channel outlets. Earth fields chan-
nels will deliver water from the subchak outlet to the farmgate. Where
gradients permit, underground vatercourses constructed from either concrete
or plastic pipe will be used. Subchak inlets will be riser chambers with
flanged open/shut outlets.
Dam Safety
3.24    The design of the 24 project dams vas done by the Central Design
Organization (CDO) of GOG, and reviewed by the CWC. Since the dams consist
of earthfill construction and overtopping could cause catasti,phic failures,
special care has been taken in the design of spillways, especially since the
failure of Machhu II Dam (pot included in the project) in 1979 (para 1.12).
Appropriate techniques are used to derive probable maximum precipitation and
apply it to unit graph analysis. Acceptable methods are in use for founda-
tion design and control of seepage. Embankment stability is checked and
seismic factors considered. Reinforced concrete design is in accordance with
established practice. The project will provide standby generators for
operating all major spillway gates.
3.25    To ensure that prescribed methods and criteria are being met during
construction and later in the operation stages, GOG will constitute a Dam
Safety Panel of independent experts. Agreements were reached with GOG that
it would: (i) by December 31, 1984 establish and thereafter maintain a panel
of experts satisfactory to IDA, to review the plans and designs of the dams
and related structures under the project and their adequacy; (ii) cause the
panel to conduct periodic reviews of dams and related structures during
design and construction to examine whether any new grounds for making changes
have become apparent; and (iii) cause dams and related structures constructed
under the project to be periodically inspected in accordance with sound
engineering practice to determine if any deficiencies exist in their condi-
tion or in the quality and adequacy of their maintenance or methods oi opera-
tion which may endanger their safety.
Construction Kethods
3.26    Canal and dam foundation excavation and canal and road embankment
construction are implemented mostly by manual labor and these labor-intensive
methods vill continue under the project. However, it is anticipated that
an increasing share of the work will have to be carried out by machinery for
the following reasons: (i) the rapid urban development in southern Gujarat;
(ii) the significant migration of skilled construction workers to the Middle
East; and (iii) the anticipated heavy labor demand from the Narmada develop-
ment works that is to start soon. Under the project, all compaction of dams,
canal and road embankments, paving of roads, and some excavation--especially
for drains-and stone breaking operations would be done with mechanical
equipment. Large- and medium-sized contractors in Gujarat typically own most
of the equipment required, except heavy and specialized equipment, which is
usually owned by the ID and leased to the contractors. Compaction of minor
canal earthworks is especially problematic since it is very difficult to



-18-
compact hand-placed earthworks to the desired technical specification. The
smaller contractors who usually undertake this work will not have any
mechanical equipment. To resolve this problem small mechanical tampers will
be provided under the project for lease to these small contractors.
Status of Proiect Preparation
3.27    The requirements of OMS 2.28 h.ve been fully met.  For the dams about
90% of the detailed design and 70% of the construction works have already
oeen completed. Canal design is 90% prepared and canal construction 40%
finished. Sufficient work has been done on the distribution system design
(10% complete) to r4liably estimate project cost.  The ID has agreed to
strengthen the CDO (para 5.06) to ensure that detailed designs for the dis-
tribution system will be avaiable to meet the implementation schedule.
Implementation Schedule
3.28    The project would be implemented over a five-year period, from
July 1, 1984 to June 30, 1989 (chart 1) in accordance with the following
guidelines:
(a) MIPs. Priority will be given to early completion of the MIPs
designed using the "Sansoli Model" 1/ (see table 2c); and
construction works in MIPs, which are at the initial stages
of implementation like Zankhari, will begin after at least
8 MIPs had been completed in all respects and had RWS operating
for at least one crop season.
(b) Modernization Subproiects. Works will progress from the head-
reaches to tailends.
(c) The basic implementation unit for the minor system will be the
VSA; to the extent feasible, works in a VSA will be completed
before development of a new adjacent VSA is undertaken.
(d) ConstructioD of field channels and drains in each VSA will be
completed simultaneously with completion of the construction of
watercourses leading to the 8-ha outlet.
3.29    To facilitate realistic planning detailed implementation schedules
will be prepared using standard microcomputer based PERT techniques adapted
to local requirements. PERT will be used as a dynamic management tool with
the data base being updated as often as necessary. Agreements were reached
1/ Kelia, Kalubhar, Machhundri, Uben, Watrak, Guhai, Mazam, Aji II, Aji III
and Sipu will be designed entirely on the Sansoli model.



-19-
with GOG that it would: (i) by October 1, 1984 base the management of one
subproject on PERT techniques; and (ii) by October 1, 1985 exchange views
with IDA on the applicability of such management techniques to the remaining
subprojects. The guiding principle will be to minimize the time between
construction of the irrigation network and the beginning of RWS (generation
of project benefits).
Rehabilitation
3.30    Under phase I of the project (as of November 1983), about 8,500
displaced families were rehabilitated and about 80% of the private land
required for dams and 34% of the land required for the canal system had been
acquired. Of the 24 dams, land acquisition had been completed in 17, over
70% completed in three, and up to 50% in four (including Zankhari where land
acquisition has not yet begun). The number of families still requiring
compensation (as of November 1983) was estimated at 10,600. Negotiations
with many of these are at an advanced stage.
3.31    As indicated (para 1.15) GOG introduced in November 1979 improved
standards for compensation of displaced persons.   These are:
(a) preference is to be given to resettle village units jointly at a new
site and infrastructure is to be provided at no cost to resettlers;
(b) preference is to be given to land compensation if farmland is
available. Where land is not available, cash compensation is
to be paid as following:
Ci   compensation level is based on current values of the laud and
increased by 15% to compensate for compulsory acquisition;
(ii)  a consent award has been introduced consisting of an additional
payment of 25% of the market value if the oustee agrees to the
suggested compensation; and
(iii)  additiona'l payment of Rs 5,000/ha (maximum) is given if the
oustee wishes to purchase land from private sources on their own.
(c) houses are compensated for in cash, and housing plots are provided
at no cost to the ousted families;
(d) resettlement grants are provided to all displaced families; and
(e) grant-in-aid is provided for poor landless oustees.
3.32    GOG is determined to take all the necessary measures to ensure that,
after a resonable transition period, the displaced persons regain at least



-20-
their previous standard of living. However, since practically all the cul-
tivable land is occupied and there are strict restriction on conversion of
forest lands, it will not be possible to provide direct land compensation in
many cases. It would be essential therefore to include in the compensation
alternatives offered to oustees the following:
(a) Develop the fisheries potential in the reservoirs and allocate the
fishing rights to oustees. It is estimated that 1,000-1,500 families
can be rehabilitated this way;
(b) Allocate to oustees the right to cultivate the peripheral areas of
the reservoirs (about 15,000 ha - 1,000-1,500 families), and
preferential employment in maintenance works on the subprojects;
(c) Give oustees the first right for participation in project construc-
tion works executed departmentally (about 4 million mandays); and
(d) Establish programs for vocational training and small business
credit for oustees who would like to be rehabilitated in
non-agricultural sectors.
3.33    The scope of compensation will be expanded to include full compensa-
tion to all landless oustees, including artisans, storekeepers, landless
vorkers, etc. Moreover, to the extent possible oustees who had already been
compensated will benefit from provisions (a) to (d) above (para 3.32).
3.34    To ensure that oustees who are allotted land have sufficient funds
for investment in the land allotted, the down payment for the land would not
exceed 50% of the compensation to which they are entitled. The balance would
be treated as an interest free loan repayable over 20 years.
3.35    GOG vill take all possible steps to guide oustees who are compensated
in cash in the use of the compensation to restore their earning capability.
The main instrument would be a new Guidance Cell which will be established
vithin each Rehabilitation Committee (para 3.39) by December 31, 1984. The
Guidance Cell will advise oustees on how to use the cash compensation in
order to create alternative source of income and employment.
3.36    The balance of outstanding debts will not be subtracted from the
amount of compensation. If the land acquired had been used to secure an
outstanding loan or any other obligation, this function will be transferred
to the new asset(s).
3.37    The project includes special provisions of Rs 54 M (US$5.0 M) for the
construction of roads, water supply, waste disposal facilities, schools,
community centers and other facilities where oustees are resettled in groups
(para 3.30 (a)).
3.38    Under the project, the planning and monitoring of the rehabilitation
process would be considerably improved. Rehabilitation Committees have
already been established in each subproject. Each committee will be
strengthened with a social worker and will establish a Guidance Cell (para
3.35). The Project Planning and Monitoring cell (para 5.19) will have the
responsibility for: (i) preparation of an integrated overall plan for



-21-
rehabilitation and resettlement; (ii) preparation of detailed rehabilitation
plans for each subproject in which the rehabilitation of more than 300
families had not been completed by June 30, 1984; and (iii) monitoring the
rehabilitation process. A detailed rehabilitation plan will be prepared for
Zankhari KIP in which works and rehabilitation have not yet begun. Provi-
sions have been made for the engagement of a social institute, like the
Center for Social Studies in Surat, on an advisory capacity for the planning,
implementation and monitoring of rehabilitation. Finally the project would
finance evaluation studies of rehabilitation in five subprojects (para 5.23).
3.39    Agreements were reached with GOG, that it would:  (i) maintain within
each subproject a Rehabilitation Committee; (ii) by December 31, 1984 prepare
an integrated overall plan, agreed with IDA for rehabilitation and resettle-
ment of displaced persons, which will include, inter alia, development of
fisheries, cultivation of peripheral reservoir areas, participation of ous-
tees in project construction works and plans for vocational training;
(iii) prepare and adopt in consultation with IDA detailed rehabilitation
plans for ongoing subprojects in which the rehabilitation of more than 300
families had not been completed by June 30, 1984; (iv) prepare detailed
rehabilitation plan agreed with IDA for Zankhari by December 31, 1985; and
(v) rehabilitate displaced persons in accordance with the guidelines set up
in schedule A.
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
Cost Estimates
4.01 Estimated project costs would total Rs 3,716 M (US$344.1 M) including
taxes and duties which are negligible. Cost estimates are based on expected
June 1984 prices and include physical contingencies ranging from 152 to 202
for major construction works in the subprojects and averaging 92 of the base
cost. Detailed cost estimates are given in tables 9a to 9j and summarized in
the following table:
Proiect Cost Summary
Project Component           Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign   Total
----(Rs M)----               ---C(Us  M)             -
Construction of
MIPs (23)                1,811.7    266.3    2078.0    167.8        24.7    192.5
Modernization of
Projects (6)               672.2    107.5      779.7      62.2      10.0     72.2
Training                     12.8       3.6       16.4      1.2       0.3      1.5
Monitoring and studies       69.3       3.3       72.6      6.4       0.3      6.7
Total base cost           2,566.0    380.7   2,946.7    237.6        35.3    272.9
Physical contingencies      222.2      39.2     261.4      20.6       3.6     24.2
Price contingencies         441.5      66.5      508.0     40.9       6.1     47.0
Total project cost        3,229.6    486.4   3,716.0    299.1        45.0    344.1



-22-
4.02    Price contingencies which account for about 17% of total project
costs were based on expected inflation rates of 8%, 7%, 7%, 7%, 6Z for
1984/89 local expenditures and 3.5%, 8%, 9%, 9Z, 9% for foreign expenditures.
Financinz
4.03    The proposed credit of US$172 N would finance the foreign exchange
component (US$45 M) and about 42% of local costs. All expenditure' would be
met by COG from its development budget, which includes a GOI contribution.
GOG has allocated adequate funds under the 7th Plan for this project and
financial projections made indicate that it will be able to fulfill its
financial obligation under the project. The IDA credit would be made on
standard IDA terms. An agreement was reached with GOI that it would make the
proceeds of the credit available to GOG on GOI's standard terms and arrange-
ments for development assistance to the state. Agreements were reached with
GOG that it vould (i) promptly provide resources and funds to execute the
project in accordance with the project implementation and expenditure program
and (ii) complete unfinished subprojects as soon as technically and finan-
cially feasible after the credit had been disbursed. To avoid interruption
in works between Phase I and II, retroactive finance not exceeding US$15.0 M
vould be provided for qualified expenditures incurred after February 1, 1984.
Procurement
4.04    Civil Works.  Civil works financed under the project (about 78% of
the total cost) would cost about Rs 2,909 M (US$269.4 M), including physical
and price contingencies, but excluding land, engineering, and administration
costs. Although works would be packaged wherever practicable, none of the
construction activities could be grouped into packages of a size that would
interest foreign bidders, and no procurement of civil works under ICB proce-
dures is anticipated. Contracts for the dams, main and branch canal system
for between US$0.3 M and US$5.0 M each are expected to total US$144 N and
contracts for between US$25,000 and US$0.3 M to total US$45 M. These works
will be procured under local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures satisfac-
tory to IDA in which foreign bidders have the opportunity to participate.
IDA reviewed and approved work-order type bidding procedures will be used on
small contracts costing less than US$25,000 each, up to an aggregate of 10%
of the disbursement for civil works. Some works would be done departmentally
up to an aggregate of 20% of the disbursement for civil works.
4.05    Eguipment and Vehicles.  Equipment and vehicles totalling about
Rs 177 M (US$16.4 M), including physical and price contingencies are included
in the project.  Items totalling about Rs 120 M (US$11.1 M) would be grouped
in appropriate bidding packages and procured by international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines. Qualified domestic manufac-
turers would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15%, or the prevailing
customs duty if lower, and bid documentt would specify their eligibility and
the manner of application of the preference. Light equipment and vehicles
estimated to total about Rs 57 M (US$5.3 M) are readily available domesti-
cally. Because of existing servicing and spare parts facilities, con-
siderable advantages would be derived from procuring locally manufactured
light equipment and vehicles. These goods would be procured under LCB proce-
dures satisfactory to IDA.



-23-
(US$ millions)
Procurement Method
Project                             Work                                     Total
Category        ICB       LCB       Order /a   Departmental /a    NA         Cost
Land acquisition                                                   19.6       19.6
(0)       (0)
Civil works      0         188.7      26.9           53.8                    269.4
(0)      (108.5)    (15.5)         (31.0)                  (155.0)
Equipment       11.1        5.3        0              0                       16.4
(9.5)     (4.5)       (0)           (0)                     (14.0)
Training                                                            1.7        1.7
(1.5)      (1.5)
Monitoring/                                                         1.6        1.6
Development/                                                       (1.5)      (1.5)
Studies
Engineering and                                                    35.4       35.4
administration                                                     (0)        (0)
TOTAL           11.1      194.0       26.9           53.8          58.3      344.1
(9.5)   (113.0)     (15.5)         (31.0)         (3.0)    (172.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Credit.
/a     Maximum permitted.
4.06    Contract Review.  All bidding packages for works estimated to cost
Rs 5.4 M (US$0.5 M) or more, and all ICB packages for goods, would be subject
to IDA's prior review of procurement procedures resulting in a coverage of
about 50% of the total estimated value of works, and 70% of goods procure-
ment. The balance of contracts would be subject to a random post review by
IDA.
4.07    Standard Bid Documents and GOG Special Tender Committee.  The Central
Water Commission of GOI has recently developed model ICB and LCB bidding
documents and procedures for both works and goods procurement. The model
documents have been approved by IDA, and GOG would use them for procurement
under the project.
Disbursements
4.08    Disbursements would be made for:
(a)  Civil works - 50% of expenditures on dams, spillways, regulators,
major canals, main drainage, and the distribution
network to the 8-ha outlet
- 100% of expenditure on field channels and field drains
- 100% for rehabilitation infrastructure up to a limit
of US$5.0 N
(b)  Equipment and vehicles - 100% of imported equipment and ex-factory
cost of local equipment
- 70% for other locally procured equipment



-24-
(c) Introduction of rotational water supply management system -
Rs 350/ha of incremental RWS area conforming to schedule B
(d) Training, pilot operations, monitoring, development and studies - 100X
Disbursements for works constructed by departmental forces and payments of
less than Rs 300,000 for works and Rs 150,000 for goods may be made against
certificates of expenditures, itemized by subproject. Documentation for
these works would be retained by the government concerned and made available
for inspection by IDA during review missions. Full documentation would be
required for all other disbursements.
4.09    Disbursement for the field channels and field drains will be for
completed VSAs. COG would provide certificates of completion for the field
channels and drains for each subproject, certifying completion to full opera-
tional status to the farm gate or 1-ha block. No disbursement for Zankhari
subproject will be made before at least 8 subprojects are complete and have
been operated successfully under RWS for at least one crop season. No disbur-
sements will be made for subprojects having more than 300 families to
rehabilitate, before IDA approval of detailed rehabilitation and resettlement
plans indicating the land areas to be offered as compensation.
4.10    The estimated schedule of expenditures, the semiannual disbursement
schedule and the proposed allocation of the proceeds of the credit are
presented in tables 10, 11, and 12, respectively. It is expected that dis-
bursements would be completed by December 31, 1989. As this project is
phase II of an ongoing program, the disbursement profile follows the second
half of typical profiles for comparable work in this sector.
Accounts and Audits
4.11    The project would be subject to normal government control and audit-
ing procedures that are satisfactory. A resident audit officer representing
the state accountant general, would audit the project accounts. Separate
accounts would be maintained for project expenditures. Although continuous
and annual audits are carried out in a timely manner, their finalization is a
lengthy process in the Statutory Audit Report presented to the legislature.
It would be essential, therefore, to have interim certified statements of
account including audited statements of expenditures. Such statements,
certified by the accountant general or his designee and supported by an
itemized account and summary of expenditures, would be submitted to IDA as
soon as possible after the end of each fiscal year. Agreements were reached
with GOG that it would: (i) maintain separate accounts for project expendi-
tures; (ii) ensure that such project accounts are audited annually and that
copies of sucb accounts, certified as to their accuracy by an independent
auditor acceptable to IDA, are submitted to IDA not later than nine months
after the end of each fiscal year; (iii) have final audits prepared for
project accounts for each fiscal year by an auditor acceptable to IDA and
forward such audit reports to IDA immediately after their finalization; and
(iv) make complete accounts and financial statements available for inspection
during IDA review missions.



-25-
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
The Irrigation Department (ID)
5.01    General.  Primary responsibility for implementation of the project
rests with the ID. Subprojects would be planned, designed, and constructed
by the ID, which also has responsibility for their operation and maintenance
(O&M) after completion. The ID has an adequate cadre of well-trained
engineers already in post to meet the project work load. The administrative
head of department is the secretary of irrigation who directs the department
through two special secretaries and six chief engineers. The ID has been
recently divided into three wings:
(a)  Irritation Projects (IP) - responsible for all design and construc-
tion to the 8-ha outlet (under the direction of a secretary).
(b) Command Area Development (CAD) - responsible for CADAs and all CAD
works as well as well as for O&M of all irrigation projects (under
the direction of a secretary).
(c) Narmada Development - under the direct control of the secretary of
irrigation.
The most important feature of the new organization is in the separation
between O&M and construction functions.
5.02    Allocation of staff to construction activities is determined by the
volume and complexities of the works. The main units are the construction
circles. Each circle is headed by a superintending engineer (SE) and handles
a work program of US$5-10 M annually. All designs of canals and minor canal
structures for the circle are prepared by a design office directly under the
SE.  To ensure adequate quality of the work there is a quality control unit
under each SE. Typically the circle consists of 4-6 divisions, headed by
executive engineers (EEs), and about 25 subdivisions. In all 363 subdivi-
sions (table 14a) are sanctioned for the project. Mechanical plant and
equipment for construction and maintenance is under the direction of a chief
engineer (mechanical) with joint secretary status. There are two mechanical
circles, one for south Gujarat and one for north Gujarat and Saurashtra. The
mechanical plant organization owns and operates about 750 major items of
mechanical equipment, including crawler tractors, scrapers, dump trucks,
excavators, and motor graders.



-26-
5.03    There are four CADAs in Gujarat:  Ukai-Kakrapar; Mahi-Kadana; North
Gujarat; and Saurashtra. Each CADA is headed by an area development commis-
sioner vho is assisted by an Advisory Committee. Presently, the main func-
tions of the CADAs are to carry out works such as field channels, field
drains, and land levelling. All the subprojects have already been assigned
to a CADA.
5.04    The primary responsibility for O&M functions is with the EE in charge
of an O&M division. He has practically all powers regarding maintenance
repairs, management of works, distribution, and control of water in the areas
allocated to his division. Normally, an irrigation division covers about
60,000 ha to 80,000 ha of cultivable command area (CCA). A division consist
of 4-5 subdivisions each headed by an assistant engineer and covers 16,000 ha
in respect of major and medium irrigation schemes and 10,000 ha in respect
to minor irrigation schemes. The subdivision has 4-5 sections each headed by
a section officer assisted by supporting staff of beat karkoons, chovkidors,
and khalasies. A beat karkoon covers 600 to 800 ha of CCA and is responsible
for distribution of water, measurement of cropped area, preparation of state-
ments, and supervision of day-to-day maintenance of channels in his jurisdic-
t ion.
5.05    Successful implementation of the project will require some
strengthening of the ID, especially the sections dealing with: design of
the minor distribution system; quality control; and operation. Details are
in the following paras.
5.06    Strengtheninu  of the Central DesiRn Organization (CDO).  The CDO
(located in Gandhinagar) lays down design standards, provides typical designs
for minor distribution channels and structures, and prepares detailed designs
for major work such as dams and canal structures. In order to ensure a quick
projectwide adoption of the design standards developed in the Sansoli pilot
project (para 1.14), a new Minor System Design Cell will be created in the
CDO. Its main functions will be to: establish uniform design standards for
minor systems; monitor regularly the designs produced by the field design
offices; and conduct training workshops on the layout design of the minor
systems assisted by consultants where necessary. The staff required would be
1 SE, 4 EEs, 8 AEs and support staff.
5.07    Strengtheninz of Quality Control.  Quality control over the entire
state is undertaken by the central Quality Control Unit (QCU) at
Gandhinagar. Quality control of minor system works poses special difficul-
ties because such works are spread over large areas. Under the project the
QCU will develop a methodology for random checks of the quality of minor
system works and conduct such checks through regular biweekly visits of each
subproject. To enable such control levels, the QCO will be provided with 4
additional EEs with support staff and vehicles.
5.08    Introduction of RWS. The RWS procedures introduced under the
project, which will be based on predetermined schedules, will differ sig-
nificantly from the present "application and sanction" system. Successful
introduction of RWS in each subproject will require strong support from ID
headquarters and close monitoring. To achieve this GOG will create a Water



-27-
Management Unit (WMU) under the chief engineer (CADA), consisting of one SE
and 5 EEs assisted by support staff.
5.09    Agreements.  Agreements were reached with GOG, that it would (i) by
create a new minor system design cell and Water Management Unit in the ID;
and (ii) strengthen the Quality Control Unit to facilitate quality control of
minor system works and follow quality control procedures agreed with IDA.
The Central Water Commission (CWC)
5.10    The CWC is the highest technical authority for water resources
development in India. Its responsibilities include in particular technical
review of all major and medium irrigation projects before they are submitted
for approval to the Planning Commission of GOI. CWC is a large and complex
organization with a staff of more than 1,000 engineers, many of whom are on
rotation from the states. The Commission itself consists of a chairman and
four members.
5.11    The Appraisal Committee (AC) of CWC was established in 1977 in con-
nection with the Orissa Irrigation I Project (Credit No. 740-IN) and has
undertaken appraisal and supervision function in three IDA supported
line-of-credit projects for medium irrigation development (para 1.10). The
quality of the CWC appraisal and supervision work has been satisfactory and
has consistently improved. The appraisal function will not be needed in
Phase II since all the subprojects have already been appraised, but an
expanded role in supervision will be necessary. Under the project, the CWC
will increase the intensity of its supervisions and extend the duration of
supervision visits to individual subproject to enable greater coverage of:
minor system design and construction; and system operation and introduction
of RWS.
Supporting Services
5.12    The Agricultural Department (AD).  The AD would be responsible for
extension work in the project areas. The AD would also have overall respon-
sibility of training block leaders and operation of a Farmer's Training
Center to be constructed under the project by ID (para 5.14).
5.13    Agricultural Extension.  The IDA-assisted "Training and Visit" (T&V)
system of agricultural extension was introduced in Gujarat in 1979 under the
Composite Agricultural Extension Project (Credit No. 862-IN). Under this
project, regular demonstrations and up-to-date advice on farming practices
was provided to the farmers through regular visits from trained village
extension workers (VEWs). The T&V system called for reorganization of the
extension staff to work exclusively on extension in a single line of command
under the director of agriculture (DA) and provided for facilities and equip-
ment to support extension and training programs. It also provided for
increased staff to provide adequate field coverage aiming at one VEW serving
a group of about 500-800 farm families. The progress with the extension
project has generally been satisfactory. However, a number of subject matter
specialist (SMS) and VEW posts have not been filled. As the proposed project
is expected to benefit from improved extension services provided through the
T&V system, the sanctioned staff posts should be filled without delay. An
agreement was reached with GOG that it would provide the required staff for



-28-
adequately carrying out the agricultural extension services under the
project.
5.14    Agricultural Research.  The Gujarat Agricultural University (GAU) is
responsible for agricultural research through its four campuses at Anand,
Dantivada, Junagadh, and Navsari. Each of these campuses represents four
broad agroclimatic zones of the state. GAU maintains 13 main research sta-
tions specializing in different crops. Their main works involve, among
others, selection and testing of superior varieties, improved cultural prac-
tices, and plant protection. Each campus conducts locality-specific research
to meet the needs of the farmers in the area and coordinates the research
activities of these stations. Research findings of the main stations are
tested through a network of 38 substations located throughout the state
before dissemination to the farmers. The technical breakthrough achieved by
GAU in pearl millet, cotton, and castor in particular has helped to improve
the productivity of these crops in the state and other parts of the country.
GAU, since its inception in 1972, has released 77 improved varieties of
different crops having better yield, potential, and quality characteristics.
5.15    Research on irrigated agriculture is carried out on 16
trial-cum-demonstration farms. The main focus of this research has been to
determine water requirements in relation to soil types, climate and critical
stages of crop growth. So far, little attention has been given to irrigation
practices.
5.16    Agricultural Credit.  The agricultural credit system in Gujarat
follows normal pattern of India. The cooperative banks, which provide short
and medium term credit to the farmers, are organized on a three tier basis
with the Gujarat State Cooperative Bank at the state level, 18 central
cooperative banks at the district level and 6,800 primary cooperative credit
societies at the village level. There are about 1.9 H members of the
cooperatives, of which about 0.7 M are borroving members. Presently the rate
of interest charged is 12% per year. The State Laud Development Bank (SLDB)
through its 182 branches provide long term loans at an average interest rate
of about 11%. The commercial banks also provide all three types of credit.
They now account for about 40% of institutional credit for agriculture.
Recovery rates are low: 52% for the primary credit societies (1981) and 45%
for the SLDB (1983).
5.17    Agricultural Inputs.  Gujarat has a well-developed system for dis-
tribution and sale of seeds, fertilizers, and plant protection chemicals
throughout the state. The Gnjarat State Seeds Corporation and the Gujarat
State Cooperative Marketing Fe.eration (GSCMF) are two agencies engaged in
production and distribution of improved seeds. The quality of seed is con-
trolled by the Gujarat State Seeds Certification Agency. There are four
fertilizer companies in Gujarat producing nitrogenous, phosphatic and mixed
fertilizers. The production of fertilizers from these companies in 1980-1981
amounted to about 400,000 tons of nitrogen and 250,000 tons of phosphate,
which corresponds to about 18% share of nitrogen production and 30% phosphate
in all India. The distribution of fertilizers in the state is largely
through the cooperative network. GSCNF handles about 70% of fertilizer
sales. The remaining are distributed by the fertilizer manufacturers them-
selves at their local sale depots and by the Gujarat Agro-Industries Corpora-
tion through their agrocenters. Out of about 6,000 distributors, over 80X



-29-
are cooperative units. There are about 9,600 agrochemical sale centers in
the state, mostly in the rural areas. About one-third of these centers are
operated through cooperative units. About 7,000 tons of chemicals are being
sold to the farmers annually. In general, agricultural inputs are usually
available within easy reach of the farmers.
5.18    Marketing. Processing and Storage.  Some 422 agricultural markets
operate in Gujarat, of which 141 are regulated. As Gujarat has about half of
its cultivated area under cash crops like oilseeds, cotton, tobacco, and
sugarcane, most of the trade of these crops is through regulated markets that
serve a specified area, usually within 10 km radius. There are about 114,000
licensees, of which about 111,000 or 98% are traders, and the rest are
cooperative societies. The traders obtain licences to operate inside the
service areas of the regulated markets. On account of well-developed system
of marketing in the state, the farmers get reasonable rates of their produce.
Gujarat has a large number of processing facilities mainly for commercial
crops. There are over 800 private oil extraction units with monthly crushing
capacity of nearly 0.8 M ton of groundnut. In addition, there are 17 oil
mills owned by cooperatives. All 15 sugar mills are in the cooperative
sector with daily crushing capacity of about 2,000 ton. There are 970
ginneries, 200 cotton presses and over 1,300 textile units in the state that
process lint into yarn. They employ about 0.25 M local workers. There are
nearly 6,100 godowns operated by primary cooperatives that provide a storage
capacity of about 860,000 ton and the Gujarat State Warehousing Corporation
CGSWC) maintains 74 storage centers in the state having a storage capacity of
about 220,000 ton. In general, the present system for marketing, processing
and storage, which is highly competitive, has responded quickly to increased
output of both foodgrains and cash crops.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
5.19    The ID would require the support of an effective Project Planning
and Monitoring Cell (PPM) for the following purposes: (i) ensuring a reli-
able assessment of progress and constraints in each subproject so that timely
corrective management actions can be undertaken; (ii) implementation and/or
supervision of studies and investigations; (iii) preparation of rehabilita-
tion plans and monitoring of the rehabilitation process; (iv) preparation of
annual plans for the project; and (v) preparation of progress reports. The
existing Project Preparation and Monitoring Cells will be merged into one PPM
Cell which would be strengthened with an economist and a sociologist to
enable it to perform the above functions.
5.20    The main source of construction monitoring data would be periodical
progress reports prepared by the SE responsible for each subproject. Current
data on the quality of project works, especially minor system works, would be
provided by the QCU. Monitoring of water supply would be based on monthly
reports provided by the AE in charge of operating the project, and on special
case studies (see below). The performance of water users' association will
be monitored by the PPM Cell (para 7.10).
5.21    A special Irrigation Intention Survey would be completed in each MIP
at least six months before the beginning of irrigation. The survey would
be based on a random sample and its objectives would be to estimate: the
percentage of farmers who intend to use irrigation services; and those who do



-30-
not plan to irrigate - the main reasons. The respective CADA and the Water
Management Committee (WMC) will then take immediate steps to remove the
constraints to full utilization of the irrigation services by all the
farmers. Special studies aimed evaluating the effectiveness of the RWS would
be conducted in at least three subprojects. The study would be carried out
by an appropriate university.
5.22    Evaluation.  Baseline socioeconomic surveys were conducted in each
subproject during preparation. An interim evaluation survey would be con-
ducted in each subproject two years after the beginning of irrigation. These
surveys will focus on: reliability and equity of water supply; the extent to
which irrigation potential had been utilized; and estimate of irrigation
benefits. The report summarizing the findings of each survey should include
also clear recommendations for corrective actions. The respective CADA and
WMC would take corrective actions as soon as possible after the study had
been completed. In addition to the above, provisions have been made also for
special studies (to be determined by the PPM) such as planning cropping
patterns under warabandi, etc.
5.23    Monitoring and evaluation of the rehabilitation process would also be
the responsibility of the PPM Cell. PPM staff will visit regularly the
subprojects having more than 300 families to rehabilitate, review progress,
and interview oustees. The PPM will report to the Secretary Irrigation on
any deviation from the approved compensation procedures. Evaluation would
consist of case studies in the following MIPs: Und, Watrak, Sipu, Deo and
Guhai. The studies would review the rehabilitation process in each of the
selected MIPs and analyze, on the basis of a random sample survey, the
proportion of oustees whose standard of living was found to be higher, same,
and lower than before rehabilitation. The adequacy of the compensation
package would be analyzed, especially its adequacy for the purchase of alter-
native land. The studies would be completed by December 31, 1986.
5.24    The evaluation studies (including rehabilitation) would be sub-
contracted to universities or similar institutions, which would be guided
and supervised by the PPM Cell. Provisions have been made under the project
for computerization of M&E activities. Assistance would be provided by the
NIC or similar institutions. Agreements were reached with GOG that it would:
(i) strengthen and maintain the PPM Cell wiLh staffing pattern and functions
agreed by IDA; and (ii) carry out a program of monitoring and evaluation
agreed with IDA.
5.25    GOG would submit to IDA semiannual and annual progress reports,
within three months after the end of each reporting period. The reports
should: (i) compare plan and actual implementation in physical and financial
terms; (ii) describe deviations from plans and explain the reasons; and (iii)
provide a revised implementation schedule. In addition, GOG would submit to
IDA quarterly reports on the progress of rehabilitation. An agreement was
reached with GOG that it vould submit to IDA a project completion report not
later than six months after the closing date.



-31-
VI. ORGANIZATION OF WATER SUPPLY
Present Situation
6.01    The organization of water distribution in outlet commands in Gujarat
is based on application (by farmer) and sanction (by ID) and has the follow-
ing main features:
(a)  Farmers apply for water at or prior to the beginning of the
crop season: the application specifies both the crop(s)
and area(s) to be irrigated.
(b)  The applications are received by the ID and converted into
volumes of water required at various levels in the system
(outlet, minor, distributary, etc.).
(c)  Farmers receive "sanction" from the ID to irrigate either
the area applied for, or, if demand exceeds available
water, some smaller area.
(d)  A schedule of operation is drawn up, and publicized,
indicating which channels will flow in which weeks of the
season.
(e)  A schedule of irrigation at the farm level is drawn up,
indicating the order in which farmers should draw water
within the chak.
The ID is then responsible to operate the system according to the schedule
and to ensure that the flow at the outlets (serving typically 40 ha), is
maintained constantly at 1 cfs. The farmers are responsible to take the
water in turn, irrigating only the sanctioned area, and when all the farmers
in a chak have drawn sufficient water to irrigate the sanctioned area, the
outlet is closed until the next irrigation begins.
6.02    The system has several practical difficulties ae a basis for effi-
cient irrigation.
(a)  Outlets are generally gated pipes, capable of drawing 1 cfs vhen the
parent channel is at half FSL. In fact, most gz es are broken, and
regulation at the outlet, which is critical to tnie system, is at best
off/on using mud or vegetation to plug the pipe. This leads to
overdrawing in head and outlets, and unreliable supply in the tails.
(b)  Even where the outlet is opened on schedule, the time that farmers
may take to irrigate the sanctioned area may vary significantly dde
to variations in flow rate, the degree of levelness of the field, and
soil type (wastage of water by overirrigation is prohibited under
rules but impossible to prevent).



-32-
(c) Farmers may miss their turn, or choose not to irrigate at night. In
such cases, the ID will normally try to make up the turn.
(d) Sanctions are often delayed vell into the kharif season. The farmer
delays applying in the hope that rain vill make irrigation unneces-
sary.  Once sanctioned he has to pay.  Any delay in the kharif crop
leads to delay in the rabi and further loss of production.
These factors undermine the schedule of opez cion set by the ID, causing
unreliability of flow at the outlet (in timing, qpantity, and duration),
which further encourages lack of discipline because farmers tend to overir-
rigate whenever water is available. The cumbersome application requirement
(many farmers are illiterate) and the unreliable water supply (especially to
tail-enders) are among the primary reasons for the poor utilization of the
irrigation potential in many irrigation projects.
Rotational Water Supply
6.03   RIS systems like the varabandi have operated successfully in India
for many years, especially in the North (the states of Punjab and Haryana,
and in Rajasthan Canal) and are presently amongst the best managed systems in
the country. There is a general agreement in India that for the present,
RWS is the most suitable organizational method for distributing limited water
resources among large number of farmers, reliably and equitably. While the
organizational details of warabandi are generally known, the underlying
principles and the built-in incentives for economically rational water use
are not always clearly perceived and are summarized below:
(a)   Efficient Water Use.  Each farmer is allocated a fixed quota of
irrigation water (expressed in hours), which is insufficient for
irrigating the entire holding, therefore, resulting in a water
constraint. With water being the limiting factor, farmers tend
to grow the crops that would maximize the return per unit of
water. In addition the (usually high) opportunity cost of water
induces the farmer to take actions to increase field irrigation
efficiencies, such as field leveling and keeping the field channels
in good condition.
(b) Management. The predetermined water supply and associated
operational criteria make the system easy to manage and to
monitor; any deviation from the principle of equity can be
easily detected by the farmers.
(c) Discipline. The entire water is allocated during each turn to
an individual farmer through time-bound inflexible schedules;
consequently, vater stealing is extremely difficult and therefore
rare.
Despite its rigidity, RWS schedules can meet the requirement of most of the
crops grown in Gujarat (see SDV, annex 5).
6.04    Being aware of the deficiencies of the sanctioning system and the
great advantages of RWS systems like the warabandi, GOG has promoted intro-
duction of RWS in several subprojects. For the proposed Sardar Sarovar



-33-
Project (Narmada), GOG proposes system operation criteria that will not
require sanctioning. Similar principles have been adopted under this (Phase
II) project.
Water Allocation
6.05    In every subproject water will be allocated to farmers in accordance
with the following principles: (i) supplies of available water will be
allocated to farmers uniformly within each subproject in proportion to the
net CCA owned; however, to the extent possible small and marginal farmers
will be given a special preference; (ii) each farmer will be free to irrigate
crops of his choice, subject to some predefined restrictions and will not be
required to submit seasonal applications; and (iii) seasonal water alloca-
tions would be delivered according to predetermined weekly schedules designed
to meet water requirements of the predominant crops in the area.
Operation and Management of Subproiects
6.06    Determination of delivery schedules would involve an assessment of
water availability and the cropping plans before the beginning of the rabi
season. During peak crop demand and land preparation periods, delivery to
VSAs would be continuous for 2, 3, or 4 weeks and farmers would receive
irrigation turns at weekly intervals. During nonpeak periods, intervals
between irrigation would not exceed the following:
For the rabi season    -   3 weeks
For the kharif season  -   2 consecutive weeks in which no more than
35 mm effective rainfall were recorded
The rotational schedule amongst the farmers would be fixed and published on
village notice boards, so that every farmer would kuow in advance the hour
and the day of each week he would receive water. Both the hour and day of a
farmer's rotational turn would be fixed. Schedules would be advanced or set
back by 12 hours every year, so that night irrigation turns would be rotated
annually amongst the farmers.
6.07    As indicated (para 5.04) subprojects would be managed by an assistant
engineer (AE) and support staff who will be responsible for preparation of
the delivery schedule. The AE and his staff would be assisted by a WMC,
which would be established in each subproject and consist of the folloving:
(i) farmer representatives elected by the Service Area Committees (see
below); (ii) relevant GOG officers; and (iii) the chairman of the local
elected body (Panchayat Samiti). The subproject AE would be the ex officio
chairman of WNC. The WMC would supercede the Canal Advisory Committee
specified under Phase I. For efficient project operation an adequate com-
munications system is a prerequisite and provision has been included for a
radio telephone system in all subprojects.
6.08    Service Area Committees consisting of representatives of each chak
would be established in each VSA. Their main functiuns would be: (i) to
resolve disputes between VSA farmers; (ii) check the consistency of the chak
schedule with water allocation principles; (iii) warn violators of RWS dis-
cipline; and (iv) organize maintenance of field channels.



-34-
6.09    Agreements were reached with GOG that it would:  (i) provide and
maintain a suitably qualified officer at each subproject, with respon-
sibilities and functions as needed for efficient management no later than 12
months before the begining of irrigation, or if irrigation has already begun
by September 30, 1984; (ii) establish and thereafter maintain at each sub-
project a WMC, no later than 12 months before the beginning of irrigation, or
if irrigation has already begun, by December 31, 1984; and (iii) establish
and thereafter maintain a Service Area Committee in each VSA no later than 12
months before the beginning of irrigation or if irrigation had already begun,
by December 31, 1984.
6.10    Experience in India and elsewhere shows that it is easier to intro-
duce new water management procedures like the warabandi from the beginning of
irrigation, before both farmers and operators adopt undesirable practices.
Agreements were reached with GGG, that it would: (i) for MIPs, begin irriga-
tion deliveries to any VSA and chak only after appropriate RWS procedures
have been established, and in chaks where water deliveries Mave already
begun, establish such procedures promptly after completing che construction
of field channels; (ii) for modernization subprojects, establish appropriate
RWS procedures promptly after completion of any 2,000 ha portion of the
subproject; and (iii) in all subprojects follow RWS procedures as defined in
Schedule B.
Traininz in Rotational Water Supplv
6.11    As indicated (para 1.17) equitable RWS based on predetermined
schedules will differ substantially from present water supply practices. Its
successful introduction will require a considerable amount of training in RWS
at all levels, especially the following: Ci) Senior ID, CADA, Extension and
AD staff; (ii) WMCs, AE I/C of operating subprojects and his support staff,
VLW, and other government officers associated with irrigation; and (iii) VSA
committees and farmers. Training of farmers, committee members, and govern-
ment officers at subproject level, should be completed before the introduc-
tion of RWS. A special emphasis would be given to train farmers in planning
the cultivation of irrigated crops under RWS. The facilities of the
Trial-cum-Demonstration farm at Thasta would be improved so that it can serve
as a Farmers' Training CenLer (para 3.11). Training in RWS would require
development of suitable training material. Agreements were reached with GOG
that it would Ci) by December 31, 1984 prepare a program agreed with IDA for
training farmers, committee members, and government officials in RWS; (ii)
commence such training program by April 1, 1985.
Operation and Maintenance Cost
6.12    The approximate O&M costs for existing MIPs in 1983 varied from
Rs 102 to Rs 152/ha. The current standard budget allocation for 0&M by GOG
excluding allocation for special repairs is Rs 75/ha. This level is con-
sidered inadequate as shown in the calculation below. An approximate
estimate of the desirable maintenance requirement for civil works per year
normally falls in the range of 0.5% to 1% for major civil works, 1.5% to 2%
for lined conveyance system and 3Z-4% for earth canals. Taking the lower
range:



-35-
Rs N
0.5% of major civil works (Rs 3,000 M)          15
1.5% of minor civil works (Rs 3,000 M)          45
(all lined canals)
Total        60
This is equivalent to k; 160/ha, to which must be added the establishment
charge of Rs 45/ha for a total of Rs 205/ha. Clearly, such an estimate that
is based on norms can be subject to a wide margin of error and, in order to
derive a more precise one, it would be essential to study the O&M cost under
Gujarat conditions. GOG has already initiated a study to assess the realis-
tic costs of proper operatin and maintenance of the irrigation systems in
Gujarat. The study consideres the impact of various factors on the operation
and maintenance (O&M) cost, including inter alia the following: (a) the
total cultivable comand area; (b) irrigation intensity; (c) whether the
system provides irrigation water for one season, two seasons or for perennial
crops; (d) whether the system is lined or not lined; (e) whether the system
is serving outlet at 40 ha or 8 ha; and (f) whether the system is operated
under RWS.
6.13    While it would be essential to increase O&M provisions for operating
irrigation projects, the allocation during the first 3 years appears adequate
especially were RWS is being introduced. Each completed section of the
irrigation network is maintained during the first 1-2 years by the construc-
tion wing of the ID which undertakes during that period any repairs, correc-
tions of design and/or construction errors, etc. The funds available for
that purpose are provided from the development budget and are additional to
the standard maintenance budget of Rs 75/ha. For areas already transferred
to the CAD wing of ID, there are in addition to the Rs 75/ha provisions for
special repairs. In addition to the above, GOG provides a sum of Rs 350/ha
over a period of 2-3 years for introduction of RWS.
6.14    Agreements were reached with GOG, that it would: Ci) not later than
June 30, 1985 furnish to IDA for its review and comments, the results and
recommendations of the ongoing study on 0O& costs; and (ii) based on the
results of such study, taking into accounts IDA's comments, if any, commenc-
ing on April 1, 1986 and thereafter, make annual financial provisions as
required to cover the total O&M costs of the subprojects.
Narmada and Guiarat Medium Irrigarion II Proiect
6.15    Under the proposed Narmada River Development Projects (para 1.08)
irrigation water will be provided from a single reservoir (Sardar Sarovar) to
an area of about 2 N ha. The design and operation principles of the minor
distribution system in Narmada would be essentially the same as in Gujarat
Medium Irrigation II Project, with the VSA, chaks, and subchaks being the
elementary planning units. To enable reliable delivery of water to Narmada's
4,000 VSAs, and to minimize the negative impact of human errors, which could
have devastating effects in a project of that magnitude, Narmada's conveyance
system has been designed for remote monitoring and operation. This will
enable the delivery of water to the VSA outlet at about the same reliability
as in the MIPs. Within the Narmada VSAs the problems of delivering water



-36-
reliably and equi:ably to each field would be the same as in the MIPs. Con-
sequently, RWS system as described above is considered presently the most
suitable also for Narmada. By the time irrigation will begin in Narmada
(about 1990), over 300,000 ha in subprojects completed under this project
will have been irrigated under RWS, some of them for over five years.
Experience will have been gained also in farmers' organizations especially
establisbment of water-users' associations. Thus, the development of Narmada
would benefit considerably from the experience gained under this project.
VII. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION. FARM INCOMES. AND COST RECOVERY
Agricultural Production
7.01    Present crop production levels are low and reflect the limitations of
rainfed agriculture. Without irrigation, the present levels of crop yield
are likely to continue and cropping would be mostly limited to the kharif
season. Reliable and predetermined schedule of water supply down to the
farmer's field under the project is expected to bring substantial changes in
the present farming techniques. It will reduce farmer's risk and induce
investment in cash inputs and land improvement. As a result, yields are
expected to increase considerably. At the completion of the subprojects, the
irrigation intensity in the five zones would average about lllZ, ranging from
91Z in zone II to 122Z in zone I. The present and projected cropping pat-
terns are given in table 17, aud summarized in the following table:
Present & Future                   Future
Without Proiect                With Proiect
Cropping     Irrigation      Cropping      Irrigation
Zone          Intensity    Intensity        Intensity    Intensity
------ _ -----(Z of CCA)--
I              128            36             159           122
II              103            19             126            91
III               107           20             149           132
IV               109           11             147           122
V               108           24             134           109
Weighted
average          110           21             140           111



-37-
7.02    The main changes in cropped area and yields expected at full develop-
ment are given in table 18, and summarized as follows:
Present & Future         Future
Without Proiect       With Proiect
Cropped Area ('000 ha)
Kharif                            278.4                 311.4
Rabi                               62.7                 155.0
Two seasonal                       70.3                  57-9
Total                          411.4                 524.3
Future without            Future
Proi cct           With Proiect
Irrigated Yield (tIha)
Pearl millet                       2.0                   2.6
Groundaut                          1.4                   1.9
Wheat                              2.3                   3.3
Cotton                             1.3                   1.9
In order to achieve the level of benefits assumed, the farmers must be
trained in new methods of system operation (RWS). Provisions were made for
such training activities under the project (paras 3.11 and 6.11).
7.03    Based on the projected cropping patterns and yields, the expected
annual incremental production and its value at full development msder the
project would be as followe (details are in table 18):
Future           Future        Incremental
Without Proiect    With Proiect    Production       Value cl
---------------( '000 tons)        - ----    (Rs H)
Foodgrains a/          230.5            803.3            573.0       1,021
Oil crops  b/           89.5            190.8            101.3         338
Cash croRs
Cotton               49.8              87.0             37.2         190
Tobacco               3.0               5.6              2.6          13
Castor bean           4.4               5.6              1.2           6
Sugarcane           135.5             179.8             42.3           8
Vegetables           74.8             289.4            214.6         215
Total                                                          1,791
a/  Includes paddy, wheat, sorghum, millet, maize, and gram.
k/  Includes groundnut and mustard.
vJ  Based on financial prices.



-38-
Market Prospects and Prices
7.04    The increased production resulting from the project will consist
mainly of foodgrains, cotton, and oilseeds. With respect to foodgrains,
Gujarat is a net importer, while the country as a whole is at the margin of
self-sufficiency. Given the projected population increase, the increased
production will be absorbed in the local market without difficulties. With
respect to cotton, Gujarat and India are net exporters. Bank projections
indicate increasing world market demand and prices in the 1990s. However,
domestic demand is likely to pick up with population growth, and supply and
demand projections for Indian cotton lint indicate that export and import
would be marginal. With respect to oilseeds, with India being a net importer
of edible oils and fats, and with the expected growth in the domestic demand,
Gujarat is likely to face a favorable market for its surplus production.
Consequently, the incremental project production is not expected to create
marketing difficulties. With respect to producer prices, these are largely
determined by supply and demand. Procurement prices for the main crops are
fixed by the government but have been effective only in surplus markets,
around harvest time.
7.05    Farm Incomes. Representative farm models have been used to calculate
the project impact on farm incomes. The main data sources were
socio-economic studies. Prevailing financial prices were used to value
outputs and inputs. The results are summarized in the following table:
Net Farm Income
Future Without   Future With   Increase due
Farm Model               Present       Proiect          Proiect      to Proiect
---Rs)_____
Mainland Gujarat (2.5 ha)   3,100           3,810           14,400           342
Saurashtra (4.5 ha)          5,680          7,170           25,110           316
Modernization (5.0 ha)       9,730         11,380           23,480           124
Cost Recovery
7.06    Water CharRes. Water charges in Gujarat are among the highest in
India. They are uniform throughout the state and vary by crop and season
and currently range from Rs 120 per irrigated ha of paddy in Kharif to
Re 1,250/ha of sugarcane. For the projected cropping patterns the average
water charge per ha of CCA would range from Rs 137 to Rs 204. The level of
charges is determined with consideration to the investment and operational
costs, and the repayment capacity of the farmers. With respect to the lat-
ter, GOG considers 5% to 12% of the gross value of produce per ha as the
target level of charges (the lower percentage is for food crops and the
higher for cash crops). A standing Interdepartmental Water Rates Review
Board (IWRB) was constituted in 1976 to review the rate structure and make
recommendations to COG. The IWR  conducts such reviews every two years. In
recent years water charges were increased twice in 1981 and 1983. The per-
centage increase ranged from 13Z (paddy) to 337% (cotton). It would be



-39-
desirable that in the future water charges be reviewed annually. The
recovery of water charges is generally satisfactory.
7.07    Other Agricultural Taxes.  The rate of direct agricultural taxation
is relatively modest. Land revenue tax and associated cesses vary with the
district and the quality of the land. On the average, farmers pay between
10-25 Rs/ha of dryland of medium soil quality and double that amount for
irrigated land. Indirect agricultural taxes, especially sales taxes, are
more important from a revenue viewpoint. Sales tax is levied at a rate of
4.4% for cash crops such as cotton and oilseeds, and purchase tax of 6.6% for
sugarcane.
7.08    Recovery Prospects.  GOG is anxious to maximize cost recovery from
irrigation projects and is ready to experiment with alternative methods of
charging for irrigation services such as volumetric charges and selling water
to water users' associations. There is a general agreement that farmers will
be willing to pay more for better irrigation services. This is demonstrated
in areas irrigated from public tubewells, where farmers pay volumetric water
charges which are 3-4 times higher than in surface irrigation projects.
Thus, the success of efforts to improve cost recovery are closely linked with
the improvement of water management-a main objective of this project. If
RWS will be successfully introduced and water supply will be reliable and
equitable, GOG should be able to recover a substantial share of the project
incremental benefits. 1j The organization of waterusers proposed under the
project (paras 6.07, 6.08) could well develop into water-users' associations
either at the service area (VSA) level or at the subproject level. Such
associations could purchase irrigation water from the ID on a volumetric
basis and on sell to farmers, thus undertaking the main water charge collec-
tion burden. The associations may also undertake responsibility for O&M.
However, it is recognized that presently, management capability is likely to
be the main constraint to large scale establishment of effective associa-
tions.
7.09    If GOG is to recover a fair share of irrigation benefits, it will
have to establish higher water charges for projects like this and the Narmada
project, in which both the costs and benefits per irrigated ha would be
considerably higher than in the traditionally designed irrigation projects.
Presently, GOG does not favor such multitier charge system, because of
administrative and political difficulties and anticipated resistance by the
farmers. However, it is likely to change its attitude when sizable areas
constructed to higher standards had been completed, and the derivation of
considerably higher benefits had been proven on a large scale.
jj Although the present water charge system, which is based on area
irrigated, could result in minor deviations from optical water use,
changes in the method of charging are not anticipated following introduc-
tion of RWS. It is anticipated that such changes will take place in
conjunction with the structural changes described in para 7.08.



-40-
7.10    To accelerate the development of waterusers' associations and study
the problems involved in their successful establishment, provisions have been
made under the project for the establishment of such associations in at least
three subprojects. GOG will provide them with financial and managment sup-
port during the initial years. The performance of the associations would be
closely monitored by the PPM Cell or through a study subcontracted to a
university. Agreements were reached with GOG, that it would: (i) beginning
March 1985, review and if required revise the level of water charges in the
state annually; (ii) maintain water charges at levels sufficient to cover the
entire O&M cost and to recover to the extent possible the capital costs
taking into account the farmers repayment capacity; (iii) by September 30,
1985 take all actions as shall be required to promote establishment of
waterusers' associations in three subprojects; and (iv) by September 30, 1987
institute on an experimental basis the bulk sale of water through water users
associations in the subprojects referred to above.
7.11    Estimated Cost and Rent Recovery.  In estimating the level of cost
and rent recoveries, it has been assumed that GOG would maintain indirect
taxation at present levels (para 7.06) and water charges at 5% and 12% of the
gross value of production per ha of food and cash crops, respectively. Fifty
percent of the construction costs for field channels would be recovered from
the farmers. Based on these assumptions, the rent and cost recovery indices
are estimated at 21 and 30 percezt for the project (details are in annex 1,
tables 25 and 26).
VIII. BENEFITS AID JUSTIFICATION
Proiect Impact
8.01    General.  The completion of MIPs and the modernization of existing
schemes would increase agricultural production through expanded area under
irrigation and increased productivity of existing irrigated land. With its
focus on upgrading the operation of irrigation systems through improved
design and water management practices, the project would be a prime vehicle
for introducing reliable and equitable water delivery systems in Gujarat.
Experience gained with rotational vater supply would not only be beneficial
for the operation of the Narmada and future medium irrigation projects, but
is expected to enhance also operation performance and utilization of irriga-
tion potential of existing schemes. The project would result in institu-
tional strengthening and development in the irrigation sector.
8.02    The project impact in terms of increased production, employment, and
farm families benefiting is summarized below:
Benefiting farm families (no.)                        94,200
Increase in irrigated area (ha)                      336,000
Increased foodgrain production ('000 ton/year)         573.0
Increased cotton production ('000 ton/year)             37.2
Increased oilseed production ('000 ton/year)           101.3
Value added to local economy (Rs M/year)             1,584.0
Incremental farm employment (Man-days N)                18.6



-41-
8.03    Employment Impact.  The increase in employment opportunities would
come from: construction works; and intensification of agricultural produc-
tion. Project construction activities would generate about 3.7 M man-days of
construction employment. Farm labor requirement is expected to increase by
about 18.6 M man-days a year. It is estimated that about two-thirds of this
demand will be supplied by landless workers.
8.04    Poverty Impact. At present, the average per capita income of project
farmers in the KIP areas is only about 25Z of the average all India per
capita income, and in modernization schemes it is almost 60% of that average.
The project would significantly reduce the poverty incidence in the project
areas. Under the project net farm income per ha in KIP areas would increase,
on the average by 180%, from the present 1,190 Rs/ha to about 3,370 Rs/ha at
full development. In modernization scheme3, the income would increase by
123%, from an average of 1,820 Rs/ha at present to 4,060 Rs/ha at full
development. Consequently, about 54,300 farm families in the project areas
would move out of the poverty classification as officially defined.
Economic Analysis
8.05    Main Assumptions.  The assumptions used in the economic analysis are
detailed in annex 1 and sumarized below:
(a) Prices and Conversion Factors. Traded agricultural output and inputs
were valued on the basis of IBRD projected 1990/95 world market
prices, expressed in 1984 currency values with adjustments for
freight handling and processing. The financial prices of nontraded
cost and benefit items, including labor have been adjusted by
appropriate conversion factors to bring them to the same price basis
as traded items.
(b) Without and With Project Situation. No substantial changes in
production and income levels are expected in the area without the
project. The projections for the "without" and "with" project situa-
tion were based on yield statistics, socioeconomic studies and exten-
sion staff estimates.
(c) Capital Costs. In the case of MIPs, capital costs include sunk cost;
for modernization subproject capital costs include costs incurred
from the beginning of modernization. Sunk costs were brought to mid
1984 price levels using the Indian Wholesale Price Index. Analysis
was done also without sunk costs.
(d) Buildup Rates. "Full development" stage is assumed to be reached in
year 3 for cropping patterns and in year 5 for yields after comple-
tion of investments. Such rates appear realistic on the basis of
past experience.
8.06    Economic Rate of Return. A sample of five representative subprojects
(four IlIPs and one modernization) was selected for economic analysis. Based



-42-
on this analysis, the ERR is estimated at 13% for MIPs, over 50% for modern-
ization schemes, and about 30% for the project as a whole. Without sunk
costs, the HIP sample ERR ranges from 17 to 48 percent and averages 35 per-
cent, resulting in a weighted average for the project of about 43%.
ERR
MIP s                                 With Sunk Costs
…_____(z)… _
Und                                          12
Sukhi                                        13
Watrak                                       14
Zankhari                                     16
Average (veighted)                         13
Modernization                                53
Project (weighted)                         30
Sensitivity Analysis and Risks
8.07    Sensitivity Analysis.  Sensitivity analysis was conducted to deter-
mine how deviations from the main assumptions will effect the economic
viability of the project. The tests included computation of "switching
values" for the sample of the subprojects which were selected for the
economic analysis. The "switching value" is the value to which the variable
tested will have to increase (or decrease) in order to reduce the discounted
present vaLue of the subproject's net benefits to zero. The discount rate
used was 12%, vhich is the estimated opportunity cost of capital in India.
The results are summarized in the following table:
Variable                            Appraisal    Switching    Percentage
Tested               Sub-Proiect     Value         Value         Chanse      ERR
-----(Rs Million)----
Net Incremental       Und                 118          120         +    2    11.90
Benefits             Zankhari            164          114         -   30    16.37
Watrak              248          193         -   22    14.26
Sukhi              375           325         -   13    13.38
Modernization       511          137         -   73    52.80
Details on the sensitivity analysis are in Annex 1.
8.08    Proiect Risk.  The results of the sensitivity analysis show that only
large deviations from the basic project assumptions could turn most of the
subprojects economically unviable, especially if sunk costs are excluded.
There is a risk that GOG vould prematurely divert financial and manpower
resources to the Narmada projects resulting in implementation delays.
However, given the substantial sunk costs incurred in the subprojec.s, the
pressure of project farmers and Gujarat's commitments under the credLt, GOG



-43-
is unlikely to follow such a course. Another risk is that GOG will continue
the present application and sanction water allocation system resulting in
inequitable and reliable water supply and reducing considerably the level of
irrigation benefits. However, GOG's conviction of the advantages of RWS and
its commitments under this credit make such deviation from the project design
unlikely.
Environmental Impact
8.09    The project is not expected to have any negative environmental
impact. The construction of drainage facilities in potentially waterlogged
areas and the lining of canals in the new schemes, as well as in the modern-
ization projects, would minimize the area under stagnating water that are
suitable breeding grounds for mosquitoes. Under these conditions, it is not
expected that the incidence of water-related diseases would increase due to
the construction of the new schemes. However, an agreement would be reached
with GOG that it would take all necessary measures to minimize the hazards of
malaria, schistosomiasis, and other water-related diseases in areas covered
by the credit.
IX. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01    Agreements were reached with GOI that it would:
(a) issue all the authorizations and permits required for improvement of
the telecommunication network not later than six months prior to the
completion of each subproject (para 3.09); and
(b) make the proceeds of the credit available to GOG on GOI's standard
terms and arrangement for development assistance to the states (para
4.03).
9.02    Agreements were reached with GOG that it would:
(a)  by March 31, 1985 furnish to IDA for comments a plan, including an
implementation schedule for construct'on of feeder road networks in
the project area (para 3.08);
(b)  (i) by December 31, 1984 establish and thereafter maintain a panel
of experts satisfactory to IDA, to review the the plans and designs
of the dams and related structures under the project and their ade-
quacy; (ii) cause the panel to conduct periodic reviews of dams and
related structures during design and construction to examine whether
any new grounds for making changes have become apparent; and
(iii) cause dams and related structures constructed under the project
to be periodically inspected in accordance with sound engineering
practice to determine if any deficiencies exist in their condition or
in the quality and adequacy of their maintenance or methods of opera-
tion which may endanger their safety (para 3.25);



-44-
(c) (i) by October 1, 1984 base the management of one subproject on PERT
techniques; and (ii) by October 1, 1985 exchange views with IDA on
the applicability of such management techniques for the remaining
subprojects (para 3.29);
(d) (i) maintain within each subproject a Rehabilitation Committee;
(ii) by December 31, 1984 prepare an integrated overall plan, agreed
with IDA for rehabilitation and resettlement of displaced persons,
which will include, inter alia, development of fisheries, cultivation
of peripheral reservoir areas, participation of oustees in project
construction works and plans for vocational training; (iii) prepare
and adopt in consultation with IDA detailed rehabilitation plans for
ongoing subprojects in which the rehabilitation of more than 300
families had not been completed by June 30, 1984; (iv) prepare
detailed rehabilitation plan agreed with IDA for Zankhari by December
31, 1985; and (v) rehabilitate displaced persons in accordance with
the guidelines set up in schedule A (para 3.39);
Ce)  Ci) promptly provide resource and funds to execute the project in
accordance with the five-year implementation and expenditure program;
and (ii) complete unfinished subprojects as soon as technically and
financially feasible after the credit had been disbursed (para 4.03);
(f)  (i) maintain separate accounts for project expenditures; (ii) ensure
that such project accounts are audited annually and that copies of
such accounts, certified as to their accuracy by an independent
auditor acceptable to IDA, are submitted to IDA not later than nine
months after the end of each fiscal year; (iii) have final audits
prepared for project accounts for each fiscal year by an auditor
acceptable to IDA and forward such audit reports to IDA immediately
after their finalization; and (iv) make complete accounts and finan-
cial statements available for inspection during IDA review missions
(para 4.11).
(g)  (i) by December 31, 1984 create a new Minor System Design Cell and a
Water Management Unit in the ID; and (ii) strengthen the Quality
Control Unit to facilitate quality control of minor system works and
institute quality control procedures agreed with IDA (para 5.09);
(h) provide the required staff for adequately carrying out the agricul-
tural extension services under the project (para 5.13);
Ci) (i) strengthen and maintain the PPM Cell with staffing pattern and
functions agreed by IDA; and (ii) carry out a program of monitoring
and evaluation agreed with IDA (para 5.24);
(j) submit to IDA a Project Completion Report not later than six months
after its closing date (para 5.25).



-45-
(k) (i) provide and maintain a suitably qualified officer at each sub-
project, with responsibilities and functions as needed for efficient
management no later than 12 months before the beginning of irriga-
tion, of if irrigation has already begun, by September 30, 1984;
(ii) establish and thereafter maintain at each subproject a WMC, no
later than 12 months before the beginning of irrigation, or if
irrigation has already begun, by December 31, 1984; and (iii) estab-
lish and thereafter maintain a Service Area Committee in each VSA no
later than 12 months before the beginning of irrigation or if irriga-
tion had already begun, by December 31, 1984 (para 6.09);
(1) (i) for MIPs, begin irrigation deliveries to any VSA and chak only
after appropriate warabandi rotational vater allocation procedures,
have been established, and in chaks where water deliveries have
already begun, establish such procedures promptly after completing
the constru':tion of field channels; (ii) for modernization sub-
projects, establish appropriate RWS procedures promptly after comple-
tion of each 2,000 ha portion of the subproject; and (iii) in all the
subprojects base the rotational water supply on the guidelines set up
in schedule B (para 6.10).
(m)  (i) by December 31, 1984 prepare a program agreed with IDA for train-
ing farmers, committee members and government officials in RWS; and
(ii) commence such training program by April 1, 1985 (para 6.11);
(n) Agreements were reached with GOG, that it would: (i) not later than
June 30, 1985 furnish to IDA for its review and comments, the results
and recommendations of the ongoing study on O&M costs; and (ii) based
on the res-ILs of such study, taking into accounts IDA's comments, if
any, commencing on April 1, 1986 and thereafter, make annual finan-
cial provisions as required to cover the total O&M costs of the
subprojects (para 6.14);
(o)  (i) beginning March 1985, review and if required revise the level of
water charges in the state annually; (ii) maintain water charges at
levels sufficient to cover the entire O&M costs and to recover to the
extent possible the capital costs taking into account the farmers
repayment capacity; (iii) by September 30, 1985 take all actions as
shall be required to prcmote establishment of water users' associa-
tions in three subprojects; (iv) by September 30, 1987 institute on
an experimental basis the bulk sale of water through water users
associations (para 7.10); and
(p) take all necessary measures to minimize the hazards of malaria and
other water-related diseases in areas covered by the credit (para
8.09).
9.03    With the above agreements, the proposed project would be suitable for
a credit of US$172.0 M on standard IDA terms. The borrower would
be the Government of India.



-46-
Schedule A
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Rehabilitation
The oustees (displaced persons) will be rehabilitated in accordance
with the following provisions:
(a) To the extent possible: (i) displaced persons shall be compensated
with land; and (ii) village units will be resettled jointly at a new
site.
(b) Infrastructure and housing plots shall be provided at no cost to the
oustees.
(c) Adequate compensation facilities shall be provided to all landless
oustees.
(d) The level of compensation for land shall be based on current market
value of land of equivalent quality in adjacent areas, or on
Gujarat's current provisions for compensation, whichever is higher.
(e)  Where land is allotted to a displaced person under the project in
lieu of the land previously owned by such displaced person, 50% of
the compensation to which such displaced person is entitled shall be
applied towards the cost of the allotted land, subject to a maximum
of the value of land allotted, and the balance of the cost of such
allotted land shall be treated as an interest free loan repayable
over 20 years. Where a displaced person is not allotted land in lieu
of the land previously owned by such displaced person, and is instead
paid cash compensation, and such displaced person wishes to buy land,
such displaced person shall receive, in addition to the compensation
to which he is entitled, a grant pursuant to Gujarat's current provi-
sions.
(f) In respect of all those displaced persons to be exclusively compen-
sated in cash, Gujarat shall take all such action as shall be neces-
sary to advise those displaced persons to invest such compensation in
acquiring alternative sources of income, which advice shall be given
before the compensation is paid.
(g) The balance of any oustanding debt owned by the displaced person
under the Project to Gujarat's departments or agencies, shall not be
subtracted from the amount of the compensation.



47                            Schedule B
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Introduction of Rotational Water Supply
The rotationa' water supply introduced in each subproject will be
based on the following principles:
(a) Supplies of available water shall be allocated to farmers within each
subproject, in proportion to the CCA owned; provided, however, that
to the extent possible, small and marginal farmers shall be given
special preference in the allocation of water.
(b) Each farmer shall be free to irrigate crops of his choice, subject
to predefined restrictions, if any.
(c) Farmers shall not be required to submit seasonal applications for
supply of water.
'd) Seasonal water allocations shall be delivered according to predeter-
mined weekly schedules designed to meet water requirements of the
predominant crops in the area served, and determined in consultation
with farmers' representatives.



GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Project Status
Map    CCA                  ~~~~~~~~~~Estimated  Estimated   I   Coot to             Est. I. Progress             Project               No.rf                 Coded
I                      I   6/64~~~~~~~~~~~~t  ot  I    1          OPOO                o68                         Completion~          N Sncttongl          Statue On
I MIPD                     INC   I ~~          ~~~~        ~      ~~~~~ ~~~ 6 1  /84 I                                                                   Dote0                Subdivisiians         3/84.
m'!    Ho  R. I     Rs M              Rs m ~~~~~~~~I Rs H             IDam        Kain    Diet    Dam        Main    De 
1.  Pasm                   1~~~~~~~           ~~~~32 111101 565.35  I 465.65         99.7                               90   ~     75  I60  I83184.        8/5       6~            24A
3.:  Hedaf   .l.12831   5,23`84                           90.047            81.27               9.4                              100      100  I70    82/83    82/83 I84/85 1                 a       1
3. H:daf  11 28   5,238  126 04             89.24             36.                                96       7 2      50    84/85    85/86   885/86             Ii               C
4.  Shadar (P)                       124 I8,000          206.20            162.00       I      44.2         I      -90                     9 2     750    84/85    85/86   85/86             12                 
S.  Amll (Vat 1I)                    153 364             107:84             93.44              14ii.4                            to io    I100  1   2    83/8.    83184   86/817             10       1 
6.  Jhiuj                            163  34,1480        185.36            III.6               13.4                -               2  I    0       31.    0 5/86    85/86 I  6/87 I          17               B  
7.  Kalil                            164   2,486 I       102.916            74.596             27.6         I      -1 99  I 90                     33    83/84   I85/866   85/8 6 I          10                B 
8.Znkhari                         1155  20,8 531      864.98              10.78             2638              590.4              o   0 j  0     0   911921 91/92191/921                     4               C 
9.  Suh                              161 120,660 I       709.30        I   170.00       I     239.3         I      -         I 70   I 96           57    85/56       85/86 I86187            44        
Sukhi  I                                                                                                                                                            B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
10.  Deo                             11251  7,207         215.19        I 203.89         I      71.9         1      -92    IO10                     50    85/86    8S5/6 1  6/87              16        
11:  Kalubthar                         9058301            139.39             68.09              701.3               -60                     94120186/87               84/85 I87/88 I          10                         I          1
2i  hulbhadsar                       158  '740   I        5.073:.10                            80.4          I     -61                      71      36    87/88    87/8 I8789                          I       C 
13.  Machhundtl                       106   8,9'          136.01        I    78.91              51.1                               93       82       14    84/85    84/85186/871               8                C
14   uben                             III   2,063         882          I     63.50              247         I99  I 73                               32  I85186       85/86 I86/87 I            6       I       8
15.  Vatrek                          150  18,341         376.2              207.4L68.7                                            94        5       16I8/7            7/       8891C
16 Guhal                           147   7,111 I       3300               10.70             221,1         II 49  I 22                             10    Be88/8     88/89    88/89           16               C
17.  Mazm                             149 '4,717          170.20            107.05              62.7                               Be 1 8    41121 86/87              86/87   86/87 I         14 
18.  Vernu 1I                         146   5,253         164.63              75.83             88.8                -65                     22  I14    87/8  88           8I87/88              9        1         
1.Und                              101  9,900          301.24             137.94            163.3                -72   ~ 44                        2    86/87      816/187 I 87/8           13
20   Dm   I19I318                                          82.71              48.81             33.9                                         St8  5  12     58        8581/7                   7
21.  AjL 11                           135 I2,384          101.89              52.49       I     49.4                -86                     48        6    85/8       85/86   86/87 I           6               C
22,  Aji III                          136 I6,615          234.99             104.99      I     130.0                               so5      27  I 5    87/8 8s 6/8             88/89 I        I         I       c 
23.  Sipu                              79  16,000         700.38             121.38            372.0         I 207.0               25  I 36  I 0  I90/ 91             88/89   917/92          23                C
24.,  Dantiwads (Hod)                I7  44,517           31..2132.62                          211.7         I      -              68  I 65  I44    87/88             87/88   87/88            15       I       C
25.  Fatehwadi (Had)                 I    129,792         325.22             97,32             227.9                -I  100                 66        2    87/88      87/88   88/9             14.      I       C
26,  Rhar1cut (Hod)                     2 114,619I    126.63                  30.03             96.6                              looI10    93     2l     83/84    87/88   87/88                6       I       c
27.  Shadar (Mod)                      50 126,5708        190.71              4 18.31    I     14.2.4               -I  100                 75       4  I 3/84.     86/87   88/89              'IC
28.  Shactrnji CP)CM.d)                14 135,'7 50       282.98        I     49.78      I     233.2                              10-0      5o        0     83/84.  I  8/89   98/89            12       I       c        I      I
29.  MachhuI (Had)          56110,4.09          83.74        I     16.94       I     66.8         I      -IDO                    471    0  183/84   I86/87187/88 I                   6                               1w
Total                                              7567____27   ___3386       ___ 92___3382          _ _2____97        _ .4
j/Dae. functional 83/84.
A-Completed, S-Distributary Syetem partially complete by June 1984, C-Early stages of conatructior,.



*                                       ~~~~~~~~InUKA'
GUh,RAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION SI PtOJECT
C0APTITSIS OF CIVIL WOlKS [OR T1 CAI6AL  flJM
Earthworke                     Li2.2g                     structures
1000 m3                      100                            lfoPa
I" .  1    lULl  "ti    1        L lAi  KLIl   HIP 11  hIi   H'LL   "
1.  hum                            37U 374  346       -        1120     1312         a      301    308          -
2.  NaekmeW^la                      718      M1        -        142      142         -      129    129          -
3.  SadiE                           485      485       -         99        96        3      116     106        16
4.  Uhada  (P)                     1012       0)9    34         311      302         9      157     140        17
so  Aslh                            249      231       12       141      121        20       69      69         -
G.  Jhuj                            554      341    207         105        99        6       57      40        11
7.  tells                           310      310      -          i8        16        2       90      I3         1
S.  Zankhhgl  Ia                    998       -       998       689        -       659      182      -        182
9.  Uukhi                          1495     1495       -        315      325        50      175     159        16
IQ.  DIO                             61s      675       -        217      114        43       92      92         -
11.  elubbar                         151      151       -         98        98        -       38      36         2
12.  Iukbhadsr                       131      124        7       101        98        3       51      49         2
13.  HRachhundr*                     210      18S       25       185       159       26      132     125         7
14.  Ubea                            208       85       23        49        39       I0       70       36       34
15.  Wstrk                           941      916       31       533       226      301      125       91       34
16,  Cuhal                           130      100    630         154        -       154       12       10       62
21.  Has..                          9O8       203    715         I11        40      131       91      47        50
It.  Yenu 11                          62        12     .50        52        10       42       18        3       is
I9.  Und                             420      400       20       298        40      258      113       35       i8
20.  Deml 11                         161        94      13        69         8       61       25        9       16
21.  Aji 11                          285      129      156       101        I5       92       SO      21        2?
22.  Aji III                         402      I1I      232       113        II      142       64       22       42
23.  Ipu                             450      220      230       260       104      156       69       13       56
24.  Dantliwda (Ho)                   43        38       5       124       110       14       23        I       22
25.  Fat.hwadl (Ha4)                1300      603     691       2607     1363      1244      I73     193       580
26.  Sharicut (Had)                  195      195       -        505       505       -        52        I       51
21.  Shmdar (Had)                    382      272    10        1023      631       386       36        -       36
28.  Ihetrunjl (r) (Had              410      l29    352        1726      761       965       25        -       25
29.  Hachhu-I (Had)                  146       61       83       740       260      480       33        -       33
TOTAL                        11946    13258   4688       12386      1019    5301    3241   1212         1429
... ......  ....            *U&*.. .. . .                  *    fuf*S      *.....
Ig lii Imated



-50-
Table 2b
CUJART MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
QUANTITIES OF CIVIL WORYS FOR THE C4RAL SYSTEM
Distribution System
Eartrworks                Lining                    Structures lb
1000 .3                 1000 .2                    l12p
Total    HIP I  HIP II  Total   HIP I   NIP II  Total   HIP I  HIP II
1.  rana.                     2029   1797     232    1745    1590        55    7000    6770      230
2. Hachhanala                  228    208       20     122      97       25     129     555      274
3. Eadaf                       557    299      258     227      87      140    1590     838      752
4. Ubadar (P)                 1137    845      292     346     206      140    1990    1160      830
S. Ali                         316    255      61      177     137      40      598     598      -
6.  Jbuj                      1120    869      251     242      -       242    1315     502      813
7. Kelia                       367    320       47     191      -       191    1597     400    1197
S. Zankhari fa                1153     -     1153      942      -       942    3915      -      3915
9. Sukbi                      1325    575     750      850     450     400    5745    2845    2900
10. Deo                         536    225     311      361      40     321    1801      880     921
11. Kalubbar                    630    151     479      210      50      160    1281     180    1101
12. Sukbhadar                   730    195     535      215      57      158    127S     215    1060
13. Hacbhundri                 1212    291     921      357     135     222    1605      179    1426
14. Uben                        205      4     201       93      -       93      338      -      338
15. Vatrak                      517     79     438      173      -       173    2485     270    2215
16. Gubsi                       965     -      965      431      -      431    1798       -      1798
17. Ham                         243     80     163       46      -       46      930     140     790
1s. Venu II.                    457     62     395      199      -       199     874      25     849
19. Und                         890     60     830      340      -       340     750     102     648
20. Demi 1I                     413     45     368      165      -       165     41       10     471
21. Aji II                      230     22     208      131      -       131     400      -      400
22. Aji III                     850     60     790      313       6      307    1183      50    1133
23. Sipu                        920     -      920      640      -      640    4400       -     4400
24. Dantivada (Mod)            1442    565     877    3070    2494       576    8471    1292    7179
25. Fatchvadi (Nod)             934     79     855      "40       8      832    5565      21    5544
26. tharicut (Nod)              354     15     339      736      20      716    1515      -     1515
27. Dhadar (Mod)                258     -      258    1450       -     1450    501S       -     5015
28. Shetrunji (P) (Hod          655     -      655    1851       -     1851    4820       -     4820
29. Hachbu-I (Hod)              104     -      104      SOC      -      508    1860       -     1860
TOTAL                    20777   7101   13676   16971    5377   11594   71426   17032   54394
/AL Estimated
1k Includes outlets



INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION It PROJECT
Target for Implementation of RWS
Rabi    Rabi       Rabi        Rabi    Rabi        Rabi
Proiect                      84      85         86          87       88         89             Notes on Distribution Systems
1.  Panam /a               700    4,000    15,000       20,000   30,000    41,120        2000 ha Sansoli under construction
2.  Kachhanala                      500      2,000       3,084    3,084      3,084
3.  Hadaf                           500      3,000       5,230    5,230      5,238       Partly designed with Sansoli type layout
4.  Bhadar (P)                      500      3,000       7,000    8,000      8,000       Partly designed with Sansoli type layout
5.  Amli (Ver II)                   500      2,000       3,644    3,644      3,644
6.  Jhuj                            500      1,000       2,000    4,180      4,180
7.  Kelia                           500      1,000       2,486    2,486      2,486       Sansoli type layout to be used exclusively
8.  Zankhari                         -          -           -         -         -
9.  Bukhi                         5,000    14,000       20,660   20,660    20,660        10,000 ha designed with Sansoli type layout
10., Deo                             500      3,000       7,200    7,200      7,207       Partly designed with Sansoli type layout
11.  Ralubhar                                               500    2,000      5,830       Sansoli type layout to be used exclusively
12.  Sukhbhadar                                             500    3,000      7,400
13.  Machhundri                                 500       2,000    4,000      8,095       Sansoli type layout to be used exclusively
14.  Uben                                       500       2,063    2,063      2,063       Sansoli type layout to be used exclusively
15.  Watrak Ia              500    4,000      9,500      14,500   18,341    18,341        Sansoli type layout to be used exclusively
16.  Guhai                                                         2.000      7,111       Sansoli type layout to be used exclusively                       ui
17.  Hazam /a                        500      3,000       4,700    4,700      4,717       Sansoli type layout to be used exclusively
18.  Venu II                                                       2,000      5,253
19.  Und                                      1,000       6,900    9,900      9,900
20.  Demi II                                                500    2,000      3,108
21.  Aj  II  /a                      200      1,000       2,000    2,384      2,384       Sansoli type layout to be used exclusively
22.  Aji III /a                      400      2,000       5,000    6,615      6,615       Sansoli type layout to be used exclusively
23.  Sipu                             -          -           -      1,000     3,000       Sansoli type layout to be used exclusively
24.  Dantivada (Mod) /a            1,000      6,000      15,000   25,000    44,517        Mixed Crops
25.  Fatehwadi (Mod)               2,000      4,000       7,000   15,000    29,792
26.  Kharicut (Hod)                1,000      4,000       8,000   11,000    14,619        Mainly Padi
27.  Bhadar (Mod)  /a              2,000      4,000       7,000   14,000    26,578
28.  Shet unji (P)(Mod)            2,000      6,000      15,000   25,000    35,750
29.  Hachhu-I (Hod)                1.000      3.000       6.000    8.000    10.409
Total             1,200   26,600    88,500    167,967  242,487   341,101
/a  High priority demonstration water management project.
N)
I.



-52-                        TABLE 3
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Salient Features of MIPs
Total    Dam Capacity    Main Canal   Distribution
Hap        CCA    Cost      M3 x 106         Length        Length
No.  Name              Ref.#      Ha      Rs M      Live Storage    Km             Km
1.  Panam             152       41120    565       679               110           1000
2.  Mabbanala         131        3084      90        29               30             32
3.  Hadaf             128        5238    126         25               21           NA
4.  Bhadar (P)        124        8000    206         37               41            147
5.  Amli (Ver II)    153         3644    108         35               34             39
6.  Jhuj              163        4180    185         28                8             50
7.  Kelia             164        2486    102         17               14             62
8.  Zankhari          155       20853    865        162               21            600
9.  Sukhi             161       20660    709        167               32            650
10.  Deo               125        7207    276         76               17             46
11.  Kalubbar           90        5830    140         22               15            192
12.  Sukhbhadar        156        7400    154         37               16             88
13.  Machhundri        106        8095    136         26               31             80
14.  Uben              111        2063      88        15               16             47
15.  Watrak            150       18341    376        154               66            360
16.  Guhai             147        7111    331         82               20            158
17.  Mazam             149        4717    170         34               13            210
18.  Venu II           146        5253    165         19               10            NA
19.  Und               101        9900    301         65               29            136
20.  Demi II           139        3108      83        20                8            160
21.  Aji II            135        2384    102         20               10             90
22.  Aji III           136        6615    235         55               22             80
23.  Sipu               79       16000    700        144               23            400
24.  Dautiwada (H)      17       44517    344        408               77           1715
25.  Fatehwadi (M)        1      29792    325         62 /1            31            368
26.  Kharicut (H)       12       14619    127          8 /2            44            377
27.  Bhadar (M)          50      26578    191        223               78            816
28.  Shetrunji (M)       14      35750    283        376              154           1723
29.  Machhu I (1)       56       10409      84        71               66            327
374954   7567
/1 181 tanks
/2 9 tanks



-53-                   Table 4a
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Rehabilitation
No. of Families
No. of Families to   Rehabilitated as  No. of Families Not
Proiect                 be Rehabilitated    of Nov. 30. 1983   Yet Rehabilitated
Panam                      3,546                 3,466                   80
Machhanala                   350                    350                   0
Hadaf                        601                    112                 429
Bhadar (P.)                   59                     18                  41
Amli (Ver II)                294                    294                   0
Jhuj                         227                    175                  52
Kelia                        149                    149                   0
Sukhi                      1,453                    222               1,231
Deo                        1,120                    151                 969
Kalubhar                   1,147                    386                 761
Sukhbhadar                   317                   317                    0
Hachundri                     NA                     NA                  NA
Ub-n                         266                    266                   0
Watrak                     2,080                    600               1,480
Guhai                      1,239                      0               1,239
Mazam                        395                    242                 153
Venu II                      425                    264                 162
Und                        2,212                    428               1,784
Demi II                      106                    106                   0
Aji II                       126                     32                  94
Aji III                      767                    747                  20
Sipu                       1,350                     53               1,297
New Proiects
Zankari                     575                      0                 575
Modernization
Dantiwada (Mod.)             401                     55                 346
Fatehwadi (Mod.)
Kharicut (Mod.)
Bhadar (Mod.)
Shetrunji (Prod.)
Machhu I (Mod.)
TOTAL                       19,205                  8,493              10,712
mm                      ==i  e      . .mm. 



-54-
Table 4b
INDIA
CUJARAT IEDIUM IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Progress of Land Accuisition
(in bectares)
Private Land Acquired
Total Land Required      Private Land Required    As of Nov. 30. 1983
(ha)        (ha)         (ha)          (ha)        (1)            (:)
Dam     Canal System    Dam        Canal System    Dam       Canal Syster
Oneoint Proiects:
Panam                   8,980        1,253       2.955          994           100            88
lmchhanala                796          182         599          160           100            98
Radaf                     792          288         698          262           100            57
Ihadar (P.)               833          480         158          433            97            82
Amli (Ver II)             682          160           90         148           100           100
Jhuj                      358          375         242          335           100            93
Kelia                     318          270         271          237           100            60
Sukbi                   2,904          772       2,053          617            52            45
Deo                     1,892          330       1,551          281            77            96
Kalubbar                  958          189         613          170           100            69
Sirzhbbadar               838          342         789          287           100            43
Hachundri                 574          529         227          495            96            25
Uben                      560          280         500          280           100            32
Jatrek                  4,477          345       2,248          345           100            48
Guhai                   1,504          260       1,204          230            27             3
Kazan                   1.204          317       1,043          280            97             7
venu II                   548          219         397          216            96             0
Und                     2.346          goo       1.096          800            72            13
De-i II                   898          160         720          1"4           100            14
Aji II                    680          135          420         120           100            22
Aji III                 1,438          349          756         270           100            19
Sipu                    2.586          738       1.730          738            44            12
11ew Proe
Zaukari                 1,975          678         735          584             0             0
lodernization
Dantivada (Mod.)           29          610           23         610            78             0
Fatebwadi (Mod.)            -          163            -         163             -             0
Kharicut (Mod.)             -          476            -         476             -             0
lhadar (Mod.)               -          378           _          378             -             0
Shetruaji (Mod.)            -          342           _          342             -             0
Machbu I (Mod.)             -          130            -         130             -             0
Source: Govermeut of Gujarat



INDIA
GUJARAT KEDIUM IRRIGATION It PRoJECT
Climatic Data a/
Jan.    Feb.   Mar.   Apr.    fav   Jun,   Jul.   Auit.   Sent,   Oct.   Nov.   LIc.               Total
Zone I (Siuu)
Temperature                      18.1    21.0   26.2   30.2    32.1  32.0   29.7   28.5    28.7   28.6   24.0   19.6
Relative Huuidity                  35    35         43      40       50    61       71      71       66      45       41      41
Rainfall                           -       -        -       -         5    46    213       146      116      12        4     -        542
Wind Speed                        5.4    5.1       7.1     7.9      9.5  10.0   10.8    8.3         7.0    4.6    4.1       2.6
Sunshine                          9.0   10.0    10.3   11.3        11.3   8.7    4.3    4.3         8.0   10.0    9.8    9.0
ETO                               121     141    199       251      304   259      185     171      199    196      139    111
Zone II (Shetrunii)
Temperature                      20.3   22.6   27.2   30.8         32.8  32.3   29.6   28.6        28.7   28.9   24.8   21.4
Relative Humidity                  37       32      35      36       46     56      71      70       61      47       41      40
Rainfall                           -       -        -       -        -    157      168     144      134      -        -       -       603
Wind Speed                        4.8     5.4      5.9    6.7       8.0   9.0    8.4       7.1      5.9    4.4    4.3    4.0
Sunshine                          9.0   10.3   10.3   10.7         10.8   7.3    3.3    3.3         6.0    9.3    9.0    9.0
ETO                               131     149    210    242         277   232      163    154       157      178    144    121
Zone III (Zankhari)
Temperature                      23.1    24.8   25.6   30.7    31.4  30.4   28.1   27.9            27.9   29.3   27.1   23.9
Relative Humidity                   52     49       48      52       63     74      84      83        79      59      50      51
Rainfall                           -        -       -       -         6   234    631    484         298       14      12       1   10680
Wind Speed                        4.1    4.2    4.5        5.2      7.5   8.3    8.0       7.3      5.0    8.2    4.2    4.1
Sunshine                          9.3    10.0    10.0   10.3        9.7   6.0      2.7     2.7      5.0    8.3    8.7    9.0
ETO                               125     139      191     212      226   171    124    122         130    163    138    123
Zone IV (Panam)
Temperature                      19.5   22.3   27.1   31.2    32.7  30.8   27.2   26.0             26.5   26.7   25.4   20.9
Relative Humidity                  45      39       27      27       39    60       79      83        75      54      43      42
Rainfall                            3        2       2       2        8   160    287       202      140       31      11       1      849
Wind Speed                        8.9   10.0   13.3    17.2    26.1  29.6   29.1   22.4    16.8    8.7    6.7    6.8
Sunshine                          9.2    9.6   10.2   10.6         10.8    7.4    3.0      3.0      5.6    8.8    9.2    9.0
ETO                                99     151     225    280        365   269      155     134      158     175    133    117
Zone V (Watrek)
Tesperature                      20.3   22.8   27.2   31.4         33.5  32.7   29.5   28.2        28.7   28.4   24.6   21.1
Relative Humidity                  42      38       34      34       45     59      77      77       70       50     41       43
Rainfall                            8      -         5       -        1    85      250     222      193        7       7       6      784         m
Wind Speed                        5.4    5.1    7.1        7.8      9.5  10.0   10.8    8.3         7.0    4.6    4.1    2.6                      Ln
Sunsbine                          9.0    9.3   10.0   10.3         11.0   7.0    3.3    3.3         6.3    9.3    9.3    9.0
CTO                               118    130    200       221       277   220      149     137      154    167    125        99
A/ Compiled from CWC'a sub-appraisal reports.
Mean monthly temperature (C); Mean Relative 11umidity (2); Rainfall (em);
Wind *pted (km/hr); Sunshine (hr/day) and ETO (ur/month).



-56-
Table 6
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
CCA and Land Irrizabilitv Class
Agricultural                                            Land Irrizability Class (X of CCA)
Zone         Name of HIP              CCA (ha)        I     II      III     IV      V
Dantivada (M)            44,517         29    68        2       1     -
Sipu                     16.000          -    68       32      -      -
60,517
II          Shetrunji (H)             35,750          2    50       45      3      -
Und                       93900          -    94        5       1     -
Machhundri                8,095          4    73       23       -     -
Shadar (H)               26,578         42    43       10       3     2
Sukhbhadar                7,400          5    30       47      15     3
Aji III                   6,615          -    90       10       -     -
Ralubhar                  5,830         89    11        -       -     -
Venu II                   5,253          4    88        B       -     -
Demi II                   3,108          -    93        7       -     -
Aji II                    2,384          -    73       27       -     -
Uben                      2,063          -   100        -       -     -
Hachhu I (H)             10.409          7    76        1      15     1
123,385
III          Jhuj                       4,180          -    45       55      -      -
Amli                      3,644          9    65       26       -     -
Kelia                     2,486          -    40       60       -     -
Zankhari                 20.853 a/       -    76       24       -     -
31,163
IV          Panam                     41,120         14    56       27      3      -
Sukhi                    20,660          -    67       33       -     -
Bhadar                    8,000          9    88        3       -     -
Deo                       7,207         16    57       27       -     -
Hadaf                     5,238         12    73       15       -     -
Machhannala               3.084          -      9      52      16    23
85,309
V          Fatevadi (H)              29,792          1    40       44     13      2
Watrak                   18,341         23    76        1       -     -
thaticut (H)             14,619         48    49        3       -     -
Guhai                     7,111         21    76        3       -     -
azam                      4.717         56    40        3       -     -
74,580
Total    29 HIPs        374,954
Ji As presented by GOG.  CCA vill be finalized after redelineation of the
project area based on semi-detailed soil survey.



INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRICATION 11 PROJtCT
Land Use
(000 ha)
1970-71   1971-72   1972-73   1973-14   1974-75   1975-76   1976-77   1977-78   1978-79    1979-80    1980-81
Total Area            18,817    18,816    18,812    IR,812    18.817    18,816    18,810    18,811             18,813      18,816     18,822
Land of Non-
sgricultural use          771     1,034      1,046      1,094      1,059      1,064      1,055      1,057       1,059       1,064       1,067
Uncultivable &
Marginal Land           5,046     4,942      4,908      4,854      4,640      4,575      4,499      4,489       4,486       4,493      4,489
Forest                  1,573     1,576      1,567      1,568      1,828      1,889      1,959      1,969       1,974       1,953      1,966
Permanent Pasture
4 Craning Land            949       858        855        856        857        853        852        850         849         846        848                    'I
Land under Misc.
Tree Crops                 14          6          6          5          5         4          4          4           4           4           4
Follow Land               751        638       828        675      2,223        784        917        900         870         882         871
Net Area  ovwn          9,713     9,762      9,602      9,760      8,205      9,647      9,224      9,542       9,571       9,572       9,577
Cross Croged Area
of which               10.492    10.479    10.259    10.542        8.900    10.549    10.405    10.439         10.509      10.655      10.745
Area under
fooderops            5,786      5,137      4,982      5,597      4,426      5,590      5,069      5,007      5,171       5,326       5,4U7
Area under
Non-foodcrops        4,706      5,342      5,277      4,945      4,474      4,959      5,336      5,432       5,338      5,329       5,258
Cropping
Intensity (Z)          108        107        108        108        109        113        109        110         109        111         112
Source:  Bureau of Economics snd Statistics, Government of Gujarat,
Soeio-Economic Review, 1982-83
F-,
m
--



INDIA
Guisrat Medium Irrixation 11 Proiect
Distribution of Holdines bT Size */
Belov I ha            1.1 - 2.5 he            2.5 - 5.,0  h        5.0 ha 4 Above
Agricultural         Nase of                              Average Size        2 of        2 of        2 of       2 of         2 of       2 of       2 of       2 of
Zone          Sub-oroiect               CCA (ha)       of Family       Household   Area        Household   Area        Household   Area    Household   Area
Dantiveds                  44,517          6.5               8           1          32         18           30         20         30         61
Sipu                       16.000          8.8               7           1          33         13           27         25         33         61
60,517                             7          1          33         17           28         21         32         61
II           Shetrunji                  35,750           7.0              12          3          32           7          24         21         32         69
Und                         9,900           7.3               2          -          38         17           34         27         26         56
Kachhundri                  8,095          6.5               8           2          45         23           28         27         19         48
Shader                     26,578          7.0              14           3          17          6           29         22         40         69
Sukhbhadar                  7,400          7.3               5           1          40         16           29         21         26         62
Aji III                     6,615           7.4              11          2          31         13           24         18         34         67
Kalubhar                    5,830          7.2              14           3          40         23           26         26         20         48
Venu 11                     5,253          7.7              16           3          30         14           24         22         30         61
Demi 11                     3,108          8.1               2           -          44         19           21         17         33         64
Aji It                      2,384           7.1             11           2          25         11           35         29         29         58
Uben                        2,063          7.4              19           3          24         10           29         26         28         61          I'
Nachhu 1                   10.409          7.5               6           1          43         12           23         25         28         62
123,385                           10           2          34         11           27         24         29         63
III           Jhuj                        4,180           8.3              21          8          43          32          32         49           4         11
Anoi                        3,644          8.4               14          3          36         21           .5         43         15         33
Kelis                       2,486          8.4               19          5          29         16           35         39         17         40
Zankhari                   20,853          8.5              23           5          32         16           28         28         1!7        51
31,163                           19           5          35         19           33         33         13         43
IV           Panaw                      41,120           8.5              16          4          36          23          38         48          10         25
Sukhi                      20,660          10.6              24          6          43         32           23         34         10         30
Ihadar                      8,000          8.6              16           5          46         31           29         39          9         25
Deo                         7,207          8.6               19          5          44         24           19         21         18         50
H4def                       5,238           9.8              21          6          38         30           34         45          7         19
Machhannala                _3_,n4          8.8               15          4          42         29           37         47          6         20
85,309                            19          5          41         27           30         41         10         27
T           Fatevadi                   29,792           6.9              20          6          30          19          14         15          36         60
Watrok                     18,341          8.6               23          6          33         18           24         30         20         46
Ihaticut                   14,619          6.4              31           8          31         12           18         15         20         65
Guhai                       7,111          8.3              10           3          41         25           37         43         12         29
was"                        4.717           7.8              16          3          28         13           31         34         25         50
74,580                           20           6          33         18           25         23         22         53
Total    29 HIPs          374,954
C......   aurv      ..o  t      r
j/ Co piled from the rooeio-econooic aurvey of the sub-projects.



-59-
Table 9a
INDIA
GUJMRAT DEDIJU IRRIGATION II PROJECT
SUNNR  ACCOUTS COST SIHIRY
(RS Nillion)              (USS '000)                   I Total
Z Foreign  Base
Local Foreign Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Exchange   Costs
1. IIN[STEN  COSTS
A. LANS ACIOISITIOH                184.4      -  194.4  17,076.5       - 17P076.5          -       6
is. CIIL MIRICS                  19918.7  332.1 20250,8 177P655.5 30P753.4 208P408.9      15      76
C. EOUIPIEIT                       106.4   44.5  150.9   9,85S.3 4P120,2  13,973.5        29       5
B. TRAINING                        12.8    3.7   16.5   1,186.7   338.4  1,525.2          22       1
E. NONITORING/IEUELOPNENT/STUDIES  14.2    0.4   14.7   1,317.8    38.9  1,356.6           3       0
F. ENGINEERINS I ADNINISTRATION    329.4      -  329.4  30,499.5       - 30i 499.5         -      11
Total IJESTIET COSTS               2,566.0  380.7 2,946.7 237t589.3 4.Ci250.8 272,840.1     13      100
Phvsical Contingecies             222.2   39.2  261.4  20,571.1  3,630.2 24,201.3         15       9
Price Continoicies                441.5   66.5  508.0  40,881.2  6P153,4 47r034.7         13      17
Total INCLUDIN  COUlTINMCIES      3,229.6  486.4 3,716.0 299,041.6 4r,034.4 344s076.1      13      126
=   5===  ==== =   =
Total                               2,566.0  380.7 2P946.? 23765119.3 35P250.9 272s64@.1     13      100
Phtsical Contingencies             222.2   39.2  261.4  20.571.1 3d5630,2 24,201.3         15       9
Price Contingencies                441.5   66.5  508.0  40.W11.2 6,153.4  47P034.7         13      17
Total PROJECT COSTS                 3,229.6  486.4 3716.0 299041.6 45034.4 344,076.1        13      126



-60-
Table 9b
INDIA
GULMT MEDlUI IURICATIOlN II PROJECT
PROJEC COST IIIARY
(RS lillion)        (US§ million)            Z Total
Z Foreic-m  Base
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total Exdce   Costs
_   _ ==   =  _=                                 - 
A. PAIW9                              67.0   12.2  79.2   6.2    1.1  7.3          15      3
B. MOIWIN.A                           10.6    1.9   12.5   1.0    0.2  1.2         15      0
C. HIAAF                              32.5    5.6   38.1   3.0    0.5  3.5         15       1
D. BRADM  (P)                         43.9    6.9   50.8   4.1    0.6  4.7         14      2
E. AILI (UER II)                      14.1    2.5   16.6   1.3    0.2  1.5         15       1
F. JH1J                               57.2   8.8   65.9   5.3    0.8  6.1          13      2
S. KEIA                               22.9   3.8   26.7   2.1    0.3  2.5          14      1
H. ZRMGI                              94.8   11.3  106.2   8.8    1.1  9.8         11       4
I. SUHII                             201.5   28.3  229.8  18.7   2.6 21.3          12      8
J. DEO                                63.8    B.1   71.9   5.9    0.7  6.7        11       2
K. KAIU1U                             57.4    8.7   66.1   5.3    0.8  6.1        13       2
L. SlEHBHADAR                         67.0   10.4   77.5   6.2    1.0  7.2         13      3
M. I'AORI                             51.6    9.0   59.6   4.8    0.7  5.5         13      2
M. LIEIl                              19.1    2.8   21.9   1.8   0.3  2.0          13       1
0. IMTRAK                             145.1   20.9  166.0  13.4    1.9 15.4        13      6
P. GUilI                              156.5  22.4  178.9  14.5   2.1 16.6          13       6
G. NAZA                               50.0   7.4   57.3   4.6    0.7  5.3          13      2
R. Will 11                            69.1   10.5   79.6   6.4    1.0  7.'         13      3
S. UPD                                127.6   18.8  146.4  11.8   1.7 13.6         13       5
T. DE1  II                            29.0   4.4   33.3   2.7    0.4  3.1         13       1
u. AJI II                             41.0    4.9  45.8   3.8    0.5  4.2          11      2
Y. AJI III                            97.4   14.8  112.2   9.0    1.4 10.4         13       4
V. SIPU                               292.6   42.8  335.4  27,1    4.0 31.1        13      11
X. DANTIMADA (NOD)                    140.7   23.5  164,2  13.0   2.2 15.2         14       6
Y. FATEHUADI (NOD)                    160.3   25,4  185.7  14.8   2.4 17.2         14      6
Z. KWICUT (NO)                        83.0   13.0   96.0   77    1.2  8.9          14       3
A. Emom (NOD)                         94.1   14.9  109.0   8.7   1.4 10.1          14      4
B. SHETRUOJI (NOD)                    149.9  23.7  173.6  13.9   2.2 16.1          14      6
C. NAOHM  I (NOB)                     44.2   7.0   51.2   4.1    0.6  4.7         14       2
D. lATER MANAElEENT TRAINING           2.5    0.8    3.3   0.2   0.1  0.3          24      0
E. NEIOWICAL TEDCIlClA TRAINING        0.0    2.4    2.5   0.0    0.2  0.2        98       0
F. FARIERS TRAINING                    5.1    0.4    5.5   0.5    0.0  015         8       0
6. voCATOIWL TRAINING                  5.2      -    5.2   0.5      -  0.5         -       0
H. NONITORINS J IEUELOPIEHN  / STUDIES  69.3   3.3   72.6   6.4    0.3  6.7        5        2
Total                                26566.0  380.7 2P946.7 23J.6   35.3 m.8        13      100
Physsicil Contingeies                222.2   39.2  261.4  20.6    3.6 24.2        15       9
Price Continkencies                  441.5   66.5  506.0  40.?   6.2 47.0         13      17
Total PROJECT COSTS                  3t229.6  486.4 3716.0 299m.    45.0 304.1      13    126
___t__m= z;z 



INDIA
CUJ.PRT llEDII IRRIGATIO34 11 PROACT
Suuarw kccijit by ProJtMt Coupmnt
(RS million)
PMM   MC8WAA L                 IP (P)    IYER 11)  JHUJ  KELIA  2ANIAI  SUIII  NO   KALUHN                 UHWI A      NACHHIUNLIAI  UIER  WA1TRA   6UM1I   WZM   WENU 11   UNDI  DENI 11  AJI 11
::sr   :=::z:::.      *:::::            -::::: ::             :  r::rrta  :1rrr . Z:r  *.n8.i.  :,a*ESS*333   2886888*8    383t  h38838  88181  US*88   3                   8   23333  ::::r        *:::
1. INYEST*JT £STS
_ ,.-------------
A, LAND ACIJISITION                        05                    0.2       3.7           *   0,9      1.0       28.'5   22.1  14.2           3.4           1.8           1.9   2.0      1',.3   11.3     4.4        2.9     8.7        2.0     11.6
1, CIYIL  MOS                              58.3           9,6   29.7       37.2       12,6  55.1   20,2          61.3  374,4  47.4          51.7          62.9          47.8  16.4    124.7  143.0   43.7           63,9  115.4       25,8      27.6
C. EIUIPfNT                                11,7           3.5     3.5       4,3        2.1    1.6      2.4         7.2     7.1    3.2         3.2           3.3           2.9    1,0      7.3     3.2    2.7         3.2     5,0        1.7      2,4
D. TRAININ                                                                                               -           -                                                                                                         -
Es . IOIIIT0IN8 MDCW       !4T/STU1 lES       -             -        -        -           -      -       -           -       *      -           -             -             -      -        -        -       -
F. ENINEERING I AMI1NISTRAflON              U.7           1.4    4.4        5.6         1.9   6.3      310        9.2    26.2   7.1           7,8           9.4           7.2    2.5     10.    23.4       6.6       9.6   17.3         3.9      4.1
........  .. .  _...... ._   ... . ....  ......  .._. .....  .....  . ...  .. ... ...  .....  .....  .........    ............  ........ ...   ....   ......  .......    ... ...    _.... .. ._..   . ..._ .__ .....   ....._ 
Total IMMSTINT COSTS                          79.2           12.5   3.3l    50.8          16.6  65.V   26.7          06s.2   WA9.8  IL19        66.3          77,5          59.6  21.9   166.0  373.9   57.3           79.6  13464        33.3      45.8
Total                                           79,2          12.5   38.1    50,.          16,6  65iV   26,7         106.2  2294.  71.9          66.1          77.5          59,6  21.9    166.0  170,9   57,3  7e ,f  14!.'                33.:     4S,G
Piwical Contin.ncui                           4.7          0.6      2.9      3.3         0,4   6,7      2.1         9.2   19.8   4,6           6.2           7.2           4.9    le9    12.5   IV.3        5.9       7,9   14,3         2.9       3.4
Prico Contingmncis                           9,0           0.8      3.9      4.2         l.S   6.8    13.          36,.4   21.3   8.7          9,6          11.6           9,4    2,6     28.4   3/.4       8,9      12.7   25.6         4.6      5.7
._ ....~~~~~~~~~~~.  ..... _ . . ..                     _ ....... _. .....  .....  _  ... ... . ...  I-----  ..... ......  .. ..  . .....    .......  .... ...... ... ... S   ...    ....._. .. _. _._.
Total   0ECT COSTS                              93.0          13.8   449       58,3        138.6  79.4   30,6        151,7  270.9  N5,3          61.9          96.3          73.9  26.3   206.9  235.7   72,1          100.3  186.4        40,9      54,9
u:u3:  ::s::as:::  33383  8388:8    83.3S8.   "8:.1  38a8gs  1s181:1`   *t28r  rp:   3ua88ss13    .8:3..::rras  2:*tSai8             3:33   as::a 3 :8   ss a8  3          as328   81 Mass8    a3r7.113   ses...
Fornin Exchag                               34.5           2,1      6.7      8.0         2.8  10.7      4.3        16,8   34.1    V.9         51.0          33.           30.0   3.4      26.4   30.2       9.5      13,5   24.4         5.4      6.1
__. _ ............. .......... .  ...... ._..._. ........ _...... .......... ......................... ........................ ........ ........... . ...... ............ . .   _..... ...... _. _. _.. ..... ...... .... .... _......  _._ _._



INDIA
CUJRT llEDIUH IRRIBAIDI 11  PROACT
Suarw Accouit bw ProJ,ct Couonnt
(IS milli)on
Phwical
IMTER     HECHMbICAL                           MONITORING                Contitincis
DAMTIID  FATEHUADI  IWAICUT   NMD    SHETRUNJI  MMU  I  tMALtNT  TECHNICIAN   ROiES   YWCTION&   I1VLVfL(mT /                                          -
JI 111  SINU       (HOD)        ODD)      (HOD)    (MOD)      (wit)    (MOD)        TRAINING     TRAIZINU   1R(.INIkO   TKlAlINI        STUDIES      Total       I    Anomt
=5332:  22222  ZasasjsA   2 ngz:u   223222tasmm ssss    uNaXuaMX         Xa88a:88  &u::r.r,:PP  : :.sa.ax. mu: 4        arsmaatasmam  t.m    'Aegt . :52W5I=    ..  2_X2  I 9
I. IJEST*ENT COS4T
..... ...... ....
A. LAND ACQUISITION                         2.3   19.3         5.3         3.8        2.1      6.0         7.1       2.2            -I I;4.4    0.0                                                              00
I, CIVIL MtS                               73'l  266.9       123.7       149.7       77.6    82.0       134,6       39.7            -            -                                    54.9  2rtAi.G   1126   261,1
C, EGUIPIIf                                 2.8    9.2        16.6         99         4,7      9.7        11.7        3.4                  -           -           -                    3,1   1I0,9    0,0       0,0
D. TRAINING                                   -                  --                                -                              33           2.5        5.5          5,2                      16.5    2.7      0.3
E. MNOITORING/DEOELOP?EKT/STUDIES                                             -         -        -           -          -            -            -          -            -           14.7      14.7    0.0      0.0
F. ENGIKERINGS I AINISTRATION              14, 0   40,0       1I66        22.4       11.6    12.3         20.2        6.0                         -         -             -               -    32V.4    0,0      0,0
_ _ .    ___.......  ........ ........   .... ..... ...... .........  .......   ....... ...  ... _.......  ........  ............ .. ............. ............... ...... ........ ......
Total IAIESTWF:f COSTS                       112.2  335.4        164,2      185.7       96.0   109.0        173.6       51,2          3.3          2.5        5.5         5.2             72.6  2W946,7    8.9   261.4
Total                                         122.2  335.4        264.2       185s7      96.0   10970        173,6       51.2          3.3          2.5        5.5          5.2            72.6  2i94607    P.9   261,4
Pheical Contirsaecin                        11.9   37,6         15.3       15.4        6.2    10.6         17.9        5.5            -            -       0.3             -               -    261.4    0.0      0,0
Price Contlinscw in                         20.9   79,6         25.6       37.6       17.2    19.6         36.6        6,6          0,5          0.2       0.7           1.0            10.9    506,0    7.9    39,9
-  .. . --   ---   -- -- -     -- -- -   -- - -     -- - -  - - -- -     -- --     -- --- --    -- -    - -  - -- --     -. ....       ... .   .   ....   .... ... _ .....    .._..
Total  JEICT COSTS                            145.0  452.6        2051,       238.7     119.4   139.3        229,0       63.3          3,9          2.7        6.5          6.2            83,5  30716,0    8.l   301,3
SD22  22233  22323-311        2332222   x82332as2  2322s 22  LX22228   iZZnsan    2f X2 2 8asm22   a         zsinrnehzuerrns    anna?m::.  uuaaasuraar  s,sa2 m  vrrarm s.uussaa
Foruln Exchk                                19.4   58.7        29.5        32.8       16.2    19.2         31.2        8.7          0.9          2.6        0.5            -             3,6    4I6.4    9.J    45.2
.-.
n
n
I-



-63-
INDIA                                 Table 9d
UJANT IEDIUN IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Smours Account be Time
Totals Including Continrgecies
(RS tillion)
84/85 85/86 86/87 87/8 98/89 Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. LAND ACQIUISITION               67.9 59.2 29.1  29.8 25.4  211.3
B. CIVIL VORKS                    745.9 732.5 635.3 506.7 289.2 2,9MO,7
C. E0IPNENT                        66.5  6.8 24.2 45.0 34.0  176.5
B. TRAINING                         7.2  3.8  2.6  2.8  2.8   19,2
E. MONITORIN6/DEVELOPIENT/STUDIES    3.2  3.9  3.5  3.3  '3.4   17.1
F. ENGIIEERING I ADMIHISTRATION    97.2 94.5 83.9 67.9 38.3  381.
Total INESTNENT COSTS                988.0 900.8 778.7 655.5 3Y3.1 3,716.0
Total PROET COSTS                     988.0 900.8 778.7 65.5 393.1 3,716.0



-64-
Tab le 9e
mna
LMAT IEDI IRRIGATIE1 II PROECT
ProJict C   _au t by Time
(RS million)
Total
Base Costs         -
(US$
84/85 856  86/7 87/88 88/89   RS   Million)
A. PMl                              37.4 24.3  8.6  7.1  1.8   79.2    7.3
B. NAIMAAM.                          9.6  2.4  0.5    -    -    12.5    1.2
C. NW                               17.5 17.9  0.3  1.2  1.3   38.1    3.5
D. *VII"R (P)                       31.5 16.9  0.3  1.1  1.0   50.8    4.7
E. lLI (VER I1)                      8.1  7.3  0.3  1.0    -    16.6    1.5
F. JHU                              29.2 27.5  8.3  0.2  0.6   65.9    6.1
6. KELIA                            20.3  5.9  0.1  0.4    -    26.7    2.5
H. ZMIRI                             0.5    -  8.5 42.4 54,7  106.2    9.8
I. SLIO                            132.6 65.6 23.2  7.6  0.8  229.8   21,3
J. IED                              30.5 23.7  8.6  7.4  1.7   71.       6.7
K.  1LUIM                           21.1 19.? 17.2  6.4  1.6   66.1    6.1
L. S(UOMN                           25.0 19.1 22.1 10.7  t.6    77.5    7.2
N*. 1A1UI                           14.3 17.5 19.8  7.1  1.0   59.6    5.5
N. mu19                             10.4  6.4  1.3  3.8    -    21.9    2.0
0. ATRMt                            42.6 40.4 43.5 31.7  7.8   166.0   15.4
P. 6UMI                             28.2 40.2 54.9 37.5 18.1   178.9   16.6
Q. WM                               14.4 18.7 1799  5.6  0.7   57.       5.3
Re KMN II                           26.8 20.2 14.9 1292  5.5   79.6    7.4
s. UND                              40.9 31.8 35.7 30*6  7.4  146.4   13.6
T. DMII II                          1294  9.3  6.2  5.5    -    33.3    3.1
U. AI II                            20.6 13.2  6*3  4.0  1.7   45.8    4.2
U, AJI III                          29.4 24.6 25.3 22.3 10.6  11292   1094
U. SIPU                             46.8 64.8 75.2 76.9 71.7  335.4   31.1
X. DTIVADA (NOD)                    52.9 41.8 40.5 26.0  3.1   164.2   15.2
Y. FATEHMDI (NOD)                   38.0 41.5 41.9 36.9 27.4  18957    17.2
Z. KWNRIEDJ (NOD)                   18.1 26.4 28.7 18.0  4,8   96.0    8.9
A. lDRAW  (MOD)                     29.2 25.6 26.1 20.7  7.5   109.0   10.1
D. SHETRUNJI (ON)                   38.2 34.4 36.5 36.9 27.7  173.6   16.1
C, Imm1I I (NOO)                    192 18.0 10.0  4.1    -    51.2    4.7
3. ATTER IMIENWE#T TRAINING          1.3  0.5  0.5  °.5  0.5    3.3    0.3
E. CEOMIICAL TECIUICIAN TRAINING     1.2  1.2    -    -    -     2.5    0.2
F. FARIES TRAINING                   3.1  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.5    5.5    0.5
6. IN3ATIONAI TRAINING               1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0    5S2      0.5
N. NONITOR1N / DEVELOPIENT / STUDIES    19.5 26.1 13.1  7.6  6.4   72.6    6.7
Total                                871.3 734.7 597.9 475.1 267.7 2944.7  272.8
Pwrnical Continuncies              79.0 71.2 53.3 37.2 2(.7  261.4   24.2
Price Cooti nucins                 37.6 94.9 127.5 143.2 104.8  508.0   47.0
Total PROET COSTS                    988.0 900.8 778.7 655.5 393.1 30716.0  314.1
F    == == == = =0
horeis, Exdwnu                    132.3 110.5 101.4 98.9 53.3  486.4   45.0



1U1A
WU t I(IUM IMIIAIIU  1     311 PCT
Table a32. *TERt iWlIT TbMINIU
btailed Cost Table
3ridak^   ot Totls Ifel Cant
(Us '$00                       P      trs
kw  Costs                   Totals 1rnludinW  CatirinUids         Totals Irnldlin  Catiencas--
iRS Killion)                          (RS Nilliwi)                           W64 '000)                         locl                     Pt.
FOp.   (Exel.   mi" I           Cant. For.   Dmss   Smearw
NM/U U/55 6/A 67/U  896/89 Total     /8f  I/3d 86/37 87/8U  68/83  MO     64/rl f/S  6/7 87/8  86/9 Tbtul  Exch.  Taxs)   Tax                Total Rate   W. Tax Rt. Acout
1. Dmnwu wo
A. TM!NIU                      0.5   0.5   0,5   0.5   0.5   2.6    0.5   0.6   0.6   0,7   0,7   3.1   49.6  536.  57.3  61,3  65.3 267.3    14.4   273.0              - 267.3      0  O.0S         0     TPA
.11     TIES
TlWML COST                 0.4      -     -     -      -   0.4    0.4     -      -     -         0.4   41A4            -     -     -  41.4    37.3      4.1          -  41.4      0   0.9         0     T1A
M  SIEN                     0.1     -     -     -      -  0.3    0.3      -            -     -   0.3   30.6      -     -     -     -  30.      27.7     3.1          -  30.3      0   0,9         0     TM
S-TotalSlU?TOlS                0.6     -     -     -        -       0.6    0.6  -   -     -     -   Os   ZP2-2               -            72..2    45.0    7.2          -  72,2
Tol IlST1Et CO5t                 1.3   0.5   0,5   0.5   0,5   3.3    1.3  0.6   0,6    0.7   0.7   3,9  122.1  Xl.6  57.3  61.3  65.J 3A9,5    79.4   26002              -3595
ma*  m -----   m----  -- m  mm,m wamas  .ra a-Mrae 61- M     rn_    mm    amau anmma      a = a s 1 mm1 MAm. MASM  twanmm maa 10101"JOWLZRAN
Total                              1.3   0,5   0.5   0.5   0.5   3 3    1.3   0.6   0.6   0.7  0e7   3.  122.1  53.6  57.3  61,3  5.3 A.M    79A4   60.2                    -359.5
_saa sam.  _am  munw  tsm  _a    ma   mai  mamas Sma  maza,.m..v  .:z7 _E _UU  mama aema. mamm  mama                      a n  m         u  _
.  .   _.__   .....................   _      .    .     .       ___._        ._._._.    ._            _             ._.__  _ _   _   _    _    _     _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
I0
'0



lila
UJUWT   DI1HU IMRUATION 11 PIJECT
Table 33. M     UIDIM  TEC JlMI TAININE
Ictiled C.t Table
Irfadown of Total. Intl. Cant
(US  '000)                       Parastrs
Bae Costs                    Totals Irnludins Conltinwucics           Totals Ircluding Crntitincin               ---------------                …
(RS Mhillion)                            RS KNllion)                              (UtS  '04)                         LocuIl                     P1
-  - -- --------------------- -------  For.  tExcl, &thusI                                                                 Cnt. For,  ross Swaev
84/fl fl/86 W6/37 87/NB N0/B9 Total  84/f5 f5/86 86/87 97/1  89/89 lotal  84/l f5/B6 86/97  7/I; 98/89 Totil   Exch,  Taxes)   Taxes   Total  Rate   xch, Tax RPte Acemt
… s…  328   335x3   55X -   sd51 nazi  mans  ama2313 sa     3 3 3as 3 mas 38s uzA rau  J*333 t--15a ts233 5m*" 3   ns as=  :5*3  aS .   z M=r:t  :2==  33333 --a-s a.              _:rz-
1. IMEBflEMT CU9TS
A. TPAININE
TRMA. COSTS              03   0.3       -      -     -   0.6    0.3   0.3        -     -      -   0.7   29.9  32.1       -      -     -  62,0    60.        1.2          -  62.0        0  O."          0     TWA
PER CIEI                  0,9   0.9      -      -     -   5,9    1.0   l.O        -     -      -   2.0   89.7  96.4       -      -      - 16.1    192.4      3.7          - 196.1        0  O.99         0      IRA
Sub-Total TRAINI             1.2    .       -      -      -   2.5    13   14                          27  119,6  29.          -     -        248,1   2432       5.0           - 249.
Total IlMSTHIET LSTS            1,2   1.2       -     -      -   2.5    1.3   1,4       -      -     -   2.7  119.6 129.5        -     -         24891   243.2      5,0          - 24.I
maas nax  agusaRsgus   ms    a    min;mmm2s6s  am3   aamam na   ram   naa2aana  aasraauc                                                   =.a    33
Total                             1,2   1.2      -     -      -   2.5    1.3  21.4       -      -     -   2.7  119.6 1295         -      -     - 24t.1   243.2       5.0          - 249.
aslt amass ma"a axamn ass.x nsa. tsar zaras  mu-s  xtG  =xxz samn        I       23333 ;3ss  3s3s8  muss z uw     m Xmasa s si sn8  as s aaatnLat      Ia



IIIDIA
WJARAT IEDIUIN IRRIATION 11 P*ECT
Table 34. F?MS TRAINING
Detaled Cost Tabil
lr#Adow  of Tutals 1Il. Cant
(Us$ '000)                      P ters
lne Coat,                   Totals IrncludivM  Contingci. s       Totals Im luding Conti      ies      ....------------------------ -            -- ---------------
(RS Million)                          (RS million)                            (UI '000)                         Local                    P.j,
__ - ----- --------------  - -----  - _-__ ------------------------------------                                     Fut.  (IEcl. Itin I             Cont. For,  Sioss   Suarv
84/85 i5/SM   86/87 87/89 88/89 Total  94185 85/86 w6/87 87/98 96/89 Total  84/B5 85/B6 B6/97  7/86 BY/89 Total   Exch.  Taxn)   Taxns  lotol  Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Acnvot
221XSaga Sagas NOSI 8923  8929W  9222  9,3222 Isl=as 622A use-. ;Z:L- 2:2-4  :s U:z:.XS Irr.ZX .--a :San sSSSX 2::ws        214482  NXII2.9 gUsaUS   2222::- SOUZA SM.-SRS2  =e:=a8Z
lo INHST.OfI COSTS
A, LAD  AUISIT-I-                                                                                                                                        -       -        -         -     -       0     0        0       L
I. CIVIL  Mg
0.8        -     -         -   0.9    1.0      -     -     -     -   1.0   Y;!,8     -     -      -     -  92,8    13.9    ,.9           -  92.8   0.15  0.15         0      TR
TAINiZUI.LL                            1.1     -      -     -     -   11    1.3      -     -      -     -   1,3  113,1      -     -     -     - 119.1    17.7  10.3            - 118.1   0.15  0.15         0     IRA
Su-Total C18IL  MS                        1.9      -     -     -     -   1.9    2.3      -                  -   2.3  210.9      -     -      -     - 210.9    316   179.3           - 210.9
C. EGUipENT
MIMEHIS                                0.7     -      -     -     -   0.7    0J7      -                  -   0,7   42.8      -     -     -      -  62.8    12,6    50.2          -  62.8      0   0,2         0     TRA
OFFICE EOJIPEll                       0.4      -     -     -     -   0,4    0,4      -     -      -     -   0,4   36.9      -     -     -      -  36.9       -    36.9          -36.9         0     0        0     TRA
._. __   .__ ... ..____._ .. ...                                            ._ .   __ ..._ ....  ..... ..... _......  ...... . .... . _. . ...  .. .
S34-Total EJUIPNT                         1.0      -                              I-  -   1.0    11  -  -  -  -   1.1   S9.7    -     -      -     -  9S.7    12,6    87.1          -  99.7
*. WrTION A MINTEAMf
0FbTIN9 COSTS                          0.2   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.5   2.5    0.2   0.7   0.7   O,B   0.7   3.1   15,0  64.3  6.   ?3.6  65.3 2U.9              -   2969           - 2866       0      0        0     TRA
Skr-Total WERTJW  Ia MINTEIWIC            0.2   0.6   0.4   0,6   0,5   2,5    0,2   0.7   0.7   0.9   07   3,1   15.0  64.3  68.9  73.6  65,3 2U. 9             -   286.9          - 29.9
Total IISENTr   COSTS                        3.1   0,6   0.6   0.6   0,5   5.5    3.5   0.?   0.7   0.3   0.7   6.5  32$.5  64.3  68.8  73.6  65.3 597.4    44.2   W.2                 - 597.4
_~ sScz211   agaz  22*11 Blame=;USgss: sW111  ss5z %- mama 1219  BZ   4---P ='A;.^ 1143211s SssU W68  sag: -as *"t: -JS L=SMTIR                 X
Total                                         3.1   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.5   5.5    3.5   0.7   0.7   0.8   0.7   6.5  325.5  64.3  68.8  73.6  65.3 597.4    44.2   553.2               - 597,4
32332 33333 33333 32333 333  33333  23333 34333 3333  143  3332 Wz:3:::::  L3333 34::J e:4333 3l=e3 31333  S-J3  583323 33333   ::YJJaJ43  J:JJJ
m
k0



UlAl
6WVT   IJItI I16ATION 11 FItC T
Table 36. HlTIOIW. TMAINIM
btailed Cost Table
twakdon of Totals Inol. Cot
(USS '000)                     ,.Pa Ur u
lw  Costs                   Totals Irtludird ContirfeWicFes       Totals Irnludird Contineerices
(As Killion)                           H  Millini)                           (US$ '040t)                       Local                    P?Hw
- -- -         ------   ------------------------  For.  (Exel.  ites I                                        Cant. For.  Bms  Sumurv
64/15        W/7 37/36 N/   Total  34/8  85/U6 16/37 37/U  U/BY Total  04/85 85/186 56/37 37/33 M/ilotcl   Exch.  Taxeu)   Tuen   totel  bte  Exeh. Tai R1A  Acmt
_,m,                      ~x 3somas3a ma                                   ss 3-32 338aso33x=z1soms 3_*3 3a8   mim3e8s 3 333s31 2                   --= 3  3838 383  3a3as33   : 2
1. I14NEUU   CUTS
A. WCATIUWAL TMNIii         1.0   l0  5o,0   1,0   l.o   5,2    1,1   1,2  1J2   13   1.4   6.2   99.7 107.1 114M   122. 6130,6 574.7            -   574.7          - 574.7      0     0         0     TM
Totl DhREThIT COSTS            1.0   leo   1     1.0      lot  5,2   1fi    1.2   1.2   1*3   1A4  6.2      .7 107,1 114,6 1226 1304 574.7           -   574.7          - 5747
Total                           fit   lot  l.    1.0   1.0   5,2   1I1   1.2  12   2.3   1.4   6.2 A"7 107,1 114.4 122.6 130.6 574,7                 -   574,7          - 574,7
_33   _3 33W         _       _3833 328_3 3_23 _a us    ozone   v .=r  *  1zs s 8 33_  amass    13 L_x-x      332wx   _3382 333



1616
GUA' MUIWI 26164A12N It POOACT
Table 35. *ITM IN/PlTM E lOM /HSTWlt S
htaled Cost table
Irakdow of Totals lfcl Cult
(UH  '00}                       e_er
law Costs                 Totals 1rtlqlinr  Contitsimin             Totals Inclwirs CL.tiiaoils          ...…
(As NIlln)                          (AS MIlllion)                            l(lS  '0001                          Local                      .
For. (Excl.  MAi.s I           Cot. Fat.   hms  I_urv
5  3            7 il? 3X7 U/I  Trusa  1M       3N/37 37/I   3     1SUI  M           /    66/37  WIlU  UAN Total    och. Taon)   Tarn   Total    W   Ech. Tax  at Ammt
-    -  - s -   *a g-*-w a=s                       s              anu ini  _aa  _m am sna urnS _u  _au _nu _ms                                              ma   n
1. Dlo cml
Am.Po       NIT1
._,-
MI9 INUW    IUTAYIN                                        o0.2  9.   0.1   0.1   9.1   9.5    0.2   CI  9.1   0.2 O l  0.6    10.9   10,?   1l1.  12.3  131.    5.5               -   57.5         -     .75      0     0       0
IllE     I "I ITT  Ul       , WIlT                          0.3  0.3   0.3  0.3   0.3  1W3    0.3  0.3   0.3  0.3   e3   1.5    24.1   25.9   27.7  29.6  31.5  13.N                -   IS           -   3S.U       9    0        0     11
liUi         RN WELL                                       0.2   0.2  9.2  0.2  0,2   1.0   0.2  0.2    .2  0.3  0.1  1.2             2.9   21.4   22.9  24.5  26.1   114.9   5-7  109.2             -   114.9      0 05          e      a
-TeIUII TIE                                                   0.6   9.6  0.6  0.6   O.6   2.3    9.   9.6  0.7  W.7   0.   3.4    54.0   50.0   62.1  66   70.7  311.2    .7  30s-s                     -   311.2
l. KUJUN
MNLI     AT M        ITEJN  U T eW       M      IATIu       0.7   0.7   0.9  o9   1.-  4,3    06   0.o  l.l   2.2  I.t   5.3    69.6   75.0  103.2 110.4 130.6  40.,  244   444.4                    -      .l      0 0Af          0     a
WllITATIU IW         UX1 W  CWOCT IU                       15.3  20.5  10.1  5.0   3.9  54,.   15.9  22.9  1221   6.4  5,4  62.7  194752.1 2210 1.122J,3 566.7 416.3 S.043  2.2 5.514.1              -,054.3        0 0.05         0      c
IEuOTT W U            wI T                                 0.3  9.6  0.2   0.1       -   1.2   0.3   OJ   O.l  0.1        -   1.3    2979 7    4.3   11.5  22.3      *   127.9   5.9  112.0          -  117,9       0 0.05         0    0
ETNW  m  FM? 9W1W                                           1.0  2.1     -     -     -   3.1   1.1  2.3       -     -    -   3.4    99id  2113.3         -           -  33,4  15.2   29.2            -  313.0       0 0.05         0      C
113111   Tll K MlE CLL                                     0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5   2.5   0.5  0.6  0,6   0.6  0.7   3.0    40.    51.1   55.4  59.?  63,1   277.6                 -   277.         *  277.        0    0         0     a
nmm         0611 1m1                                       0.4   0.4   ^.4   04   0.4  2.0    0.4  0.4   0.5  0.5  0.5   2.4    38.    41.4   44.3  47.4  50.5  222A                -   222.1        - 22.1         0    0         0 o    E
WT#Ul KNiL. lT                                                1t.3  24.3  12.1   6.9  5.9  67.   19.0  27.7  14.4  6t    o.9  71.0  2761.0 2,567.3 1.337.6 311.0 740.4 7.224,2  MS.7 ? .6 S             * 7.224.2
C. ITUX
rF    l    TIEMI  TO EK  166TION                           0 .1 9.1      -     -     -  0.2    0. 2    .1    -    *      -   0.2    10.0   10.7         -    -      -   20.7   1.0   19.6           -    20.7      I 0.05         0    ha
IIImI   CIMAI     m T iUa   IN KM                          0.1   ol,     -     -     -   0.2   0.1  0.1       -     -    -  0.2    19.9   10.7           -     *    *    20.7    2.0   19            -   20.7       0 0.05         0     NM
lEW   lU UrT1E lW        L2tATI0TIl                        0.1  o.l  O.   Ol        *   0.4    0.2  O.l  0.1  0,.        *   0.5    10.0   20.7    11.5  12.3       -   44.4   2.2   42.2           -   44.4       0 0.05         0      W
W   FIK193 MrTZu.                                          0.3  0.4  0.3       -     -   2.0   0.3  0.5  9.4        -    -   1.2    29.9   42.0   34.4         -    -   107,1    5.4  101.          -   107.1      0 9.05         0    Ng
MTsOaI hEl                                                    0.6   0.7   0.4  0,2      -   1.9   0,6  0.   0S   0.1         -   2-1    59.1   75.0   45.3  12.3        -   192.9   9.6   113.3         -    2.9
t4l  lEITIEiT el11                                              IA.5  2.1  131   7,   6,4  72s6  20.2 29.  15    1.7  6,3  33.5  27.7 2M,20 I0. 445.5 396.7  11.1 7,723.3  3 2.I 7.171,2                   * 77n3
uIM1 ulSus--   - usa                 -     ---u s      - -."I    mu --                 --a ---  Iu    mu  n m  -             -
Tsui                                                             1*95  26.2  2l3l   7,6    .   7.6  20.2 29.2 156   *.7  3.3  0.5  11747 2.7003  r45.5 696.7 1.1 7726.3  351.17 7m72                          71721.3
- -     -          am   _       sa .s .             m    i a        _aa  sw   _s    mu   -_a                       u    -m       aa



-70-
Table 10
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures and Implementation /a
(Rs M)
Component              1984185  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  Total
Construction of MIPs (23)       555.7    662.9    549.5    462.8    388.5   2,619.4
Modernization projects (6)    164.8    227.9    237.8    209.6    153.7            993.8
Training                           5.4      4.7       2.9       2.7       3.5       19.2
Monitoring and Studies            15.2     26.9      19.0      11.2      11.3       83.6
Total Project Cost (Rs M)       741.1    922.4    809.2    686.3    557.0   3,716.0
/a    Based on April-March fiscal year.



-71-
Table 11
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule /a
(US$ M)
IDA Fiscal Year                  During
and Semester                     Semester                   Cumulative
1985
1st                              16.8                         16.8
2nd                              18.6                         35.4
1986
1st                              20.6                         56.0
2nd                              20.3                         76.3
1987
1st                              18.4                         94.7
2nd                              16.6                        111.3
1988
Ist                              16.6                        127.9
2nd                              13.8                        141.7
1989
ist                              12.1                        153.8
2nd                              11.0                        164.8
1990
1st                               7.2                        172.0
/a   Based on last half of 8-year Indian irrigation sector disbursement profile.



-72-
Table 12
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Allocation of the Credit
(US$ N)
Amount of
Category                           credit allocated         Z Financed
1. Civil Works
(a)  Civil works under Parts A /a    105,000,000             50Z
and B of the project
(excluding field channels
and field drains)
(b)  Civil works for field channels   30,000,000             100% of completed
and field drains under Parts A                          works
and B of the project
(c)  Civil works under Part I            53000,000           100%
of the project
2.  Equipment and vehicles                  13,000,000           100% of foreign
expenditures,
1001 of local
expenditures
(ex-factory costs)
and 70% of local
expenditures for
other items produced
locally
3.  Rotational water supply                  6,000,000           Rs 3501ha for
management system under                                      incremental areas
Part C of the project
4.  Training, pilot operations,              3,000,000           100%
studies, monitoring and
evaluation, and salaries
for incremental staff under
Parts D, F, G, H, I
of the project
5.  Unallocated                             10.000.000
TOTAL                                  172,000,000
/a Project parts as defined in the Development Credit Agreement.



-73-
Table 13a
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Equipment Summary
LCB             ICB               Total
…(----------(Rs M)-------
1.  Construction equipment          32.47           29.22              61.69
2. O&M equipment
- dams and canals               0.99            31.20              32.19
-  standby generators           -               36.7                36.70
-  telecommunicacions            8.71           -                    8.71
3.  Hydrology and drafting           3.02            5.18                8.20
4.  PERT equipment                   3.00            -                   3.00
TOTAL                           48.19          102.30             150.49



-74-
Table 13b
UDIDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
EQUIPMENT FOR CONSTRUCTION
Rate      Amount
Item      Description                      Quantity      Rs M      Rs M
ICB
1.        Wheel type tractor (40HP)            89        0.102      9.027
2.        Generating set 125 KVA                2        0.750      1.501
3.        Vibratory roller 2T                 172        0.109     18.692
Subtotal                                                 29.220
LCB
4.        Car                                   8        0.085      0.679
5.        Jeep                                 51        0.085      4.335
6.        Pick-up 4x4                          21        0.100       2.100
7.        Concrete vibrators                   51        0.012      0.633
8.        Plate type compactors               480        0.026     12.420
9.        Drawn tanker 5T                     178        0.064      11.422
10.        Drawn trailer 3T                     47        0.019      0.876
Subtotal                                                32.465
TOTAL                                                   61.685



-75-
Table 13c
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
EQUIPMENT FOR O&M - DAM AND CANALS a/
Rate     Amount
Item    Description                         Quantity        Rs M     Rs M
ICB
1.       Wheel type tr:_tor (40 HP)               4          0.15     0.60
with trailers
2.       Hydraulic excavators (0.9 cum)           5          0.80     4.00
3.       Wheel type loaders (0.9 cum)            21          0.60    12.60
4.       Dozers (90 HP)                          20          0.60    12.00
5.       Spare parts                                         ____      2.0
Subtotal                                                    31.2
LCB
6.       Siren with 10 KVA                       39          0.025    0.99
generator
Subtotal                                                     0.99
TOTAL                                                       32.19
a/ Extra over items expected to be available from construction.



-76-
Table 13d
MDIA
GUJARAT HEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
EQUIPMENT FOR O&N - STANDBY GENERATORS FOR SPILLWAY GATES
Rate         Amount
Item    Description                      Quantity        Rs N          Rs N
ICB
1.   160 XVA capacity   a
sets as under.
Watrak 2                                16           1.00          16.00
Mazam 2
Gubai 2
Kalubbar 2
Venu-II
Aji-II
Deo 2
Bhadar (P) 2
2.   250 KVA capacity   A/
sets as under
Sipu   2                                10           1.20          12.00
Und    2
Sukhi 2
Hadaf 2
Panam 2
3.   100 KVA capacity   a/
sets as under
Sukhbhadar   2                          8            0.60          4.80
Bhadar (Mod) 2
Ver II       2
Dantiwada    2
4.   75 KVA capacity    a/                    2           0.35          0.70
sets for Shetrunji
(Mod.)
5.   Spare parts                                                        3.2
TOTAL                                                             36.70
a/ - Capacity matched to HP of motors and the number of gates to be opened
at once. Not included in NIP 1.



-77-
Table 13e
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
EQUIPMENT FOR O&M - TELECOMMUNICATIONS
No. of                              No. of
station           No. of            mobile
per 2000 ha       main station      station
(1-30 km          (1-50 km          (1-10 km
Item  Name of Proiect        range)            range)            range)        Total
LCB
1.     Panam                    20               4                4             28
2.     Sukhi                    10               2                2             14
3.     Deo                       4               2                1              7
4.     Hadaf                     3               2                1              6
5.     Machhanala                2               2                1              5
6.     Sukhbhadar                4               2                1              7
7.     Machhundri                4               2                1              7
8.     Kalubhar                  3               2                1              6
9.     Venu II                   3               2                1              6
10.     Und                       6               4                2             12
11.     Ver II                    2               2                1              5
12.     Watrak                   10               2                2             14
13.     Jhuj                      3               2                1              6
14.     Kelia                     2               2                1              5
15.     Demi II                   1               2                1              4
16.     Guhai                     4               2                1              7
17.     Aji. III                  1               2                1              4
18.     Dantivada (Mod)           2               2                1              5
19.     Bhadar (M'd)              2               2                1              5
20.     Aji. III                  4               2                1              7
21.     Bhadar (P)                4               2                1              7
22.     Sipu                     12               4                2             18
23.     Mazam                     3               2                1              6
24.     Uben                      1               2                1              4
25.     Zankhari                 12               4                2             18
26.     Shetrunji (P)(Mod)       18               4                2             24
27.     Fatehvadi (Mod)          19               4                2             25
28.     Kharicut (Mod)            7               2                1             10
29.     Machhu I (Mod)            5               2                1              8
Total Nos.                 171              70               39            280
Rate Rs                  0.03            0.04              0.02
Amount  Rs N             5.13             2.80             0.78           8.71



-78-
Table 13f
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
EQUIPMENT FOR HYDROLOGY AND DRAFTING
Rate         Amount
Item    Descri-tion                      Quantity         Rs M          Rs M
ICB
1.  Hydrology
29 Climate stations                29            0.070          2.030
35 Recording rain gauges           35             .040           1.400
350 Manual rain gauges             350             .005           1.750
Subtotal                                                            5.18
LCB
2. Drawing Office (CADA Unit)
30 Drafting stations, complete      30            0.020           0.600
8 Microcomputers, complete          8            0.200           1.600
6 Jeeps                             6             .082           0.492
Miscellaneous small equipment       _                            0.328
Subtotal                                                            3.0'
TOTAL                                                               8.20



-79-
Table 13g
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Equipment for Construction
gx  0a
5. >.        0     L.5
C         4.       U        0      l      i      Ce    as
Sr. Name of Scheme                                                                a 5  0  n C   c  ua°*
No.~~~ ~                                                              ~ _l  I  j I  I         I
1. Panam                  I      !       I       I      1521           I       1          I    1151
2.  Machhanala            I      I       I       I      I   41   1|   2                I      14   i
3.  Hadaf                                                   7 t     2       2 1712121  I      141
4.  Bhadar (P)                    I      I       I      1101  21    21                 Il    1 41
5. Amli                   1      I       1                  4 1411                            1 4
6.  Jhuj                  I      I       I       I      1 5  1 1          11           i      1 4
7. Kelia                                                    3 I  |  I  131   6  11     i      141
B.  Zankhari              I      122    10   i5   1261   6 115   1                     i11    7
9.  Sukhi                 I      I       I       I       126        2  1 2 111                16   1
10. Deo                           I       |       I       19    111                2    1       13
11. Kalubhar                                                  7 I  I  I  i   71   21   4  2   I  i3   I
12.  Sukbhadar               I    i   21           1     I   91    21    4         2   I        13
13. Machhundri             12   i         |       12   1101    21   4              2   I        13   I
i      I       I      I       I       I      I       I      I       I       I
14. Uben                   I                                 3 i  I  1   3 11211        I      1  2
15. Watrak                 I       I   61          i10   1231    5          11     5   I       14   i
16. Guhai                  I         Ill          110         9      1       2   11            12
17. Mazam                          i      I       I       16  111211                    i      121
18.  VenuI                 I       I      I       I      1   7  1 2 1        5     2   F       13
19. Und                    |       131            |      113         1       2     11          131
20. DemiII                   11121                I      I   4     1         1    2    1        14
21. Aji-II                 i       I              | I     13111211                      I       1 41
22. Aji-III                i        131 2   i            1   8  1   2 1   5 1   2              13
23. Sipu                   14          3  14         5   1281   4  119  16                        7 1  I
24. Dantivada (Hod)        I       i  8      2   13   156  i  11            17     3   I       120
25. Fatehvadi (Mod)        I       I      I       1  3   1  38  i  8  1  14  1 3   I           i 14
26. Xharicut (Mod)         |       I    i         1  3   1  18 1   4  1   5   1                   7
27.  Bhadar (Mod)          I       I        i    1 3   1341   7             15    2    I       112
28.  Shetrunji (P) (Mod)           I      I1      13    i  45       10  119        6   I       117   1
29. Machbu-I (Mod)                I       Il    1 3   1131    21   6               2   I       14   i
Total                      I 8   I  51  I 21   I 51   i 480  I  89  I 178  I 47   1  2   1172
Unit Cost (Re M)           10.082 10.082 10.097 10.012 10.025 10.098 10.062 10.018 10.725 i 0.1051
I      I       1      I       I       1      I       I      I       I       I
Total Cost (RS M)          10.656 14.182 12.037 10.612 112.00018.722 111.036I0.846 11.450 118.0601
I      I       I      I       I       I      P       I      I



INDIA
GUJARAT IEDIUN IRRICATION It PROJgCT
Details of Oraanisation aet-up:  Existing and Future Reeuiraents
Eusting sub-divisions            Futurf  requirement of Sub-divisions during the year
Sr.  Name of               sP   QC   Cooat  Total           1984-85                  1985-56                   1956-87                      1467-iU                   gI8-6
.0  Scheme                 Sub-Dn.                          SF  OC  Const Total  SP  OC  Conal Total   SP OC   Coast  Total    Sf  UC  Coast Total   IF  OC Coast Total
3.  Pangs                  -     3     19    22            -     1    7    a        -     I    8       9      -     I    10       11      -     1    3       4      -    -    -
2. Nachhnaala              2     I      5      8           -     1    3    4        -    -      I      I         -     -       -      -      -    -       -      -        -    -    -
3.  Hadcf                  3     1      8     12           -     1    9   10        -     I    9      10      -    -       -      -       -    -    -        -       -    -    -    -
4.   hdder (P)             2     1    11      14           1    1    7    9         -     I    8       9
5.  Amli                   -     1      6      7           -     1    3    4        -    -    -        -      -     -      -      -       -    -    -        -      -    -    -       -
6.  Jhuj                   2    2    10       14           -     1    7    a        -     I   IS      16      -     -      -      -       -    -    -        -       -    -    -    -
7. Keli                    -     1      9     10           -     1    7    8        -     1    6       7      -     -      -      -       -    -    -        -      -    -    -       -
8   tZnkhari               4     I      1      6           4     1     1    6       3     I    5       9      3     2     10      15       3    3   17      23       2    3   IS   23
9.  Sukhi                 6      3    35    44             -    3   43  46          -     2   18      20      -    -       -      -       -    -    -        -      -    -    -    -
10. De                      3    2      14     19           -    2   12   14         -     2    9      11      -     -      -      -       -    -    -        -      -    -    -    -
11.  elubhar                4     2      4     10           1    2      7   10       1    2    7       10      -     2      5      7        -    -    -       -            -    -    -
12.  Sukbhadar              2    2       5      9           2    2    8   12         1    2    7       10      -     I      7      a       -    -    -        -       -    -    -      -
1I   Nachhundri             -     I      7      a           2    2    4    8         1     I    9      11      -     I    10       11       -    -    -       -       -    -    -      -
14.  Uben                   I    1       3      5           -     1    5    6        -     I    4       S      -    -       _       -            - _    _    _  _     _    _
15.  Watrak                 -    3      is    21            6    3   12   21         -    3   18    21         -    3      17      20       -     2   12      14      -    -    -    -
16. Cuboi                   3     2    11      16           4    2   10   16         3     2   11      16      2     2    11       IS       -     2   13    IS        _     2        10
17.  Hasm                   -     I      9     10           2    1    7   10         -     I    9      10      -     1      9      10      -    -    _        _       _    _    _    _
18.  Venu. 11               I    1       6      S           I    1    6       a      -     1    7       B      -     I      7       a      -      I    2       3      _    _    _    _
19.  Und                    2    1       7     10           3     1    8   12        1    1   10       12      -     I    IS       16      -      I   IS      16      -    -    -    -
20.DBei. 1II                I    I       5      7           I    1      5    7       -     1    6       7      -     1      3       5       -    -    -        -      -    -    -    -
21.  Aji. 1                 1    2       3      6           1    2    3    6         -     I    5       6      -     I      5       6       -    -    -       -       -    -    -    -
22.  Aji. 112               -     2      a     10           1    2    7   10         -     2    8      10      .     2      8      10       -     1    I       9      -     1    3    4
23.  Sipu                   3    4      16     23           7    4    12   23        7    4   12       23      4     3     16      23       2    3   19    24         1    3   20   24
24.  D.otiwada (Mod)        -    3      12     15           -    3   12  15          -     3   14    37        -     3     13      16       -     2   14    16        -    -    -    -
25.  Fatehwadi ("od)    -         2    12      14           -     2   11   13        -    2   14       16      -     2    13       15       -     2   12      14      -     1    7    S
26. Kharicut (Had)          -     I      5      6           -     I    5    6        -     1    6       7      -     1      6        7      -     I    6       7      -    -    -    -
27.  Uhadae (Mod)           3    1       5     11           3     2    6    11       3     2    8      13      3     2      a      13       1    1    I       10      -     1     4     5S
28.  Shetrunji.?            6     I      5     12           4     2    6   12        3     1   11      16      3     2     11      16       2    2   11       IS      2    2   10   14
29.  achhu.1 (H)            3     1      2      6           4     1    3    a        2     1    5       a      2     1      5       a       -     1    4       5      -     1    2    3
TOtAL                54   48    261    363           47   48  236  331        25   43  250   318        17   33    189       239      8   23  144    175        5   14   72   91   i
US   -S   ..    55         . .. ... ..E  m.  ...   urn ..n   , .    mm   urn  ...   .r.   .. .    ...   .~                                 5._      -   *5   5
F4



-81-
Table 14b
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Organization Set-up for a Typical 16000 Ha Irrifation Management Unit
as aRproved under Irrigation Department G.R. No. ES-5 1177-5-G dated 1/15/80
Sr.                                    Nos. of
No.    Name of Post                    Post.            Remarks
1.     Deputy Ex.Engineer                1
2.     Assistant Engineer                1              For professional branch
of sub-division
3.     Additional Asst. Engineer         1 )
3 )           Head of sections
4.     Technical Assistant               2              For maintenance , repairs
vorks and managements
5.     Senior clerk                      1              For assisting officers
6.     Junior clerk                      2
7.     Tracer                            1
8.     Sectional (beat) karkoon         32              1 for 4 sections and
1 for 20 beats and 2
per section for miscella-
neous work
9.     Driver                            1              If vehicle is given
10.     Peons                             2
11.     Chowkidar                         1              For office cbowki where
required after office hours
12.     Sectional (beat) chowkidar       24              4 for sections, 20 for beats
13.     Chovkidar                        12              For duties like C.R.S.
vatch, and telephones, etc.
TOIAL                            84
For a sub-division having 12 or less sections (beats) and for sections having
3 or less beats, the posts will be reduced proportionately.



-82-
Table 15a
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Farmer's Trainins (Block Leaders)
1.  Length of Training            :       3 days
2.  Place of Training                     Trial cum Demonstration Farm at Thasta
3.  Trainers                              DA, AED and ID staff
4.  Number of Trainees 1/                 8,750 Block leaders (one from each
8 ha chak)
5. Preparation of course
materials                             By trainers
6. Syllabus:
Classroom         Field
(hours)        (hours)
a. purpose and obligation
of block committees                         3                5
b. system operation and
irrigation scheduling
among blocks                                3                1
c.  RWS within 8 ha blocks                       3               2
d. Soil/water/plant
relationships                                7              -
e. Cultural practices under
controlled vater supply                     2               2
f. Physiological cycle of
major field crops                            2              _
Total                              20               5
11  Block leaders from four MIPs covering about 70,000 ha CC& (Dantivada
44,517 ha, Sansoli scheme in the Panam 2,000 ha, Watrak 18,341 ha and
Mazam 4,717 ha).



i     !      -                                                     ftftf.ftsce s                 * 4f  ft4re*
°| *|IIRnsaS                                  -               I4g    .S-OI^                  cc^n                                        '@' *5  50 '  R 5 2 rg  n
..               i '  '.n                                                 44                 I *       g^ . . . .-..  .                    -. .. r 
...                   ..           .t.s. ...           gE    *E....    ..    ts            .Eg    gg       .   s 4 *5.c*R' ...  ..                   ....
t1 1' l)l|||l ., .    ,,, .  .                                                                                                                                 ,,,,,,,,,, .t .  .  .......... ...
-lEE?  @ii'   §|j'  0         'ig a g g'                  '      i1ls..                          ' ' ''   '~E    E  't                    Es'.' ' -'''        r  
.      '                                         .. .............. .44 E  .Eg  gg gg.Eg   .gg       .EIE E. .5  .' E                               gig..  
la st   #     I g I           tt5f                t         Ctttt               tg            f  i'"tr'g5gf                           ft95 ftENA   gt g   1    g 
t~  ~        ~     ~    ~   s .'      Eg             g E    g    g g    g                                     -                                                                           *   'E g g
el I       g            g gg0i                                                 .g A g'E g 'gE
21 : $ , ...~~~~~......... ......
'' Eg                            gg     gg      g              gE gg E               go          g    Eg    g  gg g g                       '     o'S''EEE  '2|n&            ||&@|               ||@| |      f ti| 
|  | || o     1"&     r.                                             f         J                                                                4 J   
#5g                        gf '                  c                                 °    '  Eggff '-2''r.r  _5*'  ''  '''t'' m o        ''ge s'''"@
w ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~wgg    ge                                  Egg R     °     _   ^   RR    R°__    R R  RR  RR   E  ,E , g IS  '' gg Rg g,  g  ER   ''f 0R-       ,R,@ , RR,R  ,,   g R f  
b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ftiii                                                                       ft 4!9oi  *9!i                        '2'ltZoJt  3!!!i;it
g-         tP              Eg    EVE o Wa11~ .'  E.~      5E      E    44     4             EE EE            ftEJ                     EE  -.*ES4  l|         ]}| t"    
X    :a.a:!.eu  ^FueMS=J$d    iSJe."a"wnif    i:siXu~~~gEsftl.E                                                     aEggE9Eg



-84-
Table b6h
INDIA
CUJARAT MEDI!M IRR CATION II PROJECT
Results of Overation Simulation
Irrigation that could have been achieved in IS of the past 20 years.
Cultivable
Not        TWO         Total      Co=snd
Proiect Nane             P*44Y    Kharif  R!bi        Wasther    Season       Annual    Ares,
1.  Panm                 1b279    21791    21382          -          -          53452         41120
2.  Mahhanala              570      2110     1654         -          -           4334          3084
3.  Hadaf                 1309      1938     1100         -          393         4740          5;38
4.  Ehadar (P)             800     3600      1066         -         1080         6520          8C00
5.  Anli (Ver II)          911     1821      2004         -          729         5465           65_
6.  Jhui                  1672      627      2800         -           11         58.0          4180
7.  Kelia                  -        1245     1740         -          485         3468          2486
8.  Zankbari              6256     4171    12512          -         4587        27526         20853
9.  Sukhi                 4132     5682      5160         -         7231        25205         20660
10.  Dec                   2522       721     3242         -         2775         9620          7:07
11.  KAlubbar               -       4488       -           -          875         5363          5830
12.  Sukhbhadar             -       4958       -           -         2072         7030          7400
13.  Machbundri             -       6800       -           -          810         7610          8095
14.  Uben                   -       1888       248         -           62         2198          2063
15.  Watrak                 734     8437      4585         -         3118        16874         18341
16.  Gihai                  356      :418     1209         -         1849         5831          7111
17.  Nazaz                  -       :288      1462         -         1509         5259          4717
18.  V nu II                -       4360       525         -          394         5279          i:53
19.  Und                    -        9282     1365         -          546        11193          9900
20.  Demi II                -        1958       124        -          342         24.24         3108
21.  Aji II                 -        1955      334         -           95         2384          2384
22.  Aji IlI                -        5027     1554         -          265         6837          6615
23.  Sipu                   -      12139      8828         -         1104        22071         16000
24.  Dantivada (M)          -      23960    21220          -           -         45180         44517
25.  Factbwadi (m)          -      25500      9170         _                     34670         29792
26.  Kharicut (x)         10500      -         _     -                 -         10500         14619
27.  Bbadar (M)             -        5317     7280         -         3988        16585         26578
28.  Shetrunji (M)          -       9831      8590        4469        894        23774         35750
29.  Machbu I (M)           -       3331      1646         -         1665         6642         10409



INDIA
GUJARA'i MEDIUM IRRICATION 11 PROJECT
Present and Pro;ected CroDpinh Patterns
(I of CCA)
Present and Future Without Proiect                                             future With PtO;ect
Zone I    ZOne 11   Zone III   Zone IV   Zone V   Al! ZOnee    ZOne I   Zone 11   Zone III   Zone IV   Zone V   All Zonee
CCA (he)               60,517     123,385    31,163    85,309         74,580    374,954    60,517    123,385    31,163    85,309             74,580    374,954
irIf       Lf-    E   rrf    ird irlir    rf   ir                        f                       iL   rf  iLr  d  ir   xL [ it   rf    L   rf   ir
Paddy                   -          I-    -  16        7  10      4    2 13        4.0 4.1       -   -    -    -    -    32    -  23           - 47       - 17.2
Petrl  illet           42   3    15    .    -         -   15    -   12   -   17.5  0.5   22  30   10    5    -              -    2   12    9   -    9.2  9.2
Sorghus                26   1    15      1   30       -   10    -   16   -   17.1  0.5    9  15    6    5   16               4    4    3    4   2    6.5  5.5
GroundOut               -   -    45      1    9       3   12    -   12   -   20.7  0.6    -   -   11   39    -    17    6   12    -  12    5.0 19.4
maize                  I-          -        -      -  - 14    -    6   -    4.4   -             -   -    -    -    -         -    -   11    -4           -   3.3
Pulses                 12-         1    - 12          -    3    -    2   -    4.3   -           4  10    8    -    I    10    -    1    3   -    4.0  2.7
Vegetable-                             -                                    -      - 0.6    -   -    -    2                       -    2 --   -               1                 Wr
Sub-total           80   4    76    3   67         11   64    5   50  13   68.0  6.3   35  55   35   51   17    65   12   63   16  65   24.7 58.6
Nabi
Wheat                   -  iS      -    7    -        2    1    2    7   6    1.6  7.0    -  39    -   16    -    29    2   27    2  21    0.8 24.3
Mustard                 3  10       -         -      -  -    I    -    -   -    0.7  1.6        -  15    -    2    -         5    1    3    -   I    0.2  4.4
Grant                   7   -      -    -   13        -    5    -    I   -    3.5   -           -   7    -    2    -    19    5    6    2   6    1.5  5.9
Groundnut               -   -      -    4    -        -    .    -    -   -         -   1.3    -   -    -    4    -           -    -    -    -   -        -   1.3
Vegetables              _   1      -     I            2    -           -   -       -   0.9    -   3    -    3    -           3    -    3    -   2        _   2.8
Sub-total           10  29       -   12   13        4    7    3    8   6    5.8 10.8    -  64           -   27    -    56    8   39    4  30    2.5 38.7
Two Seasonal
Cottoa                  -   -      8    4    7        3   26    2   25   3   14.1  2.6    -   -    -   13    -               9    5   18    5  11    2.1 11.3
Tobacco                                           -_                    I  -      0.4  0.2    -   -    -    -    -           -    -    2    -   I        -   0.6
Cstor                   2   3                        -                      _-    -  -    -    -    -   -  0.3  0.5    2   3  -  -    - -.- -    -   - 
Sub-total            2   3       8    4    7        3   27    3   26   3   14.8  3.3         2   3    -   13    -         9    5   20    5  12    2.1 12.7
PerOnnial
Sugarcane               -                             2    -    -    -   2         -   0.6    -         -   -                2    -    -    -   2        - -.6
Sub-total            -   -       -                  2    -    -    -   2        -   0.6    -   -    _    -    _           2    -    -    -   2         -   0.6
Total                  92  36    84   19   87        20   98   11   84  24   88.6 21.0   37 122   35   91   17   132   25  122   25 109   29.3 110.6                         cJ
128        103         107         109         108       109.6        159         126        149          147       134         139.9
rf - rainfed
ir - irrigated



CUIA!AT MIDIUM I11lUCOIAt I iI nonta
Areag Tipids ad Productios
_s-                  Fulcra Wibt h     ri tal                                                  Ptar  with
Sun                    Ant  --Lt  tnt,    hut  _lull  tub              hes  lull  tub          Las  lull  la.    Ant  Suit  NUt.    huh  hiltglaUsiA  ._                             laxtb .         is hi  la b      h     hild To lab
'hilu1
addy                 1S,409   1.1  16,110  1),211   2.0  30O,51   20,397   3.8  12.088  15.009   l.2  18.011  15,218   2,2  22,301  30,391   2.1  10,316                -       -       -    64,64    3.4 219,796  14.44    2.4 219,796
frail Millei         65,601   0.6  39.403   1611   1.6   3.619  67,411   0.6  42.612  61.971   0.7  41,949   1,616   2.0   3,932  61*,481   0.  *9901  24,071   0.6  37,311  2141l   2.8  69,519  98,632   1., 111,119
krjhqu              66,011   0.1  22.028   1,839   0.9   1,81) 95,694   0.  33,816   64,013   0.3  32,028   1339   3.3   2.022  61694   0.1  24.033   24,31    0.1  16,42 0,1544    .1  13,230   £4,11S    3.1  86,322
Cr-,ndmat            11,5;5   0.1  54,761   2,79   193   2,320  19,804   0,7  57.051  17,515   02   69,743   2,369   1.4   3,036  39,6,b               0.9 I7 *  799  16,61    1.0  11,691  72,b0S   2.9 117,9S0  91t,96   1.7 154,841
patse                19,116   1.0  1,8116               -       -    18,416   1.0  18.411  16,818   1.1  11.080         -       -       -    16,416   1.1  116040       -               -    122367   2.   22.2154  12.317   2.6  22.154
ote1ra              136,23    0.6   9,77Z       -       -      -    16,217   :.    9,772  18.287   O.   8,213           -       -       -    34,2Z7   0.1   8,212  14,641   0.6  11,673  10,020   1.3  63 ,26  24. 41   3.0  24 699
Veg.table*                      I -      -    7.L9T   0.1   3,619  7.11t   0.1   1,879   _              -       -     21.,1   0.8   1,939   2..I1   0.0   1,111         -       -       -   ...J.JJ    1.1  51715  *.111   17 33   1,714
Subtotal          254,91S                  23,511                 276,46                   251,91s                 23,511                 278,496                  91,624                 21,10                   23112,174
iski
Wheat                 8,076   0.6   3,64A  36,334   2.1  11,301  32,406   1.6  56,941   4,078   0.7   4,212  26,334   2.3  90,146  32,803   3.    960 218 06                          2569.7            .   00.1I14694,27    23   203..109
felward                2,7     0.6   2,335   6,050   I l              6        3.0   8        3,669   0.6   2,135   9,050   1.1   9,655   6,739 '1.    6,790 6tO               2.       813  159 01. I    22,t1973  3,6        14   3, T62
r.*                  13,296   0.9  10,43        -          -    -    13,266   0.6  10,636  12,298   07   9,309                  -       -    13,296   0.7   9,309   1,717   0.6   4,604  22,229   1.5 133329  27,978   2.4   17,931
Cruun"dt                        -       -     9931    1.1   7,903    9,935   I.)   7,803         -              -        ,9 1.6   7,6   4,9 1.    7,696                 -       -       -     9,936   2.1  10,246   8,934   2.2   1030,4
Vrgatablsao                               - .2.jL   20.0  66.300   ]JIj  20.0  49,300    .z             -         - ..I.L   22.0  72,930  .J..1L  22.0  72,930   1......        -,1 0J3   27.0 23,3600  26.108  27.6  282,606
lSbtotal           22,043                  40,634                  82,815                  :2.043                  40,614                  67,415                   9,800                 145,14                  334,932
Twe $4.0oaI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             co
coltto               12,617   0.6  31,126   9,613 3 1.1  10,7-   62,9*0   0.7  42,120    ,6217   0,7  37,U1t   9,113   1.3  12,781  62,6K0   0.6  49,711   7,994   0.8   *,26S  42,405  13.9   0,170   4,1399   1.7   66,I41
tobacco                1,S99   0.9   1.439      6351     J I   .365   2,412   1.1   2,604   1,599   I,0   1,59          81)   3.7   2,4SO   2,451   I.3   3,049        -       -       -     2,451   2.3   51,60   2,412   2.3    1,84W
Castor               1.LL1    1.1   1,221   1.045      3.1   3,728   j,34   3. 12   4,011   1,j10   1.2   3,9)  1..Li    1.6   2,90G  .101k   1.4   4,2               [4    I 1.    317x3   1,11j   3.2   3,9915  JAiL    3,6   51,24
slatisal           11,686                  12,962                  66,160                  11,666                  32,482                  66,166                   9,208                  46,473                  55.17
sInareee                    -J) --2.11, $.0 136,32)  2.11   11.0 31,1                           -       -       - -1  L S.1 30 1. 7,411   J"]   *1.0 117,97)            -       -       -        l    8o 17.9,7715   Lt   1.0  179,7715
ubtoal                _                     2,1 12,11                                         -                     2.231 21 ,115                                     _                     2,115                   2,115
Toal               3flj4j11                   hJjj                  W     L24               332a8a                   n l,* I                lOA                     104a         *1347t                             524W l
tree az b.
Vaid to Me/.
lIeld it. tQ/i"a.
fredwctia ai top.
I-;
M
co



-87-
Table 14
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRPIGATION II PROJECT
Incremental Crop Production and Value
Future       Future
Present       Without        With        Incremental       Value a/
(1)           (2)         (3)         (4)-(3)-(2)        Rs M
------------ -000 ton…------------
FoodRrains
Paddy              47.1          50.1         219.8          169.7          257.9
Wheat              58.9          64.8         303.1          238.3          433.7
Sorghum            33.7          34.1          68.3           34.2           53.7
Millet             42.7          49.6         117.1           67.5          102.6
Maize              16.4          18.1          32.2           14.1           21.2
Gram               20.4          13.6          62.8           49.2          151.7
Sub-total       219.2         230.3         803.3          573.0        1,020.8
Oil Crops
Groundnut          64.5          80.7         167.0           86.3          331.4
Mustard             8.8           8.8          23.8           15.0            6.8
Sub-total        73.3          89.5         190.8          101.3          338.2
Cash Crops
Cotton             42.5          49.8          87.0           37.2          190.2
Tobacco             .2.8          3.0           5.6            2.6            13.1
Caster              4.1           4.4           5.6            1.2            5.5
Sugarcane         116.3         137.5         179.8           42.3            8.0
Vegetables         68.0          74.8         289.4          214.6          215.3
Sub-total                                                                 432.1
Total                                                                     1,791.1
a/ Based on financial prices.



-88-
Table 20
MDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(in 1984 constant Rupees)
Summary of Prices for Economic and Financial Analysis
Economic  Prices             Financial Prices
Crop                                     (Rs/Ton)                       (Rs/Ton)
1984       1990       1995               1984
Cotton, medium staple           6950       7190       7300               5320
Cotton, short staple            4440       4600       4660               4040
Paddy                           1590       2290        2260              1520
Sorghum (Local)                 1780       2350        2330              1620
Sorghum (Hybrid)                1670       2200       2180               1520
Pearl millet                    1670       2200        2:80              1520
Sugarcane                        130        250         250               190
Maize                           1620       1690        1690              1520
Wheat                           1990       2210        2210              1820
Pigeon pea                      3330       4400        4360              3030
Gram                            3220       4250        4210              2920
Other Pulses                    3660       4830        4780              3330
Grounduuts                      3000       3050        3010              3840
Tobacco                         4000       4000        4000              5050
Mustard                         3110       3170        3130              4550
Castor beans                    5300       5280        5280              4550
Potatoes                         720        720         720               910
Chillies                        5300       5300        5300              6600



Table 21
D;erivation of Economic Prices for Major Croe and mvnots in G4iarit
(i 1984 constt prices)
Cotton    Cotton   Grond
unit      Wheat  X!ifs   Paddy 1 ij          i10rt      gt  5utr    lflgggitr        S    Phosohat e je    Po7t-ab I
Wlorld Market Price 1990          ISSton    187        139    416    2,019       2.019      503       365        260           191            107
Quality Adjusctent                  (:)         -        -      75       90         54        -        95          -             -              -
forld Market Equivalent
rndian Product                    055/tc-,   187       139    312    1.817       1.090      503       347        260           191            107
Freight. Inaurance                 US$/ton      -        -       -     -145      '-165        -         -        *50           *65            .65
Domestic Border Price              0S$/ton    187      139    312    1.672         945      503       347        310           256            1 2
Exchange Rate lsl10.8-ltS)        Rsaton   2.020    1.500   3.370   18.060     10.210    5.430     3.750      3.350         2,770          1.860
Domescic Haodling Transport        Ra/ton    .220     *220   _260      -180      -180      -400      -215 21    *300 Z/       +300  3/ 300 
(Sa 0.81
Wbolesale Price                    Ra/ton   2.240    1.720   3.630   17.880 A   10.030 i  5.030     3.535      3.650         3.070          2.160
Proessing (SCF 0.8)                R/clon       -        -   -110      -402        402     440   .400              -             -              -
Processing Ratio                    ( )         -        -      66       33         33       68        10         46 _,'        48 fI          60 A/
Transport from Farsgste            Ia/ton     -30      -30     -30     -131      -131       -70         -          -             -              -
Economic Farmgate Price             s faton   2.210    1.690   2.290    7.190      4*.600     3.050   250      7.930         6.400          3.600
11 Source:  IBID Co_odity Price Forecasts dated January 16. 19*4
Pricing Basis:
Wheat:  Canadian No. 1. Wester rod Spring. 703 Thunder Day.
Rice:   Thai, Milled 51 Broken, FOB Bangkok.
Cotton:  Mexican Riddling. 1-3132'. CIJ N Erope.
Ground-
Nuts: Shelled. any origin, CI? utrope
maize:  US No. 2. Yellow, FM3 Gulf Parts
Sugar:  World. ISL Daily Price. Fo  and stowed at Greater Csrribean ports
;/ ledia is at the margin of self-sufficieny in food grains.
It is assumed that, depending on tbe harvst, importa of exports are likely to occur
in the abort andt udium run. Therefore, interational transport costs hav been
omitted. India is a net exporter of cotton ad a not importer of
oilaceda. Gujarat is a net importer of food grains and a net exporter of
oilseeds  ead cotton. It is assumed that interational transport coats to Europe
correspond to those to Indian ports in the case of groudnuts.
i/Rounded
if Ubolesale prices refers to lint values only which determine 33 per cent of the faregate
price of seed cotton. The value of cotton seed which smkes up for 67 percent of the farm-
gate price of seed cotton has been derived from dometic wbolesale pricoe  of cotton seed
which hate been corrected by applying SCQ of 0.o. Wholesale prices of cotton sed are
eased to follow the projected price development of oilseeds in tbe ptoject period.
E1 Economic price of s    cotton.
if  Source:    IBD Cosodity Price Forecasts dated June 1093.
Price Basis:
Nitrogen:  World Market priew of arw. eFOB  urope. based
Thosphate: World Market price for T.S.P. (Triple Superphoshate)* FOs DS Culf
potash:    World Market price of Potassium chloride FOB Vancouver.
India and the State of GCjarat are expected to reasin net importers of fertilixer
during the project period.
/ Doomatic trsnsport and handling to farugate.
if Nutrient Ratio



*33l993 13 n  - a  !- -0J               - a  !P*'l  _ 1i -
2a4fc    93.a *339  - a !$          309    093J - f t              - d
ffn      Ic!       512         VK!      009      23C5      -            -          c1ia        ci              *       3
Kt       1rot      fiz          "c      o C    0OCt        -            -          099         r-i             a       A
IOC      9t1O      oie          nf       oc    CmK         -            -          coec        12               n a
r6n      litc      999          919     9(      oloot      -            -            lo!0      PZ z                    a 
2235    3cI        ZW           919     009    03s1        -            -                                       aoU  *  3  A
OHS      :9T       11 Ct9               261    SI39        -            -          I2I9         1:t            31      1      *_ *Oo->
cr9       ii 9Tr                91n      ff3    OCDCc      -            -          KOCc         K-I            a        a
!        99I       031          9Cc         ac e oz    suc  -           -           Otf        0 1              3       3
uscr      car,     (CL         in      "ii       K         -            -          1v59       6ro              go       a
LtLS     9631      9Ct         o0       aict   cSIIT       -            -          stilt       c-:             ox 
cmtO     nit        of9        9        2tot   coc         -            -            I3t       LI              u Z
0099      "IC      3991         9t1     SCOT   O           -                       030K         ri             ax       a          .-RiL
OZOZ     LilZ      3W9         OLE      99    LUCZ         -            -           EZEZ       rn- Ci a
ag11     330t      a"          oLe      EU      EU?        -            -          029?        10              JR  a
11(1     190!      519     o   e        zic    9292        -            -          ntc         ra              *3
E159      tIIl     lt3         at9       WC    ala!        -            -           lDitC      S               3        ft
tc91      11CC     1???         901     091    9139        -            -          9261         C't            0!       A
socr ciO          m            9r1       r       sc    I   -            - 'CV i; oS                                     i           -atA
LIS      2Z39      ZeCC        0991    091   Oet1          -            -         ocTr          C6             11       1
OtE      3023      39           oI!    11 91   KCZI        -            -         OCt2          59             Ii 
CZCC     in*         I i,       "Il    10z2   OCtet        -            -           KOI          CC           I*        a        -*-d
313n     SZ        39I         92 9      O U    Zt   2       t          c-Z          t          II t Z 
c             ,     St c,n c    1               01591      -            -         0159:         -a *
flu?      39c3     9109         n       3nc     ozooz      -            -         0201          rz             ii      a
9533     9923      91(3         151     39 C    00131      -            -         0020           D             xi js    s         .  X
:Ltc     1961      129         in       9(1    9999        9"           PE        0190         c'-I            :I
-,'      VWn       MIT          m"      KC     t5 tt         I n4 T-z                 9       ' I              I 
UHs  Vooc  ozr   nz                     onr    to"         ZEE    f     CI  *'0,                .              ml
219  00       Ot           gig     V"2    3012r                              OLIVECC     3:0I                      A
Otr   o113         ooc         or       ot      901!       U O0                   itt         ro               -       A
3z20     229       0Z           "I      002    09f         -            -         099         3 I              ml      A
3t0      21        02,          at       Is o   OHit       -            -         09I K       3 OIG
-9( C     21       919         St       211 0o (9         -             -         01(9        rt              fl       ft
03Z9     o13       (CC         iTn    OZG       "WE        -            -         sat         r                3       A0
3-0      ti        sr           m        ozi   0 C         -            -         sac         1- 1i                    1 
:    :       la          VKs      DOC mIzCKVE                                OC                           1             
11s      101T               LtI?    911Cc.                              ro        icii        rI II                    A
ot       31        EEC          "C      91B     41           2 C          O I 92          1' 0                 31       t
0:4      113       EtC          919     an2   CiO          O            9            O6        9I              El                  P..
0:92      2(5       Wt          39,    90       ItlY       0(1          P2   rInc             i:               *; ^
9112     *992       Cii         n9      3ff    111         001          0':       019!        31               3:       *            *-_11
yoGi
1tCm     £13       Slit:       lit      0921   0           -            -         0231        Z-l              31      0
33       30ne       ticl       2C. 32           021        -            -         o           3c  *                     ft
9z:2       CC:2     miii       ZIC      901    0:9         -            -         0299        CC               01       4           'iI'3
911      112      Ct91 C        9 C      9      1319 3X     WI *'1                  (9        C'l              *1       A
9931  091  301                 n:1 301           Ot 09         BI       9KIT         30              S I
Isff      tb Ao                 S         t      tZ        b                       s    
*CCI     249        WI         KIt,     0       0Z1        rc           i' 3D1                90               *e       4
all      9E9       051         in        2 C       T.C      K9i C l       !       .119c r       -              0        3
*3t      5e3       cM:          ,mL     9" El    992         2          1          ML         0                 1       4 
EASE     119       2vi         39       92    9o0t nl                   ri                     01               3      A*
666     3991      116          Hi       sr1    311        932z         9i        110!t       °D               tS      t
-ZZI1    919       116         929      091    191         ffl          P1 1       04 1Z                       S       A l
5355  2122    EL~~il?      et      21       =it1        9     ~      I       91            1I 
9n11       3       no t           C     V1T    Otec                               ax2  " 1    9,0t             32       A
linc      [Loi     not          "C      VA      1:2c       09           rI *T6?    *            t               1ml
:Lc      30        3           09c      GO:    lilt        Dv           aO        9T11         N               A       ft
Cc       i9       n9          99 C       I    016         012          ri e       2          PC              41e fDa
139      11 tt09                                 1         (92          rzt       1192          -C :t                   A
o9       9i9        9e          39        2     ict        12           "I           1    rt               I       I
195      959       01             I     ILL     10:I1 EEi    * :                        1     1                A 0  a                  -
0001     191!      291         3O9      la(    itit        V.5          ri         l          9                31S
6061     :,1       cc;          v"      431    0(91        031          0         0           r:               31       A
:t G     Sfl      CO3 i                                    Ltt         .-c       m(? 3sr     01 m                                     I
90(G1c 1                         73  !  011  49    9r L19 ci s                     K5    *1 21                 S                    *-11'-1
9O1E     196       121         OZC      309     O35         "n          n:        119?        :t 1             a
921K     901        "a,        90"      3ix    0:2         n99          rc 2r        1 :       1l              a]       A
"C.      au        2,o         *D;      CZ       tZIG      n                      VCT C:                      In *r
"C1       et:      til,        O9       0I    0GI          rIT           1 3051              *31              A1      A
(iS      31t=      6001        099      3       0t90       921          31         .1C        ri               *1      1              P
I     "990 ~ InI   1093   AI"l    £099    a-l.         0190     *1             owl0        951            SC       a-I4z
wur~~~~~~~~~rh
rai   l       it!         s T             Jaq  t  1                          TI                           ASi--
int  CM  'Kc      el?     ZEC    LOST          ti  V11  oiselx                  D'inAr-a.
"e  C6 L!     4C         f     O-          cv          9.         "                            



-'I-
CUIAMT 111;GAT'lo  tl  yo
R__i.   Cr. Sfl
03.43.4  102147W 1  P3j
Crap  TE_CK           *7-..i 714.  3.14.   TIe   5.14,    CI. borca.      f                   1 T3C V.15
C,51           T,_ ,11                                                 41         1_        Lb-
-      li             1.3       232        1.3         232       3114       532      320        145      2_I7          e37
in                    1.9       4234       1.9         244       4340       a"       520        1133     2332          2623
*   ,,                s..       SIX        3.4         ¶04       3          A4"      372       133       2740         390
3V                   1.1       1749       2.2         305       2057       59       :40        193      2047         ±020
V      l2             1.2       2712       2.4         336       3045       401      240        224      IO9           1937
acIlco          !       10            1.5        3004       3.4         270      3276        373     238         So1      12:4         2042
T      10             2.0       43:0       4.0         300       *4         39e      34*        2439     344          3220
u      is              .6       31         7           390      6038        4.20     34e        737      is"0         4357
a y                  0..        1002       1.3          90       1032       323      31:         10       473          41.
9      31             0.7       152         1          103       1631       347      312          30      43           942
ID  07          0.8~~~~~-  1744      2.4          120      184        23a1"3                         0           3164
4b              !       5             0 .        1303      1.5          lb: 12    44         325     3"          39       3064          58L
t             3. 1.1     299       2              m      2539        336     390         491      1217         Kll
1                     2.S       5340       2.5         225       5675       620     442         433      3517-        415
! Y                   0          0         10                     90        291      322         29       442          338
V      5              0         214|5      10                    1233       21       312         39       42
R V                   0G1       1341       0.7          43       1494       302      312         39       43          1o..
C,.*   !t       F              1       3.        190       2.00         2 0      4140        420     3           90       1734         244
V      13             3         4          2.3: 2:24446                     437      39D       1015      Ji:          23i1
13                              573        3.00        340       6079       50      414        3105      20           A--2.  4
P      V7            0.7        2100       3.10        122       2232       353     33          37       130           724
r                    0          2         1.40        ela       2574       34       304         us      1413           945
RV                    3. v      33         3.4o        I9        3202       164      364        an       5414         15s
Pats.           P       07            1.0        3420       1.3         117      17D3        353     332         272       937          DW
*I     0              1.3       309        3.          135       ±9         3        312        34       1034          9
4  33         2.4        4394      3.3          315      470         431     34          5 873   143           3090
hIs..           P       VI            0.4       2119       0.1           24      2220               23            0o      452          15 
F s                  0.7        1544       1.0          30       3344      :29       234 I                457         2719
J      o             0.8        1324       3.0          30      3354        319     24           00      45           2149
V      13             1.3       4214       1.7          St      4241        151      312        417      1310         4993
Cblil I                  1n          0.7        3710        -            -      37210       39      414         93       24           1442
3             0          4240        -            -       240        92-4    410        1064     2424          1314
3     15             1.2       4160         -            -      4340       1320     414        1348     2454          3G74
-                                     !:II 1.    371        1.0           3      401   *.o 44        34         142       2215         1702
1               1       4441       2            244      4905        459     344        1732     2353          2350
I                    2.3       7"723      3.3         4:2       1155    50          414        1410     21350         525
am            0.         119       8.4           72      1246        291     330         2        319           337
V  -          0.7        13'7      0.7            4      1431        102     33          2300     O90           741
0  33             0.3        1743      3.8           94      30414       314     in8         250      902          1842
394.tat    - Fs        1              1.1       3021               -             3421       3        312       2841       "2          2439
3      23             1.3       3442         -           - 33442            344      313        418      3094         2349
3      a3             1.4       4332         -           -       4332       361      338        394      1314         3048
P  -          0.3        2413        -            -      2483        347     312          22      482          Is"
3      -              3.1       2304         -           -       230        347      312         22       682         1a22
V      -              1.0       3130         - D                 3130 3-4            317         22        U          242
c-              P                     0.4        1l932     0.8           24      193         230     240         240      700          1171
V                    0.7       2 947      3.           30       21e77      291      260        240       793        2z18
V      06             0.3       334                     33       3401       297      240        240       797         260
V0     ±3             1.1       4313       2                                347      312        433      12l2         3014
Fooa            *       3a           20.00      t44          -            -     14           772     236        4353     1842          433
1a           22.00      15140        -                  13340        739     312       T714      341           7423
3            27.00      19440 lD     -            -     14           715     333        7447    8s3           1080o
Ccb.-dt         F       13            1.5        4300      2 3          274      4714        448     33         1250     2034          2740
i3                    1.4       4314       2.4         25        3104       439      344       1435      2151         .292
v      1             2.1       4321       3.2         334       47a0       33       344       1209      2111         4394
3^.rcaoa        f       in           33          7350         -           -      7153       1372     934        3633     3943          1207
w      13           42         14250                     -      1425       1423      040       4334      402           44
in                 3as         51210         -           -      21230      359      110        3399      443         14355
Cctc-           P        3             '.       7643          -           -      7643        72      31Z2       1840     2800          4745
. a3                 1.3        49           -           -       94"        154      332       1103      2849         4421
3      23            1.0       1370          -           -      13373       34       312       2224      2378        10493
F                   0.         2444          _           _       244        383      340        361      1002         162
3      V            0.-        3220          -           -       3220       292      260        43       I10         2113
s r                 0.o         3000         -           -       340        4:20     240        477      lly7         2153
T.Oboc                  l3           It          40           -4,00                          9        us        14-9      2111         343
V      I3            1.7       400           -           -        50        941      333 1r3z2    3131                343
V      13            2.3       9200          -           -       9200      1092      390       14S5    2937           4263
V            e7 0.9     3400          -           _          o340    747     312         63       1727         1842
*            1.0        4000e         -           -      4c0x        14      31Z2        966      203          194
o r                  1.1       4400                              40-  -   4   9      333        s4       200          2350
.                                                                   3 1.3  3533  _  -  3535  s0  33  532  1324        7141
I                                                                 2.e 1               3 e  -  -  90  3  334  467  1530  7740
V      II            2.2      12740          -           -      12740       349      33         37       173         10994
5                    3.1 1      29           -           -       4259       465      312        173       "O          1709
U       r            * 1.2     41            -           - 2940             416      312         234     1022         593
w                    1.3       134e                              n  o 4     47       313                 1013         4507
P - Fs_-C; V -   0r- U        a  lcajar o     -   lr. Milk 7r jac
11 - lrca.oj  v -   lf  *.4       -  ua1.t1 aratm



-92-
TABLE 24
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM LRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimated Financial Farm Budgets
(Rs)
Farm Model
Hedium Irrigation                Gross    Hired       Other    Total      Net
Projects                 Time    Value    Labour      Inputs   Inputs    Value
2.5 ha Farm               P      6,690       900       2,690    3,590    3,100
Main and GujaraL
WO     7,470       920       2,740    3,660    3,810
W     22,070    1,970        5,700    7,670   14,400
4.5 ha Farm               P     12,870    1,200        5,890    7,190    5,680
WO    14,560    1,360        6,030    7,390    7,170
v     37,000    2,620        9,270   11,890   25,110
Modernization Project    P      18,940    1,590        4,620    9,210    9,730
(Shetrunji)
5 ha Farm
W     20,910    1,680        7,850    9,530   11,380
v     35,260    2,590        9,190   11,780   23,480
P = Present V Future Without Project
W = Future With Project
1/ Net Return to family labor and farm capital investment
before tax and water charge payments.



-93-
Table 25
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimated Farm Budaets and Proiect Rent at Full Development
(Rs/Farm)
Medium Irrigation Projects          Modernization Proiects
2.5 ha Farm           4.5 ha Farm              5 ha Farm
Farm Budftet           W        U                     V W                    v
Gross Value of
Production         7,470    22,070      14,560   37,000       20,910      35,260
Total Labor
Cost               1,680      2,910      2,580    3,720        3,160       4,230
Other Inputs        2,740      5,700      6,030    9,270         7,840      9,200
Land Tax and
Water Charges 1/      350     1,950         680    3,760        1,840      3,200
Total Costs       4,770    10,560       9,290   16,750       12,840      16,630
Net Value
of Production      2,700    11,510       5,270   20,250        8,070      18,630
Reward to
Family Labor         760        950       1,220    1,100       1,490       1,640
Net Farm
Family Income      3,460    12,460       6,490   21,350        9,560      20,270
Proiect Rent
Net Return
to Farm +          2,700    11,510       5,270   20,250        8,060      18,630
(Tax + Water
Charges)             350      1,950        680    3,760        1,840       3,200
Net Return
Before Tax         3,050    13,460       5,950   24,010        9,900      21,830
- Management
Fee (10) 2/        270      1,150        530    2,030          810       1,860
- Risk
Equivalent 3/       530        660      1,050    1,220          890       1,330
Implicit Land
Rent              2,250    11,640       4,370   20,760        8,200      18,640
Proiect Rent 4/                3,760                3,640                   2,090
(Rs/ha)                       '
11 Land tax assumed as Rs 20/ha for unirrigated land and Rs 40/ha for
irrigated land. Water charges assumed to equal 7 percent of gross
value food crops and 12 percent of gross value for cash crops.
2/ Premium for management and entrepreneurial skills, assumed as
10 percent of net return to the farms.
3/ Risk equivalent for uncertain availability of vater assumed as 10 percent
of gross value under rainfed condition and as 2.5 percent under irrigated
conditions.
4/ Project rent is the incremental land rent due to the project.



-94-
TABLE 26
INDIA
Gujarat Medium Irrigation II Project
Estimated Project Rent and Cost Recovery I/
MIP                 Modernization
(2.5 ha)      (4.5 ha)           (5 ha)
Project Rent (Rs/Farm)
Gross Value of Production         9,830          14,840           9,790
Production Cost 2/                2,790           2,980           1,690
Net Income                         7,040          11,860           8,100
Less
Management Fee                      590           1,000             750
Risk Equivalent                      90             110             300
Project Rent                       6,360          10,740           7,050
ProjecL Rent as X
of Net Income                       90              91              87
Cost Recovery (Rs/ha CCA/year)
Direct:
Water Charges                   420             450             180
Land Tax                         10              10               -
Field Channels                   45              45              45
Indirect:
Agricultural Sales Tax 3/        40              90              50
Total Cost Recovery                  515             595             275
Rent Recovery (as % of
Project Rent)                       20              25              20
Average Annualized Project
Cost (Rs/ha CCA)
Capital Cost (Ex. Field Channels)         2,770                    520
Capital Cost (Field Channels)                90                     90
0 & M                                       160
Total                                       3,020                    610
Cost Recovery (as Z of
Project Cost)    -                   17              20              45
1/  Expressed in incremental values over lifetime of typical MIP (Watrak)
and typical modernization project (Shetrunji) discounted to present values
and annualized at 12 percent interest over 50 years for the MIP and 30 years
for the modernization project.
2/ Includes cost of labor.
3/ Sales tax on cotton and oilseeds, purchase tax on sugarcane. Marketable
surplus of these crops is assumed to be 100 percent.



645.NAT 9EDILIM IRR1OATSOII PROACT 32
COI#CTIOJ OF PROJECT 8610*.
M90CY COST AND KMEVIT STREMS FOR ECONMIC ANALYSIS IN MILLIONI Rt'¶ES
3927    3978    399    2900    2902    592    3983    1984    2?95    2986   5I"7    1908    1909    599    5992    I992    2993    194    2995   296    2997 IM920~26
A. NET IKIIT ASICJtURL*M.  IXXITION uilnir M101C1
ROM   YAL3E AITDIT 990Cr                                                                                          40.1   45.06   4/.1  50.09   53.00   55.86   59.24  59,6v  60,17  60.72   62.28   61.75  62.07   62.58    63.08
PRODUCTION COST WITHOUT P.WOACT                               -       -       -       -       -               -26.21   26.4?   26.74   27.29   27.64   28.02   20,14  20,21  26.28   21.35   21.42   21.47  21.52   28,54          28.65
DV ouLii w11sm  9111                                                          -       -       -                   21.00   28.62   20.7i  22.80   25.44   2/.04   32.30   31.48   31.89   32.37   32.76   33.20  33.56   39.02       34.47
3. NET KMUII AGICULLft M.fOM7IUNWI 81M ECil
00M  OWUE AIIHM 9051EC                                                        -       -       -                   4/,21   50.93   96.35  124.45  140.43  173.49  193.32  196.93  163.63  296.70  596.37  596.46 194.37  196.3?    196.37
TweuION COST SlIt P111                                     -       - CT-                                       26.23   33.22   49,20   16.24   57,59   59.19  59.06   60.08   60.17   60.24   60.32   60.32  60.32   60.32       60.32
NET Y63L3E WINH P911 -O                                                               -CT                         21.00   25.2   47.55   60.33   90.04  112.30  1333.46  336.85  103.44  536.46  536.05  536.34 136.05  236.05    536.05
INOIMENAL ICUITST-                                                    -               -       --                      -    7,53   26.30   45.03   65.40   84.46  102.36  505.37   69.55  104.09  303.29  102.86 202.49  202.03    102.58
C. ucuuiw curst
m                                         ~~~~~~~~36.67    6,75    6.76   16.05    3.2?   24.b1  2.9.76    6.89    6.38    7.44 -              -        -      -        -       -      -        -      -       --
MIN8 CAW.                                                  2.10    2.29    3.04    1.22    4.34    9.36    I,"0    4.05    3.24    4.25    1,1i6      -       -       -       -       -                                         
8511813fl2N SISTER                                            -                       - 020    2.67    4.14    5.17   54.50   10.91   19.76    2.21    0.86           -       -       -               -       -       -       --
WAIMM  ~~~                                            -       -       -                       -       - 0.10    3.73    5.79    4.36           -       -      -                -       -       -      -       -
EWUIPIE  No EJIUSEIRIN                                     1.49    5,50    2.02    2.97    2.38    9.73    3.14    3.25    4.40    6.36    6.24    5.92    0.36       -               -       -       -       -       -       --
IDTOTA.                                                   40.44   50.54   52.62   19.24   20.27   46.b7   38.94   25.36   28.70   37.89   33.65    7.49    3.02       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       --
METETLUEN                                                  7.67    0.40    0.3/   0.22    0. 2,   1.54    2o56    5.20    2.58    0.46    0.48        -       -       -       - -  -  -       -           -       -            -
W    IUINIST  COIT OF LAS /a                                                  - - -   -       - 0.03    4.02    4.33    4.24    4.34    4.45    4.50    4.50    4.50    4.50    4.10    4.50    4.50    4.50   4.50    4,50          4.50
SUSIOTS.                                                   7.87    0.40    0.37    0.22i   0.27    5.15/   6.50    5.33    5,82    4.60    4.93    4. 50    4.50    4.50    4.50    4.50    4.50    4.50    4.50   4.50    4.50      4.50
OWMiJON MND MSINTE3WU -E                                                              -       - 0.09    0.2?   0.54    1.2  13.96    2.43    2.43    2.43    2.43    2.43    2,43    2.43    2.43    2.43   2.43    2.43             2.43
TOIAL COST                                                48.33   10.94   22.9   29.46   50.54   48.23   45.79   27.2,  35.80   44.65   42.05   24.42    7.95    6.93    6.93    6.3    6.93    6.93    6.93   6.93    6.93          6.93
1838832222aswsa s 333322  333..* A.332233 8-1 ... 323338  7223333e 2232232  a44..2  N222es 3 22321 2122322a 3222382 3223333 32J22 ..... ... 3333332323322222232. 2233322 433223333.
NET IaINTMW. IE14ITI
MET WDITS                                                -48.33  -10.94  -12.99  -19.46  -20.54  -41.23  -45.79  -27.23  -:4.69  -58.27    4.50   50.98   76.52   95.43   91.44   62.62   97.36   96.16   95.93  95.56   95.10      94.65 
/a  W    TUTNITY COT W  LAS IN AWIOLLTUMAL H       TOStl
ERR - 14.262



LISA? 1(32184 IMRiSAiIWe PIOACI ii
CMIVETIWI OF PIOlCi MI~4
MAOCT COST AMM 8(2727ITUMTW  F(*R ECCWNC 58Y.1IS IN MILLION RUPEES
3977    1970    2979    291      1982    312    IM1    291        IM      2986    2917I                     1 19299 10 2993    199   1993    299     I9M    399       99  1"93-2026
A. MET ff3172 SISUTtf PROfUCION MlfH@fT PPOXCT
GM   fttE viniw  PWO.CT                                       -       -        -       -       -        -       - 51.90   49.40   b0.74   53,21   55.e5   58.4    61.51  61.99   62,48   63,54   64.24   64.45  64.91   65.51    65.51
PIITION CUT MiICTW   MJE.Cr                                                                                        26*0t'   26.22   26.46   26.93   27.22   27.55   27,64   27.70   V.77   27.83   21.89   27.93  27.97   28.01         21.05
KY ~WtE WTIUT  MlOCT                                            --                       -                -       - 25.90   22.38   24.28   26.21   21.63   30,94   33.87   34.29   34,71   35. 71   36.25   36.52  37.03   37.50           37.46
S. NU KIWI? mzwIC.tw. M~UTIUN Will POCT
NM   YUsa  vimN FruoCi                                                                                                53.90O  92.44  157.84  183.60  223.63  237.3   256.41 256.10  256.03  256.23  2Z. 94  256.34 255.9   255.95    255.95
PIUITIU CUIVTH Pil IRd  C--T                                                                                           26.00   45.93   72.5    73.92   75.70   77.58   78.16   78.27   78.38   78.47   78.53   78.59  78.58   78.58         79.59
rI fUEn vimH PeoaCT-                                                    -        -       -       -        -           25.90   45.51   86.7 r 3 09.68  33.93  359.76  178.25  177,91  177.65  177.74  177.36  177.56 177.37  277,3?    177,37
1NCI1S.   WIdCTi                                                                                                              23.33   61.97   83.40  303.30  328.82  244.38  343.62  142.94  142.03  141,32  241.04 140.36  139,87    239.911
C. icamic CUT$
5                                                            2.51   22.10   24.97   31.83  .76.50   27,39   27.60   11.n    2s5.5o                                                                                                      
rSIN CAR                                                     0.42    2.06    5.94    2.86   25.7   11.65   17.23   12.91           -       -       -        -       -       -        -                                                  
BIIIMUIIIT ITE 619                                                   0.94    2.71    0.40    8.35   23.35   31.24   39.43   21.09   14.12    3.52           -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -       - 
MWiE                                                            -                                                      4.09    4.54    5.63    3.55 3                                                                                   
EMPlOY  51 F lIEMI                                          36.10   30.55    6.21    3. A     7.09   11.42   49.30   15.94    7.92    4.72    2.7n    0.92          -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -       --
MTITS.                                                      29.12   25.37   39.90   38.59   449    80.61  115.17  126.09   59.04   24.47    9.79    0.92            -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -       --
E1E712EI                                                     0.01    0.33    0.29    0.16    0.30    5.27    6.67    2.83    2.91          -       -        --"-                             -       -                          
WUUIUNTY CUT W  LAND /a                                         -       -        -       -    0.26    0.52    4.17    4.43    4.43    4,4       4.43    4.4s    4.43    4.43    4,43    4,43    4,43    4,43    4,43    4.43    4,43          4,43
MTSTSL                                                       0.15    0.31    0.29    0.26    0.56    5.142   20.84    7.24    7.41    4.43    4.43    4,4        4.43    4,43    4.43    4,43    4,43    4.43    4.43    4,43    4.43         4,43
WMT1U  AMR MIlTSfi-                                                      -       -                             0.68    2O 2.03    2, 79    2.7     9 2,79 2.79    2.79    2.79    2.79    2.79    2         .9279    2.79    2.79    2.79     2,7n
TOTS. COT                                                   39.27   75.48   40.39   38.75   67.46   86.39  136.69  J23.35  69.24   32.69   17.01    8.14    7.22    7.22    7.22    7.22    7.22    7.22    7.22    7.22    7.22              7.22
V1 iOWALTS 10171
X*88A8  us8a13  au*nar ..aSrs rG:: 3333333 2zn=:Z X;rnun: af33L 6'... gras   t33  33338*3  .a8                            . ..... *88 .. 83  r.tA, n:a   A*3 8A.-       33**33a
VT 101I11                                                  -19.27  -25.68  -40.19  -23.75  -67.46 -86.2  -316.69 -135.35  -45.91   30.28   66.39   99.3   321.60  237.16  236.40  135.72  134.81  333.39  233.82  133.14  132.65    232.69
/a  WUTtMIT7 CI Or LARD IN inicasTM     FRMIOS2N
ERR a 13. 38%



2116
IU.1  UIUIW  IM1IIATIS  P9 t 11
t@ftEIOI OF MCT U1
PIDECT tO5T S    W    IT SUVA1iS FOR  IMMI2C N51SIS IN 3JUl0N MMI
197l    1973    1979    IM1    1961    I9M        IM3    2984    29!    2916    In?37     I93      299    291    2992    1992    2993    I994    2995    1996    IM9  1996-226
~~~~~~~~~~~~__....._... _.. ........ ._
A. NET KIUIT WIfOLTUWA PIMTIZON VITIUI PICECT
NOSS YALE VIfUTM  PICT                                                 -                                         - 25,42   72.44   23.46   243!5  24,46   27.2"   21.63   2W,.34   29.07   2934   29.U    29.73   30.00   30,26            USI5
"011ICTIE  CUT VITJne fowl                                      -        -       -       -                             1 114.3    14.45   14,57   24.79   14.94   15.10   15.17   25.22   15,24   15.23   15.32   15.35   1537    5.40   15.43
NET VUM~E IIIITW   PUECI                                                                                              I    - - -    109    1.21    V.12   10.06   11.14   22.23   13.46   23.63   23,3   24.06   14.22   14.43   14.43   24.16    12546
to NT IIIPIT WfiW.l.t PSUTION VI12 PM    T
am    w.1   UITN PUECT                                          -                        -                            25.42   23.9"   43.20   50.55  6W.V    71,46   Ps,         92.26   91212  91,27   92.23   92,23   91,27   M2I2         92.217
PS TI         ? WiTH   Pcr                                      -       -        -       *       -        -       -   2.4.33   24.9   2V.4   26.4    264.    27.33   27.73   27a     5   27.N    21.90   27.94   27.94   27.94   27.94       27.94
UT    III VI1T ""CaT                                                                                              *    1.03      .9    2.06   32.47  41.63   52.103   12.    63.42   63.33   63.37   63.24   63.24  61323   63.23            63.22
I2CT I. U    W IT3                                              -       -        -       -       -                -   1        0.73 21 Y.ll   22.41   30.49   A.9    47,74   491.3    49.50   49.31   49-02   43.3241       .60 14.37 U.15
Co XT    C ConI3 sH
M                                           ~~~~~~~~2.5!.    6.76   22.34   24.23   17,91    V1.2   2I.4    27.37   22.73    6.94   -                -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -       --
Min C                                                           -        - U- I       0.21    3.12    2.03    3,02    7.47    4t.4      1.41
SISUIM       SOI8t                                              -       -        -       -       -        -    00-1 1        3.3    24.50   22.77    3.?           -        -  2      8    z     2                        2          .      2
PAl WtU W.tt CT                                                 -       -       -        -       *        -       *   II.OY    8.tt   01.06 32.47 4 1 U 51.13   Gl.-  *3.41   U.33   U.P   U.24   U.24   U.23   U3                            .
uIIrIMT u .011                                                  -    1-43    2.32        -       *1    2  -2- 3.69    2.33    5.22    2.33    3.34    5.36    2.90  -                            1       4 -  -                   4 -  -
IITOIL                                                       2.55    3.19     5.26   25.91   234   P. L8    23.03   3.4?7  22.39   31.24   3213           .1                          
5TILIO T'   -2.                                                               0.34    0.3    0.06    0.06    0.20    1.02    0,         0.b2       -        -       -       -        -       -       -        -       .       .       .
W    TUhITY COST W  LA   /a                                                                               -    0.03    0.Co/  l296    2.24    2.53    2.30    2,30    2.30    2.30    2.30    2.30    2.30    2.30    2.30    2360           2.10
9EU?TI6.                                                             1.37    0.4    0.o3    0.06    0,06    0,13    1.09    2.92    2.#!    2o5Us    2          2.e 2.30    2300   2,30    2.00   7.30    2.00    230   2,80    2.30        230
WWi2mSMINIltI                                                   -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -    0.45    0.93    1.34    2.4    2.34    2.34    2.34    1.34    1.3          1.34    2.34    2.34    1.34      1.34
TOTAL UST                                                    2.55    9.56   26.00   24.74   24.00   14,89   23.96   32.56   26.26   34.92   36.00   22.30    4,14    4.24    4.24    4.14   4.24    4,24    4.24   4.24    4,24              4.24
UET l2Il TMu WITi
"*8aas383  n;r   - 8*-88            5  38s*   &gr53   fla#3  88-so  3.a.sn*                a .3.. 3 L -83     ..N33w   -1: *3ar33s   -        - -Wa35    m3 sma8s3s.... 3 3 =33   _ r
KY iEvIuu                                                   -2.55   -9.56  -16.00  -16.74  -24.00  -14.39  -23.96  -32.56  -25.4   -22n.9  -11.59   28.19  34,21  43.60   45.44  45.36   45.17   44.0    44.7  44.44   44.23               44.01     '
/a  WINUITY COST W  LAW  IN MNIC         UM    POTIWE
ERR  -I I . 90



PUAMRA MEDILIIINTW llA( POOM? If
CWSTAtC?JdNO PMOECT ZSOSI
M"CXC COST AND KECFIT STKMS FOREIC(W~IEAMALYSIS IN KILLION tIDES
I977    1978    1979    198       1981    192    1983    I98         15.KA    1.8     198       MS    1989    1990    19.91    15.92    193    1994    1995    196    I"?7 1.99-2026
A. NET NWIT MR1CItTLOAM. OXTION MIliIT IlACT
NMS  VALUE WITIDT PEO..CT                                                            -                -        -            5. 2?Y     5    56.62   59.9i   6.3.76   67,24   71.66   72.10   12.54   73.1    73.56   74.64   75.21   75.77             75.71
PROILTIWI COST WITIWTNE                                                                                   MACY.Yi V                  25,9 9   24,2   29.67   30.15   30.41   30.5'l   30.64   £0.70   30.76   30.62   30816   30.90   3o. 94           3O.96
UEt 06(1E VIMtIC     MACTY                                                                                             -   26.32   26,34   W1.20   60.10  13361   36,77   41.09   41.46   41.94   47.37   42.74   43,78   44,42   44.83                44,?9
6. NET hJEIT MEAICLLTUIAM.ROITIWN I 91M PROCT
-    VALUE MITH StOIC?                                                                                                 -   55.kY   655.3   56.62   59.91   63.16   61,24   91.74  114.,69  267.61  186.96  205.69  222-45  232.37  732.i2    232.32
PIOKTIOE COST WITH PMACT                                           -I                                                       YW.97   29.19   29.42   29.62?  340.5   £0.4.    34,79   47.61   66.37   66.91   67.59   68.06   68.33   68,33             66.33
MET VALUE WITH NOICT                                               -                                                         6. 42   26.34   7/.20   30.10   33.61   36,11   46.95   61,06  101,44  119.99  131.10  154.39  163.99  563.99    163,99
INKEKITI. KDEFITS                                                  -        -       -        -        -        -                         -                                  -    5.66   25.62   59.60   '7,62   fi. 36  110.61  119,61  119.16    119.20
C. ECOIWIIC COSTS
DAM                                                                      0,14    1.09    0.30         -    0.55    2.y5   9,6                         2 3.03   31.41   41.06   59.51   42.18 0                                                     
MIN CAI.-                                                                   -       -        -                                      -  -  -                             5.14   13.73    4.00          -       -        -        -
DISTRIWIIOW SYSTEM                                                                                                                                                     20.79   34.42   344,4                                                       
RAIMC-                                                                     -                                  -       -E-                                                  -    0.45    8.45         -       -                 -       -        -
EQUPIIFET An  ENSINIERIII                                          -                -        -              l.'   2.53    0.42           -        - 24!48   £6h56    v.52   16.24   12.5              -                                            
SIJITOTI.L                                                               0.14    9.04    0.10         -    2.06    5.52    1.79                  -   37.51   69.97   76.51  132.35  101.61            -       -                 -       -        --
PISETIEWENT                                                                                                                                              1                 .2    2.66    7,58    2.56    2.29 - -      -        -       -        --
WVtUNIITY COST OF LORD IA-                                                  -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -             0.32    4,38    4,72    5.05    5.05    5.05    5.05   Sd'S    5.05             5.05
511610TAL                                                          -                                                                                    .32    2.66    e.90    6,94    7,01    5.0!5   5.05    5.05    5.05    s.c..,    5.05           5.05
38883  3338338 8388383 Ba383 ....  h     22-* j837388     a.... 88888  8883333. .....7  ..           ass&¶3 ass3838  83883333  88r3833  388fl asj-8 88-A       2  .333 ..888888 .38.333  33333383..
OKIRAhIhI  AND MINTEJWCE-                                                   -        -       -        -        -                                                        0.09    0.2i    1.49    2.02    2.92    2.62    2.62    2.62    2.62             2,62
TOSTAL tOT                                                         -     .94    1.09    0.10          -    2.09    5.52    1.7?          -            39.63   72.63   19.50  139.56  110,31       7.67    7.67    7,67    7.67    7.67    7.87          7,97
833.8  =38883 8888383 8:333822     33 i646Q  a:,  &t'883 4...83* 8833  33383382 334-M Lt-?, 33...83o 383838.  3888383 8833.38 838. Ba.               33338. 38*8* 3833338 3..38338 38833
MET 1~ASILTAL KWEITS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '
NEI KNFITS                                                         -   -0.14   -1.05.   -p.10         -   -2.06   -5. 52   -1,6          -         - -3.63  -72.63  -79.50 -133.70  -94,49   61,73   69.75   67.49  102.74  111.91  111.29    111.33
/a OPORTUNITY COSt OF LMD IN A6RICtlTIMA AND FOREST FROWUCTION
ERR  -  1 6. 37



INDIA
UJARAT IEDIUN IRRI6ATION PROJECT 11
.....................................
ODERIIIZATION O  PROJECT SHtlRUNJI
PROJECT COST AND PENEFIT STREAMS FOR ECUNOIC  NLYSIS 1  MILLION RUPEES
3984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991           1992    1993    1994    1995    I'96    1997 1995-2013
................... . .  ............................ .................................................................. . .... ... .. ........... ................ .......................................................
A. NET BENEFIT A'iRICULTURAL PRODUCTIl'l" IN 10T PROJECT
~~~~~~~~~~~.................. ............................. .....
GROSS VALUE UIIHOUT PROICT                                      121.0S' 18.81  213.8'.  119.63  125.82  131.75  138,.59  139,29  140.13  141,11  141.87  142,73  143.75  144.77    105.79
RRODUCTION COST WITHOUT   IAJECT                                 40,77   61.34   61.93   63.01   637.7  64.52   64.85   65.04   65.23   65.41   65.60   65,75   65.89   66.03                   66.18
NET VALUE WITHOUT PROJECT                                        60.32   V.4i   51.91   5S,62   62,10   67.23   /3.74   74.25!  74.90   75.76   76.27   76.99   77.86   78.74                    79.61
I. NEI BENEFIT AG3RICULTURAL PRODUTION 1IIH OJECT
GROSS VALUE WITH PROJECT                                        121.09  125.94  149.96  176.89  206.64  221.71  239.53  245.39  252.43  255.01  2'j.42  257.44  258.06  258,06    258,06
PRODXCTION COST WITH PROJECT                                     60.77   63.67   66.70   70;53   74.06   7!/2?   79.78   82.09   84.41   84.49   K4.59   84.59   84.60   84.60                   84,60
NET VALUE WITH PROJECT                                           60.3?   62.27   83.26  106.36  132.58  144.44  158.75  163,30  I6H.02  170.52  171.63  172.95  173.46  173.46    173.46
INCRENENTAL 8ENEFITS                                                 -   14.80   3;.:5   49.74   70.48   7'.21   F5,01   8S.05   ;:.12   94,76   95.56   95.87   95.60   94.72                   93.85
C. ECONOIIC COSTS
.................
MAIN CM                                                           7,35    6,38    6.38    5.49    2,48            -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -          -
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM                                               4.49   16.04   '.0.9/   10.97   33.21           -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -          -
DRAINME                                                              -        -    6.54    6.54    6.00           -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -          -
EQUIPENT Na ENINEERING                                            3.12    4.80    8.64    8.40    7,4'            -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -          -
SUBTOTAL                                                         14.96   27,22   52.53   51.40   49,13            -             -        -        -            -                 -        -          -
r=sss  ass...: grass.. s:agass s:auns :...............uu:2zs:I a:::::S: tss. urSa :::::: ::: sara: gs ass ,:a:usss status: ==sa:: ean......
WPORTtIITY COST OF LAND /a                                        014    0.27    0.41    0,55    0.69    0,69            .9    0,6S    0.69    0,69    0,69    0.69    0,69    0,69               0.69
...........  ................. ......... -------..... ....... ...... -------............. -----     ----     ----     ------     -------  ----..------- ----
SUBTOTAL                                                          0.14    0,27    0,41    0.55    0.69    0.69    0.69    0.69    0.69    0,69    0,69    0,69    0,69    0,69                    0,69
r::::::  sass..: sass:: a::zz::: sass:::  sass::. 2    sasars  ast::  sar ss     wra     ::::::: rags  a tassa-2   xsan: :_ a:-a tars; sass
TOTAL COST                                                       15.10   27.49   52,94   51,95   49.82    0.69    0,69    0.69    0,69    0.69    0.69    0.69    0.69    0.69                    0,69
:a::::  ::: r::: as::sage aur:s:: a:::::: ;._;:r: *sasass  :eatws as:22. nus.. sa :zzz asx::xz:::: z       ttu:.Z sr33333  ::a::::::
NET INOENENTAL WNEFITS
::::::::::: ::.........__::ast s:a ::z_.-: :::: ::  _.:55  rurssa r_:  ::::awsaass a. rags  ut:.::: ~. sassatsar::: sasas.......................................................  .t.n s.straa
NET ENEFITS                                                     -15,10  -12.69  -21.59   -2,21   20.66   76.52   84.32   88.36   92.43   94.07   94.87   95.18    ?4.91   94.03                  93.16
/a OPRORdUNITY COST OF LAND IN ARICULTLPAL PRODUCTION
ERR - 52.80%



-100-
Annex 1
Page 1
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Prices and Conversion Factors
1.      General.  The economic prices of major traded agricultural outputs
(at farm gate) were derived from the IBRD projected 1990 and 1995 world
market prices expressed in 1984 currency value with appropriate adjustments
for freight, handling and processing. The projected economic prices for
non-traded foodgrains and oilseeds were derived by applying a foodgrain or
oilseed conversion factor (FCF) to the financial prices. Non-traded goods
and services were brought to a common basis with the traded ones through the
use of conversion factors (explained in the folloving paras). A standard
exchange rate of US$1 to Rs 10.00 was used to convert prices expressed in US
dollars to local currency values. The assumptions used to derive the
estimates are described below.
2.      Standard Conversion Factor (SCF).  For economic analysis purposes
the costs and benefits of the project have to be evaluated at world market
prices, in order to measure correctly India's net economic benefits from the
project. This requires certain adjustment since many items are not traded on
the world market and other are affected by tariffs and trade restrictions.
In order to make them comparable, a SCF is applied to the price of non-traded
goods. In the absence of trade restrictions, the SCF can be estimated by
using the following formula:
SCF          X + M
X + SX + M + Tm
where:  X   export value (f.o.b.);
M - import value (c.i.f.);
Sx = subsidies on exports-
Tm = taxes and duties on imports.
For the period since 1970, this calculation gives a SCF of 0.86. However,
since this estimate does not take into consideration quantitative restric-
tions on trade, it provides only an upper limit for the SCF. The Indian
Planning Commission recommends for the evaluation of industrial projects, the
use of conversion factors for foreign exchange and for untraded goods that
implicitly give a SCF of about 0.75. Because of the approximate nature of



-101-
Annex 1
Page 2
this estimate, a SCF of 0.8 has been used in the economic analysis. Specific
conversion factors were calculated for construction costs and non-traded
foodgrains.
3.      Prices of Agricultural Outputs.  The economic prices for traded goods
such as rice, wheat, cotton and groundnuts and sugar were based on their
border prices at the official exchange rate (OER). The domestic cost cor-
ponents (i.e., local transport and marketing charges) were adjusted by the
SCF of 0.80. The economic prices of non-traded foodgrains (sorghum, millet,
pulses are assumed to be non-traded) were derived by applying a foodgrain
conversion factor (FCF) to the financial price. The FCF of 1.11 was computed
by using the following formula:
FCF = (Q rice x PE rice) + (Q wheat x PE wheat)
(Q rice x PF rice) + (Q wheat x PF wheat)
Q: Weighing factor based on three year average of Indian production
(1979/80 - 1981/82)
PE: Economic price
PF: Financial price
The financial and economic prices used cover the period from 1981 to 1983.
The economic prices of non-traded oilseeds were derived from the economic
price of groundnuts by applying the ratio of economic to financial groundnut
prices (0.69) to the financial prices of nontraded oilseeds. It has been
assumed that the price developments of nontraded food grains and oilseeds
will follow those of traded ones over the project period. The weighted
average price increases of traded food grains and oilseeds have been used for
calculating the 1990 economic prices of non-traded food grains and oilseeds.
The economic prices of nontraded crops like vegetables, fruits, and Bidi
tobacco have been derived by applying the SCF of 0.8 to their 1984 financial
prices. It is assumed that these economic prices remain unchanged over the
project period.
4.      Prices of Agricultural Inputs.  Economic prices for fertilizer
nutrients have been derived from 1990 world market prices of representative
fertilizers with appropriate adjustments for domestic handling. Economic
prices of bullock labour were derived from average rental prices corrected
with the conversion factor of 0.8. Analysis of farm labour supply and demand
in various Indian irrigation projects typically give an economic shadow wage
rate for farm labour in the range of 1/2 to 2/3 of the average financial wage
rate. The current average wage rate amounts to 8.5 Rs/day. At a conversion
factor of 0.66, the economic price of labour, has been assumed to amount to
Rs 5.6 per day. Given the high population growth rate, increases in the
real shadow wage rate have not been assumed to occur during the project
period. Financial market prices for agrochemicals and compost have been
converted into economic prices by applying the SCF of 0.8.



-102-
Annex 1
Page 3
5.      Construction Conversion Factor (CCF).  Project works would be con-
structed using a mixture of equipment, skilled and unskilled labor, the
proportions of which vary with the category of works. In the context of the
Narmada Project, detailed analysis has been made to determine the conversion
factors for specific components and the mixture of components in different
categories of works. Based on this analysis, the following CCF were used in
the economic analysis to convert the financial to economic prices:
Categroy of Works                   CCF
Civil Works
Dam, Main Canal                   0.77
Distribution System               0.75
Drainage                          0.79
Equipment                           0.80
Engineering                         0.80
Agricultural Benefits
6.      Present Situation.  The subprojects are spread over Gujarat and
located in 5 different agroclimatic zones and the cropping patterns vary
according to the zone. Present yield levels are low and productivity
increases have remained rather modest over the last decade. Assessment of
yields, input levels, and cropping patterns were based on (i) direct informa-
tion in the field, (ii) district statistics, (iii) discussions with local
agricultural staff and farmers and (iv) socio-economic surveys carried out in
each sub-project areas.
7.      Future Without Project.  No substantial changes from the present
situation were assumed in the "future without project" cropping pattern.
Yields "without" project based on present agricultural practices were in some
instances adjusted slightly upwards to take account of past rather modest
productivity increases.
8.      Future with Project and Intermediate Development.  Irrigation would
not commence at the same year in all the subprojects. For example, while in
Watrak MIP about llX of the total CCA will be irrigated already in the first
year, irrigation in Zankhari MIP is expected to commence only in 1990/91. It
has been assumed that farmers would adopt the projected cropping pattern of
the "with project" situation within three years of water availability. This
is feasible since the anticipated changes in the cropping patterns are rela-
tively small. In addition, many farmers are already familiar with well
irrigation practices. The currently observed cropping patterns in farms
having well irrigation resemble the projected "with project" patterns. With
respect to yields, it has been assumed that yield increases in the "with
project" situation will occur over a period of five years.



-103-
Annex 1
Page 4
Costs
9.      Land Acquisition ad Resettlement Costs.  These consist of three main
components:  (i) resettlement costs for property lost due to submergence in
the reservoir areas (total of 19,205 families in the ongoing project areas);
(ii) compensation costs for areas submerged when reservoirs constructed under
the project are commissioned (about 21,095 ha in all ongoing projects); (iii)
the compensation costs for land acquired for the construction of the canal
distribution systems (about 8,426 ha in the ongoing projects and about 2,099
ha in the modernization projects).
10.     It has been assumed that all cultivated land lost to cultivation as a
result of the project is and would have remained rainfed. The economic cost
of land submerged or used for construction of the distribution system was
derived from estimates of the economic value of the production foregone. The
net return per ha in economic prices in the "future without project" situa-
tion was assumed to provide an adequate estimate. The net return foregone
each year was treated as a recurrent project cost. The economic cost of
resettlement was calculated by multiplying the financial cost by the SCF.
11.     Operation and Maintenance Costs.  At present, the financial cost of
O&M in completed MIP's in Guja.at range between 75 to 100 Rs per hectare.
However, it is estimated that about Rs 205 per ha would be required to assure
proper O&M of the distribution system. Since O&M involves mainly employment
of unskilled or semi-skilled labour, a conversion factor of 0.66 was used.
Sensitivity Tests
12.     Analysis of Switching Values.  The overall sensitivity of sample
MIP's and the sample modernization project to benefit and cost uncertainties
was analyzed using switching values discounted over 50 years for MIP's and
over 30 years for the modernization project. Details are in the main report
para. 8.07. The analysis clearly depicts that the risk of additional cost
overruns is significantly greater in projects in which the majority of the
construction work falls into the second time slice credit. Projects with
substantial sunk costs and with completion project for 1986/87 or 1988/89
would only be economically unviable at very large and highly unprobable
deviations from the estimated construction costs. The viability of the
sample modernization project would only be jeopardized by large and highly
unprobable decreases of expected benefits.
13.     Analysis without Sunk Capital Costs.  The MIP sample ERR would range
from 17 to 48 percent and average 35 percent if only investments made under
this credit were considered.



-104-
Annex 1
Page 5
14.     Analysis of Yield Decreases in the "With Project Situation" Including
Sunk Costs. Twenty percent lower than expected yields in the "with project
situation" would entail a drop in the weighted ERR of sample MIP's to 10
percent and of the sample modernization project to 24 percent, resulting in
an overall ERR of 16 percent. The average ERR for sample MIP's would be at:
26 percent if yields were 20 percent lower and sunk costs were not included.
15.    Incremental Yield Increases After Full Development. Due to the
relatively long gestation period of the sample MIPs, incremental yield
increases (by 0.5 percent annually after full development stage has been
reached) would not significantly improve the economic viability and would
leave the weighted ERR for sample HIP's at 14 percent.
16.    Delay in Implementation Period.  Delays in construction works would
only influence the viability of those MIPs in which the majority of works
fall under this credit.  Delays in of construction works by two years and in
the completion of the distribution system by another year would reduce the
ERR by almost 3 percent to 13 percent in the one sample project (Zankhari).
Delays in the construction and completion of modernization works by 3 years
would reduce the ERR by 9 percent to 47 percent.
17.     Reduction in the Overall Construction Period of SaMple MIP's.  Given
the relatively long overall construction period of the sample MIPs, a reduc-
tion by two years of the past implementation period would have resulted only
in a slightly increased weighted ERR of 14 percent for the ongoing MIPs.
18.     The analysis depicts that MIP's on which the majority of construction
works fall under this credit are sensitive to delays in implementation. The
analysis shows that only relatively large deviations from the expected yields
in the "With Project" situation and improbable increases in construction
costs for the completion period under the second time slice credit would turn
the project economically unviable.



-105-
ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
List of Documents in this Project File
l.  Identification Report, Gujarat Irrigation II Project
(Repeater Project), CWC, October 1983
2.  Panam Reservoir Project - Appraisal Summary, CWC, 1979
3.  Machhanala Reservoir Project - Appraisal Summary, CWC, April 1979
4.  Hadaf Irrigation Scheme - Appraisal Summary, CWC, May 1980
5.  Bhadar (P) Reservoir Project - Appraisal Summary, CUC, May 1981
6.  Amli Dam Scheme - Appraisal Summary, CWC, April 1979
7.  Jhuj Irrigation Scheme - Appraisal Summmary, CWC, August 1980
8.  Kelia Irrigation Scheme - Appraisal Summary, CWC, August 1980
9.  Zankhari Reservoir Project - Appraisal Sumiary, CWC, June 1983
10.  Sukhi Reservoir Project - Appraisal Summary, CWC, August 1979
11.  Deo Irrigation Scheme - Appraisal Summary, CWC, 1980
12.  Kalubhar Reservoir Project - Appraisal Summary, CWC, June 1979
13.  Sukhbhadar Reservoir Project - Appraisal Summary, CWC, June 1979
14.  Machhundri Irrigation Scheme - Appraisal Summary, CWC, June 1979
15.  Uben Irrigation Scheme - Appraisal Summary, CWC, 1981
16.  Watrak Reservoir Project - Appraisal Summary, CWC, March 1980
17.  Guhai Reservoir - Appraisal Summary, CWC, 1981
18.  Mazam Irrigation Project - Appraisal Summary, CWC, November 1981
19.  Venu II Reservoir Project - Appraisal Summary, CWC, Mav 1980
20.  Und Irrigation Scheme - Appraisal Summary, CWC, May 1980
21.  Demi II Irrigation Scheme - Appraisal Summary, CWC, January 1981
22.  Aji II Irrigation Scheme - Appraisal Summary, CWC, May 1981
23.  Aji III Irrigation Scheme - Appraisal Summary, CWC, March 1982
24.  Sipu Reservoir Project - Appraisal Summary, CWC, March 1982
25.  Modernization of Canal System of Dantiwada, Appraisal Summary,
CWC, May 1981
26.  Modernization of Fatehwadi Canal Project - Appraisal Summary,
CWC, Sept 1981
27. Modernization of Kharicut Canal System - Appraisal Summary,
CWC, Jan 1983
28.  Modernization of Bhadar Irrigation Project (Rajkot)- Appraisal Summary,
CWC, Mav 1981
29.  Modernization of Shetrunji (P) Irrigation Project- Appraisal Summary,
CWC, June 1982
30.  Modernization of Machhu I Irrigation Project - Appraisal Summary,
CWC, June 1982
31.  Estimate of Gujarat Repeater Project Vol I, II, III, IV, GOG, Dec 1983
32.  The Gujarat Agricultural Lands Ceiling Act, 1960
33.  The Bombay Irrigation Act



-106-
ANNEX2
Page 2
34. Soil Survey for Dantiwada Project, Soil Survey Division, Abmedabad,
Nov 1979
35. WALMI Gandhinagar, GOG, Jan 1984
36. Guidelines for Project Preparation, CWC, 1980
37. Socio-economic Studies of 26 subprojects. Reports prepared for the
PPM Cell, Department of Irrigation, Gujarat,
either by: Department of Economics, Sardar
Patel University
or by: Operations Research Group Baroda
38. Government of Gujarat, Bureau of Economics and Statistics,
Socio-economic Review, 1981-82
Socio-economic Review, 1982-83



INDIA
CUJARAT MEDIUTH IRRICATION 11 PROJECT
ImPlementation Scbedule
Start                                                                                                                                 Finish
*1                    _  __                                                        _   _        _   _      _       _      _   _       _
1984                       1985                      1986                       1987                       1988                       1989
name of Project    J F H A M J JA  S 0 N D J FH AMH . J A S O  ND  .I FH  A H J .1 A S O  N D J F H  A M J J  A S O  N D J F H  A M .I  J A S 0  N D.IF F tl A  t .1 .1 A S INO    n
Panam                              DD D D D D D DG C C C C C C C CC C CC C t H H H   M H   H H H H H
Machanala                          M      H     H M H  M M M   M H t  H H MH   M tl M
lHad4f                             DD D D D D D DD D D D D D D D D D DnD
Bhadar (P)                         D D D D D D DDC C C C C  C C C CC C CC
Amli (Ver 11)                      (; C C C C C C C t M H H H H M   H H H H .
Jhuj                               D D D D D D 9 D O D C C C C C C C C C C C N H HH H H NH H M HM 
Kclia                              D D D D D D C C C C C C C C H H H H H H
Znnkharl                                                                                            D DDD  D D D D D D D D D  D DD n n D D n D D D D D n n n D n  D D  U) 1i n
Sukhi                              D D D D D D D D D D D n D D D D D D D D D H H H tl H H H H H H H H H M H H
Deo                                D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D C C C C C C H   H H H    H H    11 It H H H H HMH    H H H  H H H
Katubhar                           D 0   D 0 D D 0D D 0 ii 0 0 D D   D 0 00 0   D 0D  0 0  0 0 D D H H H H H H H H H M H H H
Sukhbhiaddir                       OD D D D D  D DD D D D D D D D DD D  DD D D D D D D D D D D D D D D   D D D D D D D  D
Machhundri                         DD D D D D D DD H H H H   H H H H  M H          H  HH   H  H   M HH  M NH H     H H H   H H H H    H H H H    H  MH
Uben                               DD D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D   D DD H HH H H H H H             H H H  HH
Watrak                             DD D D D D D DD D D D D D D  D  D D D D D             D D D D D D D nD D    C C C C C C C C C C C H     MH  HH2 M 21 .M   M M   2HHH
Guhai                              D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D n D D DnD  n D D    D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D n C C CC C C C C C C C C C
Hazam                              0 D D D D D D D D D D D D    D D D  D O D D D D   OD  D  O D D D D D D H PI H H H H H H H   H H H    H
Venu II                            D D D 0  D D D D 0  D D D D D n n D  D D D D D D D D D D 0   D D 0   D 0   D  D0 0    D D D D D D D  D H H H HM H H1 M M  H H M H
Und                                D D D D D D D D D D D D D D n D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D C C C C C C C C C C C C C tH  M M M HM M ! 2 21 
Demi II                            0 0 D 0 0 D D D D D D D   D D D  D D 0 C C C C C C C C C C C C C C H H H H H H M H H H    H H H H H M  H H  H
Al  II                            0D D D  0 D D 0 0 0 0 0 D D D D C C C C C C C C C C C C C C c C c H H H H H  H H H H H M  H P HM
Ajl III                            D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D     D ntl M M M M M    H M  M  M  MHt
Sipu                               D D D D D D D D D D D    D      D  D    D  D  D    D  D ) D  D  D ) D  D  D  D  D  D  D  D  D  D  D  D  D  D  D  D  D  D  D    D  D  D  D    M  tl    H  tl 21 ,M  M12     H tl M 2 H M  H H SI H H M
Dantiwada (Hod)                    D  0 D D D D D 0D D D D   D  D D D0 0    C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C
Fatehwadi (Hod)                    C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C  C  C       C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C C C C C
Kharicut (Hod)                     CCCC C C C C C C C C C C C C C CC C CC C C CCC C C C C C  CC c                   C C C    CCC CC  CH HH H  gH M M M 21 21 M M M M M 2H
Bhadar (Hod)                       CC CCC C C C C CC C C C C CC C CC C C C C C C C C C C C C   M H H H                   H  H  H  H  H  H    M   H
Shetrunji (Hod)                    C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C                                               9
Hachhu I (Hod)                     CCC C C CC C CCC C C C C C C C CC C CC C C C C C C C C C C C H H H H H H H H HH HM  HH t H H M 2 H H H H M
TraininA                           *          *  * * * *                                                                                   A *
Vnitu poege/                           *      A                                                   *  * * * *                                      A                                      
Notes       Work in progress:
D - Dam, canal, minors
C - Canals, minors
2* I inora
* - Continuous



INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
IrTigation Department Organizatlon
SfrE c  rrl        I
(PA riAJ)  
(iV7 Ji F PASr7)                                                                                                                                                                 r7VE  A^il L
C I-If ifLAI         _ _       C -A f  El CH lin _F E_OG      CH fg [l; 7             _  ci tt f E NEFtIf (_AA%LAA          f  .C W'Al'   1  _          l iA.AIi.F                                   A *i .: V' _IP.'      A:,fA At ti c'Ip'A
(r&IAlJiA I?C'.Et!ar              tLAYi 7A&4!'IA               (ON.'A'*ALJ'iAL                 &  liSAscrIit Al               I'OAC T A..1G        (PAIi!.AWA  flfl    PC     C'.I.sAtN rT Y.ut'.A.I;,l                       i;4J",W'A  P LA   P  r,,jt, ,<y Y..
'IISEN   STfAl1L        '      *t.t.St)  h   A,!.! MCSiIlA.'T  & .C'ir SECEAlY; FC_                                        CQJAi 't5 e'9. O1T'EJ .C7  CAT(YJlt.A!iLti.^ XS ,:  C. )AA                   G4S .t.yU I           (,A,A..,A ';t' tvA
ACA)ETCI,'fLAI.N i C. ICTC4j   SE rIA.,IC  ?Rt,,GAECfiR;kF CECERCIJCLA. CAiTY                  F ?AA5*:.-A~CrAFKACT                                          9(iTAA                  5/A'S  Mi                                          A.'4'
(&Jrc, o A                   N,ioCA CIC'P I                  (P.",________________                                        if ?.'At9 -SGAVCl,C ilCi                                                vi..A.t.,C Wd,            'ifi ., Al,           S''*ld I
____________                                                                                  AN5W)Ars olEScuc'c             t s f-rAlrsEta IC  'A'i      f rt .. '4g P..IAA)A  -s          A-              ---                    i' cs                       --
CCAP.V.CAICE:.i)A F flAC I                                                                                                    MCI (CT YA_i  c                                                                                     I        Ii
.ONE V.9C!C4V               r!;hT,ht!lT  CSfCl IE          iS'OA.tCE rAjFA!A1'3t;           _'EALA,tIt?w5 crca           CAbA. tvSTThNflCl          IA  W IC' cr. SI *               A                !4 Fo C  LI  I
(sAPuAlce  5i 59 AVAULG&I                                   St ht|0-r*+lM7Af7lA)             S      91iA lxf  iAj*WE-A Ai
95&Ir, P'NIPc, EfidO'.NE'T     *rit'GATWYE Pfif.tCIRCL            5                                 CA WA.                       V CM PC I- A9N           Ey ?.V: ,A: (Tr
0CI.TAJ  L(tS4 'iAEAtC SI           P.ECI CS?E                                                                              CAP4IAS C"i C tIn/CE CA'.'.
CliCA;At*J CC  "'CIF            SEI A%WGSAJCA                                                                             .sE' 5.r 1e.
SE (.CcXCSi                                                    CASE LAP.'.Ai                                                                     .    's"C.! _.'L                                                                  r
(CfI N"AL V(*EC                SE                         r S                                                               CAtNAL CWkt I     f 5          P.A WA                                             f                            Ii'  S      A; A
K`.AP ls AICf4)MM  qNItril C,E'MLN            F 11 ySE  rhANOAC CECANP.                                                                                                                       WC&  ' h             "C!,,                         * *I 
5{ (.hl:JiN XCY Y)                                              I    h~~~~~~~~~~~~ .01.! SICMt!AI!'                          555'lP.IbC /CIIj                YA.%A.lP.*iP.E1.5' '*I/   ||I                         N:1 i ., A~ A
CYXA.VItAEC.YE                                                          COt                PANA  AP9l7 "                                              , S!SAaJ'C,                 L    (ALi/   N.).                                          A'coI
(CIPMASL HSV4i                                               ey K7APjAh CV,|                                                                                  _      I                                                             i 
D)A.':$tIy CELL                                                                                                                                     'ASStIACEC   N IA , 'K.
(ClP tlnAL MONS<'                                                  C RCLA
C;rSA.'lAECti)
EL (CEN.TRAL DSGN DlSCGAMY4ClW LI I
St i;iSEFlSS)                                                                                                                                                                                                               I P                  .
ICEP$E?AL I SC(Wi~
C!ON,'A'ClACi)                                                                                                                                                                |     0>i .11 iAl *NC NI'         Cd  IrA;1 .ir.h     t     v.0.  'A'?'.
(P9CKAAAII&,                 YACP.I'41 rA!S r;`,,              Cr
(:f,.7CiATjCfj rM(CIS)              (Mtiu..FEIR)       |                                                                                            Ptt     smcsc lI-                           .iT?ilCv Cr.vrG,T,O:A ,>l j 
I     bJC>NT SEiCI4lAR,        A I Jh II SECrlf t7A                                        I  sf ean^ter nca  | | h DNl iCliMile |                              I P~lru iVADP SEC/IA'A  |          i L -_I
SE Y 10vAI NAGARil tOPGiATlOtN 1                                                                                                                                            _ CsY.b  _ |  CN, itESiINOlCP' |  |L C,OCJ                       .
I  PSLROCICct               lt!.yWSlC*PAChG ttl a ME TOM
I  w  a Cctilfiotcmlt)                                       SE I    NARMADA hI:NIC I                                          |     Si flA ".)'IAi                       A'.
PPO3ACSI CIRCLE                             A                                                                                                                    'I# LC.,OK IEflcAr
k    W,IC                                                                    I            C b tACAL CIRCLE  S!A i                                     _ YA           .  C(WJ&   T
SE #WATEn? RIESOLOIS   |   ||                                                                    FAc  mors Cincii II |                                             |        GAP.(.4 P4AGA.7                   
I lMENST/OARAtC SGACLE 01  |NM'ASA |                                                                                          X>ESCrEAA                               PMdC?(AVAI,FE(CA!TC
FROYCT C            |CTiL  |P.~AECfl&  p                                                     CM ASIECK NICAL CIRCLE                                                     CIR CL C
|SE KADAKA 9MGtrsArst
l~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~CECSCL)S I5RsDAfclUCQ0                                                                                                                      I      E AsY£JlDnCAMVd
PE'OACI CItRE!                                                                                                                                                    SE   rAML%AIJ1
IACI{AJ,CM 05CC!                  51 ILAJSPMDA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROCS CETALr
|    VADCOAnA 0SEGATc*           PCIrSWNl C    ICnGANCtI f)"J
I  ?cxcv CIRCLE                                                                                                                                                   S   A         A
|   #SIJKt11Cl1hGAP(7N    |                                                                                                |  sE{SU 'tACfitAiEn   |                                     Alrihr^_.26~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SE(%fAF iAEqftj o-dt '  0
SE  VA   RA1ONICATciJ                                                                                                                                                  DE.  c OAG*EI/A J
IgACl ClACk!                                                                                                                                                      CI(SACWAEIA ACINr-.W



INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Typical Irrigation Circle
Organizatlon Chart
LEVEL
CIRCLE                                                               SUJPEIINTENDING
ENGINEER
DESIGN UNIT                                                                       ESTIMATING UNIT
DMSION       EXECUTIE ENGINEER            EXECUTI  ENGINEER           EXECUTIV   NEER             EXECLv ENGSINEER            EXECUTV ENGINEER
(Mechanical)            (Canal Construction)         (Dom Construction)
L-ISION    [    2-4 ASSISTANT                   2-4 ASSISTANT    1          2-4 ASSISTANT         [ |          2-4 ASSISTANT        2
ENGINEERS                   ENGINEERS      j            ENGINEERS                   ENGINEERS                   ENGINEERS
8-16JJNIOR                  8-16 JUNIOR                  8-16 JUNIOI?               8-16 JUNIOR                 8-16JUNIOR
SKCTION          ENGINEERS                   ENGINEERS                   ENGINEERS                   ENGINEERS                   ENGINEERS
For constnrction of a typical 10.000 ha project                        Investgationst              On an
Operation & MaIntenonce     area
Minor Construction Works   basIs
rt
WoEddBank -26067



INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance of Typical 16,000 Ha MIP
Organization Chart
EXECLJTWE ENGINEER
DMSION                                                                                                 I
SUSDIMSION                                                                                            DERJTY
EXECUIM ENGINEER
Roject Level
ASSSTANT ENGINEER                                                                              ASSITANT ENGN E 
(Neadveuks) ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~(.tOln
SECTION          ECON           SECTION         SECTN                  SETO                             ETO                             ETON                           SECTION
SECTON      OFFICER                         OFFICER         OFEICER                    ER                           OFF ER                          OFFK ER                         OFFCE1
(ADDOUT LNAL                    (ADDTllONAL     (ADDITKONAL                                                                            (ADDI                           (ADD      L
AE)A)AE                                          E AE)                      AE)                                                        AE)A
(ISPlNIY Gates)                                                    
|KNALASrES  |KNLASIES  ||KHALASIES  ||KH4&ASIES  I               KIA<RWON 1|KARKOON_ | AcO KARKOON                               KAL Mi°°O]   KAR   I(N1        SOON_    ICAKOO°N:    KARKOON 
I   I I   I I   I    | |  KIALASIES  | |  KHALA9ES  | |  KHALA5IES  | |  KIALASES  | L KItALAES  ||  KNALASIES  ! I  KKALASIES   b|KALA9ES
W dBar* - 26066
1r
In



INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Organizatlon of the Central Water Commisslon
(in Relation to the Supervislon of Medium  Irigotion Projects)
Ministry of ;rgatWon |
GIvr,nmen(t of India
Choirmon
Centrol Woter Comission {
I  Membcr     } |       Membeor        l                                                                                    [       Member                                              Men-ibel
| (Dosiran  Ressofch) | |     (Floods)    J| (Pltannng   |og                                                                                                                             (Waler Reiwscis)
Nsi:chonical                                                                                                                                                        1
Organizoitan~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tf
~l                             -~  1                                                     1 a
Duisreosion d Medium
Gujarat               IrrgtIon F'rojects In
oasthnan                 Modhya F'rdeshW
.    aaahr                                                  W 'orld Bank-2W40



-112-
INDIA
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Index to HaP
CCA
MIP No.                    Map Reference No.              (ha)
1.  Panam                            132                     41,120
2.  Machhanala                       131                       3,084
3.  Hadaf                            128                       5,238
4.  Bhadar (P)                       124                       8,000
5.  Amli (Ver II)                    153                       3,644
6.  Jhuj                             163                       4,180
7.  Kelia                            164                       2,486
8.  Zankhari                         155                      20,853
9.  Sukhi                            16i                     20,660
10.  Deo                              125                       7,207
11.  Kalubhar                          90                       5,830
12.  Sukhbhadar                       156                       7,400
13.  Machhundri                       106                       8,095
14.  Uben                             111                       2,063
15.  Watrak                           150                      18,341
16.  Guhai                            147                       7,111
17.  Mazam                            149                       4,717
18.  Venu II                          146                       5,253
19.  Und                              101                       9,900
20.  Demi II                          139                       3,108
21.  Aji II                           135                       2,384
22.  Aji III                          136                       6,615
23.  Sipu                              79                      16,000
24.  Dantiwada (Mod)                    7                      44,517
25.  Fatehwadi (Mod)                    1                      29,792
26.  Kharicut (Mod)                     2                      14,619
77.  Bhadar (Mod)                      50                      26,578
28.  Shetrunji (P)(Mod)                14                      35,750
29.  Machhu-I (Mod)                    56                      10,409
Note:  Map 18107 shows all the existing and planned major and medium
projects in Gujarat. A complete index is available on file.



GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION fl PROJECT                                                                      .
MAJOR AND MINOR IRRIGATION SCHEMES
t'  ,,                                       ,_~~~~~.- .Z-          -._-  s -i    
1     '   '_    '-'-'-'-'-'r                                       i
,   Z      bAt,.1 '.mN JX                    x~~~~~~~P.1,11 k
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -"'                                                                           ,.',    t
- f AGAR                                                               A            A l
A41liA C-Al                                                            1           -           I---
M , 1-g n Schenes                                                                                                 f-                 ,      -.
Mo ,ation,                                                                                                    L,f
- ~~ I " 4 . 5 URF-JDR-1rtiA(/ut_4 \
PROJECT SCHEMSES                       *-L>  8       2gz-                     !) { \            /AWStG~tOP.                                     .
Maio, Ir9riaion Schemes.       \                      CXE/21   B.:S  "I~f-3>
-     Modermnzation9  _('   h ,    -  _-_
Ono,\ng
Med,um 1,rig0t,on Schemes                                                                                            \N *AvtA'j 
OTHER SCHEMES:> 2000 Hetacres                    \.- ~   51n                                                                     S \;  
Mir Ior lrigation Schemes                              °               v   f   E                    -    l                          vv 
Modern-zation                                                                                                         S -  ,  f
On-_ Ong                                                                                                    Li
MedOum Irrigation Shemnes                                             P /
-     Modernization*
o Ongoing
OTHER SCHEMES: <2000 Hectores            :                                                  -   -
Medium Irrigation Schemes
-     Modernizonaon
Ongoing
FUTURE SCHEMES                          -  Proposed Narmada Momr Canal Inon-prorect)       A 1>,
Malor Imr,gotion Schemes                  Proposed Bronch Cancis (non- projecr)             Nctional Highways
Medium Irrigation Schemes            Pw   Pick-up Wers                                      Selected State High-oys                       N
CCMIAIAND AREAS                            Reservoirs                                   0    District Headquarters
Prclect                                   Rivers                                      18   Stote Capitol
Ccmoleted Schemes                         Marshes                                        -  D,strict Boundaries
Schemees n Progress                        Salt Water                                                                      0             40             ec
____   Sardor Sarovar (Normoda) Prorect            Fresh Water                                                                               KILOMETERS



IBRD 18107
_ PR.' lb
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
->^ a.r , ;?.j t v._ -- ....... . . |~~~~~~ N  D I A F-:
(
S                              (~~~~~S
S  -    [   /                        g-£   .f s-    t e-                         ,PA ANII R
.>~~~ ~~          ~        ~~~~~ -. -l! ;-I'-NA-. s
(    R-i.45rHANV
OMNAA HIMAtNArjAR       e-( 
/   /     -_ . .         _ A                     I .       ._'_(        -.
GcAOJL'JN NArAR     L                           kJx
{ ; ) °IVEFIS~~~~~ANAAE~B.                                                                 ' /
/t l ,- - w - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~\   ) I Y;" 
-                / /             >  X . U        \ -    -   J~~~7 A.ELI
,Z, : .. :.s .. : .X*// x --- y KHEDA                        1-2 __.11  
\t.               't 1<uEvl^h G                        j    -e                     ,i                   ''* |       *-  
SIAENDPANAGA A
/.~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
X   -  -   #S  /                     X                           F       i n       M-*fARASHrRA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~% , 
*                  L~~~~W (6                                         PRADES)w
..  i  , ........ t,, , ,z',- \-)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L.
NA_/HAR-JCL4c 1, ,                                                  ,
H~O..g0 w ays               N2,  .; Sr
KILOMETERS                                       -N102f , > r ..... w J g.<.--.
i . JA     -  ."   w.v,
_                                       _, ;_-->; * J 6-E_- f t~~~~ .'.



R A
P   A    K  I S  T  A    Ni                                       J 4
IIA ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~     - 
'0  40    so    12
L,                   t* 6  32  4p  64-;                    m           
MILS 4  80  1                                                    -.
,~~~~~~~~~~~~K'C .                                   j   
MILES~~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRD 18109
MARCH 198A
INDIA
R A                                              GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION ]I
J 4                                            ~~~~PROJECT
ISOHYETS, IRRIGATION NEEDS
~~.,*  -    ~ ~ ~ ~                                               AND
TRACKS OF STORMS
- sP7~\                 500- ISOHYETS OF MEAN ANNUAL RAINFALL (in mm)
STATIO*S OF MEAN ANNUAL RAINFALL (In mm)
[2w4f/Cf7MA- *_~ s  _  .                                                              OwHIGH NEED
9. ~~~7
A.--.                L'.%                                                   N~~~~~~~~~~~~~OWN EED
;   \    P   ==~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C0                                            RIVERS
/-,>!                         -,           Q                 -    DISTRICT BOUINDARIES
---- ---                                                                                    - - b2a  T A  8- -
-\                                        . N  -  -                /.m,e~mam  .e4              V. P   A    K    I  N D I A   e
G~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ........                                                      n
DX"X^  -...   . .. ....                    .                                 e t  -v .        p
~~   I                       PAKISTAN,J           7~~~~~~~~~~D 
DA MoA A4::: ...
,  NAUE OF PROJECT  DESIGNTrORM  ,                   TRACKS  OF STORMS
/.   <   2i         ~~~~~~~KAOANA PROJECT  JULY 1913      \.tt8T-  einSom
_:    -(Pr KtJ ti>WATRAK PROJECT                JULY 1927                                  Point Location Dotes
WATRAK PROJECT  JULY 1979                 -   ~~~Tracks of Storms
0HAROI PROJECT     AUG. 1943                       !0*
KARJAN PROJECT     SEPT. 1945           '          I
DANTIRADA PROJECT   SEPT. 1973           \      A
SCHEMES OF SAURASH- AUG. 1979                       SRI'
ThA REGION
SCHEMES OF SAURASH4- JUNE 1983    J.,.O.,   AK
ITRA REGIOIN      I                                                             o



Ins                                                I
S311W
1t9  St   ZE   9 l    0        ooz-
4  OZ: t  s08        *  0
/ ~Ivwva
*          z- i/   H;  V9VN 
J~~~~Y
- ~ ~~~~~                    ~    ~~~~~~~~ ----------------
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-            7 -     --   D-  - n ->r w -    -   ,-   ,, g-   - :                   -            
-                                         -   -O -(-    -    - - -n  -  -  -   -   -   -   -
(                  JV!   'VNV O- - - --N-- -- -- --   ---       ---
-  - .\   M/NS>t8             -===--         =- ________ _ _  
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
>          -  -1V~NV --t                                      
r                                               NV&)  V 
~~~~~~~ Ž1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s



IBRD 18108
I                    MARCH 1984
INDIA
GUJARAT                                   25e
R A                                                 MEDIUM  IRRIGATION ]I
J A                                                   PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL ZONES
: -N;H- J /                                                            Agricultural Zone Boundaries
-'A TYHA     :-     
-T J  \   s                           E     Deseut Sondy Soils
Alluvium Scrdy Soils
/  . /           /       1t                                E    Alluvium Sandy Loom Soils
- mAHLcSANA     -I/
-A H- SA NA.                                                                      Coastal Alluvium  Sails
\ANDHIN  R1 i*l SA8ARKANrE 'B)                                            Medium  Block Soils
n~  -~             -               ' |    >                                          ODeep Block Soils
P         - \   Gv          ^^            -7N                                  Greater Than  1500 PPM  Of
C,    /   972 Itv wX~ AJ_ 9>?2 ,.J~Totol Dissolved Salts
- 3 '_-'~ \K .2  .                    . , -S  _                               Very High Solinity  Areas
-~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~Rivers
tj     -t- -   District Boundaries
-  -    y _)                  c$ NCHMAHAL S
--A-
:AR                       8H7AA'UCH
- ',/         -~      SURAT                       Q-
-z-
,A*  ---- - -  - BJPAKISTAN
VALSAD     V~                                                                   *' 
DAMA INN-DIA -
zP1/
200
SRI LANKA



I N DI A
GUJARAT MEDIUM IRRIGATION IH PROJECT
Typical Village Service Area
I    _-    Village Service Area Boundary (200-500 ha)                \ 
[    I Chk (30-60 hal )
I j 2Subchak (5-ho)                                               /                   *ha
rizJi form
Lined Irrigation Canals,
Main/Branch/Distributory Canal             /
Minor Distributary Canals
Subminor Distribatory Canals/WAtercourses
Field and Form Channels                 I
DrainsI
@   Galt Control                       |
*   Adjustable Proportionol Modules
5   Gate-Open or Shut                     |                           /
rr. cuW , dIg' Ib
I rd.OIcwh"-
0w r0 c V. .loivD rft
aVWfdo do r W r%. adt
Wd of Pe rw0 "It /d t                                                                                                                                                               /I
a ~ V, W Ft brMct.Lc
ci rW iSif 0 bY rIz m\,                                                      t\/ 
e tI d CmC1bnh cr  i
raro r a W-  'd wa/ 
acedtbv of'   \                                                                   
I N                                                                                                           /                                                         / A
>
~~,                                                                          11                                             /
sno          onf       -00d-
1 RI LAN KA
co



